FR940606-0-00014 FR940606-0-00006 11. Section 1254.12 is revised to read as follows: ยง1254.12 Researcher's responsibility for documents. (a) The research room attendant may limit the quantity of documents delivered to a researcher at one time. The researcher must sign for the documents received and may be required to show his/her researcher identification card. The researcher is responsible for the proper handling of and prevention of damage to all documents delivered to him/her until he/she returns them. When the researcher is finished using the documents, the documents must be returned to the research room attendant. The reference service slip that accompanies the documents to the research room must not be removed. If asked to do so, the researcher must return documents as much as 15 minutes before closing time. Before leaving a research room, even for a short time, a researcher must notify the research room attendant and place all documents in their proper containers. (b) When microfilm is available on a self-service basis, research room attendants will assist researchers in identifying research sources on microfilm and provide information concerning how to locate and retrieve the roll(s) of film containing the information of interest. The researcher is responsible for retrieving and examining the roll(s). Unless a researcher requires assistance in learning how to operate microfilm reading equipment, the researcher is expected to install the microfilm on the reader. Unless otherwise permitted, a researcher is limited to one roll of microfilm at a time. After using each roll, the researcher is responsible for refiling the roll of microfilm in the location from which it was removed, unless instructed otherwise. (c) Researchers are responsible for complying with provisions of the Copyright Act (Title 17, United States Code) which governs the making and use of electrostatic copies or other reproductions of copyrighted materials. 12. Section 1254.14 is revised to read as follows: ยง1254.14 Restrictions on using microfilm readers. (a) Use of the microfilm readers in the National Archives Building will be on a first-come, first-served basis. When other researchers are waiting to use a microfilm reader, a 3-hour limit may be placed on using a reader. After 3 hours of machine use, the researcher may sign the waiting list for an additional 3-hour period. (b) The number of researchers in the microfilm research room in the National Archives Building will be limited, for fire safety reasons, to those researchers assigned a microfilm reader. (c) Directors of regional archives may permit reservations for use of microfilm readers and set time limits on use to meet local circumstances. Rules for use will be posted in the research room. 13. Section 1254.16 is revised to read as follows: ยง1254.16 Prevention of damage to documents. (a) Researchers must exercise all possible care to prevent damage to documents.
