FR940317-2-00123 FR940317-2-00076 d. Multiplier effect/impact: Program activities should be designed to foster long-term mutual understanding between citizens of the United States and other countries, as well as the establishment of long-term individual and consequentially institutional linkages_for example, by identifying international students having leadership potential as described in the program overview above. e. Institution's track record/ability: Proposals should demonstrate a track record of successful programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants, if any, as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts (M/KG). The Agency will consider the past performance of prior grantees and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. f. Evaluation plan: Proposals should provide a plan for evaluation by the grantee institution, and periodic progress reports. g. Cost-effectiveness: The overhead and administrative components of grants, as well as salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. Details on budget preparation are included with application package. h. Cost-sharing: The Agency encourages cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct-funding contributions. Evidence of such cost sharing should be detailed in proposal. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about May 15, 1994. Funded proposals will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: March 10, 1994. Barry Fulton, Associate Director, Acting Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6038 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
