FR940419-2-00181 FR940419-2-00087 1. CSOs during dry weather; 2. Violations of CSO-related requirements in NPDES permits; consent decrees or court orders which predate this policy; or 3. Other CWA violations. EPA will not seek penalties for past CSO violations from permittees that fully comply with the Phase I permit or enforceable order requiring compliance with the Phase I permit. For permittees that fail to comply, EPA will exercise its enforcement discretion in determining whether to seek penalties for the time period for which the compliance schedule was violated. If the milestone dates of the enforceable schedule are not achieved and penalties are sought, penalties should be calculated from the last milestone date that was met. At the time of the judicial settlement imposing a compliance schedule implementing the Phase II permit requirements, EPA will not seek penalties for past CSO violations from permittees that fully comply with the enforceable order requiring compliance with the Phase I permit and if the terms of the judicial order are expeditiously agreed to on consent. However, stipulated penalties for violation of the judicial order generally should be included in the order, consistent with existing Agency policies. Additional guidance on stipulated penalties concerning long-term CSO controls and attainment of WQS will be issued. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements in this policy have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq and have been assigned OMB control number 2040&hyph;0170. This collection of information has an estimated reporting burden averaging 578 hours per response and an estimated annual recordkeeping burden averaging 25 hours per recordkeeper. These estimates include time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to Chief, Information Policy Branch; EPA; 401 M Street SW. (Mail Code 2136); Washington, DC 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.'' [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9295 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
