FR940202-0-00075 FR940202-0-00006 (i) A payment of qualified stated interest; (ii) A payment of points deductible under section 461(g)(2), in the case of the issuer; (iii) A pro rata prepayment described in paragraph (f)(2) of this section; or (iv) A payment of additional interest or a similar charge provided with respect to amounts that are not paid when due. (b) Debt instruments distributed by corporations with respect to stock_ (1) Treatment of distribution. For purposes of determining the issue price of a debt instrument distributed by a corporation with respect to its stock, the instrument is treated as issued by the corporation for property. See section 1275(a)(4). Thus, under section 1273(b)(3), the issue price of a distributed debt instrument that is traded on an established market is its fair market value. The issue price of a distributed debt instrument that is not traded on an established market is determined under section 1274 or section 1273(b)(4). (2) Issue date. The issue date of a debt instrument distributed by a corporation with respect to its stock is the date of the distribution. (c) Aggregation of debt instruments_ (1) General rule. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, debt instruments issued in connection with the same transaction or related transactions (determined based on all the facts and circumstances) are treated as a single debt instrument for purposes of sections 1271 through 1275 and the regulations thereunder. This rule ordinarily applies only to debt instruments of a single issuer that are issued to a single holder. The Commissioner may, however, aggregate debt instruments that are issued by more than one issuer or that are issued to more than one holder if the debt instruments are issued in an arrangement that is designed to avoid the aggregation rule (e.g., debt instruments issued by or to related parties or debt instruments originally issued to different holders with the understanding that the debt instruments will be transferred to a single holder). (2) Exception if separate issue price established. Paragraph (c)(1) of this section does not apply to a debt instrument if_ (i) The debt instrument is part of an issue a substantial portion of which is traded on an established market within the meaning of ยง1.1273&hyph;2(f); or (ii) The debt instrument is part of an issue a substantial portion of which is issued for money (or for property traded on an established market within the meaning of ยง1.1273&hyph;2(f)) to parties who are not related to the issuer or holder and who do not purchase other debt instruments of the same issuer in connection with the same transaction or related transactions. (3) Special rule for debt instruments that provide for the issuance of additional debt instruments. If, under the terms of a debt instrument (the original debt instrument), the holder may receive one or more additional debt instruments of the issuer, the additional debt instrument or instruments are aggregated with the original debt instrument. Thus, the payments made pursuant to an additional debt instrument are treated as made on the original debt instrument, and the distribution by the issuer of the additional debt instrument is not considered to be a payment made on the original debt instrument. This paragraph (c)(3) applies regardless of whether the right to receive an additional debt instrument is fixed as of the issue date or is contingent upon subsequent events. See ยง1.1272&hyph;1(c) for the treatment of certain rights to issue additional debt instruments in lieu of cash payments. (4) Examples. The following examples illustrate the rules set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. Example 1. Exception for debt instruments issued separately to other purchasers. On January 1, 1995, Corporation M issues two series of bonds, Series A and Series B. The two series are sold for cash and have different terms. Although some holders purchase bonds from both series, a substantial portion of the bonds is issued to different holders. H purchases bonds from both series. Under the exception in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the Series A and Series B bonds purchased by H are not aggregated. Example 2. Tiered REMICs. Z forms a dual tier real estate mortgage investment conduit (REMIC). In the dual tier structure, Z forms REMIC A to acquire a pool of real estate mortgages and to issue a residual interest and several classes of regular interests. Contemporaneously, Z forms REMIC B to acquire as qualified mortgages all of the regular interests in REMIC A. REMIC B issues several classes of regular interests and a residual interest, and Z sells all of those interests to unrelated parties in a public offering. Under the general rule set out in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, all of the regular interests issued by REMIC A and held by REMIC B are treated as a single debt instrument for purposes of sections 1271 through 1275. (d) Special rules for Treasury securities_ (1) Issue price and issue date. The issue price of an issue of Treasury securities is the average price of the debt instruments sold. The issue date of an issue of Treasury securities is the first settlement date on which a substantial amount of the securities in the issue is sold. (2) Reopenings of Treasury securities_ (i) Treatment of additional Treasury securities. Additional Treasury securities issued in a qualified reopening are part of the same issue as the original Treasury securities and have the same issue date as the original Treasury securities. The issue price of both the original Treasury securities and the additional Treasury securities is the average price at which the original Treasury securities were sold. This paragraph (d)(2) applies to qualified reopenings that occur on or after March 25, 1992. (ii) Definitions_ (A) Additional Treasury securities. Additional Treasury securities are Treasury securities with terms that are in all respects identical to the terms of the original Treasury securities and that are issued (without regard to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section) not more than 12 months after the original Treasury securities were first issued to the public.
