FR940803-1-00068 FR940803-1-00014 Summary of Factors Affecting the Species Section 4(a)(1) of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act set forth the procedures for adding species to the Federal lists. A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to the fat three-ridge (Amblema neislerii), shiny-rayed pocketbook (Lampsilis subangulata), Gulf moccasinshell (Medionidus penicillis), Ochlockonee moccasinshell (Medionidus simpsonianus), oval pigtoe (Pleurobema pyriforme), Chipola slabshell (Elliptio chipolaensis), and purple bankclimber (Elliptoideus sloatianus) are as follows: A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Its Habitat or Range These species of mussels are endemic to the eastern Gulf Slope streams draining the Apalachicolan Region of southeast Alabama, southwest Georgia and north Florida. They are currently found in localized portions of from one to four isolated marine river systems, mostly in the eastern portion of the Apalachicolan Region. These species have been rendered vulnerable to extinction by the significant loss of habitat within their restricted ranges in Apalachicolan Region streams. Factors contributing to this habitat loss are: impoundments and deteriorating water and benthic habitat quality resulting from channel modification, siltation, agricultural runoff from crop monoculture and poultry farms, silvicultural activities, mining activities, pollutants, poor land use practices, increased urbanization, and municipal and industrial waste discharges. A consideration of the effects of these impacts upon fishes is of critical importance in evaluating the well-being of mussels. Mussels and fishes are inextricably linked ecologically; most larval mussels (glochidia) are obligate parasites of specific fishes. Therefore, these various impacts may have resulted in the elimination of certain fishes that serve as potential host species for these mussels. Impoundments have altered a significant portion of the free-flowing big river habitats of the Apalachicola and Ochlockonee river systems in which most of these species occur. Stream habitat is destroyed by the conversion of free-flowing streams to man-made lakes and ponds. In addition to riverine habitat destruction, dams block the passage of certain migratory fishes which serve as hosts for one or more of these seven mussel species. None of these seven mussel species are known to reproduce in impoundments. The Apalachicola River system has been especially impacted by the construction of numerous mainstem dams. This is true for the Chattahoochee River, which has nine major dams and four locks and dams along its lower mainstem to facilitate barge traffic. Additional major dams are located on the Flint River mainstem ( e.g., Blackshear Reservoir) and on the Apalachicola River where it is formed by the confluence of the Chattahoochee and Flint Rivers (Seminole Reservoir). Smaller dams are located on major rivers and tributaries throughout the Apalachicola River system and in other regional streams. Although pre-impoundment records are generally unknown for the fat three-ridge, shiny-rayed pocketbook, Gulf moccasinshell, oval pigtoe, and purple bankclimber in the Apalachicola River system, numerous populations of these species were possibly destroyed as a result of impoundments. It has been decades since any live specimens of these five species were found along the Chattahoochee River mainstem; the type locality for the shiny-rayed pocketbook, Gulf moccasinshell, oval pigtoe, and purple bankclimber. Talquin Reservoir, an impoundment on the Ochlockonee River formed by the closure of Jackson Bluff Dam, inundated a significant reach of the middle portion of the river mainstem. Pre-impoundment records for the shiny-rayed pocketbook, Ochlockonee moccasinshell, oval pigtoe, and purple bankclimber from a site at the upstream end of Talquin Reservoir exist in museum collections. Most of these mussel species once had sizable populations at this site. Undocumented populations of these four species were probably destroyed by the filling of Talquin Reservoir. In addition to riverine habitat being destroyed by Talquin Reservoir, the river downstream of Jackson Bluff Dam shows noticeable signs of being impacted by sediment deposition. Riverine mussels such as the shiny-rayed pocketbook, Ochlockonee moccasinshell, oval pigtoe, and purple bankclimber, are nearly absent in sizable stretches of this heavily silted river. One site recently sampled by the Service (with SCUBA gear) had deposits of detritus and silt sediments. The river lacked flows adequate to flush the channel of silty sediments. Potential lower mainstem channel habitat of the shiny-rayed pocketbook, Ochlockonee moccasinshell, oval pigtoe, and purple bankclimber are being impacted by this deposition.
