FR940607-1-00030 FR940607-1-00007 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD07&hyph;94&hyph;051] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, FL AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rule making. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to change regulations governing the operation of the Hillsboro Boulevard (SR 810) drawbridge, mile 1050.0 at Deerfield Beach, Florida, by permitting the draw to remain closed for a longer period of time during the winter season. This proposal is being made to relieve highway congestion created by bridge openings while still meeting the reasonable needs of navigation. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Commander (oan), Seventh Coast Guard District, 909 SE. 1st Avenue, Miami, Florida 33131&hyph;3050, or may be delivered to Room 406 at the above address between 7:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. For information concerning comments, the telephone number is 305&hyph;536&hyph;4103. The Commander, Seventh Coast Guard District maintains the public docket for this rule making. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Brodie Rich, Project Manager at (305) 536&hyph;4103. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rule making by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rule making (CGD07&hyph;94&hyph;051) and the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give the reason for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying. If not practical, a second copy of any bound material is requested. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. Comments regarding the potential impact of this proposal on the safety of navigation are particularly solicited. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to Mr. Brodie Rich at the address under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rule making, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Brodie Rich, Project Manager, and LT. J. M. Losego, Project Counsel. Background and Purpose This drawbridge presently opens on signal, except that from October 1 through May 31, from 7 a.m. to 6 p.m., the draw opens only on the hour, quarter-hour, half-hour and three-quarter hour. Mayor Sussman requested that the Coast Guard change the operating regulations to provide for hour and half-hour drawbridge openings. The bridge owner (Florida Department of Transportation) recommended a change to a 20-minute opening schedule during the season to reduce traffic delays.
