FR940826-0-00030 FR940826-0-00012 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 52 [TX&hyph;19&hyph;1&hyph;5736a; FRL&hyph;5029&hyph;4] Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plan: Texas Emission Statement AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This action approves a revision to the Texas State Implementation Plan (SIP) to include revisions to the Texas Air Control Board, part III, chapter 101, General Rules , section 101.10, Emission Inventory Requirements . These revisions are for the purpose of implementing an emission statement program for stationary sources within the ozone nonattainment areas. The implementation plan was submitted by the State to satisfy the Federal requirements for an emission statement program as part of the SIP for Texas. DATES: This final rule will become effective on October 25, 1994 unless notice is received by September 26, 1994 that someone wishes to submit adverse or critical comments. If the effective date is delayed, timely notice will be published in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Written comments on this action should be addressed to Mr. Thomas H. Diggs, Chief, Planning Section, at the EPA Regional Office listed below. Copies of the documents relevant to this action are available for public inspection during normal business hours at the following locations. The interested persons wanting to examine these documents should make an appointment with the appropriate office at least 24 hours before the visiting day. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 6, Air Programs Branch (6T-AP), 1445 Ross Avenue, suite 700, Dallas, Texas 75202&hyph;2733. The Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission, Office of Air Quality, Emissions Inventory Branch, 12124 Park 35 Circle, Austin, Texas 78753. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Herbert R. Sherrow, Jr., Planning Section (6T-AP), Air Programs Branch, USEPA Region 6, 1445 Ross Avenue, Dallas, Texas 75202&hyph;2733, Telephone (214) 655&hyph;7237. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The air quality planning and State Implementation Plan (SIP) requirements for ozone nonattainment and transport areas are set out in subparts I and II of part D of title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAA or ``the Act''). EPA has published a ``General Preamble'' describing EPA's preliminary views on how EPA intends to review SIPs and SIP revisions submitted under title I of the CAA, including those State submittals for ozone transport areas within the States (see 57 FR 13498 (April 16, 1992) (``SIP: General Preamble for the Implementation of title I of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990''), 57 FR 18070 (April 28, 1992) (``Appendices to the General Preamble''), and 57 FR 55620 (November 25, 1992) (``SIP: NO x Supplement to the General Preamble'')). EPA has also issued a draft guidance document describing the requirements for the emission statement programs discussed in this document, entitled ``Guidance on the Implementation of an Emission Statement Program'' (July, 1992). The Agency is also conducting a rulemaking process to modify part 40 of the CFR to reflect the requirements of the emission statement program. Section 182 of the Act sets out a graduated control program for ozone nonattainment areas. Section 182(a) sets out requirements applicable in Marginal nonattainment areas, which are also made applicable in subsections (b), (c), (d), and (e) to all other ozone nonattainment areas. Among the requirements in section 182(a) is a program in paragraph (3) of that subsection for stationary sources to prepare and submit to the State each year emission statements showing actual emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOC) and nitrogen oxides (NO x ). This paragraph provides that the States are to submit a revision to their SIPs by November 15, 1992, establishing this emission statement program. Whatever minimum reporting level is established in a State emission statement program, if either VOC or NO x is emitted at or above the designated level, the other pollutant should be included in the emission statement, even if it is emitted at levels below the specified cutoffs. The CAA requires facilities to submit the first emission statement to the State within three years after November 15, 1990, and annually thereafter. EPA requests that the States submit the emission data to EPA through the Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS). The minimum emission statement data should include: Certification of data accuracy; source identification information; operating schedule; emissions information (to include annual and typical ozone season day emissions); control equipment information; and process data. EPA developed emission statements data elements to be consistent with other source and State reporting requirements. This consistency is essential to assist States with quality assurance for emission estimates and to facilitate consolidation of all EPA reporting requirements. In addition to the submission of the emission statement data to AIRS, States should provide EPA with a status report that outlines the degree of compliance with the emissions statement program. Beginning July 1, 1993, States should report quarterly to EPA the total number of sources affected by the emission statement provisions, the number that have complied with the provisions, and the number that have not. This status report should also include the total annual and typical ozone season day emissions from all reporting sources, both corrected and non-corrected for rule-effectiveness (RE). States should include in their status report a list of sources that are delinquent in submitting their emission statement and that emit 500 tons per year (tpy) or more of VOC or 2500 tpy or more of NO x . This report should be a quarterly submittal until all the regulated sources have complied for the reporting year. Suggested submittal dates for the quarterly status reports are July 1, October 1, January 1, and April 1. Analysis of State Submission 1. Procedural Background The Act requires States to observe certain procedural requirements in developing its SIP, of which the emission statement program will become a part. Section 110(a)(2) of the Act provides that each implementation plan submitted by a State must be adopted after reasonable notice and public hearing. 1 Section 110(l) similarly provides that each revision to an implementation plan submitted by a State under the CAAA must be adopted by such State after reasonable notice and public hearing. 1 Also section 172(c)(7) of the Act requires that plan provisions for nonattainment areas meet the applicable provisions of section 110(a)(2). EPA must at the outset determine whether a submittal is complete and therefore warrants further EPA review and action (see section 110(k)(1) and 57 FR 13565). EPA's completeness criteria for SIP submittals are set out at 40 CFR part 51, appendix V (1991), as amended by 57 FR 42216 (August 26, 1991). EPA attempts to make completeness determinations within 60 days of receiving a submission. However, under section 110(k)(1)(B), a submittal is deemed complete by operation of law if a completeness determination is not made by EPA 6 months after receipt of the submission. The State passed the revisions to the TACB General Rules, 101, by repealing the existing section 101.10 and replacing it with a new section 101.10 on August 20, 1992. The State submitted the revision to public hearing on April 19, 1992. The rule was submitted to EPA on October 15, 1992, by the Governor, as a proposed revision to the SIP. The October 15, 1992, SIP revision was reviewed by EPA to determine completeness shortly after its submittal, in accordance with the completeness criteria set out at 40 CFR part 51, appendix V (1991), as amended by 57 FR 42216 (August 26, 1991). The submittal was found to be complete and a letter dated January 15, 1993, was forwarded to the Governor indicating the completeness of the submittal and the next steps to be taken in the review process. The provisions of the regulations are outlined under the analysis of the State's submission below. On September 1, 1993, the TACB merged with the Texas Water Commission to form the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission (TNRCC) and is now called the Office of Air Quality within the TNRCC. The merger did not abrogate, void, or rescind any rules, regulations, Orders, permits, or any other action previously taken by the former TACB. 2. Components of Emission Statement Program There are several key general and specific components of an acceptable emission statement program. Specifically, the State must submit a revision to its SIP and the emission statement program must meet the minimum requirements for reporting by the sources and the State. In general, the program must include, at a minimum, provisions for applicability, definitions, compliance, and specific source requirements detailed below. A. SIP Revision Submission. Required within 2 years of enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (CAAA) (November 15, 1990). B. Program Elements. The State emission statement program must, at a minimum, include provisions covering applicability of the regulations, definitions for key terms used in the regulations, a compliance schedule for sources covered by the regulations, and the specific reporting requirements for sources. The emission statement submitted by the source should contain, at a minimum, a certification that the information is accurate to the best knowledge of the individual certifying the statement, source identification information, operating information, process rate data, control equipment information, and emissions information. These elements are described in greater detail in section D of this document. EPA recommends that the State program require the submission of the data from the sources no later than April 15 of each year to insure that the State can meet the July 1 deadline for the submission of data into AIRS each year. The guidance document prepared by EPA provides a draft model State rule which can be used as the basis for the States to develop their program. The guidance document also provides suggested language for the specific program elements. C. Sources Covered. Section 182(a)(3)(B) requires that States with areas designated as nonattainment for ozone require emission statement data from sources of volatile organic compounds (VOC) or oxides of nitrogen (NO x ) in the nonattainment areas. This requirement applies to all ozone nonattainment areas, regardless of the classification (Marginal, Moderate, etc.). The States may waive, with EPA approval, the requirement for emission statements for classes or categories of sources with less than 25 tons per year of actual plant-wide NO x or VOC emissions in nonattainment areas if the class or category is included in the base year and periodic inventories and emissions are calculated using emission factors established by EPA (such as those found in EPA publication AP&hyph;42) or other methods acceptable to EPA. States should get clearance from the appropriate EPA Regional Office to waive the emission statement requirement for these smaller sources. D. Reporting Requirements for Sources. The State of Texas requires facilities to report on an emissions inventory questionnaire supplied by the State. Sources covered by the State emission statement program should submit, at a minimum, the following data elements: 1. Source identification information. 2. Operating information. 3. Process rate data. 4. Control equipment information. 5. Emissions information. 3. Review of the State's Emission Statement Regulations. A. Applicability The applicability of the regulation to ozone nonattainment areas is documented in subsection (a) and (a)(1). The rule states that the owner or operator of the following stationary sources in the State of Texas or on waters that extend 25 miles from the shoreline shall submit emissions inventories to the Texas Air Control Board (TACB) on forms or other media approved by the TACB: a major facility/stationary source, as defined in Section 101.1 of this title (relating to definitions), and any stationary source in an ozone nonattainment area emitting a minimum of 10 tons per year (tpy) volatile organic compounds (VOC), 25 tpy nitrogen oxides (NOx), or 100 tpy carbon monoxide (CO). B. Types of Inventories There are two types of inventories identified in the regulation which are pertinent to emission statements. They are an initial emissions inventory and an ozone nonattainment area inventory. The requirement for initial emissions inventories is documented in subsection (b)(1). Stationary sources, as identified in subsection (a) of Section 101.10 shall submit an initial emissions inventory (IEI) for any criteria pollutant or hazardous air pollutant that has not been identified in a previous inventory. The IEI shall consist of actual emissions of VOC, NO x , CO, sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ), lead (Pb), and particulate matter of less than 10 microns in diameter (PM 10 ) from stationary sources and emissions of all hazardous air pollutants identified in the FCAA, Section 112(b). For purposes of this section, the term ``actual emission'' is the actual rate of emissions of a pollutant from an emissions unit for the calendar year or seasonal period. Actual emission estimates must also include excess emissions occurring during maintenance, start-ups, shut-downs, upsets, and downtime to parallel the documentation of these events in the emissions inventory and must follow emissions calculations identified in subsection (c) of section 101.10. The requirement for ozone nonattainment areas inventories is documented in subsection (b)(3). This subsection requires stationary sources in ozone nonattainment areas emitting a minimum of 10 TPY of VOC, 25 TPY of NO x , or 100 TPY of CO to submit an annual inventory. The inventory shall consist of actual annual emissions and typical weekday emissions that occur during the summer months. C. Minimum Data Requirements The data requirements include a certifying statement, facility identification information, operating information, process rate data, control equipment information, and emissions information. The certifying statement is documented in subsection (d). A statement is required from the owner or operator to accompany the emission inventory certifying that the information is true and accurate to the best knowledge of the certifying official. The certification will include the name, title, signature, date of signature, and telephone number of the certifying official. The data requirements are contained in the questionnaire used by the State to gather emission statement data. The questionnaire is required from all facilities which must report emission statement data. A copy of the questionnaire and instructions for completion is contained in the Technical Support Document (TSD). Source data elements required by Texas through the questionnaire sent by the State to the facilities are: 1. Facility identification information. a. Full name, physical location, and mailing address of facility. b. Latitude and Longitude. c. SIC code(s). 2. Operating information. a. Percentage annual throughput by season. b. Days per week during the normal operating schedule. c. Hours per day during the normal operating schedule. d. Hours per year during the normal operating schedule. 3. Process rate data. a. Annual process rate (annual throughput). b. Peak ozone season daily process rate (in nonattainment areas. 4. Control equipment information. a. Current primary and secondary AIRS Facility System (AIRS) control equipment identification codes. b. Current control equipment efficiency (percent). 5. Emissions information. a. Estimated actual VOC and/or NO x emissions at the segment level, in tpy for an annual emission rate and pounds per day for a typical ozone season day (defined as the average or typical operating day during the peak ozone season). The instructions for completion of the questionnaire require that if either VOC or NO x is emitted at or above the designated level, the other pollutant must be included in the emission statement, even if it is emitted at levels below the specified cutoffs. Actual emission estimates must include upsets, downtime, and fugitive emissions, and must follow an emission estimation method. Emissions will be reported as one number. b. AFS estimated emissions method code. c. Emission factor (if emissions were calculated using an emissions factor). D. Calculations Calculations of emissions are documented in subsection (c). The subsection specifies that actual measurement with continuous monitoring systems (CEMS) is the preferred method of calculating emissions from a point source. Other means of determining actual emissions may be utilized if CEMS data is not available in accordance with detailed instructions from the Emissions Inventory Division of the TACB. E. Reporting Requirements The reporting requirements are documented in subsection (e). The reporting deadline for the 1992 ozone nonattainment area is March 31, 1993. Subsequent emission statements are due on March 31 of each year and will contain data for the previous year. F. Enforcement The enforcement requirements are documented in subsection (f). The State of Texas has included language in its regulation that permits the State to enforce the provisions of the regulation under all pertinent State enforcement authorities. All measures and other elements in the SIP must be enforceable by the State and EPA. The EPA criteria addressing the enforceability of SIPs and SIP revisions were stated in a September 23, 1987, memorandum (with attachments) from J. Craig Potter, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, et al. (see 57 FR 13541 (April 16, 1992) (``Review of State Implementation Plans and Revisions for Enforceability and Legal Sufficiency'')). SIP provisions must also contain a program that provides for enforcement of the control measures and other elements in the SIP (see section 110(a)(2)(C)). The analysis of the Texas regulation shows that it adequately addresses all components of an emission statement program. In addition, the State has agreed to provide the EPA with emission statement data for the EPA AIRS through the State grants process and to provide quarterly status reports. Final Action In today's action, the EPA is granting final approval of the Texas emission statement program as submitted. The EPA is publishing this action without prior proposal because the Agency views this as a noncontroversial amendment and anticipates no adverse comments. However, in a separate document in this FR publication, the EPA is proposing to approve the SIP revision should adverse comments be received. Thus, this action will be effective October 25, 1994 unless, by September 26, 1994, notice is received that adverse or critical comments will be submitted. If such notice is received, this action will be withdrawn before the effective date by publishing a subsequent document which will withdraw the final action. All public comments will then be addressed in a subsequent final rule based on this action serving as a proposed rule. The EPA will not institute a second comment period on this action. Any parties interested in commenting on this action should do so at this time. If no comments are received, the public is advised that this action will be effective October 25, 1994. The EPA has reviewed this request for revision of the federally-approved SIP for conformance with the provisions of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments of November 15, 1990. The EPA has determined that this action conforms with those requirements. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors, and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Regulatory process Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , the EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities (5 U.S.C. 603 and 604). Alternatively, the EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. The SIP approvals under section 110 and subchapter I, part D, of the CAA do not create any new requirements, but simply approve requirements that the State is already imposing. Therefore, because the Federal SIP-approval does not impose any new requirements, I certify that it does not have a significant impact on any small entities affected. Moreover, due to the nature of the Federal-State relationship under the CAA, preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of State action. The CAA forbids the EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds ( Union Electric Co. v. U.S. E.P.A. , 427 U.S. 246, 256&hyph;66 (S. Ct. 1976; 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2)). Under section 307(b)(1) of the CAA, petitions for judicial review of this action must be filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit by October 25, 1994. Filing a petition for reconsideration by the Administrator of this final rule does not affect the finality of this rule for purposes of judicial review nor does it extend the time within which a petition for judicial review may be filed, and shall not postpone the effectiveness of such rule or action. This action may not be challenged later in proceedings to enforce its requirements. Executive Order 12866 This action has been classified as a Table Two action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993, memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. A future document will inform the general public of these tables. On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) waived Table Two and Table Three SIP revisions (54 FR 2222) from the requirements of section three of Executive Order 12291 for two years. The EPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table Two and Table Three SIP revisions. The OMB has agreed to continue the temporary waiver until such time as it rules on the EPA's request. This request continues in effect under Executive Order 12866, which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hydrocarbons, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Nitrogen dioxide, Oxides of nitrogen, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Volatile organic compounds. Note: Incorporation by reference of the SIP for the State of Texas was approved by the Director of the Federal Register on July 1, 1982. Dated: July 27, 1994. Allyn M. Davis, Acting Regional Administrator. Part 52, chapter I, title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 52_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 52 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;767lq. Subpart SS_Texas 2. Section 52.2270 is amended by adding paragraph (c)(82) to read as follows: §52.2270 Identification of plan. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (82) A revision to the Texas SIP to include a new Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission, Part III, Chapter 101, General Rules , section 101.10, Emission Inventory Requirements . In a concurrent action, the TNRCC repealed the existing section 101.10 concerning filing of emissions data. The new rule and the repealing of the old rule was submitted to the EPA on October 15, 1992, by the Governor, as a proposed revision to the SIP. (i) Incorporation by reference. (A) TNRCC, Part III, Chapter 101, General Rules , section 101.10, Emission Inventory Requirements , as adopted by the TNRCC on August 20, 1992. (B) TNRCC Order No. 92&hyph;20, as adopted by the TNRCC on August 20, 1992. (ii) Additional material. (A) TNRCC certification letter dated October 8, 1992, and signed by William R. Campbell, Executive Director, TNRCC. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21014 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
