FR940204-2-00089 FR940204-2-00063 Purpose: This Subcommittee reviews quarterly, with the administrative staff, the financing of the Vaccine Injury Compensation Trust Fund, the output of funds resulting from each vaccine and each adverse event, and the relationship of each vaccine and each adverse event to the rate of depletion of the Trust Fund. If these studies justify any increase or any decrease of surtax for each vaccine, these recommendations can be made to the full Commission and, if accepted, can be forwarded to the Secretary. Agenda: The Subcommittee will discuss and review the status of funding and spending on pre-1988 awards and the status of the Trust Fund. * * * * * Name: Scientific Review Subcommittee of the Advisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines. Time: March 2, 1994, 3 p.m.&hyph;5 p.m. Place: Conference Room G, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Open for entire meeting. Purpose: This Subcommittee will review statistics from all sources (the Compensation System, Vaccine Adverse Events Reporting System (VAERS), the U.S. Court of Federal Claims, etc.) that can give any reason for any alterations (additions, subtractions, or revisions) in the Vaccine Injury Table. The Subcommittee will consider any applications for inclusion of additional vaccines and associated events to the table and make recommendations on these to the Commission. All recommendations by the Subcommittee will be considered by the full Commission and, if accepted, will be forwarded to the Secretary. This Subcommittee will also be the first line of study for all outside studies and literature reports with subjects affecting the Vaccine Injury Table. Agenda: The Subcommittee will meet and discuss future agenda items for the remainder of calendar year 1994. Public comment will be permitted at the respective Subcommittee meetings on March 2 before they adjourn in the evening; before noon and at the end of the full Commission meeting on March 2; and before noon and before they adjourn at noon on the second day on March 3. Oral presentations will be limited to 5 minutes per public speaker. Persons interested in providing an oral presentation should submit a written request, along with a copy of their presentation to Ms. Rosemary Havill, Division of Vaccine Injury Compensation, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, room 8A&hyph;35, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20852; Telephone (301) 443&hyph;1533. Requests should contain the name, address, telephone number, and any business or professional affiliation of the person desiring to make an oral presentation. Groups having similar interests are requested to combine their comments and present them through a single representative. The allocation of time may be adjusted to accommodate the level of expressed interest. The Division of Vaccine Injury Compensation will notify each presenter by mail or telephone of their assigned presentation time. Persons who do not file an advance request for presentation, but desire to make an oral statement, may sign up in Conference Rooms G & H before 10 a.m. on March 2 and 3. These persons will be allocated time as time permits. Anyone requiring information regarding the Commission should contact Ms. Rosemary Havill, Division of Vaccine Injury Compensation, Bureau of Health Professions, Room 8A&hyph;35, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20852; Telephone (301) 443&hyph;1533. Agenda Items are subject to change as priorities dictate. Dated: January 31, 1994. Jackie E. Baum, Advisory Committee Management Officer, HRSA. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2480 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
