FR940505-1-00341 FR940505-1-00012 (6) Administrative Requirements. (i) Most Restrictive Limit. Notwithstanding the definition of product category in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, if anywhere on the principal display panel of any consumer product, any representation is made that the product may be used as, or is suitable for use as a consumer product for which a lower VOC standard is specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, then the lowest VOC standard shall apply. This requirement does not apply to general purpose cleaners. (ii) Code-Dating. Each manufacturer of a consumer product subject to paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(viii) of this section shall clearly display on each consumer product container or package, the day, month, and year on which the product was manufactured, or a code indicating such date. This date or code shall be displayed on each consumer product container or package no later than twelve months prior to the effective date of the applicable standard specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. The requirements of this provision shall not apply to personal fragrance products of 2 milliliters or less, which are offered to consumers free of charge for the purpose of sampling the product. (iii) If a manufacturer uses a code indicating the date of manufacture, for any consumer product subject to paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(viii) of this section an explanation of the code must be filed with the Administrator no later than twelve months prior to the effective date of the applicable standard specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. (7) Registration. (i) No later than 90 days after the effective date of this paragraph, all responsible parties for the following household and I&I products must register products that are sold in California during the calendar year prior to the year the registration is due: products for which a VOC standard is specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section; products approved as an innovative product under paragraph (a)(5) of this section; and products claiming exemptions under paragraphs (a)(4)(vi), (a)(4)(vii), (a)(4)(viii) of this section. All registrations shall include the following information: (A) The name of the responsible party and the party's address, telephone number, and designated contact person; (B) Any claim of confidentiality made pursuant to 40 CFR part 2, subpart B; (C) The product brand name for each consumer product subject to registration and upon request by the Administrator, the product label; (D) The product category to which the consumer product belongs; (E) The applicable product form(s) listed separately; (F) An identification of each product brand name and form as a Household Product, I&I Product, or both; (G) Separate California sales in pounds per year, to the nearest pound, and the method used to calculate California sales for each product form; (H) For registrations submitted by two companies, an identification of the company which is submitting relevant data separate from that submitted by the responsible party. All registration information from both companies shall be submitted by the date specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section; (I) For each product brand name and form, the net percent by weight of the total product, less container and packaging, comprised of the following, rounded to the nearest one-tenth of a percent (0.1%): (1 ) Total Table B compounds, ( 2 ) Total LVP compounds that are not fragrances, ( 3 ) Total all other carbon-containing compounds that are not fragrances, ( 4 ) Total all non-carbon-containing compounds, ( 5 ) Total fragrance, ( 6 ) For products containing greater than two percent by weight fragrance, but excluding personal fragrance products: ( i ) The percent of fragrance that are LVP compounds, and ( ii ) The percent of fragrance that are all other carbon-containing compounds, ( 7 ) For ``personal fragrance products'', the density of the fragrance, and ( 8 ) Total Paradichlorobenzene.
