FR941003-2-00012 FR941003-2-00009 Public Hearing and Request for Comments on Commercial Security on the National Information Infrastructure AGENCY: Patent and Trademark Office, Commerce. ACTION: Notice of public hearing and request for public comments. SUMMARY: The Security Issues Forum of the Infrastructure Task Force (IITF) and Mega-Project III of the U.S. National Information Infrastructure Advisory Council (NIIAC) request public input on issues associated with the security of commercial products and services on the National Information Infrastructure (NII). Interested members of the public, especially representatives from the entertainment, computing and software industries, are invited to participate in a public hearing and to submit written comments on any of the topics outlined in the supplementary information section of this notice. DATES: A public hearing will be conducted by the Patent and Trademark Office on Thursday, October 20, 1994, from 9:00 a.m. until 12:30 p.m. Those wishing to participate as a witness in the hearing must request an opportunity to do so no later than October 13, 1994. Individuals who wish to offer general comments or present questions to witnesses may request an opportunity to do so during the hearing. Written comments on the topics in the supplementary information section of this notice will be accepted until December 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: The public hearing will be held at the Sunnyvale Community Center, 550 East Remington Drive, Sunnyvale, California. Those interested in presenting written comments on the topics identified in the supplementary information, or any other related topics, should address their comments to the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, marked to the attention of Jeff Kushan. Comments submitted by mail should be sent to Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, Box 4, Patent and Trademark Office, Washington, DC 20231. Comments may also be submitted by fax to (703) 305&hyph;8885 and by electronic mail to ``Comments-security@uspto.gov.'' Written comments should include the following information: _Name and affiliation, if any, of the individual responding; _An indication of whether comments offered represent views of the respondent's organization or are the respondent's personal views; and _If applicable, information on the respondent's organization, including the type of organization (e.g., business, trade group, university, non-profit organization) and general areas of interest. Parties offering testimony or written comments are asked to provide them on paper and, where possible, in machine-readable format. Machine-readable sub-missions may be provided either as electronic mail messages sent over the Internet, or on a 3.5 ’ ’ floppy disk formatted for use in either a Macintosh or MS&hyph;DOS based computer, Machine-readable submissions should be provided as unencoded, unformatted ASCII text. Requests to participate as a witness in the hearing should be submitted to Jeff Kushan by mail, phone or fax (see information regarding addresses above). No requests for participation as a witness will be accepted through electronic mail. Written comments and transcripts of the hearings will be available for public inspection by December 10, 1994, at the Patent and Trademark Office, in Room 902 of Crystal Park Two, 2121 Crystal Drive, Arlington, Virginia. In addition, transcripts of the hearings and comments provided in machine-readable format will be available by December 10, 1994, through anonymous file transfer protocol (ftp) via the Internet (address: comments.uspto.gov and www.uspto.gov). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeff Kushan by telephone at (703) 305&hyph;9300, by fax at (703) 305&hyph;8885, by electronic mail at kushan@uspto.gov, or by mail marked to his attention addressed to the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, Box 4, Washington, DC 20231. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Issues for Public Comment A. Background The National Information Infrastructure is a system of high-speed telecommunications networks, databases, and advanced computer systems that will make electronic information and entertainment products more widely available and accessible to the public than ever before. This increased availability and accessibility will dramatically affect the way information and entertainment products are created, marketed and delivered throughout the world. Consequently, the commercial viability of the NII hinges not only upon effectively promoting and encouraging use of the NII by types of users, but also upon implementing standards, policies and practices that ensure that the owners of products can effectively control access to and the integrity of their electronically disseminated products and services. In this regard, it is essential that the public and private sectors collaborate to ensure that the interests of owners and users of intellectual property are adequately considered in any discussion of proposed standards and policies that may be established. To address the issues raised by the NII, the President formed the Information Infrastructure Task Force (IITF). The mission of the IITF is to articulate and implement the Administration's vision for the NII. The IITF is working with the private sector, public interest groups, Congress and State and local governments, to develop comprehensive telecommunications and information policies and programs that best meet the country's needs. The IITF is chaired by the Secretary of Commerce and is comprised of senior Administration officials having expertise in the technical and legal areas of particular importance to the NII. The NII Security Issues Forum was established within the IITF to address the cross-cutting issue of security on the NII. The Forum is chaired by Sally Katzen, Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of Management and Budget. In addition to the IITF, the President has established the U.S. National Information Infrastructure Advisory Council (NIIAC). The NIIAC represents industry, labor, and public interest groups, and advises the Secretary of Commerce on issues relating to the NII. The Council has established three Mega-Projects which will form the backbone for initial programmatic work of the NIIAC. Mega-Project III, co-chaired by John Cooke of the Disney Channel and Esther Dyson of EDVenture, is responsible for addressing security, intellectual property and privacy issues as they relate to the NII. B. Structure and Content of Public Hearing Security is linked inextricably to the commercial success of the NII. The policies and procedures used to ensure the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of digitally produced and transmitted products and services on the NII will determine whether, how, and at what cost such products and services will be made available. Without the existence of appropriate legal, technical and policy mechanisms, the potential of the NII to be a commercially viable means for delivering digital products and services cannot be realized. Development of policies and procedures that will ensure commercial security of intellectual property on the NII requires study from different perspectives. One such perspective is the legal protection of intellectual property. This topic is presently being addressed by the IITF Working Group on Intellectual Property Rights, chaired by Bruce A. Lehman, Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks. The Working Group on Intellectual Property has recently released a preliminary report on intellectual property issues on the NII and has conducted a series of public hearings to receive views on the preliminary report and any other concerns about intellectual property raised by the NII.
