FR940323-0-00062 FR940323-0-00020 (ii) Involving the gleaning of prepared and unprepared food that would otherwise be discarded as unusable so that the usable portion of such food may be donated to food banks, food pantries, and other nonprofit organizations; (iii) Seeking to address the long-term causes of hunger through education and the delivery of appropriate services; or (iv) Providing training in basic health, nutrition, and life skills necessary to alleviate hunger in communities and rural areas. (3) A program in which economically disadvantaged individuals who are between the ages of 16 and 24 years of age, inclusive, are provided with opportunities to perform service that, while enabling such individuals to obtain the education and employment skills necessary to achieve economic self-sufficiency, will help their communities meet_ (i) The housing needs of low-income families and the homeless; and (ii) The need for community facilities in low-income areas. (c) Community-development programs. (1) A community corps program that meets educational, public safety, human, or environmental needs and promotes greater community unity through the use of organized teams of participants of varied social and economic backgrounds, skill levels, physical and developmental capabilities, ages, ethnic backgrounds, or genders. (2) A program that is administered by a combination of nonprofit organizations located in a low-income area, provides a broad range of services to residents of such an area, is governed by a board composed in significant part of low-income individuals, and is intended to provide opportunities for individuals or teams of individuals to engage in community projects in such an area that meet unaddressed community and individual needs, including projects that would_ (i) Meet the needs of low-income children and youth aged 18 and younger, such as providing after-school `safe-places', including schools, with opportunities for learning and recreation; or (ii) Be directed to other important unaddressed needs in such an area. (d) Programs that expand service program capacity. (1) A program that provides specialized training to individuals in service-learning and places the individuals after such training in positions, including positions as service-learning coordinators, to facilitate service-learning in programs eligible for funding under Serve-America. (2) An AmeriCorps entrepreneur program that identifies, recruits, and trains gifted young adults of all backgrounds and assists them in designing solutions to community problems. (e) Campus-based programs. A campus-based program that is designed to provide substantial service in a community during the school term and during summer or other vacation periods through the use of_ (1) Students who are attending an institution of higher education, including students participating in a work-study program assisted under part C of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.); (2) Teams composed of such students; or (3) Teams composed of a combination of such students and community residents. (f) Intergenerational programs. An intergenerational program that combines students, out-of-school youths, and older adults as participants to provide needed community services, including an intergenerational component for other AmeriCorps programs described in this subsection. (g) Youth development programs. A full-time, year-round youth corps program or full-time summer youth corps program, such as a conservation corps or youth service corps (including youth corps programs under subtitle I, the Public Lands Corps established under the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993, the Urban Youth Corps established under section 106 of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, and other conservation corps or youth service corps that perform service on Federal or other public lands or on Indian lands or Hawaiian home lands), that: (1) Undertakes meaningful service projects with visible public benefits, including natural resource, urban renovation, or human services projects; (2) Includes as participants youths and young adults between the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, including out-of-school youths and other disadvantaged youths (such as youths with limited basic skills, youths in foster care who are becoming too old for foster care, youths of limited English proficiency, homeless youths, and youths who are individuals with disabilities) who are between those ages; and (3) Provides those participants who are youths and young adults with_ (i) Crew-based, highly structured, and adult-supervised work experience, life skills, education, career guidance and counseling, employment training, and support services; and (ii) The opportunity to develop citizenship values and skills through service to their community and the United States. (h) Individualized placement programs. An individualized placement program that includes regular group activities, such as leadership training and special service projects. (i) Other programs. Such other AmeriCorps programs addressing educational, public safety, human, or environmental needs as the Corporation may designate in the application. Subpart B_Participant Eligibility, Requirements, and Benefits ยง2522.200 What are the eligibility requirements for AmeriCorps participants? (a) An AmeriCorps participant must be 17 years of age or older at the commencement of service (unless the participant is in a program described in ยง2522.110(g), in which case the participant must be between the ages of 16 and 25, inclusive, or in a program described in ยง2522.110(b)(3), in which case the participant must be between the ages of 16 and 24). (b) In general, an AmeriCorps participant must either have a high school diploma or its equivalent (including an alternative diploma or certificate for those individuals with disabilities for whom such an alternative diploma or certificate is appropriate) or agree to obtain a high school diploma or its equivalent prior to using the educational award. However, if the program in which the individual seeks to become a participant conducts an independent evaluation demonstrating that an individual is incapable of obtaining a high school diploma or its equivalent, the Corporation may waive this requirement. (c) Unless an individual is enrolled in an institution of higher education on an ability to benefit basis and is considered eligible for funds under section 484 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091), that individual may not have dropped out of elementary or secondary school in order to enroll as an AmeriCorps participant. (d) An AmeriCorps participant must be a citizen or national of the United States or lawful permanent resident alien of the United States. ยง2522.210 How are AmeriCorps participants recruited and selected? (a) Local recruitment and selection. In general, AmeriCorps participants will be selected locally by an approved AmeriCorps program, and the selection criteria will vary widely among the different programs. Nevertheless, AmeriCorps programs must select their participants in a fair and non-discriminatory manner which complies with part 2540 of this chapter. In selecting participants, programs must also comply with the recruitment and selection requirements specified in this section. (b)(1) National and State recruitment and selection. The Corporation and each State Commission will establish a system to recruit individuals who desire to perform national service and to assist the placement of these individuals in approved AmeriCorps positions, which may include positions available under titles I and II of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.). The national and state recruitment and placement system will be designed and operated according to Corporation guidelines. (2) Dissemination of information. The Corporation and State Commissions will disseminate information regarding available approved AmeriCorps positions through cooperation with secondary schools, institutions of higher education, employment service offices, community-based organizations, State vocational rehabilitation agencies within the meaning of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) and other State agencies that primarily serve qualified individuals with disabilities, and other appropriate entities, particularly those organizations that provide outreach to disadvantaged youths and youths who are qualified individuals with disabilities. (c) National leadership pool _(1) Selection and training. From among individuals recruited under paragraph (b) of this section or nominated by service programs, the Corporation may select individuals with significant leadership potential, as determined by the Corporation, to receive special training to enhance their leadership ability. The leadership training will be provided by the Corporation directly or through a grant, contract, or cooperative agreement as the Corporation determines.
