FR941213-2-00074 FR941213-2-00047 PART VIII SCHEDULE OF NASD CHARGES FOR SERVICES AND EQUIPMENT A. System Services 1. Level 1 Service The charge to be paid by the subscriber for each terminal receiving NASDAQ Level 1 Service is [$9.25] $19 per month. This Service includes the following data: (i) inside bid/ask quotations calculated for securities [quoted in] listed on [t] T he Nasdaq Stock Market [Nasdaq System] and securities quoted in the OTC Bulletin Board (``OTCBB'') service; [and] (ii) the individual quotations or indications of interest of broker-dealers utilizing the OTCBB service ; and (iii) last sale information on securities classified as designated securities in Schedule D to the NASD By-Laws, Parts X, XI, and XIII and securities classified as over-the-counter equity securities in Part XII of Schedule D. * * * * * 5. Rescinded and reserved for future use. [Last Sale Information a. The charge to be paid by the subscriber for each terminal receiving Last Sale Information through a vendor shall be determined by the total number of securities classified by the Corporation (i) as designated securities under Part X and XI and (ii) those classified as OTC Equity Securities under Part XII of Schedule D to the NASD By-Laws. The following schedule of charges shall apply to the receipt of last sale information for such securities. ␣ 1Number of securities 1Charge per terminal per month 250 or less $2.50 251 or 500 5.00 501 or 1,000 7.50 1001 or more 9.75 b. The rate for each month shall be determined by the total number of designated securities and OTC Equity Securities at the start of business on the first day of that month.] II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of this rule change is to establish a single service offering comprised of the existing Nasdaq Level 1 (``Level 1'') quotation and Last Sale Information (``Last Sale'') services. The monthly charge to be levied for the consolidated service will be $19/terminal, the sum of the monthly charges currently assessed for receipt of the Last Sale and Level 1 services on an authorized terminal device. Hence, this rule proposal does not entail an increase in the subscriber charges for the individual constituent services; however, its implementation will result in higher fees for some Level 1 subscribers who do not currently pay for receipt of last sale data. The two services covered by this proposal are distributed by commercial vendors of market data pursuant to contracts with The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (``NSMI''), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the NASD. 1 Vendors distribute the data via their respective networks to the end users who pay the established charge levied by NSMI for receipt of the quotation and transaction information. The existence of separate service categories for quotation and transaction data traces to the evolution of The Nasdaq Stock Market (``Nasdaq''). From its inception in 1971, Nasdaq provided quotation information on a real-time basis for vendor distribution. In 1982, the NASD implemented rules requiring member firms to report individual transactions in the top tier of Nasdaq listings within 90 seconds of execution. Later, this reporting regime was extended to Nasdaq SmallCap issues, Nasdaq convertible debt issues, and equity issues traded exclusively over-the-counter (``OTC''). In 1991, the universe of quotation data available to Level 1 subscribers was expanded to include real-time quotations entered by OTC market makers utilizing the OTCBB service. The instant proposal would combine the real-time quotation and transaction data for Nasdaq and OTC issues, respectively, into a single service distributed by vendors for which their subscribers will pay a single monthly charge of $19/terminal. 1 NSMI operates and maintains the facilities that collect and validate market data prior to broadcasting the data to vendors for redistribution.
