FR940602-1-00123 FR940602-1-00015 OSM is proposing to amend subparagraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of section 816.116, Revegetation: Standards for Success. The change at (c)(2) would reduce the period of applicant responsibility for revegetation success at sites eligible for remining from five to two years in areas of more than 26.0 inches of average annual precipitation and for these sites provide that vegetative parameters for grazing land, pasture land, or cropland shall equal or exceed the approved success standard during the growing season of any two years of the responsibility period. The change at (c)(3) would reduce the applicant responsibility for revegetation success from ten to five years in areas of 26.0 inches or less of annual average precipitation. The authority for these changes would expire on September 30, 2004. 5. 30 CFR Part 817_Permanent Program Performance Standards_Underground Mining Activities OSM is proposing to amend subparagraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of ยง817.116, Revegetation: Standards for Success. The change at (c)(2) would reduce the period of applicant responsibility for revegetation success from five to two years in areas of more than 26.0 inches of average annual precipitation, and the change at (c)(3) would reduce the applicant responsibility for revegetation success from ten to five years in areas of 26.0 inches or less of annual average precipitation. The authority for these changes would expire on September 30, 2004. IV. Procedural Matters Federal Paperwork Reduction Act The collections of information contained in this rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval as required by 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. The collection of this information will not be required until it has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 80 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Information Collection Clearance Officer, room 640 NC, 1951 Constitution Ave., Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1029&hyph;0040 and 1029&hyph;0041), Washington, DC 20503. Executive Order 12778; Civil Justice Reform Certification This proposed rule has been reviewed under the applicable standards of section 2(b)(2) of Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform (56 FR 55195). In general, the requirements of section 2(b)(2) of Executive Order 12778 are covered by the preamble discussion of this proposed rule. Additional remarks follow concerning individual elements of the Executive Order: A. What is the preemptive effect, if any, to be given to the regulation? To retain primacy, States have to adopt and apply standards for their regulatory programs that are no less effective than those set forth in OSM's regulations. Any State law that is inconsistent with or that would preclude implementation of the proposed regulation would be subject to preemption under section 505 of SMCRA and its implementing regulations at 30 CFR 730.11. Section 505(b) of that act provides that any provision of State law which provides for more stringent land use and environmental controls and regulation of surface coal mining and reclamation operations than do the provisions of SMCRA or any regulations issued pursuant thereto shall not be construed to be inconsistent with SMCRA. Therefore, to the extent that the proposed regulation would provide less stringent land use and environmental controls than presently contained in State law, the proposed regulation would not preempt the State provisions and would not necessitate changes to approved State programs. A more definitive answer to this question will depend on the provisions of any final rule adopted in this rulemaking. B. What is the effect on existing Federal law or regulation, if any, including all provisions repealed or modified? This proposed rule modifies the implementation of SMCRA, as described herein, and is not intended to modify the implementation of any other Federal statute. The preceding discussion of this proposed rule specifies the Federal regulatory provisions that are affected by this proposed revision. C. Does the rule provide a clear and certain legal standard for affected conduct rather than a general standard, while promoting simplification and burden reduction? The standards established by this rule are as clear and certain as practicable, given the complexity of the topics covered and the mandates of SMCRA. The purpose of this proposed rule is to establish clear and certain standards in order to implement a more effective program. D. What is the retroactive effect, if any, to be given to the regulation? This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect. E. Are administrative proceedings required before parties may file suit in court? Which proceedings apply? Is the exhaustion of administrative remedies required? No administrative proceedings are required before parties may file suit in court challenging the provisions of this proposed rule under section 526(a) of SMCRA, 30 U.S.C. 1276(a). Prior to any judicial challenge to the application of the rule, however, administrative procedures must be exhausted. In situations involving OSM application of the rule, applicable administrative procedures may be found at 43 CFR part 4. In situations involving State regulatory authority application of provisions equivalent to those contained in this proposed rule, applicable administrative procedures are set forth in the particular State program. F. Does the rule define key terms, either explicitly or by reference to other regulations or statutes that explicitly define those items? Terms which are important to the understanding of this proposed rule are set forth in 30 CFR 700.5, 701.5, 773.15 and 785.23. New definitions are located in section 701.5.
