FR941020-2-00059 FR941020-2-00038 Section S2N.10␣The Office of Public Service and Operations Support_(Organization) The Office of Public Service and Operations Support, under the leadership of the Associate Commissioner for Public Service and Operations Support, includes: A. The Associate Commissioner for Public Service and Operations Support (S2N). B. The Deputy Associate Commissioner for Public Service and Operations Support (S2N). C. The Immediate Office of the Associate Commissioner for Public Service and Operations Support (S2N). Section S2N.20␣The Office of Public Service and Operations Support_(Functions) A. The Associate Commissioner for Public Service and Operations Support (S2N) is directly responsible to the DCO for carrying out OPSOS's mission and provides general supervision to the major components of OPSOS. B. The Deputy Associate Commissioner for Public Service and Operations Support (S2N) assists the Associate Commissioner in carrying out his/her responsibilities and performs other duties as the Associate Commissioner may prescribe. C. The Immediate Office of the Associate Commissioner for Public Service and Operations Support (S2N) provides the Associate Commissioner with staff assistance on the full range of his/her responsibilities. Delete Subchapter S2M, Office of 800 Number Operations in its entirety. Add Subchapter Subchapter S2Q Office of Telephone Services S2Q.00␣Mission S2Q.10␣Organization S2Q.20␣Functions Section S2Q.00␣The Office of Telephone Services_(Mission) The Office of Telephone Services is responsible for planning, implementing, operating and evaluating SSA's telephone service to the public delivered by the National 800 Number and SSA FOs. The Office plans and conducts studies, pilots and analyses of 800 Number and FO telephone operations to assess and improve the service provided. The office provides direct support to 37 TSCs and approximately 1,300 FOs, including developing and communicating uniform operating policies and procedures. The office maintains close, effective working relationships with SSA policy, program and administrative components, with other Federal agencies and with vendors which have important roles in the delivery and evaluation of SSA's telephone service to the public. This office manages SSA's National 800 Number network operation, designs and administers call routing plans, continuously monitors call handling and adjusts routing to handle emergency situations and to maximize call answering effectiveness and efficiency. Section S2Q.10␣The Office of Telephone Services_(Organization) The Office of Telephone Services includes: A. The Director of the Telephone Services (S2Q). B. The Deputy Director of the Office of Telephone Services (S2Q). C. The Immediate Office of the Director of the Office of Telephone Services (S2Q). Section S2Q.20␣The Office of Telephone Services_(Functions) A. The Director, Office of Telephone Services (S2Q) is directly responsible to the DCO for carrying out the Office's mission relating to the operation of SSA's National 800 Number and FO telephone service, and provides general supervision to the major components in the Office. B. The Deputy Director, Office of Telephone Services (S2Q) assists the Director in carrying out his/her responsibilities and performs other duties as the Director may prescribe. C. The Immediate Office of the Office of Telephone Services (S2Q) provides the Director with staff assistance over the full range of his/her responsibilities.
