FR941110-0-00087 FR941110-0-00016 •Have an immediate family member who is a resident or an employee of the facility. Finally, one commenter wants to prohibit any surveyor from accepting a job with a facility for 1 year after the individual has last surveyed it. Response: In response to comments, to preclude conflicts of interest and to ensure survey objectivity, we are expanding §488.314(a)(2) to disqualify anyone from surveying a facility if he or she works, or, within the previous 2 years, has worked as an employee, as employment agency staff at the facility, or as an officer, consultant or agent for the facility to be surveyed. The surveyor is also disqualified if a member of his or her immediate family has, or, within the previous 2 years has had, such a relationship with the facility or if a member of his or her immediate family is, or within the previous 2 years has been, a resident of the facility. In §488.314(a)(2), we continue to disqualify surveyors who have a financial interest or any ownership interest in the facility but have deleted the modifying phrase ``direct or indirect'' to preclude misunderstandings. One commenter, for example, interpreted the restriction against ``indirect'' financial interest to mean that a surveyor would be disqualified if he or she held shares in a broad-based mutual fund which included ownership in health care facilities. (This was not our intent.) The issue of what constitutes disqualifying financial interest must be discussed in considerable detail, and our manuals provide the most appropriate vehicle for this discussion. However, we have broken out the parallel restriction on surveyors whose family members have direct or indirect ownership interest and placed it in a new §488.314(a)(2)(iii). We are also extending the §488.314(a)(2)(i) disqualifying requirement to family members in paragraph (a)(2)(iii). Finally, in a new paragraph (a)(2)(iv), we disqualify any surveyor who has an immediate family member who is a resident of the facility. We believe that these safeguards are sufficient to ensure objectivity and that nothing beyond these is warranted. Finally, in our view, prohibiting any surveyor from accepting a job with a facility for 1 year after he or she has last surveyed it is unnecessary and would be difficult to enforce. Whether or not the ex-surveyor has surveyed that particular facility before would be of less benefit to the facility than the in-depth knowledge of Federal requirements that the individual could share with the facility. We believe that such knowledge can help the facility achieve and maintain compliance which ultimately serves the residents. The protection of the residents' health, safety, dignity, and general interests is our primary goal. Comment: Commenters were generally critical of surveyor training and skills, and most offered specific suggestions on how training could be enhanced. Some examples follow: •There should be provider and/or ombudsman input for surveyor training and/or testing; •``Activity professionals'' or ``individuals with significant clinical and investigative skills'' should teach at least part of the surveyor training course; •Training should include__ _Interviewing and investigatory skills; _Quality of care standards; _Communication skills, particularly for communicating with residents who may have communication barriers; _How to identify outcomes; _How to identify iatrogenic declines; _How to identify care conditions that could lead to decline or failure to improve if not properly addressed; _Standards of care for the professional disciplines involved; _More training on long term care issues;
