FR940826-1-00056 FR940826-1-00008 (i) Name; (ii) Age; and (iii) Training status (completed, not completed, being retrained, or in the process of being trained). (7) The total treatments from the patient list must be the same as the total treatments reported on the cost report filed with the request. 17. A new §413.192 is added to read as follows: §413.192 Payment exception: Frequency of dialysis. (a) To qualify for an exception to the prospective payment rate based on frequency of dialysis, the facility must establish that it has a substantial portion of outpatient maintenance dialysis treatments furnished to patients who dialyze less frequently than three times per week. (b) For purposes of this section, substantial means the number of treatments furnished by the facility is at least 15 percent lower than the number if all patients dialyzed three times a week. (c) Per treatment payment rates granted under this exception may not exceed the amount that results in weekly payment per patient equal to three times the facility's prospective composite rate, exclusive of any exception amounts. (d) Documentation: To document that an ESRD facility furnishes a substantial number of dialysis treatments at a frequency less than 3 times per week per patient, the facility must submit the following information: (1) A list of patients receiving outpatient dialysis treatments for the cost report that is being filed with the request. The list must indicate_ (i) Whether the patients are permanent, transient or temporary; (ii) The medically prescribed frequency of dialysis; and (iii) The number of dialysis treatments that each patient received on a weekly and yearly basis and an explanation of any discrepancy between that calculation and the number of treatments reported on the facility's cost report. (2) A list of patients used to project treatments. The list must indicate_ (i) Whether the patients are permanent, transient or temporary; (ii) The medically prescribed frequency of dialysis; (iii) The number of dialysis treatments that each patient is projected to receive on a weekly and yearly basis, an explanation of any discrepancy between that calculation and the number of treatments reported on the facility's projected cost report, and an explanation for any change between prior actual and projected data. (3) A schedule showing the number of treatments to be furnished twice a week and the number of treatments that would have been furnished if each patient were dialyzed three times a week, including a computation of the facility's projected costs per treatment using the_ (i) Projected number of treatments furnished twice a week; and (ii) Number of treatments if patients dialyze three times a week. (4) A schedule showing the computation of the percentage decrease in the number of treatments. 18. A new §413.194 is added to read as follows: §413.194 Appeals. (a) Appeals under section 1878 of the Act. (1) A facility that disputes the amount of its allowable Medicare bad debts reimbursed by HCFA under §413.178 may request review by the intermediary or the Provider Reimbursement Review Board (PRRB) in accordance with subpart R of part 405 of this chapter.
