FR940630-2-00085 FR940630-2-00066 The Committee, with assistance from MMS, will develop a survey for distribution during 1994 to determine the status of industry's implementation of API RP 75. The Committee may also sponsor a retreat for all OCS operators to consider survey results and report on the progress (and any problems) concerning the implementation of API RP 75. Annually, the Committee will distribute followup surveys to assess the progress of SEMP implementation. For its part, MMS will postpone rulemaking for the general application of SEMP for OCS facilities. During the next 2 years, MMS will monitor the progress of API RP 75 application by (1) soliciting informal information on the implementation of API RP 75 directly from operators, (2) making general inquiries at offshore facilities to monitor API RP 75 development, and (3) evaluating the results of the Committee's survey. The MMS will also gather data on the need for SEMP on OCS facilities and develop strategies for measuring SEMP application and benefits. The MMS will examine the progress and success of industry-wide voluntary adoption of API RP 75. From these assessments, MMS will, at the end of 2 years, decide whether to continue to monitor industry progress or to proceed with rulemaking. Future Options for SEMP At the completion of the 2-year monitoring program, MMS will determine if voluntary implementation of API RP 75 accomplishes the goals of SEMP. Options for proceeding from that point include: (1) Continuing to encourage voluntary implementation of the program, or (2) establishing a structured regulatory program for all operations. Other options may also be available, such as (1) only requiring SEMP for specific areas, or (2) requiring SEMP where inspections or safety records reveal less-than-acceptable performance. The MMS will identify other options as well and select one or more options based on monitoring results, industry's safety record, and other factors. The MMS could also decide to continue monitoring the progress of the voluntary implementation of SEMP. The MMS would monitor industry's approach to safety management and accident rates, while inspectors check for application of SEMP on platforms and facilities. If voluntary adoption of API RP 75 is deemed unsuccessful, MMS may require all operators to formally develop and implement SEMP. The MMS could incorporate API RP 75 into the regulations, or it could promulgate new SEMP requirements, possibly similar to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's 29 CFR 1910 regulations. The MMS would alter its inspection program accordingly to ensure operators implement SEMP. The MMS may determine that SEMP is also suited for specialized applications, such as in deep water or the arctic where operational demands are greater. Under this option, a specific SEMP plan would cover all operational activities at a site, including activities not covered by current regulations. For example, a site-specific SEMP plan would address contingency planning, risk analysis, and departures from the regulations, as well as routine operations. This would compel an operator to explain how it would ensure the safety of operations at a specific site. The MMS is currently evaluating the application of the SEMP concept to deep-water development. Another option MMS may examine requires operators with less-than-acceptable performance to develop and implement SEMP plans. The MMS could evaluate operators based on inspection records and accident data. This regulatory approach focuses on operators needing improvement and does not place additional requirements on operators that consistently operate in a safe manner. Discussion of these regulatory options should not be considered an indication that MMS is backing away from its commitment to the SEMP concept or faith in API RP 75. The MMS strongly supports voluntary implementation of API RP 75 by all lessees and operators. Comments We welcome your comments on MMS's SEMP concept, API RP 75, OCS safety and environmental protection issues in general, implementation strategies, and related matters. Send comments to MMS, Attention: Chief, Inspection, Compliance, and Training Division; Mail Stop 4800; 381 Elden Street; Herndon, Virginia 22070&hyph;4817. Dated: June 16, 1994. Tom Fry, Director, Minerals Management Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15945 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;MR&hyph;M
