FR940304-2-00033 FR940304-2-00027 [ER&hyph;FRL&hyph;4709&hyph;1] Environmental Impact Statements and Regulations; Availability of EPA Comments Availability of EPA comments prepared February 14, 1994 Through February 18, 1994 pursuant to the Environmental Review Process (ERP), under section 309 of the Clean Air Act and section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act as amended. Requests for copies of EPA comments can be directed to the Office of Federal Activities at (202) 260&hyph;5076. An explanation of the ratings assigned to draft environmental impact statements (EISs) was published in FR dated April 10, 1993 (58 FR 18392). Draft EISs ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;L65218&hyph;ID Rating EC2, Jenkins Timber Sale, Harvesting Timber and Road Construction, Payette National Forest, New Meadows Ranger District, Idaho and Adams Counties, ID. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns on the Best Management Practices effectiveness and potential wetlands and air quality impacts. Additional information is requested to: clarify monitoring commitments, document wetland impacts and discuss air quality impacts to sensitive areas. ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;L65219&hyph;ID Rating EC2, Hazard Helicopter Timber Sale, Harvesting Timber and Road Construction, Payette National Forest, New Meadows Ranger District, Idaho County, ID. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns on potential effects on water quality and air quality. Additional information was requested on proposed monitoring and prescribed burning. ERP No. D&hyph;AFS&hyph;L65221&hyph;ID Rating EC2, Hungry-Mill Timber Sales, Harvesting Timber and Road Construction, Nez Perce National Forest, Clearwater Ranger District, Idaho County, ID. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding water quality impacts. EPA requested additional information concerning water quality, wetlands and riparian areas, and monitoring. ERP No. D&hyph;BLM&hyph;K65158&hyph;CA Rating EO2, Clear Creek Management Area, Land and Resource Management Plan Amendment, Implementation, San Benito and Fresno Counties, CA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental objections to the preferred alternative based on the potential human health risks posed by exposure to asbestos, a known human carcinogen. In addition, water quality, soils and unique biological resources in the area are degraded as a result of past and current human activities including mining and recreation. EPA urged BLM to minimize asbestos emissions by implementing aggressive management actions. EPA also recommended that measures be implemented by BLM to improve water quality, soil stability, and riparian and upland vegetation. ERP No. D&hyph;DOE&hyph;C22002&hyph;NY Rating EC2, Tonawanda Site, (Formerly Utilized Sites Remedial Action Program) Remedial Investigation and Feasibility Study for Residual Radioactive Contamination, Funding, City of Tonawanda, NY. Summary: EPA had environmental concerns about insufficient analysis of the possible locations for the on-site encapsulation cell, potential aquifer contamination, long-term institutional controls and site monitoring arrangements, and the need for appropriate wetlands mitigation measures. ERP No. DS&hyph;BLM&hyph;K60023&hyph;CA Rating EO2, Rail-Cycle-Bolo Station Class III Nonhazardous Waste Landfill Project, Construction and Operation, Updated Information, Federal Land Exchange and Right-of-Way Grants, San Bernardino County, CA. Summary: EPA expressed environmental objections based on potential impacts to air quality. Additional information is needed in the FEIS on air quality impacts, air quality mitigation, groundwater monitoring, waters of the US, hazardous waste, biological resources and wilderness areas. Final EISs ERP No. F&hyph;AFS&hyph;L60096&hyph;ID Moyer Salt Timber Sale, Timber Harvest and Road Construction/Reconstruction, Implementation, Salmon National Forest, Cobalt Ranger District, Lemhi County, ID. Summary: EPA expressed environmental concerns regarding the lack of BMP effectiveness monitoring. EPA recommended that the Forest Service consider including a commitment to BMP effectiveness monitoring for water quality in the Record of Decision. ERP No. F&hyph;BLM&hyph;L65127&hyph;AK Fort Wainwright Maneuver Area, Resource Management Plan for Nonmilitary Uses, AK. Summary: The final EIS did not resolve EPA's concerns regarding cumulative impacts analysis, monitoring or the relationship of this Resource Management Plan to other plans yet to be developed. ERP No. F&hyph;BLM&hyph;L65128&hyph;AK Fort Greely Maneuver Area and Air Drop Zone, Resource Management Plan for Nonmilitary Uses, AK. Summary: The final EIS did not resolve EPA's concerns regarding cumulative impacts analysis, monitoring or the relationship of this Resource Management Plan to other plans yet to be developed. ERP No. F&hyph;FHW&hyph;F40321&hyph;MI US 23 Improvements, MI&hyph;13 to MI&hyph;65 and segments of Standish and Omer Cities, Funding, Section 404 Permit and NPDES Permit, Arenac County, MI. Summary: EPA agreed with the recommended alternative for the project: Improvements on existing alignment; and was appreciative that this alternative will have the least impact, other than the No Action, on area of wetlands. Accordingly, concerns raised in our June 5, 1992 letter have been adequately mitigated. Dated: February 28, 1994. Marshall Cain, Senior Legal Advisor, Office of Federal Activities. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5028 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;U
