FR940323-0-00034 FR940323-0-00020 For the above reasons, the Corporation has revised the application process so that States will have the opportunity to replace programs included in the formula portion of their application with programs that were unsuccessful in obtaining competitive funding. The application and simultaneous review processes will be as follows: (a) States will submit applications consisting of the State Plan, formula programs, and, at the State's discretion, competitive programs and a request for program development assistance; (b) If the State Plan is approved, and if a State's formula programs meet a minimum quality threshold, that State's competitive programs will be entered into the State competition; 1 1 Those States that do not submit programs for competitive funding, as well as those States that notify the Corporation in advance that they will not want to revise their formula application regardless of whether any or all programs they have submitted for competitive funding receive funding, will have the formula components of their applications processed before other States. (c) Through a peer and staff review process, the competitive programs will be selected; (d) States will be notified of which programs were selected in the competition and given an opportunity to revise their formula applications to include programs that were not selected in the competition. (The Corporation will be neutral here_neither encouraging nor discouraging States to put rejected competitive programs into the revised formula list. This is the States' choice completely, although at the request of the States the Corporation may provide review forms, etc. which may aid States in assessing the quality of those programs); and (e) The formula portions of the State applications will receive final approval from the Corporation. It is the Corporation's view that this revision to the State application process will leave most decisions in the hands of the States, allow for the best programs to be funded, and still get programs up and running quickly. Eligibility of U.S. Territories for State Competitive Funds At the request of one commenter, the regulations (ยง2521.30) have been amended to clarify that U.S. Territories are eligible to apply for State Competitive funds and educational awards if they receive their formula allotments. Each eligible Territory may include up to three programs in its application for State competitive funds. Timeline One commenter objected to the timelines established for the completion of the State Plan and State applications. In particular, the commenter stated that the tight timelines would make it difficult to coordinate State grant applications with the State Plan. Several commenters noted that the timing of notification of funding will make it difficult to hire staff, which usually happens in the spring. The Corporation agrees that the timeline is very tight and regrets any inconveniences it will cause. In future years, programs will have significantly longer to prepare applications. However, in fiscal year 1994, the current timeline is necessary in order for Corporation-funded programs to be up and running by the Fall. Starting Dates and Attrition Policies One commenter suggested that all participants should not be required to start at the same time and that vacancies be filled on a rolling basis. Another commenter suggested the option of a mid-year starting date to fill vacant positions. The regulations allow for policies to change over time if experience demands a revision. The current policy allows programs to begin terms of service in June, September or January. All participants in a program need not start simultaneously_thus one class could serve September-September, another January-January, thereby allowing the option of a mid-year starting date to fill vacancies. In addition, if a program can demonstrate a compelling reason for alternative starting dates, including the need for rolling admissions, the Corporation may waive this requirement. Allocation of Educational Awards Within Programs
