FR940228-1-00066 FR940228-1-00010 Under new section 492 of the HEA, these proposed changes are subject to the negotiated rulemaking process, which includes a requirement for the Secretary to convene regional meetings to obtain public involvement in the development of proposed regulations. Accordingly, issues related to these proposed changes were discussed in meetings held in September 1992 in New York City; San Francisco; Atlanta; and Kansas City, Missouri. At these meetings, the Secretary provided the attendees with a list of issues to be addressed in these proposed regulations. A summary of the responses of the attendees is contained in the Appendix to this preamble. Groups that attended the regional meetings nominated individuals to participate in the regulation negotiations. The Secretary selected regulation negotiators from the names nominated and chose negotiators to reflect all the groups that participate in the Title IV, HEA programs, such as students, student financial aid administrators, and various types of eligible institutions. These proposed regulations also address statutory changes required by the Higher Education Technical Amendments of 1993, Public Law 103&hyph;208 (the Technical Amendments of 1993). Those areas affected by the Technical Amendments of 1993 are identified in the discussion of regulatory changes. The Secretary notes that the statutory changes required by the Technical Amendments of 1993 are not subject to the negotiated rulemaking process of section 492 of the HEA. Regulatory Changes In accordance with section 492(b) of the HEA, the Secretary prepared draft proposed regulations and negotiated the provisions of that draft with negotiators. The great majority of the proposed changes do not reflect consensus reached at the negotiations (as consensus was rarely obtained). The Secretary has identified in the discussion of changes the areas where consensus was reached. The following discussion reflects proposed significant changes to the existing Student Assistance General Provisions regulations and the Federal Pell Grant Program regulations. Proposed changes are discussed in the order in which they appear in the proposed regulatory text. If a provision applied to more than one section or is included in more than one section, it is discussed the first time it appears with an appropriate reference to its other appearances. Subpart A_General Section 668.1␣Scope The Secretary proposes to revise this section to remove vocational school from the list of what the term institution includes, because vocational schools are no longer eligible institutions under the HEA. The Secretary proposes to revise this section to reflect a listing of currently existing Title IV, HEA programs that would be subject to part 668. Programs added to the list would include the National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership, Presidential Access Scholarship, and Federal Direct Student Loan programs. The Income Contingent Loan Program, which no longer exists, would be removed from the list. These revisions reflect statutory changes made to the HEA by the Amendments of 1992. Section 668.2␣General Definitions This section includes definitions proposed in NPRMs published on October 4, 1993 (58 FR 51716), and on February 17, 1994 (in part II) (59 FR 8044). Those definitions are: designated department official, initiating official, output document, show-cause official, and third-party servicer. The Secretary will not repeat the discussion of those definitions here. The Secretary proposes to remove the definitions of Award year, Regular student, and State, because they would be included in 34 CFR part 600, governing institutional eligibility under the HEA. The Secretary proposed to move these definitions to 34 CFR Part 600 in the NPRM published on February 10, 1994 (59 FR 6446). The Secretary is proposing technical changes to clarify the definitions of the current Title IV, HEA programs and to add definitions of the newly authorized Title IV, HEA programs to conform with statutory changes and for consistency with terminology used in the individual program regulations. The Secretary also proposes to make technical changes in the definitions of Independent student, to reflect statutory changes, and Enrolled, Valid student aid report, and Valid institutional student information report for consistency with other program regulations. The Secretary would move the definition of Participating institution from §668.81 to this section.
