FR940413-2-00148 FR940413-2-00070 The MSRB will include information reported on Form G&hyph;37 in its electronic library system, the Municipal Securities Information Library (``MSIL''). The MSRB will develop appropriate filing procedures to allow for public access to the information, as well as indexing, and record storage. 2. Rules G&hyph;8 and G&hyph;9 The proposal will amend rules G&hyph;8 and G&hyph;9 on recordkeeping and record retention regarding political contributions. The proposed amendment to rule G&hyph;8 will require a dealer to maintain a list of: (1) Names, titles, city/county and state of residence of all associated municipal finance professionals; (2) names, titles, city/county and state of residence of all executive officers of the dealer; (3) the states in which the dealer is engaging or is seeking to engage in municipal securities business; (4) every issuer with which municipal securities business has been conducted during the current year, as well as the previous two years and, where applicable, the name, company, role and compensation arrangement of any person employed by the dealer to obtain or retain municipal securities business with the issuer; and (5) all contributions, direct or indirect, to officials of issuers and to political parties of states and political subdivisions made by the dealer, each dealer-controlled PAC, and each associated municipal finance professional and executive officer. 49 The records required pursuant to the proposal apply to contributions made or business engaged in beginning April 25, 1994. 50 49 Dealers will be required to record, per contribution, the identity of the contributor and the recipient and the amount of the contribution. 50 File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;2, Amendment No. 1 (March 29, 1994). See supra note 4. The proposal does not require the dealer to maintain a list of contributions by its municipal finance professionals or executive officers that are made: (1) To officials for whom the person is entitled to vote, provided such contributions do not exceed $250 to each issuer official, per election; or (2) to political parties for the state and political subdivision in which the person is entitled to vote, provided the contributions do not exceed $250 per party, per year. The proposal also does not require dealers to maintain a list of contributions by any other employees, affiliate companies and their employees, spouses of covered employees, or any other person or entity unless the contributions were directed by persons or entities subject to proposed rule G&hyph;37. The proposed amendment to rule G&hyph;9 requires dealers to maintain, for a six-year period, those records required to be made pursuant to the proposed amendment to rule G&hyph;8.
