FR941220-0-00063 FR941220-0-00011 The adopted rule applies to financial statements of the registrant. Financial statements furnished with respect to equity investees or acquired businesses may be prepared using the same reporting currency as the registrant's primary financial statements or the currency in which that entity normally prepares its financial statements. If the currency selected for the separate financial statements of acquisitions and investees differs from that of the registrant, pro forma information and condensed financial data of an investee should be prepared using the reporting currency of the registrant. 9 9 In circumstances where a registrant furnishes separate financial statements of an equity investee pursuant to Rule 3&hyph;09 of Regulation S&hyph;X, the staff has not required the registrant to also furnish summarized financial data of the investee pursuant to Rule 4&hyph;08(g) of Regulation S&hyph;X (17 CFR 210.4&hyph;08(g)) ( See Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 44, Topic 6:K (March 3, 1983) (47 FR 10789). However, if the separate financial statements of an equity investee are not prepared in the same reporting currency as the issuer, the summarized financial data pursuant to Rule 4&hyph;08(g) of Regulation S&hyph;X should be provided in the primary financial statements. B. Measurement The Proposing Release requested comment on two alternative approaches to measuring transactions that would then be translated into the reporting currency. Commenters, with one exception, supported the method described as Approach A. Under that approach, the issuer would measure separately its own transactions, and those of each of its material operations (for example, branch, division, subsidiary, or joint venture) that are included in the issuer's consolidated financial statements and located in a non-hyperinflationary environment, using the particular currency of the primary economic environment in which the issuer or the operation conducts its business. 10 Financial statement amounts so determined would be translated to the reporting currency using the methodology that is prescribed by SFAS 52 for translation of financial statements from a functional currency to a reporting currency. Under that method, (a) all assets and liabilities are translated into the reporting currency at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, (b) all revenues, expenses, gains, and losses are translated at the exchange rate existing at the time of the transaction or, if appropriate, a weighted average of the exchange rates during the period or year, and (c) all the translation effects of exchange rate changes are included as a separate component (``cumulative translation adjustment'') of shareholders' equity. 10 An issuer with a material operation in a hyperinflationary environment would measure the transactions of the operation in the reporting currency pursuant to SFAS 52, except that no reconciliation to that method will be required in the circumstances discussed in Section III of this release. Commenters generally objected to Approach B because measurement of reported results of operations and financial position would be dependent on the issuer's particular reporting currency, rather than the economic environment in which the business operated. Pursuant to Approach B, all transactions of the issuer and its subsidiaries would be measured (or remeasured if not so measured initially) using reporting currency, except that transactions of each of its material foreign operations (for example, branch, division, subsidiary, or joint venture) included in the consolidated financial statements and located in a non-hyperinflationary environment would be measured using the particular currency of the primary economic environment in which the foreign operation conducts its business. Financial statement amounts determined for the material foreign operations of the issuer would be translated using the methodology prescribed by SFAS 52 for translation of financial statements from a functional currency to a reporting currency, as described above. Commenters also opposed Approach B because it could not be readily implemented by foreign issuers that report in several currencies due to the significant data and computational requirements of the remeasurement process. While the Commission has determined not to adopt Approach B in the amendment, issuers that have historically presented results using that method are encouraged to discuss with the staff possible resolutions of any particular problems that may be encountered by the issuer as a result of the Commission's adoption of Approach A. C. Changes of Reporting Currency As was proposed, the final amendments provide that changes in the reporting currency require the financial statements of periods prior to the change be comprehensively recast as if the new reporting currency had been used. 11 To comprehensively recast prior financial statements, a methodology consistent with SFAS 52 should be applied. That is, the income statement and statement of cash flows should be translated into the new reporting currency using an appropriately weighted average exchange rate for the applicable period, and assets and liabilities should be translated using the exchange rate at the end of the applicable period. Registrants that encounter unusual or complex problems in the implementation of a change in reporting are encouraged to discuss those issues with the staff prior to filing. 11 A change in the reporting currency may or may not be coincidental with a change in the currency of the primary economic environment in which the operations exist. The U.S. accounting guidance applicable to a change in an entity's functional currency appears in paragraph 9 of SFAS 52. The effects of differences between the method of accounting in the primary financial statements for a change in functional currency and the method of accounting prescribed by U.S. GAAP should be explained and quantified where reconciliation is required pursuant to Item 17 or Item 18 of Form 20&hyph;F.
