FR941206-0-00027 FR941206-0-00004 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Bureau of Economic Analysis 15 CFR Part 806 [Docket No. 940828&hyph;4318] RIN 0691&hyph;AA22 Direct Investment Surveys: BE&hyph;10, Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad_1994 AGENCY: Bureau of Economic Analysis, Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: These final rules set forth reporting requirements for the BE&hyph;10, Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad_1994, to be conducted by the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), U.S. Department of Commerce. The rules for the last benchmark survey, covering 1989, are deleted. The major change in reporting requirements since the last survey that is implemented in these final rules is the raising of the exemption level for determining whether a long form or a short form must be filed for nonbank foreign affiliates of nonbank U.S. parent companies. EFFECTIVE DATE: These rules will be effective January 5, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Betty L. Barker, Chief, International Investment Division (BE&hyph;50), Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; phone (202) 606&hyph;9800. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the August 26, 1994 Federal Register , Volume 59, No. 165, 59 FR 44090, BEA published a notice of proposed rulemaking to revise 15 CFR 806.16 to set forth reporting requirements for the BE&hyph;10, Benchmark Survey of U.S. Direct Investment Abroad_1994. No comments on the proposed rules were received. Thus, these final rules are the same as the proposed rules. The benchmark survey will be conducted by BEA under the International Investment and Trade in Services Survey Act, hereinafter, ``the Act.'' Section 4(b) of the Act, as amended, requires that ``With respect to United States direct investment abroad, the President shall conduct a benchmark survey covering year 1982, a benchmark survey covering year 1989, and benchmark surveys covering every fifth year thereafter *␣*␣*'' Reporting in the survey is mandatory. The responsibility for conducting benchmark surveys of U.S. direct investment abroad has been delegated by the President to the Secretary of Commerce, who has redelegated it to BEA. The benchmark surveys are BEA's censuses, intended to cover the universe of U.S. direct investment abroad in value terms. U.S. direct investment abroad is defined as the ownership or control, directly or indirectly, by one U.S. person of 10 percent or more of the voting securities of an incorporated foreign business enterprise or an equivalent interest in an unincorporated foreign business enterprise, including a branch. The purpose of the benchmark survey is to obtain comprehensive data on the overall operations of U.S. parent companies and their foreign affiliates, and on positions and transactions between them. The survey is mandated by Congress to provide a factual framework for addressing the concerns of policymakers and the general public about the effects of direct investment abroad on the U.S. and foreign economies. The data from the survey are needed to record the size of U.S. direct investment abroad, measure changes in such investment, and assess its impact. The data will provide benchmarks for deriving current universe estimates of direct investment from sample data collected in other BEA surveys in nonbenchmark years. In particular, they will serve as benchmarks for the quarterly direct investment estimates included in the U.S. international transactions and the national income and product accounts, and for annual estimates of the U.S. direct investment position abroad and of the operations of U.S. parent companies and their foreign affiliates. The benchmark surveys are the most comprehensive of BEA's surveys in terms of subject matter in order that they obtain the detailed information on U.S. direct investment abroad needed for policy purposes. As specified in the Act, policy areas of particular interest include, among other things, trade in both goods and services, employment and employee compensation, taxes, and technology. The survey consists of an instruction booklet, a claim for not filing the BE&hyph;10, and the following report forms: 1. Form BE&hyph;10A for reporting by a U.S. Reporter that is not a bank; 2. Form BE&hyph;10A BANK for reporting by a U.S. Reporter that is a bank; 3. Form BE&hyph;10B(LF) (Long Form) for reporting nonbank foreign affiliates of nonbank U.S. parents with assets, sales, or net income greater than $50 million (positive or negative); 4. Form BE&hyph;10B(SF) (Short Form) for reporting nonbank foreign affiliates of nonbank U.S. parents with assets, sales, or net income greater than $3 million, but not greater than $50 million (positive or negative); and
