FR940503-0-00047 FR940503-0-00009 (4) Where it is necessary to employ methods that have not been established as standard, these shall be subject to agreement with the client, be fully documented and validated, and be available to the client and other recipients of the relevant reports. (5) Where sampling is carried out as part of the test method, the laboratory shall used documented procedures and appropriate statistical techniques to select samples. (6) Calculations and data transfers shall be subject to appropriate checks. (7) Where computers or automated equipment are used for the capture, processing, manipulation, recording, reporting, storage or retrieval of calibration or test data, the laboratory shall ensure that: (i) The requirements of these procedures are complied with; (ii) Computer software is documented and adequate for use; (iii) Procedures are established and implemented for protecting the integrity of data; such procedures shall include, but not be limited to, integrity of data entry or capture, data storage, data transmission and data processing; (iv) Computer and automated equipment is maintained to ensure proper functioning and provided with the environmental and operating conditions necessary to maintain the integrity of calibration and test data; (v) It establishes and implements appropriate procedures for the maintenance of security of data including the prevention of unauthorized access to, and the unauthorized amendment of, computer records. (8) Documented procedure shall exist for the purchase, reception and storage of consumable materials used for the technical operations of the laboratory. (i) Handling of calibration and test items. (1) The laboratory shall have a documented system for uniquely identifying the items to be calibrated or tested, to ensure that there can be no confusion regarding the identity of such items at any time. (2) Upon receipt, the condition of the calibration or test item, including any abnormalities or departures from standard condition as prescribed in the relevant calibration or test method, shall be recorded. Were there is any doubt as to the item's suitability for calibration or test, where the item does not conform to the description provided, or where the calibration or test required is not fully specified, the laboratory shall consult the client for further instruction before proceeding. The laboratory shall establish whether the item has received all necessary preparation, or whether the client requires preparation to be undertaken or arranged by the laboratory. (3) The laboratory shall have documented procedures and appropriate facilities to avoid deterioration or damage to the calibration or test item, during storage, handling, preparation, and calibration or test; any relevant instructions provided with the item shall be followed. Where items have to be stored or conditioned under specific environmental conditions, these conditions shall be maintained, monitored and recorded where necessary. Where a calibration or test item or portion of an item is to be held secure (for example, for reasons of record, safety or value, or to enable check calibrations or tests to be performed later), the laboratory shall have storage and security arrangements that protect the condition and integrity of the secured items or portions concerned. (4) The laboratory shall have documented procedures for the receipt, retention or safe disposal of calibration or test items, including all provisions necessary to protect the integrity of the laboratory. (j) Records. (1) The laboratory shall maintain a record system to suit its particular circumstances and comply with any applicable regulations. It shall retain on record all original observations, calculations and derived data, calibration records and a copy of the calibration certificate, test certificate or test report for an appropriate period. The records for each calibration and test shall contain sufficient information to permit their repetition. The records shall include the identity of personnel involved in sampling, preparation, calibration or testing. (2) All records (including those listed in ยง285.33(f)(4) pertaining to calibration and test equipment), certificates and reports shall be safely stored, held secure and in confidence to the client. (k) Certificates and reports. (1) The results of each calibration, test, or series of calibrations or tests carried out by the laboratory shall be reported accurately, clearly, unambiguously and objectively, in accordance with any instructions in the calibration or test methods. The results should normally be reported in a calibration certificate, test report or test certificate and should include all the information necessary for the interpretation of the calibration or test results and all information required by the method used. (2) Each certificate or report shall include at least the following information: (i) A title, e.g., ``Calibration Certificate'', ``Test Report'' or ``Test Certificate''; (ii) Name and address of laboratory, and location where the calibration or test was carried out if different from the address of the laboratory; (iii) Unique identification of the certificate or report (such as serial number) and of each page, and the total number of pages; (iv) Name and address of client, where appropriate; (v) Description and unambiguous identification of the item calibrated or tested; (vi) Characterization and condition of the calibration or test item;
