FR941012-0-00181 FR941012-0-00013 Definitions Definitions were discussed by fifteen commenters who recommended clarification of some definitions and additional definitions for some terms used in the regulation. These comments were submitted from eight members of the shipper-carrier industry, four States, one local government, one Federal agency and a citizens' group. Nine commenters recommended clarification of the definition of ``routing designations.'' The main concern was that routing designations broadly defined could include licenses, permits, bonds, and other restrictions or requirements which might not be route-specific. In response to these concerns, the FHWA has clarified routing designations to include route-specific features, such as: designations of routes, restrictions on routes, curfews/time-of-travel restrictions on routes, lane restrictions, routing bans, port-of-entry requirements, and weight restrictions on routes which are specifically related to NRHM. Common State, Indian tribal, or local regulatory requirements are not ``routing designations'' when they are not route specific. These can include fee, bonding/insurance, notice, escort, permit, registration, inspection, and communication requirements which are generally applied to entire jurisdictions rather than specific highway routes. Such jurisdictional restrictions are not covered under this regulation. Their possible preemption is determined by the RSPA, not the FHWA. Other restrictions on motor vehicles that are not specific to the transportation of hazardous materials, such as height, weight, or width restrictions for roads and bridges, or prohibitions on the use of downtown streets by trucks over certain sizes, are not affected by this regulation. Motor Carrier Responsibilities for Routing Five commenters recommended clarifying the applicability of the rule to placarded and marked vehicles. These commenters were concerned that the regulation would be applicable to placarded NRHM transport while other motor carrier regulations are applicable to both placarded and marked NRHM transport. The FHWA has amended ยง397.67(b), which deals with the motor carriers responsibilities, to include motor vehicles that are marked or placarded.
