FR941220-1-00067 FR941220-1-00010 §24.411 Notice of suspension. When a respondent is suspended, notice shall immediately be given: (a) That the suspension has been imposed; (b) That the suspension is based on an indictment, conviction, or other adequate evidence that the respondent has committed irregularities seriously reflecting on the propriety of further Federal Government dealings with the respondent; (c) Describing any such irregularities in terms sufficient to put the respondent on notice without disclosing the Federal Government's evidence; (d) Of the cause(s) relied upon under §24.405 for imposing suspension; (e) That the suspension is for a temporary period pending the completion of an investigation or ensuing legal, debarment or Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act proceedings; (f) Of the provisions of §§24.411 through 24.413 and any other HUD procedures, if applicable, governing suspension decisionmaking; and (g) Of the effect of the suspension. 14. Section 24.412 would be revised to read as follows: §24.412 Opportunity to contest suspension. (a) Submission in opposition. Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of suspension, the respondent may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument in opposition to the suspension. (1) The information and argument should be addressed to the Debarment Docket Clerk, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20410. (2) If the respondent does not contest the suspension within the 30 day period, the suspension shall become final. (3) If the respondent desires a hearing, it shall submit a written request to the Debarment Docket Clerk within the 30-day period following receipt of the notice of suspension. (b) Additional proceedings as to disputed material facts. (1) If the suspending official finds that the respondent's submission in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the suspension, respondent(s) shall be afforded an opportunity to appear with a representative, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any witnesses the agency presents, unless: (i) The action is based on an indictment, conviction or civil judgment, or (ii) A determination is made, on the basis of Department of Justice advice, that the substantial interests of the Federal Government in pending or contemplated legal proceedings based on the same facts as the suspension would be prejudiced. (2) A transcribed record of any additional proceedings shall be prepared and made available at cost to the respondent, unless the respondent and the agency, by mutual agreement, waive the requirement for a transcript. 15. Section 24.413 would be revised to read as follows: §24.413 Suspending official's decision. The suspending official may modify or terminate the suspension (see §24.320(c)) for reasons for reducing the period or scope of debarment) or may leave it in force. However, a decision to modify or terminate the suspension shall be without prejudice to the subsequent imposition of suspension by any other agency or debarment by any agency. The decision shall be rendered in accordance with the following provisions: (a) No additional proceedings necessary. In actions based upon an indictment, conviction, or civil judgment, in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts, or in which additional proceedings to determine disputed material facts have been denied on the basis of Department of Justice advice, the suspending official shall make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the respondent. The decision shall be made within 45 days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the respondent, unless the suspending official extends this period for good cause. (b) Additional proceedings necessary. (1) In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary to determine disputed material facts, written findings of fact shall be prepared. The suspending official shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the respondent and any other information in the administrative record. (2) The suspending official may refer matters involving disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The suspending official may reject any such findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary or capricious or clearly erroneous. (3) If the suspending official refers disputed material facts to an Administrative Law Judge or Member of the Board of Contract Appeals, the provisions of part 26 of this chapter shall be generally applicable to the proceeding, with the exception that no appeal to the Secretary may be taken under §§26.24&hyph;26.26 of this chapter with respect to any order or decision by such Judge or Member. (4) Such additional proceedings shall in all events be concluded within 45 days after the suspending official has issued the notice of disputed factual issues in accordance with §24.412(b)(1) of this part. Findings of fact shall be issued by the suspending official, or by any official to whom the factual issues have been referred, within 30 days after conclusion of such additional proceedings. The time limitations of this subparagraph may be extended only upon issuance, by the suspending official or other official to whom factual issues have been referred, of a written notice describing good cause for such extension. (5) The suspending official's decision shall be made within 15 days after the issuance of findings of fact with respect to the disputed material facts. (c) Notice of suspending official's decision. Prompt written notice of the suspending official's decision shall be sent to the respondent. §24.415 [Amended] 16. In §24.415, paragraph (d) would be removed. §24.705 [Amended] 17. In §24.705, paragraph (c) would be amended to remove the words ``regional or field''.
