FR940516-0-00057 FR940516-0-00013 i. End-use reporting of the installed telecommunication equipment or systems will be provided in accordance with the provisions of Advisory Note 1 in the Notes for Telecommunications (Category 5). N.B. 1: No export under the favorable consideration provisions of this Advisory Note shall establish a precedent for the approval of exports under entries in other Categories on the Commerce Control List. N.B. 2: For each license application for export pursuant to this Advisory Note, the exporter must submit the following assurances to be obtained from the importer: a. An Import Certificate issued by the importer's national authorities; b. An assurance that the importer will make available information as requested by the Department of Commerce; and c. An assurance that the importer will allow on-site inspection if requested by the Department of Commerce. Advisory Note 16: Licenses will receive favorable consideration for the export to satisfactory end-users in Albania, Bulgaria, Mongolia, Romania, or Vietnam of radio relay communications equipment, specially designed components and accessories, specially designed test equipment, ``software'' and technology for the ``use'' of equipment or materials therefor, controlled by the telecommunications entries in this Category, provided that: a. It is for fixed installation and civil application; b. It is designed for operation at a total ``digital transfer rate'' not exceeding 156 Mbit/s; c. The equipment does not employ either of the following: 1. Quadrature Amplitude Modulation (QAM) techniques above 64 QAM; or 2. Other digital modulation techniques with a ``spectral efficiency'' exceeding 6.3 bit/s/Hz; d. It operates at fixed frequencies not exceeding 9 GHz; e. A license application for export under the provisions of this Advisory Note provides the following information: 1. The equipment or system to be provided; 2. The intended application; and 3. The location of the equipment. Advisory Note 17: Licenses will receive favorable consideration for the export to satisfactory end-users in Country Groups QWY and the People's Republic of China of optical fiber cables and optical fiber transmission equipment or systems controlled by 5A02 or 5A05, provided that: a. The equipment or systems are intended for general commercial international traffic in an international civil submarine optical fiber telecommunication system linking the importing country with a non-proscribed country; b. It is to be installed in a permanent circuit under the supervision of the licensee; c. No means are to be provided for the transmission of traffic between points in one or more proscribed countries other than Bulgaria or Romania; d. The total length of optical fiber cable to be installed within the proscribed country, excluding cable in territorial waters, does not exceed 10 km or the shortest distance that is practical for installation; e. The ``digital transfer rate'' at the highest multiplex level does not exceed 565 Mbit/s; f. The ``laser'' transmission wavelength does not exceed 1,550 nm; g. The equipment is not controlled by 5A02.d.2 to d.5 or by the ``information security'' entries in Category 5; h. Controlled spare parts shall remain under the supervision of the licensee or the licensee's designated representative, who shall be from a non-proscribed country; Note: The supervision of spare parts by the licensee may be effected by stock inventory procedures and does not require the permanent on-site presence of a representative of the licensee. i. The licensee or the licensee's designated representative, who shall be from a non-proscribed country, shall have the right of access to all the equipment; j. There will be no transfer of controlled technology; k. Supervision of systems installation and of maintenance shall be performed by the licensee or the licensee's designated representative, who shall be from a non-proscribed country, using only personnel from non-proscribed countries; and N.B. 1: Supervision of maintenance includes preventive maintenance at periodic intervals and intervention for major malfunctions. N.B. 2: This does not require that only nationals from the exporting country should install the system. l. Upon request, the licensee shall carry out an inspection to establish that: 1. The system is being used for the intended civil purpose;
