FR941222-0-00103 FR941222-0-00014 625.2␣Required Provisions Each service agreement must contain the following: a. The mailer's commitment to send at least 25,000 packages by IPCS during the next 12 months to the specified destination country. b. The mailer's commitment to designate the Postal Service as its carrier of choice to the specified destination country. c. The mailer's commitment to link its information systems with the Postal Service's so that (1) the Postal Service and the mailer can exchange data transmissions concerning the mailer's packages, and (2) by scanning the mailer-provided barcode on each package, the Postal Service can extract, on an as-needed basis, certain information about the package. The package-specific information that the mailer is required to make available varies by destination country as stipulated in 620. 625.3␣Optional Provisions Each service agreement may set forth any IPCS-related arrangements between the Postal Service and the mailer that are technical in nature. 626␣IPCS to Japan 626.1␣Description 626.11␣General IPCS to Japan provides the mailer with three delivery options, and with preparation by the Postal Service of the customs forms required by Japan Post. 626.12␣JFK Processing Facility All IPCS packages sent to Japan are processed at, and dispatched from, a dedicated facility located at JFK International Airport (the JFK Processing Facility). 626.13␣Delivery Options 626.131␣Express Service Packages sent through Express Service are transported by air to Japan, where they receive special handling by Japan Post and expedited delivery. The mailer can track Express Service packages through delivery. Reports of delivery performance are furnished to the mailer in the formats and at the frequencies agreed upon by the Postal Service and the mailer. 626.132␣Standard Air Service Packages sent through Standard Air Service are transported by air to Japan, where they enter Japan Post's domestic airmail system for delivery. The mailer can track Standard Air Service packages through dispatch from the JFK Processing Facility. 626.133␣Economy Air Service Packages sent through Economy Air Service are transported by air to Japan, where they enter Japan Post's domestic surface mail system for delivery. The mailer can track Economy Air Service packages through dispatch from the JFK Processing Facility. 626.2␣Acceptance 626.21␣Within 500 Miles of JFK If the plant at which the mailer's IPCS packages originate is located within 500 miles of the JFK Processing Facility, the Postal Service accepts the packages at the plant and transports them by truck to the JFK Processing Facility according to a schedule agreed upon by the Postal Service and the mailer. 626.22␣More Than 500 Miles From JFK If the plant at which the mailer's IPCS packages originate is located more than 500 miles from the JFK Processing Facility, the mailer must present the packages for verification at the plant and transport them as a drop shipment to the JFK Processing Facility according to a schedule agreed upon by the Postal Service and the mailer. 626.3␣Required Package-Specific Information The mailer must make available to the Postal Service, by means of data transmissions in the formats and at the frequencies agreed upon by the Postal Service and the mailer, the following information about each IPCS package: a. Order number. b. Package identification number. c. Delivery option used for package. d. Buyer's name and address. e. Recipient's name and address. f. Total weight. g. Total value. h. Total number of items in package. i. Number of each individual item in package. j. SKU and/or key-word description of each item. k. Value of each item. l. Country of origin (if available) of each item. 626.4␣Insurance and Indemnity 626.41␣Express Service Packages sent through Express Service are insured against loss, damage, or rifling at no additional cost. Indemnity will be paid by the Postal Service as provided in DMM S500. However, Express Service packages are not insured against delay in delivery. Neither indemnity payments nor postage refunds will be made in the event of delay. 626.42␣Standard Air Service Packages sent through Standard Air Service weighing more than 1 pound may be insured at an additional cost. See 320. 626.43␣Economy Air Service Packages sent through Economy Air Service may not be insured. 626.5␣Postage
