FR941205-0-00191 FR941205-0-00029 ยง266.606 Mortgage insurance premium: Duration and method of paying. (a) Duration of payments. Mortgage insurance premium payments must continue annually until one of the following occurs: (1) The mortgage is paid in full; (2) A deed to the HFA is filed for record; (3) An application for initial claim payment is received by the Commissioner; or (4) The Contract of Insurance is otherwise terminated. (b) Method of payment. The HFA shall pay any mortgage insurance premium required by this part in cash. ยง266.608 Mortgage insurance premium: Pro rata refund. If the Contract of Insurance is terminated by payment in full or is terminated by the HFA on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, after the date of the first payment to principal, the Commissioner shall refund any mortgage insurance premium for the period after the effective date of the termination of insurance. The refund shall be mailed to the HFA for credit to the mortgagor's account. In computing the pro rata portion of the annual mortgage insurance premium, the date of termination of insurance shall be the last day of the month in which the mortgage is prepaid or the Commissioner receives a notification of termination, whichever is later. No refund shall be made if the insurance was terminated because of the submission of an application for initial claim payment or if the termination occurs before the date of the first payment to principal. Insurance Endorsement ยง266.612 Insurance endorsement. (a) Initial endorsement. The Commissioner shall indicate his or her insurance of the mortgage by endorsing the original credit instrument. (b) Final endorsement. When all advances of mortgage proceeds have been made and all other applicable terms and conditions have been complied with to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the Commissioner shall indicate on the original credit instrument the total of all advances that have been approved for insurance and again endorse such instrument. (c) Effect of endorsement. From the date of initial endorsement, the Commissioner and the HFA shall be bound by the provisions of this subpart to the same extent as if they had executed a contract including the provisions of this subpart and the applicable sections of the Act. Assignments ยง266.616 Transfer of partial interest under participation agreement. The HFA may not assign the mortgage. However, a partial interest in an insured mortgage or pool of insured mortgages may be transferred under a participation agreement or arrangement (such as a declaration of trust or the issuance of pass-through certificates), without obtaining the approval of the Commissioner, if the following conditions are met: (a) Legal title to the insured mortgage or mortgages shall be held by the HFA; and (b) The participation agreement, declaration of trust or other instrument under which the partial interest is transferred shall provide that: (1) The HFA shall remain mortgagee of record under the contract of mortgage insurance; (2) The Commissioner shall have no obligation to recognize or deal with anyone other than the HFA with respect to the rights, benefits, and obligations of the mortgagee under the contract of insurance; and (3) The mortgagor shall have no obligation to recognize or do business with any one other than the HFA or, if applicable, its servicing agent with respect to rights, benefits, and obligations of the mortgagor or the mortgagee under the mortgage.
