FR940513-2-00134 FR940513-2-00063 Scope of Environmental Impact Statement; Docket No. AB&hyph;213 (Sub-No. 4); Canadian Pacific Limited_Abandonment_Between_Skinner and Vanceboro, Maine; Executive Summary; Description of Proposed Action and Alternatives 1. Summary of the existing rail line 2. Description of the proposed action 3. Description of alternatives a. Partial abandonment b. Discontinuance of service without abandonment c. No action (denial of the proposal) Description of Existing Environment Specific description including existing land use, transportation, physiography and soil, water resources, biological resources, air quality, noise, socioeconomic setting, historic and cultural resources, and recreational resources in the project area. Environmental Analysis of Proposed Action and Alternatives A. Land Use Impacts 1. Analysis of impacts from increased land development following abandonment of the right-of-way (ROW). 2. Evaluation of the change in existing land use of the ROW, railroad yards, and stations. 3. Assessment of disturbances to adjacent properties during salvage activities. 4. Concerns regarding unauthorized recreational vehicle use along the abandoned ROW. 5. Need for disposal requirements for salvaging debris. 6. Possibility of unauthorized waste and debris disposal along the ROW. 7. Native American concerns regarding impacts to land use activities of the Indian Township and Pleasant Point reservations of the Passamaquoddy Tribe, and the Penobscot Nation at Indian Island. B. Transportation and Safety Impacts 1. Assessment of the transportation and safety impacts associated with the loss of rail service to existing shippers. 2. Assessment of rail and motor carrier transportation alternatives and anticipated impact of rerouted traffic on alternative rail lines and/or roadways. 3. Evaluation of the impact of rerouted passenger traffic. 4. Evaluation of the impact of loss of this rail service on transportation safety, including the occurrence of accidents and release of hazardous materials. C. Energy Impacts 1. Assessment of impacts on transportation of any energy resources. 2. Anticipated impacts on any recyclable commodities. 3. Impact on overall energy consumption and efficiency that would result from increased use of trucks. D. Water Resource Impacts 1. Possible water quality impacts from erosion and sedimentation that would be associated with building and bridge removal and other salvage activities. 2. Analysis of the disturbance of soil and vegetation in water bodies, floodplains, and/or wetlands that could result during bridge removal and other salvage activities. 3. Evaluation of the need for continued culvert maintenance to minimize flooding and water quality impacts from beaver and ice dams. 4. Anticipated impacts from the possible failure or collapse of bridge abutments. 5. Possible water quality degradation in recreational lakes that could result from lakeside land development. 6. Water quality degradation that could result from accidental releases of hazardous materials in motor carrier transportation. 7. Impacts from contaminated soil resulting from prior leaks, derailments, and fueling that occurred along the ROW and possible need for soil and groundwater sampling. E. Impacts on Biological Resources 1. Assessment of the impact of salvage activities on any threatened and endangered species in the vicinity of the ROW. 2. Discussion of concerns regarding disturbance of vegetation in adjacent wetlands and floodplains during bridge removal and other salvage activities. 3. Evaluation of the impact of erosion and sedimentation during building and bridge removal and other salvage activities on aquatic wildlife and habitat. 4. Analysis of changes in beaver populations and activities along the ROW. 5. Concerns regarding the impact of increased traffic on wildlife along Route 9 and at the Moosehorn National Wildlife Refuge.
