FR941206-1-00063 FR941206-1-00007 b. Area Source Evaluation. Of the estimated 11,000 sources in this source category, over 10,000 are thought to be area sources. The Agency also expects that some sources (known as ``synthetic area'' sources) will apply for a Federally enforceable limit on their potential to emit through the Title V permitting program or some other Federally enforceable program so that they are no longer considered major. A ``synthetic area'' source is a source that has obtained a Federally enforceable limit that will preclude the source's HAP emissions from exceeding 10 tons per year of any one HAP or 25 tons per year of any combination of HAP; without this limit the source is considered major. The proposed standards do not apply to area sources (including synthetic area sources). B. Selection of Emission Points The specific emission points regulated by the proposed standards are finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations, all of which are described in section II. At some wood furniture facilities, only finishing and cleaning operations will occur. At others, all four operations will take place. Finishing operations may be a small part of some plant operations (e.g., upholstered furniture), or may comprise the majority of plant operations (e.g., residential furniture). Nonetheless, finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations are the primary HAP emission sources at wood furniture facilities. The proposed standards for finishing and cleaning operations were developed within the framework of the regulatory negotiation described in section I.B. The proposed standards for gluing operations were developed by the Agency because adhesive suppliers were not represented on the Committee. However, the Agency did consult with adhesive suppliers and operators that perform gluing operations in developing the proposed standards. The EPA survey of the industry also included questions concerning gluing operations. The EPA analysis indicates that there are four primary types of adhesives used by the wood furniture industry: hot melts, polyvinyl acetate (PVA) adhesives, urea-formaldehyde (UF) resins, and contact adhesives. The proposed standards do not regulate UF resins, hot melts, or PVA adhesives. The EPA has explored the issue of UF resins in developing the NESHAP and has decided not to control formaldehyde emissions from UF resins in the proposed standards. Urea-formaldehyde resins were removed from consideration during the regulatory negotiation because the Committee members did not represent parties that would be significantly affected by these provisions. The EPA investigated UF resins outside of the negotiation using survey data, studies, and in meetings with the manufacturers and users. The major use of UF resins in the furniture industry is the manufacture of plywood. A furniture facility may make plywood for later use or glue decorative wood veneers to a wood substrate as part of the manufacturing process. Both of these processes, however, are considered to be plywood manufacturing. Thus, it makes sense to control formaldehyde emissions from UF resins in a broader, more comprehensive format through the NESHAP for Plywood and Particleboard Manufacturing that is scheduled to be promulgated in 2000. Accordingly, the EPA has decided to defer controlling emissions from UF resins in the proposed standards. In the interim, some members of the UF resins industry have expressed a willingness to work together with the EPA to explore scientific approaches to measure emissions and evaluate control technologies that limit emissions from UF resins and wood products containing these resins. Hot melts are also not covered by the proposed standards because they are not sources of HAP emissions. Hot melts are solid, ethylene vinyl acetate-based products that are used primarily for edgebanding, which is the process of applying a laminate to the edge of a countertop, desktop, table, or other piece of furniture. The PVA adhesives are waterbased emulsions that have the potential to emit small amounts of vinyl acetate monomer, a HAP. Typically, PVA adhesives contain less than 0.3 percent vinyl acetate monomer and are among the lowest emitting adhesives used by the industry. The EPA is not aware of lower emitting alternatives that can be used for all applications for which PVA adhesives are used. For this reason, the EPA is proposing that the use of PVA adhesives not be regulated by the proposed standards. C. Selection of Proposed Emission Limits The proposed emission limits include a HAP emission limit for finishing operations, a limit on the HAP content of contact adhesives, and a limit on the VOC content of strippable spray booth materials. For a description of the rationale for selecting the proposed format for these emission limits, refer to section VI.D. 1. Determination of the MACT Floor Section 112 requires the EPA to set standards for existing and new sources of HAP emissions that represent the maximum degree of reduction achievable, taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reductions, any nonair quality health and environmental impacts, and energy requirements. For determining the proposed emission limits for finishing and gluing operations, a MACT floor approach was used. As was discussed in section V.B, for existing sources in source categories with 30 or more sources, the MACT floor is the average level of control that is achieved in practice by the best performing 12 percent of sources in the source category. Work practice standards are also proposed to limit HAP emissions from finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations. The selection of the work practice standards is discussed in section VI.E.
