FR940105-2-00055 FR940105-2-00021 Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist In the Matter of William E. Taylor, and Susan L. Taylor, individually, and trading and doing business as Sandcastle Creations. The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of William E. Taylor and Susan L. Taylor, individually, and trading and doing business as Sandcastle Creations (``proposed respondents'' or ``respondents''), and it now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the acts and practices being investigated. It is hereby agreed by and between William E. Taylor and Susan L. Taylor, individually, and trading and doing business as Sandcastle Creations, and their attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondents William E. Taylor and Susan L. Taylor are individuals, trading and doing business as Sandcastle Creations, an unincorporated association, with its principal office and place of business located at 126 SE. 1st Street, Newport, Oregon 97365. Proposed respondent William E. Taylor is a co-owner of Sandcastle Creations. Individually or in concert with others, he formulates, directs and controls the policies, acts and practices of Sandcastle Creations and his address is the same as that of Sandcastle Creations. Proposed respondent Susan L. Taylor is a co-owner of Sandcastle Creations. Individually or in concert with others, she formulates, directs and controls the policies, acts and practices of Sandcastle Creations and her address is the same as that of Sandcastle Creations. 2. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondents waive: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. All claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of this proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint, or that the facts alleged in the draft complaint, other than the jurisdictional facts, are true. 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondents, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint an decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondents' address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 7. Proposed respondents have read the proposed complaint and order contemplated hereby. They understand that once the order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the order. Proposed respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final. Order
