FR941031-2-00046 FR941031-2-00040 Office of Hearings and Appeals Notice of Issuance of Decisions and Orders; Week of August 22 Through August 26, 1994 During the week of August 22 through August 26, 1994, the decisions and orders summarized below were issued with respect to appeals and applications for other relief filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy. The following summary also contains a list of submissions that were dismissed by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. Appeals Brian P. Conlon, 8/25/94, LFA&hyph;0400 Brian P. Conlon filed an Appeal from a determination issued by the Idaho Operations Office (Idaho) of the Department of Energy (DOE) in response to a request from Mr. Conlon under the Privacy Act (Privacy Act). Mr. Conlon sought copies of investigative material contained in the Personnel Security Clearance System of Records. In considering the Appeal, the Office of Hearings and Appeals found that the Privacy Act Officer properly withheld the information contained in a ``system of records,'' the release of any part of which would reveal the identity of a confidential source. Accordingly, the Appeal was denied. Dr. Robert Sanchez, 8/26/94, LFA&hyph;0407 Dr. Robert Sanchez filed an Appeal from a determination issued to him by the Albuquerque Operations Office (AOO) of the Department of Energy (DOE). The determination partially denied a Request for Information which Dr. Sanchez submitted under the Freedom of Information Act. Dr. Sanchez requested various documents relating to Solicitation for Offers No. TU&hyph;0050 (SFO) and an amendment to that solicitation. In its determination letter, the AOO provided Dr. Sanchez various documents responsive to his Freedom of Information Act request. However, Dr. Sanchez, in his Appeal, argued that additional responsive documents must exist because of various requirements listed in the SFO. In considering the Appeal, the DOE found that an adequate search had been conducted in response to Dr. Sanchez's request. Accordingly, Dr. Sanchez's Appeal was denied. National Security News Service, 8/22/92, LFA&hyph;0402 The National Security News Service (NSNS) filed an Appeal from a determination issued by the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Military Application and Stockpile Support, Defense Programs (DP), in response to a request for information under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). NSNS sought documents relating to ``Exercise Midnight Trail,'' a 1991 military training exercise sponsored by the Department of Defense (DOD). In considering the Appeal, the DOE found that: (1) DP properly invoked Exemption 6 in withholding the names of individuals and identifying information from documents released to NSNS because the privacy interests of the individuals outweighed the minimal contribution of disclosure to the public understanding of government operations and activities; (2) DP did not provide a sufficient basis for its application of Exemption 6 to the other information withheld from the appellant; and (3) DP's search for responsive documents should have included the DOE's Albuquerque Operations Office (DOE/AL). In addition, DP agreed to forward the appellant's request to seven other offices at DOE Headquarters. The matter was therefore remanded to DP for a new determination releasing the information not protected by Exemption 6 or providing additional justification for its withholding, and providing to NSNS responsive documents located at DOE/AL and the other DOE Headquarters offices. In all other respects, the Appeal was denied. William H. Payne, 8/22/94, LFA&hyph;0405 William H. Payne (Payne) filed an Appeal from two determinations issued to him on July 26, 1994, by the Deputy Director, Office of Intergovernmental and External Affairs (Authorizing Official). In those determinations, the Authorizing official denied requests for information submitted by Payne under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). In the first determination, the Authorizing Official denied Payne's request for documents. In the second determination, the Authorizing Official denied a request for a waiver of fees in connection with another series of FOIA requests that Payne filed. In his Appeal, Payne challenged the adequacy of search conducted by the Office of Intergovernmental and External Affairs. He also asked that the Office of Hearings and Appeals reverse the second determination, and grant him a fee waiver. In considering the Appeal, the DOE found that Payne's request for documents was subjected to a search sufficient to meet the established standard of reasonableness. The DOE also found that Payne did not demonstrate that he was entitled to a fee waiver since he did not show that disclosure of the requested information was in the public interest. Accordingly, Payne's Appeal was denied. Requests for Exception Farmco, Inc., 8/23/94, LEE&hyph;0125 Farmco, Inc., (Farmco) filed an Application for Exception from the provisions of the Energy Information Administration (EIA) reporting requirements in which the firm sought temporary relief from filing Form EIA&hyph;782B, entitled ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' The DOE determined that a limited form of exception relief_to extend until September Farmco's filing deadline for the Forms for the months of May and June_would be appropriate. However, Farmco had filed the forms before a Decision had been issued. Accordingly, the Application for Exception was consequently dismissed.
