FR941222-2-00106 FR941222-2-00091 POSTAL SERVICE Privacy Act of 1974; System of Records AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Notice of amendment and addition of new routine uses for existing system of records. SUMMARY: This notice provides information for public comment on the Postal Service's proposal to amend USPS Privacy Act System 050.005_Finance Records_Accounts Receivable Files Maintenance. The Postal Service proposes to delete one category of individuals covered by the system, to make minor editorial changes for clarity, and to add four new routine uses. The new routine uses will permit the Postal Service to disclose to other federal agencies certain information identifying Postal Service debtors and to implement new procedures that will facilitate recovery of those debts. The proposed new routine uses will enable the Postal Service to participate in a computer matching program with the Department of Defense to identify Postal Service debtors employed by other federal agencies, to initiate salary offset where appropriate, and to initiate income tax refund offset for non-federal employee debtors. In addition, a new routine use will enable the Postal Service to use the taxpayer address verification process of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). This notice complies with subsection (e)(11) of the Privacy Act, which requires agencies to publish advance notice of any new use of information in a system of records. DATES: Any interested party may submit written comments on the proposed amendments. This proposal will become effective without further notice January 23, 1995, unless comments are received on or before that date that result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be mailed or delivered to the Records Office, U.S. Postal Service, Room 8831, 475 L'Enfant Plaza, SW, Washington, DC 20260&hyph;5240. Copies of all written comments will be available for inspection and photocopying between 8:15 a.m. and 4:45 p.m., Monday through Friday, at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sheila Allen, Records Office, (202) 268&hyph;4869. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Postal Service is expanding its debt recovery procedures in order to recover more of its delinquent debt. To do so, the Postal Service plans to participate in the federal salary offset program administered by the Financial Management Service, Office of the Treasury, and the federal income tax refund offset and taxpayer address verification programs administered by the IRS. The amendments proposed here are necessary to implement the new procedures in compliance with the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. A full description of USPS Privacy Act System 050.005 was last published at 54 FR 43667, dated October 26, 1989, and amended at 57 FR 57516, dated December 4, 1992. The Postal Service is modifying the name of this system of records to ``Accounts Receivable Files,'' a more comprehensive name that better describes the system of records. The Postal Service is deleting from Categories of Individuals Covered by the System those customers whose checks are returned by the bank. These types of debts are no longer included in the Accounts Receivable automated system as part of the system of records. Accordingly, each such customer's bank name and account number, date and amount of check, and identifying number from driver's license, passport, or military ID are being deleted from Categories of Records in the System. The Postal Service is adding four new routine uses for USPS Privacy Act System 050.005. Proposed new routine use number 4 of this system provides for the disclosure of the names and social security numbers of Postal Service debtors to the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) of the Department of Defense for conducting a computer matching program to identify and locate debtors who are federal employees in order to initiate salary offset procedures. Proposed new routine use number 5 provides for the disclosure of debtor-identifying information to any federal agency where the debtor is employed to enable that agency to collect the debt on behalf of the Postal Service through salary offset. Proposed new routine use number 6 provides for the disclosure of debtor-identifying information to the IRS through computer matching to obtain the current mailing addresses of non-federal employee taxpayers for locating the taxpayers to collect postal debts. Proposed new routine use number 7 provides for the disclosure of debtor-identifying information to the IRS to enable the IRS to collect the debt on behalf of the Postal Service through income tax refund offset. Because the above disclosures each will assist in the recovery of Postal Service debt, these new routine uses are clearly compatible with the purposes for which records are maintained in USPS Privacy Act System 050.005. The above-described amendments and the addition of these routine uses require submission of an altered system report; the report was submitted to the Office of Management and Budget and both houses of Congress 10 days before publication of this notice.
