FR940128-0-00059 FR940128-0-00024 Discussion: If there is a fee for submitting and processing the State information on a form to make a determination of financial need under the SSIG Program, the fee must be payable to the State regardless of whether the information may also be used for institutional aid. In the case of a decentralized State grant program under which institutions participating in the State's SSIG Program award State grant funds, funds awarded under these programs are still considered to be State aid and not institutional aid. It is the responsibility of each State to ensure that institutions participating in the State's SSIG Program conform with this requirement. Changes: None. Comment: Two commenters stated that the term ``reasonable'' as listed in ยง692.21(g) should be clearly defined by the Secretary with some specific parameters provided. Discussion: Section 692.21(g) provides that, if a State awards grants to independent students or to students who are less-than-full-time students enrolled in an institution of higher education, a reasonable portion of the State's allocation must be awarded to those students. The Secretary believes that in order to provide the States with the maximum amount of flexibility under this provision, no specific parameters for the term ``reasonable'' should be provided. The Secretary on a case-by-case basis, if necessary, will determine the reasonableness of the allocation. Changes: None. Comment: A few commenters believed that under ยง692.21(g), the Secretary requires that a State must award SSIG Program grants to independent students or to students who are less-than-full-time students in reasonable proportion to the State's allocation of SSIG Program funds. One commenter believed it was unwise to reserve a portion of very limited need-based grant aid for less-than-full-time students because of the overwhelming numbers of very needy full-time students who cannot be served due to lack of adequate funding. Discussion: Section 692.21(g) provides that, if a State awards grants to independent students or to students who are less-than-full-time students enrolled in an institution of higher education, a reasonable portion of the State's allocation must be awarded to those students. Neither the program statute nor ยง692.21(g) requires a State to award grants to independent students or students who are less-than-full-time. If the State's allocation from the Secretary is based on a formula that includes the financial need of students who are independent or attend an institution less-than-full-time, then the State must ensure that those students receive a reasonable proportion of SSIG funds. Changes: None. Section 692.21 What Requirements Must be met by a State Program? and Section 692.41 What Standards May a State Use to Determine Substantial Financial Need? Comment: Several commenters objected to the proposed requirement in ยง692.41(b) that States use the term ``independent student'' as defined by section 480(d) of the HEA in a State's own need-analysis system or a need-analysis system combining the State's system with the Federal system under part F of title IV of the HEA in order to obtain the Secretary's approval of the State's system. Some commenters believed that the use of the Federal definition infringes upon the State's right to set priorities for administering State grant funds and would limit the State's flexibility in awarding these funds. Some commenters also believed that they should have the flexibility to use their own State statutory or regulatory definition of ``independent student'' and report any variance with the Federal definition on the State's annual application to participate in the program. One commenter was concerned that, if the regulations are adopted as proposed, the States should be given an opportunity to amend their statutory or regulatory definitions of ``independent student'' to conform with the Federal definition by making the effective date of the provision begin with the 1995&hyph;96 award year. This effective date would provide the States with time to amend their statutory or regulatory independent student definitions to conform with the Federal definition. One commenter was concerned regarding whether the students selected for SSIG matching purposes by a State would reflect the proportion of independent students in the State program. The commenter believed that the Secretary could achieve the intent of the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 by allowing States to submit changes to their applications and programs. Each State's application would specify the proportion of independent students as defined in the State's approved need-analysis system which are in the base used to allocate funds and the means by which the State would ensure a proportionate distribution of SSIG Program funds to independent students.
