FR940128-1-00044 FR940128-1-00006 FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(a)(4)(ii) that, in those operations in which microbiological contamination can adversely affect the safety of the product (e.g., the processing of cooked, ready-to-eat products), the equipment also be washed and sanitized at least every 4 hours during processing. Washing and sanitizing with this frequency is necessary to inactivate mesophilic pathogens, such as Salmonella spp. , before they leave the lag phase of growth and enter the rapid log phase (Ref. 23). Temperatures in fish and fishery product processing plants are generally not low enough to control the growth of such microorganisms and are certainly not low enough to control the growth of such psychrotropic pathogens as L. monocytogenes (Refs. 23, 78, 79, and 80). Therefore, FDA tentatively finds that washing and sanitizing equipment every 4 hours is necessary. FDA is proposing to require both cleaning and sanitizing because neither step is fully effective without the other. When sanitizing occurs without benefit of cleaning, pathogenic microorganisms can be protected from the action of the sanitizer by food residue. Conversely, while cleaning can effectively remove product residue and a portion of the microorganisms, sanitizing is generally needed to remove the remaining microorganisms (Refs. 81 and 82). FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(c)(2) that the processor inspect the condition of the utensils and surfaces of equipment that contact food immediately after each cleaning and sanitizing. The purpose of the inspection is to ensure the adequacy of the cleaning and sanitizing operations, and to ensure that the equipment is in a condition that is suitable for further operations. The agency is also proposing in §123.10(c)(2) that the processor document the time of each cleaning and sanitizing, the concentration of the sanitizer, and the condition of the equipment. Documentation of the time of each cleaning and sanitizing will facilitate an assessment of compliance with the frequency requirement of §123.10(a)(4). Documentation of the concentration of the sanitizer will facilitate an assessment of the adequacy of the sanitizing operation. Sanitizers must be of sufficient strength to be effective, while excessive sanitizer concentrations can contaminate the product with indirect food additives (21 CFR part 178) (Ref. 82). Documentation of the condition of the equipment is necessary to ensure that it is examined after cleaning and sanitizing to make sure that these processes were done properly. The agency is proposing in §123.10(a)(5) to require that the processor ensure that gloves and outer garments that contact the food or food-contact surfaces are made of an impermeable material and are maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Gloves or aprons that are made of cloth or other porous materials are difficult to clean and may serve as a reservoir for pathogenic microorganisms that can migrate to the food during processing, in much the same manner as previously described for processing equipment (Refs. 65 and 83). Gloves and aprons that are not maintained in a clean and sanitary condition can also house pathogens that can migrate to the food. Therefore, FDA tentatively finds that it is appropriate to require the measures set out in §123.10(a)(5). At §123.10(c), the agency is proposing to require that, like most of the other sanitation measures that FDA is proposing, the sanitary condition and impermeability of gloves and outer garments that may contact the food or food-contact surfaces be checked at least daily while processing operations are occurring. Such checking will ensure that employees arriving for work are equipped with gloves and outer garments that will not serve as a source of contamination to the product. It will also ensure that employees are never using personally owned gloves and garments that are made of materials that are unsuitable for the processing environment. Proposed §123.10(c) also requires that such checking be documented on a daily basis to provide a record that such checking has occurred. Under proposed §123.10(a)(6), the processor must ensure that employees' hands, gloves, outer garments, utensils, and food-contact surfaces that come into contact with insanitary objects are thoroughly cleaned and sanitized before contacting fish or fishery products. Under proposed §123.10(a)(7), the processor must also ensure that employees' hands, gloves, outer garments, utensils, and food-contact surfaces that contact raw products are thoroughly cleaned and sanitized before they contact cooked product. Employees and food-contact surfaces can serve as vectors in the transmission of filth and pathogenic microorganisms to the food. Filth and pathogenic microorganisms can be brought into the processing environment on the employees' hands from outside areas, restrooms, contaminated raw materials, waste or waste receptacles, floors, and other insanitary objects (Refs. 63, 64, 73, 74, 84, and 85). Bacteria naturally present on fresh fish skin and gills and in the gastrointestinal tract reflect the microbial content of the water from which the fish were harvested. Typical microorganisms found on and in fresh fish include C. botulinum , enteric bacteria, Vibrio parahaemolyticus , salmonella, shigella, hepatitis A, and other microorganisms that pollute harvest waters (Ref. 7). These microorganisms contaminate the environment in processing plants and cannot, using reasonable methods, be completely eliminated. Proper precautions, such as proper hand and equipment cleaning and sanitizing, must be taken to minimize opportunities for contamination of the finished product (Refs. 63, 64, 73, 74, and 84). Therefore, FDA is proposing in §123.10 (a)(6) and (a)(7) that such precautions be taken with respect to hands, gloves, garments, utensils, and food-contact surfaces.
