FR940511-2-00083 FR940511-2-00058 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS) Administration on Aging White House Conference on Aging; Program Announcement No. WHCoA 94&hyph;2; Availability of Funds and Request for Applications for Mini-conferences AGENCY: White House Conference on Aging, AoA, HHS. ACTION: Announcement of availability of funds and request for applications to conduct mini-conferences in preparation for the 1995 White House Conference on Aging. SUMMARY: the White House Conference on Aging (WHCoA) announces that it will hold a competition for the funding of mini-conferences in preparation for the 1995 White House Conference on Aging. Funding for WHCoA grants is authorized by the Older Americans Act, Public Law 102&hyph;375 and Public Law 103&hyph;171. This program announcement consists of two parts. Part I provides background information and describes the program under which the WHCoA is inviting applications to be considered for funding. Part II describes, in detail, the application process and provides guidance on how to prepare and submit an application. All of the forms necessary to submit an application are included following Part II. They complete the application kit that an applicant needs for preparing and for submitting an application under this announcement. Grants will be made under this announcement subject to the availability of funds for the support of the program described herein. DATES: The deadline date for the submission of applications is June 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Application receipt point: Department of Health and Human Services; Administration on Aging, Office of Administration and Management, 330 Independence Avenue, SW., room 4644, Washington, DC 20201, Attn: WHCoA&hyph;94&hyph;2. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For programmatic information, contact Judy Satine, Department of Health and Human Services, White House Conference on Aging, 501 School Street, SW., 8th Floor, Washington, DC 20024, telephone (202) 245&hyph;7826. For grant technical information, contact Margaret Tolson, AoA, see address above, telephone (202) 401&hyph;0838. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Part I. Background Information and Program Description A. Statutory Authority The statutory authority for awards made under this Announcement is contained in the Older Americans Act as amended, Public Law 102&hyph;375 and Public Law 103&hyph;171. B. Eligible Applicants In general, any eligible public or nonprofit private organization, agency or institution is eligible to apply under this program announcement. Any applicant that is not now a DHHS grantee should include, with its application, Internal Revenue Service or other legally recognized documentation of its nonprofit status. A nonprofit applicant cannot be funded without proof of its status. C. Program Description President Clinton announced in February that he has formally called for a White House Conference on Aging to be convened in May 1995. Previous White House Conferences in 1961, 1971 and 1981 adopted recommendations that resulted in local, state and Federal initiatives which improved the security and well being of older Americans. The 1995 Conference will produce recommendations that will meet the needs of Older Americans in the twenty-first century. A White House Conference on Aging in intended to produce policy recommendations to guide national aging policy over the next decade. In Public Law 102&hyph;375, the Older Americans Act amendments of 1992, Congress specifically identified six primary purposes for the Conference. They are: (1) To increase public awareness of the interdependence of generations and the essential contributions of older individuals to society for the well-being of all generations; (2) To identify the problems facing older individuals and the commonalities of the problems with problems of younger generations; (3) To examine the well-being of older individuals including the impact the wellness of older individuals has on our aging society; (4) To develop such specific and comprehensive recommendations for executive and legislative action as may be appropriate for maintaining and improving the well-being of the aging; (5) To develop recommendations for the coordination of Federal policy with State and local needs and the implementation of such recommendations; and (6) To review the status and multigenerational value of recommendations adopted at previous White House Conferences on Aging. Of major significance to the 1995 White House Conference on Aging in direct participation by individuals and organizations in the pre-conference stages. As part of this grass roots effort, the WHCoA has adopted a four pronged approach that includes local forums, mini-conferences as well as State and Regional conferences. The purpose of these events is to identify those issues of mutual concern to the aging population and to develop recommendations that warrant specific attention by the White House Conference of Aging. An integral part of this strategy is the conduct of mini-conferences which are topic or constituency specific. The recommendations from these conferences will play an integral role in the development of the agenda for the 1995 Conference. In order for a mini-conference to be considered for funding, the proposed event must: (1) Be a policy oriented event. The focus of the event must be either: (a) On one of the following specific Federal policy issues:
