FR940304-2-00091 FR940304-2-00040 System manager(s) and address: Fellowship Assistant. Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Notification procedure: Contact individual listed above, or Vice President, Learning and Dissemination. Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Record access procedures: IAF access procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF Records. Contesting records procedures: Contesting Record Procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information. Record source categories: Fellow her/himself; educational institutions attended; Foundation staff; contracted evaluators. IAF&hyph;4 System name: Informal Personnel Files_IAF. System location: Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, 10th Floor, Arlington, VA 22203. Categories of Individuals covered by the system: Applicants for Employment and Employees. Categories of records in the system: General personnel information including position descriptions, training records, request for notification of personnel action, notification of personnel action, performance plans on appraisals, time and attendance records, occupation, pay plan, service computation dates, date of birth, grade and salary, social security number, home telephone number, resume, letters of recommendation, background investigation data for critical/sensitive, non-critical sensitive and security clearances, recommendation for performance recognition, employment staffing reports, handicap and race and national origin informal reports, informal notices of injury or occupational disease, records of requests for unemployment compensation payments. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purpose of such uses: Information is used ``in house'' (non-routine uses) for personnel evaluation and management. Notwithstanding the above, access may also be gained to these records under the following conditions: (a) In the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether federal, state, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statutes, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto. (b) A record from the system of records may be disclosed as a ``routine use'' to a federal, state or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. (c) A record from this syetem of records may be disclosed to a federal agency, in response to this request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefits by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper files. Retrievability: Manual. Identifier_Name. Safeguards: Filed in locked, steel cabinets; records available to authorized persons only.
