FR940930-1-00068 FR940930-1-00020 (9) The RDFI's insolvency, closure by any State or Federal regulatory authority or by corporate action, or appointment of a receiver, conservator, liquidator or other officer. In each event, the authorization shall remain valid if a successor is named. At the Service's discretion, the Government may temporarily transfer authorizations to another RDFI. The transfer is valid until either a new authorization is executed by the Receiver, or 120 days have elapsed since the insolvency, closure or appointment, whichever occurs first. (d) Assignment of benefit payments prohibited. Except as authorized by law, an ACH authorization shall not be used to assign benefits to a party other than the beneficiary, or someone designated by the Government Originator to act on behalf of the beneficiary. ยง210.4 The Government. (a) Timeliness of entries. Government ACH participants shall forward all ACH transactions they prepare to an ACH Operator site designated by the Federal Reserve Bank. Government ACH participants shall conform with the timing requirements of the Federal Reserve Bank. (b) Authorization to receive ACH entries. Government participants may receive ACH credit entries with a value greater than zero. Prior written authorization from the Service is required, and the Service will direct the Federal Reserve Bank to take appropriate actions. Government participants shall require ODFIs to initiate such credits to the General Account of the Department of the Treasury at a Federal Reserve Bank designated by the Government Participant in the authorization agreement. (c) Requirement to post or return ACH entries. Government participants shall review all ACH credit entries with a value greater than zero, that they receive. If the entries do not balance, are incomplete, are clearly incorrect, or, are incapable of being processed, the Government participants shall advise the Federal Reserve Bank to take appropriate action. Timing of the advice shall be according to Federal Reserve Bank deadlines and instructions. In the event of an unauthorized debit to the Government, the Government participant shall transmit a Return entry to the designated Federal Reserve Bank, in time to effect same-day settlement. (d) Timing of settlement by the Government. Government participants shall make their authorized ACH transactions effective on the designated settlement date. (e) Prenotifications. Government participants may originate ACH Prenotification entries prior to origination of the first ACH credit to a Receiver. Government participants shall originate a Prenotification prior to origination of the first debit to a Receiver. A Government participant that is a Receiver of Prenotifications will verify and respond to Prenotifications according to the ACH Rules. (f) Notification of Change. Government participants shall originate and receive Notification of Change entries and Refused Notification of Change entries, except where the Government does not recognize a particular change code. A list of acceptable change codes can be found in the TFM. (g) Limited liability of the Government. The Government will be liable to a Receiver or Originator only for a failure to effect the appropriate credit or debit entries to the Receiver's account. The Government's total liability is limited to the amount of the payment entry, unless the exception in ยง210.2(b) applies. The Government will not be liable to any ACH association.
