FR940722-0-00085 FR940722-0-00018 (c) The STAs that use separate Federal-aid projects in accordance with §420.111(a) shall submit, in addition to the financial information specified below for each program, one overall summary showing the funding for the entire FHWA funded planning, research, development, and technology transfer effort. Each work program shall include a financial summary that shows: (1) Federal share by type of fund; (2) Matching rate by type of fund; (3) State and/or local matching share; and (4) Other State or local funds. (d) The STAs and MPOs also are encouraged to include cost estimates for transportation planning, research, development, and technology transfer related activities funded with other Federal or State and/or local funds; particularly for producing the FHWA-required data specified in paragraph (b) of §420.105, for planning for other transportation modes, and for air quality planning activities in areas designated as nonattainment for transportation-related pollutants in their work programs. The MPOs in Transportation Management Areas shall include such information in their work programs in accordance with the provisions of 23 CFR part 450. (The information collection requirements in §§420.111(a), (b), and (c), and 420.117(b) and (c) for metropolitan planning areas have been approved by the OMB and assigned control number 2132&hyph;0529.) §420.113 Eligibility of costs. (a) Costs will be eligible for FHWA participation provided that the costs: (1) Are for work performed for activities eligible under the section of title 23, U.S.C., applicable to the class of funds used for the activities; (2) Are verifiable from the STA's or the subrecipient's records; (3) Are necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project objectives and meet the other criteria for allowable costs in the applicable cost principles cited in 49 CFR 18.22; (4) Are included in the approved budget, or amendment thereto; and (5) Were not incurred prior to FHWA authorization. (b)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, indirect costs of an STA are not eligible for reimbursement with FHWA planning and research funds. (2) Salaries for services rendered by STA employees who are generally classified as administrative are eligible for reimbursement for a transportation planning unit, RD&T unit, or other unit performing eligible work with FHWA planning and research funds (including development, establishment, and implementation of the management and monitoring systems required by 23 U.S.C. 303 and 23 CFR part 500) in the ratio of time spent on the participating portion of work in the unit to the total unit's working hours. (c) Indirect costs of MPOs and local governments are allowable if supported by a cost allocation plan and indirect cost proposal approved in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;87. An initial plan and proposal must be submitted to the Federal cognizant or oversight agency for negotiation and approval prior to recovering any indirect costs. The cost allocation plan and indirect cost proposal shall be updated annually and retained by the MPO or local government, unless requested to be resubmitted by the Federal cognizant or oversight agency, for review at the time of the audit required in accordance with 49 CFR Part 90. If the MPO or local government's indirect cost rate varies significantly from the rate approved for the previous year, or if the MPO or local government changes its accounting system and affects the previously approved indirect cost allocation plan and proposal or rate and its basis of application, the indirect cost allocation plan and proposal shall be resubmitted for negotiation and approval. In either case, a rate shall be negotiated and approved for billing purposes until a new plan and proposal are approved. (d) Indirect costs of other STA subrecipients, including other State agencies, are allowable if supported by a cost allocation plan and indirect cost proposal prepared, submitted, and approved by the cognizant or oversight agency in accordance with the OMB requirements applicable to the subrecipient.
