FR940223-2-00216 FR940223-2-00102 (g) The applicant will serve a multistate area. (h) The applicant will demonstrate that a telecommunications entity (such as a satellite, cable, telephone, or computer company, or public or private television station) will participate in the partnership and will donate equipment or in-kind services for telecommunications linkages. (i) The applicant will, in providing services with funds provided under this program, meet the needs of groups of individuals traditionally excluded from careers in mathematics and science because of discrimination, inaccessibility, or economically disadvantaged backgrounds. Funding requirement: The Federal share for each fiscal year shall be 75 percent of the cost of the project. The eligible telecommunications partnership shall provide the remainder of the funds from non-Federal sources. The matching funds for the project may be in cash or in-kind support, fairly evaluated. In the case of financial hardship, an applicant may request that the Secretary reduce or waive the matching requirement. CFDA NO. 84.203B␣Star Schools_Special Statewide Network Purpose of the program: In addition to the Star Schools Distance Education Projects (CFDA # 84.203A), the Secretary will fund one statewide telecommunications network to demonstrate the delivery of instructional programming through a fiber optic telecommunications network using two-way full motion interactive video, voice and data telecommunications. Eligible applicants: An eligible telecommunications partnership that meets the criteria described under Part III 84.203A and is organized on a statewide basis may apply for a grant under this section. Priorities: The competitive priority described under Part III 84.203A of this notice applies to this section, with the exception of paragraph (g) of the competitive priority. Funding requirement: The Federal share for each fiscal year shall be not more than 50 percent of the cost of the project. The statewide telecommunications partnership shall provide the remainder of the funds from non-Federal sources. The matching funds for the project may be in cash or in-kind support, fairly evaluated. Special program requirements: (a) A project funded under this section must demonstrate the use of a fiber optic telecommunications network to carry two-way interactive voice, video, and data transmissions. (b) During the funding period, the project must link together public and private institutions of higher education and secondary schools, and must include a participant in every county in the State. CFDA No. 84.203C␣Star Schools_Dissemination Grants Purpose of the program: To provide dissemination and technical assistance to State and local educational agencies not presently served by telecommunications partnerships to assist them to plan and implement technology-based distance learning systems. Eligible applicants: (a) Telecommunications partnerships previously or currently funded through the Star Schools Program. (b) Other eligible entities, which are defined as federally funded programs or institutions of higher education that have demonstrated expertise in educational applications of technology and provide comprehensive technical assistance to educators and policymakers at the local level. Priority: Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3), the Secretary gives an absolute preference for applications that meet the following priority. The Secretary funds under this competition only applications that meet this absolute priority. Absolute priority: Dissemination projects that will provide services nationwide. Special program requirements: A project funded under this section must provide technical assistance to State and local educational agencies to plan and implement technology-based systems including_ (a) Information regarding successful distance learning resources for States, local educational agencies, and schools; (b) Assistance in connecting users of distance learning, regional educational service centers, colleges, and universities, the private sector, and other relevant entities; (c) Assistance and advice in the design and implementation of systems to include needs assessment and technology design; and (d) Assistance in the identification of possible connections and cost-sharing arrangements for users of such systems. Part IV: The following information applies to all competitions in this notice: Selection criteria: (a)(1) The Secretary uses the following selection criteria to evaluate applications for new grants under this competition. (2) The maximum score for all of these criteria is 100 points. (3) The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses. (b) The criteria_ (1) Meeting the purposes of the authorizing statute. (30 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine how well the project will meet the purposes of the Star Schools Program, P.L. 100&hyph;297 as amended by P.L. 102&hyph;103, including consideration of_ (i) The objectives of the project; and (ii) How the objectives of the project further the purposes of the Star Schools Program. (2) Extent of need for the project. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project meets specific needs recognized in the statute authorizing the program, including consideration of_ (i) The needs addressed by the project; (ii) How the applicant identified those needs; (iii) How those needs will be met by the project; and (iv) The benefits to be gained by meeting those needs.
