FR940207-2-00149 FR940207-2-00072 For example, if a common member has a DTC NDFS net debit balance that exceeds its credit balance at NSCC, the operation of the netting provision will reduce that net debit balance by the amount of the NSCC credit. If that common member then fails, DTC will apply the member's DTC participants fund deposit to the remaining net debit balance and to any SDFS net debit balance. If the participants fund deposit is insufficient to satisfy completely all DTC net debit balances, the limited guaranty provision will enable DTC to look to NSCC to pay any deficiency but only if and to the extent that the NSCC resources attributable to the common member exceed the common member's obligations to NSCC. Similarly, NSCC will be able to look to DTC if the common member has a NSCC net debit balance. There can be situations where a failed common member still owes money either to DTC or to NSCC after netting and after payment of the guaranty. However, the exposure to DTC's or NSCC's other participants or members will be reduced by the operation of the DTC/NSCC Agreement. C. Changes to DTC's and NSCC's Rules In connection with the implementation of the DTC/NSCC Agreement, DTC is amending its Rules 1, 2, 4, and 9 and NSCC is amending its Rules 1, 4, 12, and 31. The modifications will incorporate the netting provision into DTC's and NSCC's Rules so that DTC's participants and NSCC's members become parties to and are bound by the netting provision of the DTC/NSCC Agreement. The modifications to DTC's and NSCC's Rules also will incorporate the limited guaranty provision so that a failed common member is obligated to DTC or NSCC to the extent that DTC or NSCC is obligated to the other clearing agency under the limited guaranty provision. 6 6 For a detailed discussion of the specific amendments DTC and NSCC are making to their rules, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33145, supra note 3. II. Discussion Section 17A(a)(2)(A) of the Act directs the Commission to facilitate the establishment of a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to facilitate the establishment of linked or coordinated facilities for clearance and settlement of transactions. 7 The Commission believes that the DTC/NSCC Agreement is an important step towards achieving such a national system because the DTC/NSCC Agreement mandates netting of a common member's settlement obligations at each of the clearing corporations. 7 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(a)(2)(A). Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act requires that the rules of a clearing agency be designed to assure the safeguarding of securities and funds which are in its custody or control or for which it is responsible. 8 DTC, NSCC, and their participants and members should gain protection from the netting and guarantee provisions of the DTC/NSCC Agreement because a common member's credit balance at one clearing agency will be paid to the other clearing agency, if the common member has a debit balance at that clearing agency, instead of to the common member. This should reduce the risk that a common member will fail to fulfill its settlement obligation at one clearing corporation but still collect a credit from the other clearing corporation. If a common member fails, the limited guarantee will be invoked so that remaining resources attributable to the common member at one clearing agency will be available to fulfill the common member's obligation at the other clearing agency. 8 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F). The same section of the Act also requires that a clearing agency's rules be designed to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in the clearance and settlement of securities transactions. The Commission believes that the DTC/NSCC Agreement fosters such cooperation and coordination as evidenced by the risk reduction and payment efficiencies that should be experienced by DTC, NSCC, and common members upon implementation of the agreement. III. Conclusion On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission finds that the proposed rule changes are consistent with the requirements of the Act and in particular with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act, and the rules and regulations thereunder. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 9 that the proposed rule changes (File Nos. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;08 and SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;97) be, and hereby are, approved. 9 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 10 10 17 CFR 200.3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2725 Filed 2&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
