FR941121-2-00124 FR941121-2-00093 a. Such protests should be filed with the district director of the district in which the protested fee collections, calculations, or demands for payment took place, or b. The Director, National Finance Center (NFC), if the protest concerns an action initiated by the NFC. 2. Protests of demands for payment for non- or underpayment of fees resulting from audits conducted by the U.S. Government should be filed with the district director from whom the notice of audit findings was received. The notice will contain instructions for the filing of protests. B. Form of Protests User fee-related protests may be filed on Customs Form 19, or in letter form. Each protest should reference an Employer Identification Number (EIN), Internal Revenue Service (IRS) number, Customs-assigned number, or Social Security Number (SSN). C. Time of Filing 1. Protests of user fee collections or calculations shall be filed in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1514 within 90 days after the date on which the first notice of the collection or calculation is mailed, or within 90 days of liquidation or reliquidation, if applicable. 2. Protests of demands for payment resulting from findings by auditors of the U.S. Government of non- or underpayment of user fees should be filed in accordance with 19 U.S.C. 1514 within 90 days after the date of mailing of the demand for payment, or within 90 days of liquidation or reliquidation, if applicable. D. Level of Specificity User fee-related protests should be of a level of specificity and detail equivalent to that required by ยง174.13, Customs Regulations (19 CFR 174.13). Details of the circumstances surrounding the calculation, collection, or demands for payment, as well as amounts of fees due and dates paid, should be included. Protests received by the Customs Service which do not conform to the required level of specificity will be considered incomplete, and notices will be sent to protestants which describe the additional information required. Such protests will be held until 30 days following the date of the notice that the protest is incomplete, or until expiration of the 90-day period within which such protests may be filed (90 days from the dates that the fee payments are due), whichever is longer. During this time, protestants may submit the additional information. If this information is not received prior to the expiration of this period, protests will be denied on the grounds that they are incomplete. E. Applications for Further Review Applications for further review (AFRs) should be filed with the same Customs manager (district director or Director, NFC) with whom a user fee protest would be filed. AFRs should be filed within the same time period permitted for the filing of protests, i.e. within 90 days after the date on which the first notice of the collection or calculation is mailed, or within 90 days of liquidation or reliquidation, if applicable. If a decision is made to deny a protest in whole or in part, copies of the AFR and the protest will be forwarded by the Customs manager directly to the Office of Regulations and Rulings for review. III. Protests Already Filed User fee-related protests of all types which have already been received by the Customs Service will be dealt with in accordance with the procedures outlined above, regardless of where they were originally filed. Timeliness of protests already received will be determined by the dates on which they were received by the offices to which they were originally sent. Approved: November 15, 1994. Samuel H. Banks, Assistant Commissioner, Commercial Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28588 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4820&hyph;02&hyph;P
