FR940930-0-00236 FR940930-0-00029 Regulatory Impact E.O. 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This rule has been evaluated in accordance with existing policies and procedures, and is considered to be significant under DOT policies and procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979) because it initiates a new regulatory program. This regulatory document was subject to review under E.O. 12866. FRA has prepared and placed in the rulemaking docket a regulatory evaluation addressing the economic impact of this rule. A copy of the regulatory evaluation may be inspected and copied in Room 8201, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. In the regulatory analysis accompanying the NPRM, FRA analyzed grade crossing malfunction data which had been submitted in accordance with the requirements of 49 CFR 234.9. The FRA's preliminary review and analysis of those data indicated that there is a correlation between false activations at a grade crossing and accidents occurring at the same crossing in the week following the false activation. Because the data had not yet been subjected to the careful testing and scrutiny FRA would have wished had it had more time perform further analyses, FRA invited comments on the data and methodology used in its analysis. The AAR responded to the request that commenters review FRA's preliminary analysis. The AAR concluded that the data did not support the FRA's preliminary conclusions. After a review of FRA's data and AAR's analysis of that data, FRA agrees with the AAR's conclusion. In its regulatory analysis FRA posited that the benefits of this rule would arise because the number of grade crossing signal malfunctions would decrease due to compliance with maintenance, inspection and testing requirements of Subpart D, grade crossings would be made safer during periods of warning system malfunction due to compliance with Subpart C. FRA further estimated that the costs of §§234.105 and 234.107 would be reduced because the railroads would repair warning systems more rapidly under the provisions of §234.103. It appears that activation failures now cost about $4.4 million per year in accidents. In these accidents the highway user doesn't know a train is coming, enters the crossing and is struck by a train. This rule should reduce that cost to about $1.3 million per year. It is not as clear how many accidents are attributable to false activations. The FRA's best estimate, based on educated estimates of its staff, is that false activations cause about $10.9 million a year in accident costs. In these accidents the highway user thinks the signal is ``crying wolf'', ignores a valid warning, and is struck by a train. This rule should reduce the annual cost to about $3.3 million. This rule will prevent malfunctions, reduce their duration, and make crossings safer during a malfunction. The total cost of this rule, discounted over twenty years, will be about $80 million and the total benefit will be about $150 million. Benefits will be about 1.9 times costs. Regulatory Flexibility Act FRA certifies that this rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. There are no substantial economic impacts for small units of government, businesses, or other organizations. Paperwork Reduction Act The rule contains information collection requirements. FRA is submitting these information collection requirements to the Office of Management and Budget for approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). The section that contains information collection requirements is §234.273. The estimated time to fulfill the requirement of that section is five minutes for each record. Environmental Impact FRA has evaluated these regulations in accordance with its procedure for ensuring full consideration of the potential environmental impacts of FRA actions, as required by the National Environmental Policy Act and related directives. Federalism Implications This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, ``Federalism,'' and it has been determined that the rule has sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. FRA recognizes that currently a small number of states have statutes mandating to some extent maintenance, inspection and testing procedures for railroads operating within those states. In general, this rule will preempt those requirements. In an effort to maintain state expertise and involvement in this critical safety area, FRA is including grade crossing warning system inspection functions within its State Participation Program. FRA has also provided in §§234.105 and 234.107 that, in instances of grade crossing warning system malfunctions, ``a locomotive's audible warning device shall be activated in accordance with railroad rules.'' This provision preempts local ``whistle ban'' ordinances to the extent they would otherwise prohibit the use of horns or whistles in such situations. This minimal intrusion into an area in which certain State and local governments have become involved is necessary to protect the travelling public and train crews from possible injury or death at grade crossings with malfunctioning warning systems. A copy of the Federalism Assessment has been placed in the public docket located in Room 8201, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20590. List of Subjects 49 CFR Part 212 Intergovernmental relations, Investigations, Railroad safety. 49 CFR Part 234 Railroad safety, Highway-rail grade crossings. The Rule In consideration of the foregoing, FRA amends chapter IIb of Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 212_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 212 is revised due to recodification of title 49 of the United States Code to read as follows:
