FR940318-2-00146 FR940318-2-00079 E. A line item budget and justification for State administrative costs limited to a maximum of 5% of the total award to the State. Each total budget period funding amount requested must be necessary, reasonable, and allocable to the project. States Administering the Program Locally States that have administered the program locally or provide direct service to the refugee population (with the concurrence of the county) must submit a program summary to ORR for prior review and approval. The summary must include a description of the proposed services; a justification for the projected allocation for each component including relationship of funds allocated to numbers of clients served, characteristics of clients, duration of training and services, projected outcomes, and cost per placement. In addition, the program component summary should describe any ancillary services or subcomponents such as day care, transportation, or language training. States With Two or More Counties Receiving Targeted Assistance Funds As in FY 1993, a State with two or more local areas which qualify for the program may choose to determine respective county allocations. If the State chooses to determine county allocations differently from those set forth in Table 1 of this notice, the State should provide a description of the State's proposed allocation plan and the basis for the proposed allocations. The allocation approach should be based upon existing FY 1993 funds, prior-year funds carried forward, and indicators of refugee need for targeted assistance services. The application should contain a description of the allocation approach, data used in its determination, the calculated allocation amount for each county, and the rationale for the proposed allocations. States are encouraged to revise allocation formulas to assure appropriate funding among eligible counties for the duration of the grant such that targeted assistance activities within the State conclude simultaneously. Where the State chooses not to determine county allocation amounts, the State must provide the allocations which are specified in this notice. X. Reporting Requirements States would be required to submit quarterly reports on the outcomes of the targeted assistance program, using the same form which States use for reporting on refugee social services formula grants. This is Schedule A and Schedule C of the ORR&hyph;6 Quarterly Performance Report form. ORR is no longer using the ORR&hyph;12 form which was originally used to report on the outcomes of the targeted assistance program. ORR is in the process of consolidating its reporting requirements. The new reporting form will consolidate social services and targeted assistance performance reporting in one format in order to simplify and coordinate reporting. ORR expects this new form to be available when reporting on FY 1994 grants begins, which would be at the end of the first quarter of FY 1995. Dated: March 9, 1994. Lavinia Limon, Director, Office of Refugee Resettlement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6305 Filed 3&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
