FR941216-1-00110 FR941216-1-00012 §184.67 Hazards. Aside from the fact that the propellants differ from each other, as explained for the above groups, the predominant hazard of the individual propellant varies according to the location of the propellant storage and the operation(s) involved. These conditions follow, in order of decreasing hazard: (a) Range launch pads. Activities at range launch pads include research, development, and testing. The proximity of fuel to oxidizer, the frequency of launchings and the possibility of fall-back (with resultant dynamic mixing on impact) make operations at these facilities very hazardous. Explosives equivalents (Appendix C to Subpart G of this part) shall be used to determine Q/D (Appendix D to Subpart G of this part). (b) Static test stands. Although these can involve experimental operations, the units remain static and are subject to better control than dynamic ones. Except when run tankages for fuel and oxidizer are mounted one above the other, it is possible to separate the tankages to reduce the hazard. Except as provided in §184.68, explosives equivalents (Appendix C to Subpart G of this part) shall be used to determine Q/D (Appendix D to Subpart G of this part). (c) Ready storage. Ready storage may be located at a minimum of intraline distance from launch and static test stands, based on the propellant requiring the greater distance. Normally, propellant from ready storage is not fed directly into an engine, as is the case with run tankage (see §184.67 (g)). HE equivalents (Appendix C to Subpart G of this part) shall be used for propellants in ready storage if the facility design does not guarantee against fuel and oxidizer mixing and against propagation to, or initiation at, the ready storage facility when a mishap occurs at the test stand or launch pad. If prevention of detonation of ready storage is assured, Q/D's shall be based on the prevailing fire or fragment hazards (Appendix B to Subpart G of this part). (d) Cold-flow test operations. Fire and fragment hazards (Appendix B to Subpart G of this part) govern if the system is closed (except for approved venting) and completely airtight; if fuel and oxidizer are never employed concurrently, each has an isolated system, and fittings are such that intermixing is impossible; and if the propellants are of required purity. Otherwise, HE equivalents (Appendix C to Subpart G of this part) shall be used to determine Q/D's (Appendix D to Subpart G of this part). (e) Bulk storage. This is the most remote storage with respect to launch and test operations, never being directly connected to any of them. It consists of the area, tanks, and other containers therein, used to hold propellant for supplying ready storage and, indirectly, run tankage where no ready storage is available. Individual bulk storage facilities shall be separated from each other and from unrelated exposures in accordance with Appendices B and D to Subpart G of this part. If positive measures are not taken to prevent mixing of group I, II and III fuels and oxidizers, TNT equivalents (Appendix C to Subpart G of this part) shall be used to determine Q/D's (Appendix D to Subpart G of this part). (f) Rest storage. This temporary storage resembles bulk storage. Barges, trailers, tank cars, and portable hold-tanks (used for topping operations) may be used as rest storage facilities. Fire and fragment hazards (Appendix B to Subpart G of this part) govern. The transporter becomes a part of that storage to which it is connected during propellant transfer. (g) Run tankage (operating tankage). Run tankage (operating tankage) consists of the tank and/or other containers and associated piping used to hold the propellants for direct feeding into the engine or device during operations (§184.67 (c)). (h) Pipelines. A distance of 25 feet free of inhabited buildings shall be maintained on either side of the pipelines used for the transfer of group II and III propellants between unloading points and storage areas or between storage areas and points of use. §184.68 Incompatible storage. Except where effectively subdivided by intervening barriers or other positive means for preventing mixing, separation distance between propellants of different compatibility groups shall be the inhabited building distance for the propellant quantity and group that requires the greater distance. Where prevention of mixing is assured, incompatible storage shall be separated from each other by intragroup distance. If different hazard groups are involved, the group requiring the greater distance shall be controlling. §184.69 Compatible storage. Compatible storage of propellants of different hazard groups, shall be separated from other exposures by the greater intragroup storage distance (see Appendix A to Subpart G of this part).
