FR940516-0-00038 FR940516-0-00013 PART 779_[AMENDED] 24. Section 779.4 is amended by revising paragraph (f)(1)(i) and Footnote 10 to read as follows: §779.4 General license GTDR: Technical data under restriction. * * * * * (f) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (i) Reexport, directly or indirectly, to Country Group Q, S, W, 10 Y, or Z, or the People's Republic of China any technical data relating to commodities controlled to Country Group W as described in the paragraph titled ``Validated License Required'' of any entry of the Commerce Control List; 10 Effective April 26, 1971, Country Group W no longer included Romania. Assurances executed prior to April 26, 1971, that refer to Country Group W continue to apply to Romania. On May 8, 1992, Hungary was removed from Country Group W. Assurances are no longer applicable to Hungary. On May 9, 1994, Poland, the Czech Republic, and the Slovak Republic were moved from Country Group W to Country Group V. Assurances are no longer applicable to Poland, the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. * * * * * §779.5 [Amended] 25. Section 779.5 is amended by revising the phrase ``the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, and the Slovak Republic'' in paragraph (a)(3) to read ``Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic''. PART 785_[AMENDED] 26. Section 785.2 is amended: a. By revising paragraph (a)(1), removing paragraph (a)(3) and redesignating paragraph (a)(4) as paragraph (a)(3); b. By revising paragraph (b); c. By revising paragraph (c), to read as follows: §785.2 Country Groups Q, W, and Y 2 : Geographic area of the former U.S.S.R., Eastern Europe, Mongolia, Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam. 2 See Supplement No. 1 to part 770 of this subchapter for listing of Country Groups. (a)(1) The Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (EAA) states that it is the policy of the United States to encourage trade with all countries with which we have diplomatic or trading relations, except those countries with which such trade has been determined by the President to be against the national interest. The Act also states that it is the policy of the United States to restrict the export of goods and technical data that would make a significant contribution to the military potential of any other country or combination of countries that would prove detrimental to the national security of the United States. Accordingly, and in compliance with the other sections of the EAA, the Department conducts a continuing review of commodities and technical data to assure that prior approval is required for the export or reexport of U.S.-origin commodities and technical data to Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Mongolia, Russia, Romania, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uzbekistan and Vietnam only if the commodities or technical data have a potential for being used in a manner that would prove detrimental to the national security of the United States. The general policy of the Department is to approve applications or requests to export or reexport such commodities and technical data to these destinations when the Department determines, on a case-by-case basis, that the commodities or technical data are for civilian use or would otherwise not make a significant contribution to the military potential of the country of destination that would prove detrimental to the national security of the United States. However, in recognition of efforts made to adopt safeguard measures for exports, Bulgaria, Latvia, Kazakhstan, Lithuania, Mongolia, and Russia are accorded enhanced favorable consideration licensing treatment. * * * * * (b) See parts 776 and 778 of this subchapter for foreign policy based controls governing exports to Country Groups Q, W, and Y. (c) Country Group Q. Romania (Country Group Q) has been determined to present a lesser strategic threat, and has adopted safeguard measures to protect against the diversion of national security controlled items. In recognition of these facts, the Commerce Control List includes several Advisory Notes that indicate likelihood of approval or favorable consideration for export to satisfactory end-users in Country Group Q. Items not eligible for favorable consideration will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis. * * * * *
