FR940418-0-00027 FR940418-0-00009 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 64 [CC Docket No. 91&hyph;281; FCC 94&hyph;59] Calling Number Identification AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On March 8, 1994, the Commission adopted a Report and Order (R&O) and Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (FNPM) in CC Docket 91&hyph;281. The R&O amends the rules regarding common carriers to establish federal policies and rules concerning interstate calling number identification service (caller ID). The R&O finds that a federal model for interstate delivery of calling party numbers is in the public interest, that calling party privacy must be protected, and that certain state regulation of interstate calling party number (CPN) based services, including interstate caller ID, must be preempted. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 12, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Suzanne Hutchings, Domestic Services Branch, Domestic Facilities Division, (202) 634&hyph;1802, or Olga Madruga-Forti, Chief, Domestic Services Branch, Domestic Facilities Division, (202) 634&hyph;1816. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This summarizes the Commission's R&O in the matter of Policies and Rules Concerning Calling Number Identification Service_Caller ID (CC Docket 91&hyph;281, FCC 94&hyph;59, adopted March 8, 1994 and released March 29, 1994). The R&O and supporting file may be examined in the Commission's Public Reference Room, room 239, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC, during business hours or purchased from the duplicating contractor, International Transcription Service, 2100 M Street, NW., suite 140, Washington, DC 20037, (202) 857&hyph;3800. The R&O also will be published in the FCC Record. Analysis of Proceeding This proceeding was initiated by the Commission's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) in CC Docket 91&hyph;281, FCC 91&hyph;300, 6 FCC Rcd 6752 (1991), (56 FR 57300, November 8, 1991), to establish federal policies and rules governing calling number identification service on an interstate basis. In its NPRM, the Commission tentatively concluded that a federal model for interstate caller ID should be established; that the federal model should recognize privacy interests of both the called and the calling party; that it should do so efficiently and without interfering with other services (such as 911); that the costs of the service should be recovered from the beneficiaries, the users of the service; and that carriers should pass on the calling party number from the originating carrier to the terminating carriers. The Commission tentatively concluded that it was not necessary to propose to preempt any intrastate caller ID offerings. After reviewing the comments and/or reply comments submitted by interested parties, the Commission has adopted rules which require common carriers using Common Channel Signalling System 7 (SS7) and subscribing to or offering any service based on SS7 functionality must transmit calling party number and its associated privacy indicator on interstate calls. The rules require that carriers offering CPN based service provided automatic per call blocking at no charge to interstate callers, and that the privacy indicator be honored by terminating carriers. The Report and Order finds that the costs of interstate transmission of CPN are de minimis, and that the CPN should be transmitted among carriers without additional charge. The rules require that carriers participating in the offering of any service that delivers CPN on interstate calls must inform telephone subscribers regarding the availability of identification services and how to invoke the privacy protection mechanism. The rules restrict the reuse or sale of telephone numbers by subscribers to automatic number identification (ANI) or charge number services, absent affirmative subscriber consent. The rules are made a part of this publication. Request for Comments The Commission affirmed the tentative conclusion reached in the NPRM that deployment of interstate calling party number services should be accompanied by consumer education regarding the availability of identification services and how to invoke the privacy protection mechanism. For ANI or charge number services for which such privacy is not provided, the rules require that the notification inform telephone customers of the restrictions on the reuse or sale of subscriber information. The Commission seeks further comment on whether it should prescribe detailed instructions regarding what form education should take or prescribe more precisely responsibilities of various carriers. The Commission is also particularly interested in specific joint industry education proposals. The Commission tentatively concludes that its policies for calling party number delivery should apply equally to services delivering calling party name, and seeks comment on its tentative conclusion. The Commission also seeks comment on whether the policies for subscriber privacy should extend to other services. All proposals and other comments must reference CC Docket No. 91&hyph;281. In particular, parties should address any differences in privacy considerations that apply to calling party name delivery as opposed to calling party number delivery. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis
