FR940930-2-00169 FR940930-2-00059 IV. Notice of Intent Even though an ANOI has been submitted, all applicants must submit an original and two copies of a final Notice of Intent, postmarked not later than January 1, 1995, consistent with the regulations at 20 CFR 632.11. Final Notices of Intent may also be delivered in person not later than the close of business on the first business day of the designation year. Exclusive of charts of graphs and letters or support, the Notice of Intent should not exceed 75 pages of double-space unreduced type. Final Notice of Intent are to be sent to the Chief, Division of Indian and Native American Programs (DINAP), at the address cited above. Final Notice of Intent Contents: (as outlined at 20 CFR 632.11) •A completed and signed SF&hyph;424, ``Application for Federal Assistance''; •An indication of the applicant's legal status, including articles of incorporation or consortium agreement as appropriate; •A clear indication of the territory being applied for, in the same format as the ANOI; •Evidence of community support from Native American-controlled organizations; and •Other relevant information relating to capability, such as service plans and previous experience which the applicant feels will strengthen its case, including information on any unresolved or outstanding administrative problems. Final Notice of Intent must contain evidence of community support. Incumbent and non-incumbent State and Federally-recognized tribes need not submit such evidence regarding their own reservations. However, such entities are required to provide such evidence for any area which they wish to serve beyond their reservation boundaries. The regulations permit current grantees requesting their existing geographic service areas to submit an SF 424 in lieu of a complete application, whether or not a waiver has been granted. As noted earlier in this notice, current grantees, other than tribes, bands or groups (including Alaskan Native entities) requesting their existing areas and NOT granted a waiver, are encouraged to consider submitting a full Notice of Intent (even if their geographic service area request has not changed) in the event that competition occurs. Tribes, bands or groups (including Alaskan Native entities) should consider submitting a full Notice of Intent if they currently serve areas beyond their reservation boundaries and have NOT been granted a waiver for these areas. Applicants are encouraged to modify the geographic service area requests identified in their Advance Notice of Intent to avoid competition with other applicants. Applicants should not add territory to the geographic service area requests identified in the Advance Notice of Intent. Any organization applying by January 1, 1995, for non-contiguous geographic service areas shall prepare a separate, complete Notice of Intent for each such area unless currently designated for such areas. It is DOL's policy that no information affecting the panel review process will be solicited or accepted past the regulatory postmarked or hand delivered deadlines (see Part VI, Use of Panel Review Procedure, below). All information provided before the deadline must be in writing. This policy does not preclude the Grant Officer from requesting additional information independent of the panel review process. V. Preferential Hierarchy for Determining Designation In cases in which only one organization is applying for a clearly identified geographic service area and the organization meets the requirements at 20 CFR 632.10(b) and 632.11(d), DOL shall designate the applying organization as the grantee for the area. In cases in which two or more organizations apply for the same area (in whole or in part), and no waivers have been granted, DOL will utilize the order of designation preference described in the hierarchy below. The organization will be designated, assuming all other requirements are met. The preferential hierarchy is: (1) Indian tribes, bands or groups on Federal or State reservations for their reservation; Oklahoma Indians only as specified in Part VIII, Special Designation Situations, below; and Alaskan Native entities only specified in Part VIII, Special Designation Situations, below. (2) Native American-controlled, community-based organizations as defined in Part IX (1) of the glossary in this notice, with significant support from other Native American-controlled organizations within the service community. This includes tribes applying for geographic service areas other than their own reservations. When a non-incumbent can demonstrate in its application, by verifiable information, that it is potentially significantly superior overall to the incumbent, and the incumbent has not been granted a waiver, a formal competitive process will be utilized which may include a panel review. Such potential will be determined by the consideration of such factors a the following: completeness of the application and quality of the contents; documentation of past experience, Native American-controlled organizational support; understanding of area training and employment needs and approach to addressing such needs; and the capability of the incumbent. If there is no incumbent, and therefore no waivers granted, new applicants qualified for this category would complete against each other. (3) Organizations (private nonprofit or units of State or local governments) having a significant Native American advisory process, such as a governing body chaired by a Native American and having a majority membership of Native Americans.
