FR940429-0-00292 FR940429-0-00016 Discussion: The closed school loan discharge authorized in section 437(c)(1) of the HEA is not restricted only to a loan made for attendance at an eligible school. The Secretary believes that Congress was aware of instances in which a school or its branch may have lost eligibility, but the school continued to certify loan applications under an eligible school identification code. The Secretary believes this is the reason why there is no requirement in section 437(c)(1) of the HEA that links a borrower's eligibility for a closed school loan discharge to only a loan certified by an eligible school. Change: None. Section 682.402(d)(2)(iv) 16. Comment: Some commenters recommended that the regulations require the holder of a loan discharged under the closed school loan discharge provision to forward the original promissory note marked ``canceled'' or ``satisfied in full'' to the borrower within 30 days after discharging the borrower's loan obligation. Discussion: A loan that is discharged due to the borrower's death, permanent and total disability, or bankruptcy, is considered ``paid in full'' for the purposes of §682.414(a)(2). The Secretary will add a closed school loan discharge to the definition of the term ``paid in full'' found in §682.414(a)(2), but does not believe it is necessary to otherwise amend the requirements pertaining to the return of promissory notes (found in §682.414(a)(4) of the current regulations) in the manner recommended by the commenters. The return of a borrower's promissory note pursuant to a closed school discharge does not need to be accomplished any differently than the return of a borrower's promissory note pursuant to any other type of discharge. Change: Section 682.414(a)(2) has been amended to add a closed school loan discharge. Section 682.402(d)(3) 17. Comment: Some commenters recommended that the Secretary prescribe a standardized form for the closed school loan discharge application and associated sworn statement from the borrower. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that this would be helpful. Pursuant to the requirements of section 432(l) of the HEA, the Secretary will consult with FFEL participants to develop a standardized form. Change: None. 18. Comment: Some commenters objected to the requirement that a borrower who requests a closed school loan discharge must submit the sworn statement described in the regulations. The commenters believed the sworn statement is unnecessary in cases where the holder of the loan or the guaranty agency has reliable information in their possession showing that the borrower was in attendance at the school when it closed or within 90 days before it closed. The commenters believed the borrower's loan obligation should be discharged based on those existing records. Discussion: The Secretary believes the borrower's sworn statement is necessary to adequately protect the interests of the taxpayers. The information provided on the borrower's sworn statement is not limited to the isolated historical record of the borrower's attendance at the closed school. For example, the borrower must state whether he or she took advantage of a teach-out or transferred academic credits from the closed school to another school. The borrower must also agree to cooperate with the Secretary or the Secretary's designee in enforcement actions in accordance with §682.402(d)(4). This information, and the borrower's agreement to cooperate, will not be in the possession of the guaranty agency and must be obtained in the borrower's sworn statement. Change: None. Section 682.402(d)(3)(ii)(A) 19. Comment: Some commenters requested clarification of whether the closed school loan discharge applied to a loan that was partially disbursed on or after January 1, 1986. Discussion: The Secretary has been given authority pursuant to section 437(c)(1) of the HEA to discharge the borrower's liability on a loan ``*␣*␣* received, on or after January 1, 1986 ``*␣*␣*'' if the student could not complete the program due to the closure of the school. For purposes of the closed school loan discharge, the Secretary will consider the borrower's entire loan eligible if any part of it was disbursed by the lender on or after January 1, 1986.
