FR940224-2-00031 FR940224-2-00014 2. No Action This alternative would involve keeping defueled nuclear powered ships in waterborne protective storage for an indefinite period of time. Puget Sound Naval Shipyard and Norfolk Naval Shipyard have inactive ships storage facilities for defueled nuclear powered ships. Rather than temporarily storing the ships until their reactor compartments can be removed, the ``no action'' alternative would result in a much larger number of ships in storage. This option would require periodic ship inspections as well as performance of drydocking preservations. If no permanent disposal alternative is available, the ``no action'' alternative will occur by default. 3. Other Alternatives Several other alternatives will be examined including the following: The detailed evaluation of sea disposal contained in the Navy's 1984 Environmental Impact Statement will be used and updated in this Environmental Impact Statement to take into account the number and radioactivity content of the cruiser, OHIO, and LOS ANGELES Class reactor compartments. The 1984 Environmental Impact Statement concluded that sea disposal could be performed in an environmentally safe manner with no significant adverse effect. However, the 1984 Record of Decision noted that Congress passed an amendment which restricted the issuance of permits for sea disposal of radioactive material and required Congressional approval before such a permit could be issued, and the Environmental Protection Agency stated that additional regulations may be required before a permit request could be reviewed. Also, in November 1993, the United States voted along with the majority of other signatories to the London Convention to ban sea disposal of low level radioactive waste subject to a scientific review in 25 years. Therefore, this alternative would now be precluded by treaty. Disposal sites other than the Department of Energy's burial site at Hanford will be considered for disposal of reactor compartment packages. Criteria to be considered in site evaluation will include availability of barge unloading facilities, navigability of waterways, bridge clearances, and overland transport requirements. Land disposal or reuse of subdivided portions of the reactor plant would involve the cutting up of the defueled reactor plant into smaller pieces. This option would require evaluation of locations and methods to dismantle and package the reactor plant components and determination of appropriate locations and methods for final disposal or reuse of the resulting subdivided portions of the reactor plant. Placement of the reactor compartments above ground in specially designed buildings or in an arid environment will be evaluated as an interim storage measure, and as a permanent disposal method. As in the case of the burial option, the above ground storage evaluation will consider the long term migration potential of long lived radionuclides. Preliminary Identification of Environmental Issues The following issues, subject to consideration of comments received in response to public scoping, have been tentatively identified for analysis in the Environmental Impact Statement. This list is presented to facilitate public comment on the scope of the Environmental Impact Statement. It is not intended to be all inclusive nor is it intended to be a predetermination of impacts. 1. Potential impacts to the public and on-site workers from radiological and non radiological releases caused by activities to be conducted within the context of the proposed action and alternatives. 2. Potential environmental impacts, including air and water quality impacts, caused by the proposed action and alternatives. 3. Potential transportation impacts as a result of the proposed action and alternatives. 4. Potential effect on endangered species, floodplain/wetlands, and archeological/historical sites as a result of the proposed action and alternatives. 5. Potential impacts from postulated accidents as a result of the proposed action and alternatives. 6. Potential socioeconomic impacts to the surrounding communities as a result of implementing the proposed actions and alternatives. 7. Potential cumulative impacts from the proposed action and other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future actions. 8. Potential irreversible and irretrievable commitment of resources. Dated: February 5, 1994. B. DeMars, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Director, Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program. Dated: February 7, 1994. Michael P. Rummel, LCDR, JAGC, USN, Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4283 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;AE&hyph;P
