FR940202-2-00125 FR940202-2-00071 CATEGORY II C. Institute masking of individuals who enter the room of a patient with influenza. 566,567,673 CATEGORY IB D. As much as possible during periods of influenza activity in the community, remove patient-care staff who have symptoms of febrile upper respiratory tract infection suggestive of influenza from duties that involve direct patient contact. 604,674 CATEGORY II E. When community and/or nosocomial outbreaks are characterized by high attack rates and severe illness: 1. Restrict hospital visitors who have a febrile respiratory illness. CATEGORY IB 2. Curtail or eliminate elective medical and surgical admissions as necessary. CATEGORY IB 3. Restrict cardiovascular and pulmonary surgery to only emergency cases. CATEGORY IB IV. Control of Influenza Outbreaks A. Determining the Outbreak Strain Early in the outbreak, obtain nasopharyngeal-swab or nasal-wash specimens from patients with symptoms suggestive of influenza for influenza virus culture or antigen detection. CATEGORY IB B. Vaccination of Patients and Personnel Administer current influenza vaccine to unvaccinated patients and staff, especially if the outbreak occurs early in the influenza season. 562,581 CATEGORY IB C. Amantadine or Rimantadine Administration 1. When a nosocomial outbreak of influenza A is suspected or recognized: a. Administer amantadine or rimantadine for prophylaxis to all uninfected patients in the involved unit for whom it is not contraindicated. Do not delay administration of amantadine or rimantadine unless the results of diagnostic tests to identify the infecting strain(s) can be obtained within 12 to 24 hours after specimen collection. 584,587 CATEGORY IB b. Administer amantadine or rimantadine for prophylaxis to unvaccinated staff members for whom it is not medically contraindicated, and who are in the involved unit or taking care of high-risk patients. 584 CATEGORY II 2. Discontinue amantadine or rimantadine if laboratory tests confirm or strongly suggest that influenza type A is not the cause of the outbreak. 585,602 CATEGORY IA 3. If the cause of the outbreak is confirmed or believed to be influenza type A AND vaccine has been administered only recently to susceptible patients and personnel, continue amantadine or rimantadine prophylaxis until 2 weeks after the vaccination. 675 CATEGORY IB 4. To the extent possible, do not allow contact between those at high risk of complications from influenza and patients or staff who are taking amantadine or rimantadine for treatment of acute respiratory illness; prevent contact during and for two days after the latter discontinue treatment. 586,598&hyph;602 CATEGORY IB D. Interruption of (Person-to-Person) Transmission (See Section III, A&hyph;E Above.)
