FR940513-1-00006 FR940513-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Parts 300 and 319 [Docket No. 93&hyph;121&hyph;2] Importation of Fruits and Vegetables AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to allow, under certain conditions, the cold treatment of imported fruits upon arrival at the port of Wilmington, NC. We have determined that in the Wilmington, NC, area, there are climatic and biological barriers that are adequate to prevent the introduction of certain plant pests into the United States in the event they escape from shipments of fruit before undergoing cold treatment. We are also proposing to delete cold treatments in the regulations and replace them with a reference to cold treatments in the Plant Protection and Quarantine Treatment Manual, which is incorporated by reference. DATES: Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 93&hyph;121&hyph;2. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Victor Harabin, Head, Permit Unit, Port Operations, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 631, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782; (301) 436&hyph;8645. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Fruits and Vegetables regulations, contained in 7 CFR 319.56 through 319.56&hyph;8 (referred to below as ``the regulations''), prohibit or restrict the importation of fruits and vegetables to prevent the introduction and dissemination of injurious insects, including fruit flies, that are new to or not widely distributed in the United States. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture administers these regulations. Under the regulations, APHIS allows certain fruits to be imported into the United States if they undergo sustained refrigeration (cold treatment) sufficient to kill certain insect pests. Cold treatment temperature and refrigeration period requirements vary according to the type of fruit and the pests involved. Most imported fruit that requires cold treatment undergoes cold treatment in transit to the United States. However, APHIS allows imported fruit to undergo cold treatment after arrival in the United States at certain ports designated by APHIS. Currently, cold treatment is limited to ports in the northern United States because APHIS has determined that insect pests escaping from shipments of imported fruit after arrival in the United States would be unable to survive winter weather conditions in the north. The following ports are currently authorized by APHIS to conduct cold treatment on imported fruit: Atlantic ports north of, and including, Baltimore, MD; ports on the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Seaway; Canadian border ports on the North Dakota border and east of North Dakota; and, for air shipments, Washington DC, at Baltimore-Washington International and Dulles International airports. Recently, we received petitions from individuals at the ports of Wilmington, NC, and Gulfport, MS, requesting that we amend the regulations to allow cold treatment to be conducted at these ports. On November 12, 1993, in response to these petitions, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 59953, Docket No. 93&hyph;121&hyph;1) an advance notice of proposed rulemaking requesting public comment on whether we should allow cold treatment at ports in the Southern United States and in California. We solicited comments concerning this notice for a 45-day period ending on December 27, 1993. During that period, we received four comments, three from State governments and one from a grower organization. Two comments opposed allowing cold treatment at ports in the Southern United States and California, arguing that allowing such treatments would place California and Florida citrus crops at too great a risk of fruit fly infestation. Another comment requested that we perform a detailed pest-risk analysis before deciding whether to allow cold treatment at southern and California ports. Another comment supported allowing cold treatment at the port of Wilmington, NC. While we are still considering whether to allow cold treatment at other ports in the Southern United States and California, we are now proposing to allow cold treatment of certain fruit, under certain conditions, at the port of Wilmington, NC. We have determined that in the Wilmington, NC, area, there are climatic and biological barriers adequate to prevent introduction of certain plant pests into the United States in the event they escape from shipments of fruit before undergoing cold treatment. Also, we are proposing to impose additional special conditions regarding cold treatment at Wilmington, NC, that would further reduce the risk of fruit fly introduction. In addition to meeting the requirements in ยง319.56&hyph;2d of the regulations regarding cold treatment, the port of Wilmington, NC, cold treatment facilities would be required to operate under the following additional special conditions: 1. Bulk shipments (those shipments which are stowed and unloaded by the case or bin) of fruit arriving for cold treatment must be packaged in fly-proof packaging that prevents the escape of adult, larval, or pupal fruit flies. 2. Bulk and containerized shipments of fruit arriving at the port of Wilmington, NC, for cold treatment must be cold-treated within the port, that is, the area over which the Bureau of Customs is assigned the authority to accept entries of merchandise, to collect duties, and to enforce the various provisions of the customs and navigation laws in force. 3. Advance reservations for cold treatment space at the port of Wilmington, NC, must be made prior to the departure of a shipment from its port of origin. We believe these requirements would reduce the risk of fruit fly introduction into the United States in the event infested shipments of fruit entered the port of Wilmington, NC.
