FR940323-2-00056 FR940323-2-00040 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;289&hyph;000] Equitrans, Inc.; Application March 17, 1994. Take notice that on March 16, 1994, Equitrans, Inc. (Equitrans) 3500 Park Lane, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15275, filed in Docket No. CP94&hyph;289&hyph;000 an application pursuant to section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act for a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing the immediate sale for resale in interstate commerce of up to 600,000 dekatherms (dt) of natural gas under Equitrans, Inc. Rate Schedule MSS (Unbundled Merchant Service) from a certificated storage reservoir for a limited term expiring either (1) 90 days from the date of issuance of the certificate or (2) upon termination of the underlying sales contracts if such contracts extend for a period in excess of 90 days, all as more fully set forth in the application which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. Equitrans states that sales would be made by Equitrans' merchant division, Equitrans Marketing Services Company (EMSC), at market-clearing rates negotiated with individual customers on an open access non-discriminatory basis under Rate Schedule MSS. In light of the crucial winter heating requirements being experienced throughout much of the United States, Equitrans requests that the Commission grant whatever waivers of its Regulations that may be necessary to permit the proposed sales to commence no later than March 31, 1994. Equitrans further requests pregranted abandonment authorization at the expiration of the underlying contracts for the sales of the working gas. It is stated that the proposed sales would be made from the Hunters Cave storage reservoir from gas that was injected under Equitrans' blanket certificate for testing and development. 1 Equitrans states that these newly injected volumes need to be withdrawn for testing purposes and, due to increased demand, should be made available for immediate sale to help meet this winter's heating needs. 1 Section 157.215(a)(4) of the Commission's Regulations provides that a storage field developed under these regulations will not be utilized to render service without further authorization from the Commission, except that gas may be withdrawn for testing purposes. This filing was required since Equitrans proposes to make sales of gas to be withdrawn. Equitrans states that at the time the additional volumes were injected into storage as test gas at Hunters Cave, the gas was reflected in Equitrans' rate base in the amount of $2.33 per dt. Upon sale of the gas under Rate Schedule MSS at individually negotiated, market-based rates, Equitrans proposes to credit its Account No. 164 by the amount that the gas is currently reflected in the rate case. If the sale is at a price lower than the rate base amount, Equitrans states that it will absorb the difference. Equitrans submits that this passthrough of revenues to its jurisdictional customers will provide them with rate relief while maintaining the same high level of service. Equitrans contends that this is the approach recently approved by the Commission for the sale of excess storage gas in, among other cases, Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company, 61 FERC ¶61,357 at 62,433 (1992), reh'g denied on this issue, 62 FERC ¶61,288 at 62,883&hyph;84 (1993). Although this and other cases involve sales-in-place, Equitrans states that the new gas at Hunters Cave must be withdrawn for operational/testing reasons and cannot be allowed to remain in storage. Equitrans contends that, nonetheless, the ratemaking determinations for sales of excess storage gas should be the same whether or not the gas remains in storage. Equitrans states that, as in Panhandle, it will bear the full revenue risk if the market does not allow the gas to be sold above the $2.33 level reflected in the rate base. It is stated that only the revenue, if any, above the rate base level will be retained by Equitrans, through its merchant division, EMSC. Any person desiring to be heard or to make any protest with reference to said application should on or before April 1, 1994, file with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20426, a motion to intervene or a protest in accordance with the requirements of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214 or 385.211) and the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.10). All protests filed with the Commission will be considered by it in determining the appropriate action to be taken but will not serve to make the protestants parties to the proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party to a proceeding or to participate as a party in any hearing therein must file a motion to intervene in accordance with the Commission's Rules. Take further notice that, pursuant to the authority contained in and subject to jurisdiction conferred upon the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission by sections 7 and 15 of the Natural Gas Act and the Commission's Rules of Practice and procedure, a hearing will be held with further notice before the Commission or its designee on this application if no motion to intervene is filed within the time required herein, if the Commission on its own review of the matter finds that a grant of the certificate is required by the public convenience and necessity. If a motion for leave to intervene is timely filed, or if the Commission on its own motion believes that a formal hearing is required, further notice of such hearing will be duly given. Under the procedure herein provided for, unless otherwise advised, it will be unnecessary for Equitrans to appear or be represented at the hearing. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6799 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
