FR941003-2-00089 FR941003-2-00049 (k) U.S. Army Command and General Staff College, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. (1) Positions of professor, associate professor, assistant professor, and instructor associated with courses of instruction of at least 10 months duration, for employment not to exceed up to 5 years, which may be renewed in 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5-year increments indefinitely thereafter. Section 213.3108␣Department of the Navy (a) General. (1) (Reserved). (2) Positions of Student Pharmacist for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment in U.S. naval regional medical centers, hospitals, clinics and departments when filled by students who are enrolled in an approved pharmacy program in a participating nonfederal institution, and whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. Employment under this authority may not exceed 1 year. (3) (Reserved). (4) Not to exceed 50 positions of resident-in-training at U.S. naval regional medical centers, hospitals, and dispensaries which have residency training programs, when filled by residents assigned as affiliates for part of their training from nonfederal hospitals. Assignments shall be on a temporary (full-time or part-time) or intermittent basis, shall not amount to more than 6 months for any person, and shall be applied only to persons whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. (5) (Reserved). (6) Positions of Student Operating Room Technician for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment in U.S. naval regional medical centers and hospitals, when filled by students who are enrolled in an approved operating room technician program in a participating nonfederal institution, whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. Employment under this authority may not exceed 1 year. (7) Positions of student social worker for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment in U.S. naval regional medical centers, hospitals, and dispensaries, when filled by bona fide students enrolled in academic institutions: Provided, that the work performed in the agency is to be used by the student as a basis for completing certain academic requirements by such educational institution to qualify for a graduate degree in social work. This authority shall be applied only to students whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. (8) Positions of student practical nurse for temporary, part-time, or intermittent employment in U.S. naval regional medical centers, hospitals, and dispensaries, when filled by trainees enrolled in a nonfederal institution in an approved program of educational and clinical training which meets the requirements for licensing as a practical nurse. This authority shall be applied only to trainees whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. (9) (Reserved). (10) Positions of medical technology intern in U.S. naval regional medical centers, hospitals, and dispensaries, when filled by students enrolled in approved programs of training in nonfederal institutions. Employment under this authority may be on a full-time, part-time, or intermittent basis but may not exceed 1 year. This authority shall be applied only to students whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. (11) Positions of medical intern in U.S. naval regional medical centers, hospitals, and dispensaries, when filled by persons who are serving medical internships at participating nonfederal hospitals and whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. Employment under this authority may not exceed 1 year. (12) Positions of student speech pathologist at U.S. naval regional medical centers, hospitals, and dispensaries, when filled by persons who are enrolled in participating nonfederal institutions and whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. Employment under this authority may not exceed 1 year. (13) Positions of student dental assistant in U.S. naval regional medical centers, hospitals, and dispensaries, when filled by persons who are enrolled in participating nonfederal institutions and whose compensation is fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;54. Employment under this authority may not exceed 1 year. (14) (Reserved). (15) Marine positions assigned to a coastal or seagoing vessel operated by a naval activity for research or training purposes. (16) All positions necessary for the administration and maintenance of the official residence of the Vice President.
