FR940803-2-00082 FR940803-2-00065 Civil Penalty Actions_Orders Issued by the Administrator Digests (Current as of June 30, 1994) The digests of the Administrator's final decisions and orders are arranged by order number, and briefly summarize key points of the decision. The following compilation of digests includes all final decisions and orders issued by the Administrator from April 1, 1994, to June 30, 1994. The FAA will publish noncumulative supplements to this compilation on a quarterly basis (e.g., April, July, October, and January of each year). These digests do not constitute legal authority, and should not be cited or relied upon as such. The digests are not intended to serve as a substitute for proper legal research. Parties, attorneys, and other interested persons should always consult the full text of the Administrator's decisions before citing them in any context. In the Matter of Pan American Airways, Inc. Order No. 94&hyph;11 (4/21/94) Appealed Dismissed. Complainant withdrew its notice of appeal, and as a result, the Administrator dismissed its appeal. In the Matter of David D. Bartusiak Order No. 94&hyph;12 (4/28/94) Appeal Dismissed. Respondent failed to perfect his appeal by filing an appeal brief, and has failed to show good cause for this failure. Respondent's appeal is dismissed. In the Matter of John G. Boyle Order No. 94&hyph;13 (5/19/94) Appeal Dismissed. Complainant's appeal was dismissed in a previous order. Respondent's appeal, however, remained active. Respondent has now withdrawn its notice of appeal, and therefore, its appeal is dismissed also. In the Matter of B&G Instruments, Inc. Order No. 94&hyph;14 (6/9/94) Appeal Dismissed. Respondent has withdrawn its appeal. Respondent's appeal is dismissed. In the Matter of Anthony F. Columna Order No. 94&hyph;15 (6/15/94) Notice of Appeal Construed as Appeal Brief. Respondent failed to file an appeal brief. His notice of appeal, however, satisfies the requirements for an appeal brief. Complainant is granted 35 days from the service date of this order to file a reply brief. In the Matter of Martha Phyllis Ford Order No. 94&hyph;16 (6/15/94) Appeal Dismissed. Complainant has withdrawn its appeal. Complainant's appeal is dismissed. In the Matter of TCI Corp. Order No. 94&hyph;17 (6/22/94) Appeal Dismissed. Complainant sought a ruling that the Equal Access to Justice Act (EAJA) does not apply to cases arising under the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act. The law judge already ruled that TCI was not entitled to attorney's fees under the EAJA because the FAA's case against TCI was ``substantially justified.'' Thus, the FAA's appeal was moot, and would be dismissed. In the Matter of Phyllis Jones Luxemburg Order No. 94&hyph;18 (6/22/94) No Error in Granting Motion for Decision. Respondent argued that the law judge erred in granting Complainant's motion for decision and assessing a $1,000 civil penalty for smoking on an aircraft when the no-smoking signs were lit without considering Respondent's reply to Complainant's motion. The law judge waited until after Respondent's deadline for filing a reply had expired before he issued his order. Respondent failed to file either a reply or a request for extension of time before the deadline, and she has failed to show good cause for this failure. The law judge committed to error in this regard. Stress and Advanced Age Not Mitigating Factors. Respondent argued that the sanction of $1,000 should be reduced because of several mitigating factors, including the stress she was under at the time of the incident and her advanced age. Neither stress nor advanced age justify a reduction in a civil penalty for an intentional violation of the regulations. Sanction Reduced. The only justification the agency attorney offered the law judge for imposing the maximum civil penalty of $1,000 was that the Giuffrida case also involved smoking in the cabin when the no-smoking signs were lit and the Administrator imposed the maximum penalty of $1,000 in that case. However, Giuffrida actually involved smoking in the lavatory. Complainant concedes that Respondent's violation, involving smoking in the cabin when the no-smoking signs are lit, does not pose as great a threat to safety as smoking in the lavatory. A civil penalty of $700 more closely reflects the gravity, nature, and extent of Respondent's violation. In the Matter of Pony Express Courier Corp. Order No. 94&hyph;19 (6/22/94) Sanction Increased. Although several complaint allegations were dismissed, the Administrator increased the civil penalty assessed against Respondent to the full $40,000 sought in the complaint because those allegations that were established were serious enough to warrant the full requested civil penalty. The $40,000 civil penalty was substantially less than the maximum civil penalty possible. The law judge's reduction of the civil penalty to $30,000 was inappropriate because the law judge made several findings concerning the serious and wilful nature of Respondent's violations of the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, and Respondent did not establish any mitigating factors. In the Matter of Conquest Helicopters Order No. 94&hyph;20 (6/22/94) Remand Due to Errors of Law. The Administrator remanded this case to the administrative law judge for a hearing solely to determine the appropriate amount of civil penalty, after finding errors in the law judge's reasons for reducing the civil penalty to $4,500. Closing Arguments. The law judge's finding that a civil penalty over $4,500 would result in financial hardship for Respondent was based entirely on statements made by Respondent during closing arguments, and not on evidence. Number of Flights. Once the law judge determined that Respondent made two flights, he should have found that each flight was a separate violation. In the Matter of Mark L. Sweeney Order No. 94&hyph;21 (6/22/94) Reconsideration Denied. The Administration denied Respondent's petition to reconsider the Administrator's prior decision assessing Respondent a $2,500 civil penalty for failing to see and avoid another aircraft, creating a collision hazard, and careless or reckless operation. Respondent raised no new arguments and cited no law in his petition. In the Matter of Jimmy Lee Harkins Order No. 94&hyph;22 (6/29/94) Dismissal Affirmed. The Administrator affirmed the decision of the administrative law judge to dismiss Respondent's request for hearing because Respondent failed to file an answer. On appeal Respondent failed to show good cause for his failure to file an answer.
