FR940304-1-00078 FR940304-1-00014 On the other hand, the nature of the appliance standards program may imply that a household average required rate of return, whether based on actual appliance purchase decisions (in the absence of potential market failure distortions) or on comparable investments, may understate the appropriate rate. Because the Act requires minimum standards, their effect is generally greater on the low-efficiency, low purchase-price end of the market, sometimes eliminating the lowest-priced models. To the extent that low-income households purchase a disproportionate share of these low-efficiency/low-price appliances, they will be disproportionately represented among the affected consumers. At the same time, limited empirical research 8 suggests that these households exhibit higher-than-average discount rates (i.e., required rates of return) across all of their time-sensitive decisions, including (but not limited to) their appliance purchases. If, indeed, these households are disproportionately affected by standards, their discount rates would need to be given greater weight in determining the effects of alternative standard levels on consumers. The Department seeks comment on this issue. 8 Train, Kenneth, Discount Rates in Consumers' Energy-Related Decisions: A Review of the Literature; Energy, December 1985. Based on the information now available, it appears that the average consumer discount rate lies in the range of 4 to 10 percent. As discussed above, the Department has used a 6 percent consumer discount rate for the analyses in this rulemaking. The Department has conducted sensitivity analyses using the 4 to 10 percent range and will continue to solicit data and comments that would provide a better basis for the derivation of consumer discount rates. 2. Commercial discount rate. For a discount rate that would be applicable in the fluorescent ballast analysis, the Department believes that one based on consumer expenses is inappropriate; the rate should be based on costs in the commercial sector, since fluorescent lamp ballasts are purchased for use primarily in that sector. In developing a rate for use in the commercial sector, the Department considered a procedure similar to the procedure used to develop a consumer discount rate, and examined possible methods of financing purchases of more efficient lighting equipment. One such method would be to finance a loan. For the most credit-worthy customers, the prime rate of interest would be applicable. Tables 15 and 21 of the DRI/McGraw-Hill Review of the U.S. Economy; Long-Range Focus; Winter 1990&hyph;91 presented forecasts of prime interest rates and percentage changes in the consumer price index (CPI) for each year between 1995 and 2015. During this period, the prime rate is expected to be fairly stable, ranging from 8.37 percent to 8.50 percent. The changes in the consumer price index are projected to range from 3.88 percent to 4.90 percent. The resulting real rates of interest are projected to range from 3.55 percent in 2014 to 4.64 percent in 1995, with a 21-year average of 3.85 percent.
