FR940317-1-00132 FR940317-1-00013 (2) When the adjudicated value of the loss on an item exceeds an item or category maximum and the claimant has purchased increased valuation protection or other depreciated value coverage, the claimant will be paid up to the amount of the additional coverage to the extent that this does not exceed the adjudicated value on that item or category. (3) When the value of the loss on an item exceeds DA's payment and the claimant has purchased RCP, the claimant will be paid up to the amount of the additional coverage to the extent that this does not exceed the value determined for that item. (b) Reimbursement to insurers by USARCS only. When a claimant has purchased an insurance policy covering the shipment or storage of property and the insurance company pays any portion of the value of items lost or damaged, the insurance company is entitled, to the extent of its payment, to reimbursement of a pro rata share of the amount recovered on such items. (c) Reimbursement of recovery money to a carrier, warehouse or contractor. If a claims office or contracting office determines that recovery or offset against a carrier, contractor or warehouse was improper, the claims office will forward a request (with appropriate justification) to the Chief, Personnel Claims and Recovery Division, USARCS, who will authorize a refund as necessary. §536.191 Recovery action against a claimant. A claimant is entitled to the benefit of any additional coverage purchased (such as private insurance, excess valuation, or RCP) on an item-by-item basis as described in DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 2&hyph;50. If a claimant is compensated by a third party on an item and is also compensated by DA pursuant to this subpart, the claimant is entitled to retain only the portion of the payment that represents the total adjudicated value of the item, without regard to a limitation on payment due to application of a maximum allowance. If a claimant is compensated twice and the total exceeds the amount the claimant is entitled to retain, prompt action to recover the excess will be taken in accordance with DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 2&hyph;55m. §536.192 Claims arising from packing and containerization contract shipments. Field claims offices will process to completion recovery actions on all packing and containerization contract shipments against the delivering contractor unless private insurance is involved. (See §536.190.) §536.193 Claims caused by stevedoring contractors. (a) The ``Liability and Insurance'' clause used in stevedoring and related services contracts provides in pertinent part that the contractor is liable to the Government for loss or damage to personal property (including POV's), caused in whole or in part, by his or her negligence or fault and that the amount determined by the contracting officer will be withheld from payments otherwise due the contractor. (b) Claims offices processing claims against the Government under this paragraph for loss, damage, or destruction of personal property of any kind (including POV's) caused in whole or in part by the negligence of a contractor will, when final recovery action is complete, forward the claim file directly to the Commander, USARCS. Claims offices processing a claim involving a POV will obtain an affirmative statement from the claimant as to whether settlement is also being processed directly with the contractor or has already been received from the contractor. Normally, a settlement with the contractor bars further claim against the Government. (But see §536.186(b).) The procedures for processing POV recovery actions against stevedores are in §536.195.
