FR940720-0-00070 FR940720-0-00006 III. Complex Model The Complex Model includes separate calculations for exhaust and nonexhaust emissions. The final regulations contained errors in the model descriptions for both exhaust and nonexhaust. The errors in the exhaust portion of the Complex Model were limited to the linear extrapolation methodology, while the errors in the nonexhaust portion arose in the VOC equations themselves. Another error also arose in the calculation procedure for annual average toxics. Each of these errors and the associated corrections will be discussed in detail below. A. Extrapolation The exhaust portion of the Complex Model is a statistically-derived set of equations relating fuel parameters to emissions of VOC, NO X , benzene, 1,3-butadiene, acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, and POM. The Agency determined the conditions under which these exhaust equations must be linearly extrapolated based on the ranges for each fuel parameter within which the equations were considered to be accurate. Linear extrapolation amounts to fixing the slope of the fuel parameter:emission relationship at a constant value. It is used to extend the equations beyond the limits of the data on which they are based, thereby making the reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping programs as flexible as possible. Of the six separate models in the exhaust portion of the Complex Model, all four toxic models are linear, and thus do not require linear extrapolation. Paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of §80.45 specifies the conditions and limitations of linear extrapolation for VOC, while §80.45(d)(1)(iv) specifies the conditions and limitations of linear extrapolation for NO X . The details of the linear extrapolation methodology included in these two portions of the final regulations contained a number of errors which require correction. 1. Correct Parenthetical Form of Extrapolation Equations In paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(B) and (d)(1)(iv)(B) of §80.45, the linear extrapolation equations contained too many brackets in some regions of the equations, and missing parentheses in other regions. Although these inadvertent omissions and insertions did not change the mathematical nature of the equations, a literal copying of the equations into computer code would result in an error. Thus the Agency has corrected the linear extrapolation equations for both VOC and NO X to contain the correct number of parentheses and brackets in the correct position and order. 2. Correct Missing Sulfur Term in NO X Extrapolation Equation A sulfur term was inadvertently left out of both the Phase I and Phase II NO X extrapolation equations given in paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(B) of §80.45. This missing sulfur term represents the linear extrapolation of the NO X model with respect to sulfur for high emitters. This correction will have a negligible impact on the emission performance estimates provided by the Complex Model because the NO X equation for high emitters is essentially linear with respect to sulfur. 1 The inclusion of the correct sulfur term in the NO X extrapolation equation will result in the correct application of the edge target fuel to the NO X extrapolation equations. 1 The exhaust portion of the Complex Model includes exponential functions which alters the traditional implications of first- and second-order equations. However, the Complex Model exhaust equations can be referred to and approached as first- and second-order as described in Section IV.D.1 of the Regulatory Impact Analysis for the final rule. 3. Clarify E300 Extrapolation Above 95 Percent In the process of determining the valid range limits for the use of the Complex Model for both reformulated and conventional gasoline, the Agency determined that the emission changes estimated by the exhaust equations were not accurate above an E300 value of 95 percent. However, comments received from the refining industry indicated a need for an E300 valid range that extended up to 100 percent. The Agency concluded that, although the exhaust equation emission change estimates could not be considered accurate above an E300 level of 95 percent, allowing only a zero change in emissions above this E300 level would ensure that refiners could not receive inappropriate benefits for fuels with very high E300 levels. Therefore, the Agency allowed for flat-line extrapolations of all exhaust equations between the E300 values of 95 and 100 percent. However, some portions of the regulations that specified this allowance contained typographical errors which substantially changed the manner in which this flat- line extrapolation for E300 was to be executed. Specifically, paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(C)( 5 ), (c)(1)(iv)(D)( 5 ), and (d)(1)(iv)(C)( 5 ) of §80.45 all indicated that the E300 value of the edge target fuel should be held constant at 95 volume percent for target fuels having an E300 value of greater than 95 volume percent. These paragraphs should not have refered to the edge target fuel, but rather to the target fuel for the purposes of determining emissions performances with the Complex Model. These three paragraphs are thus changed accordingly.
