FR940216-0-00256 FR940216-0-00010 (e) Refiner and importer responsibility. (1) Each refiner and importer required to have its baseline verified by an auditor (per paragraph (a)(1) of this section) is responsible for utilizing an auditor for baseline verification which meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. (2) A refiner's or importer's baseline submission will not be accepted until it has been verified using an auditor which meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. (f) Auditor responsibilities. (1) The auditor must verify that all baseline submission requirements are fulfilled. This includes, but is not limited to, the following: (i) Verifying that all data is correctly accounted for; (ii) Verifying that all calculations are performed correctly; (iii) Verifying that all adjustments to the data and/or calculations to account for post-1990 data, work-in-progress, and/or extenuating or other circumstances, as allowed per §80.91, are valid and performed correctly. (2) The primary analyst shall prepare and sign a statement, to be included in the baseline submission of the refiner or importer, stating that: (i) He/she has thoroughly reviewed the sampling methodology and baseline calculations; and (ii) To the best of his/her knowledge, the requirements and intentions of the rulemaking are met in the baseline determination; and (iii) He/she agrees with the final baseline parameter, volume and emission values listed in the baseline submission. (3) The auditor may be subject to debarment under U.S.C. 1001 if it displays gross incompetency, intentionally commits an error in the verification process or misrepresents itself or information in the baseline verification. §80.93 Individual baseline submission and approval. (a) Submission timing. (1) Each refiner, blender or importer shall submit two copies of its individual baseline to EPA (Fuel Studies and Standards Branch, Baseline Submission, U.S. EPA, 2565 Plymouth Rd., Ann Arbor, MI 48105) not later than June 1, 1994. (2) If a refiner must collect data after December 15, 1993 (per §80.91(d)(2)), it shall submit two copies of its individual baseline to EPA (per §80.93(a)(1)) by September 1, 1994. (3)(i) All petitions required for baseline adjustments or methodology deviations will be approved or disapproved by the Director of the Office of Mobile Sources, or designee. All instances where a ``showing'' or other proof is required are also subject to approval by the Director of the Office of Mobile Sources, or designee. (ii) Auditor-verified petitions, ``showings'' and other associated proof may be submitted to EPA (per §80.93(a)(1)) prior to the official submittal of the entire baseline determination. EPA will attempt to review and approve, disapprove or otherwise comment on the petition, etc., prior to the deadline for baseline submittal. (iii) In the event that EPA does not comment on the petition prior to the deadline for baseline submittal, the refiner or importer must still comply with the applicable baseline submittal deadline. (4) If a baseline recalculation is required per §80.91(f), documentation and recalculation of all affected baselines shall be submitted to EPA within 30 days of the previous baseline(s) becoming inaccurate due to the circumstances outlined in §80.91(f). (b) Submission content. (1) Individual baseline submissions shall include, at minimum, the information specified in this paragraph (b). (i) During its review and evaluation of the baseline submission, EPA may require a refiner or importer to submit additional information in support of the baseline determination. (ii) Additional information which may assist EPA during its review and evaluation of the baseline may be included at the submitter's discretion. (2) Administrative information shall include: (i) Name and business address of the refiner or importer; (ii) Name, business address and business phone number of the company contact; (iii) Address and physical location of each refinery, terminal or import facility; (iv) Address and physical location where documents which are supportive of the baseline determination for each facility are kept; (3) The chief executive officer statement shall be: (i) A statement signed by the chief executive officer of the company, or designee, which states that: (A) The company is complying with the requirements as a refiner, blender or importer, as appropriate; (B) The data used in the baseline determination is the extent of the data available for the determination of all required baseline fuel parameters; (C) All calculations and procedures followed per §§80.90 through 80.93 have been done correctly;
