FR940110-1-00094 FR940110-1-00006 (ii) If the purchaser does not satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, and if the Bank provided a direct subsidy to the applicant which was passed on as a grant to the seller, the seller must repay a pro rata portion of the grant as provided in §960.16(d)(1); or (iii) If the purchaser does not satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, and if the Bank provided a subsidized advance to the applicant which in turn provided a below market rate loan to the seller, then the provisions of §960.16(d)(2) shall apply. (b) The Bank's AHP implementation plan shall permit the owner of an AHP-assisted rental housing project to sell such project as provided for in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Subpart D_Applications for AHP Subsidized Advances or Direct Subsidies §960.6 Establishment of AHP funding cycles and available AHP subsidies. (a) Establishment of AHP funding cycles. (1) Each Bank shall establish at least two but no more than four AHP funding cycles per year during which applications for subsidized advances or direct subsidies will be accepted. The schedule for such funding cycles, including application due dates, is to be determined by the Bank in its discretion, but shall allow for sufficient time intervals to ensure an adequate pool of applicants to compete in each funding cycle. The funding cycle schedule, including application due dates, shall be described in detail in the Bank's AHP implementation plan. (2) Each Bank shall inform the general public and its members of the number and dates of its AHP funding cycles for the year and the approximate amount of available AHP subsidies for each funding cycle at least 45 calendar days before the due date for AHP applications for the first funding cycle for the year. (b) Available AHP subsidies. Each Bank shall allocate comparable amounts of AHP subsidies for each AHP funding cycle during the year. §960.7 AHP application approval process. (a) Application. Each Bank shall require applicants for subsidized advances or direct subsidies to submit to the Bank an application which, at a minimum, contains all of the information described in this paragraph and any other information which the Bank determines is necessary in order to take action on such application pursuant to this part, including the following: (1) A concise description of the purpose of the request and proposed uses of the funds, and its relationship to the priorities identified in §960.10(d), the targeting criterion identified in §960.10(e), and the other objectives identified in §960.10(f); (2) A statement of how the project will satisfy the authorized uses and long-term requirements, including a description of legal mechanisms to be used to ensure compliance by the project with such requirements, contained in §§960.3 and 960.5; (3) A statement of how the project will comply with the fair housing law requirement contained in §960.9(b); (4) A statement of how the project will satisfy the feasibility requirement contained in §960.9(d); (5) A statement of how the project's sponsor satisfies the qualification requirement contained in §960.9(e); (6) A statement of whether a subsidized advance or direct subsidy has been requested and the amount of such funds requested; (7) A disclosure of whether or not the applicant has a direct or indirect interest in the property or project. If the applicant has an interest in the property and the application is approved, then prior to the transfer of AHP funds to the project, an independent current appraisal of the fair market value of such property must be provided, unless the applicant demonstrates that the property is being sold or otherwise transferred to the sponsor at a price substantially below the fair market value; (8) A statement of the project's costs; and (9) A certification from the applicant's, the sponsor's and the loan fund's or loan consortium's board of directors, or president or senior officer if so delegated by the board of directors, that the applicant, the sponsor and the loan fund or loan consortium will comply with all requirements of this part and all obligations committed to in the AHP application. (b) Action on applications. (1) The Bank shall review, score and take action on an AHP application pursuant to the requirements contained in §§960.8, 960.9 and 960.10, and shall notify the applicant of such action no later than 60 calendar days after the application due date for the AHP funding cycle.
