FR940804-0-00050 FR940804-0-00022 3. Sanction Effectuation At pages 51275&hyph;51277 of the proposal, EPA describes how the offset sanction applies and notes that, under the highway sanction, EPA imposes a prohibition on approval by the Secretary of DOT of certain highway projects and grants. Thus, the highway sanction is not directly implemented by EPA. However, EPA noted that it is in the process of developing procedures with DOT to provide for the coordinated implementation of the highway sanction. (Sanction effectuation is further discussed in section II.B.2 of this document.) 4. Opportunity for Comment As discussed above, under section 179(a), the Act requires that sanctions apply if the deficiency that prompted EPA's finding is not corrected within the timeframes prescribed. The only discretion afforded EPA is which of the two section 179(b) sanctions applies at 18 months and which 6 months thereafter. The proposal noted that if in the future EPA makes exceptions to this rule, then in individual notice-and-comment rulemakings EPA will seek comment on whether the highway sanction shall apply after 18 months and the offset sanction shall apply 6 months thereafter given the circumstances at hand. The proposal also noted that the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) provides citizens with a means that could be used to petition EPA to propose that the highway sanction apply first. The APA, 5 U.S.C. 553(e), provides that ``Each agency (including EPA) shall give an interested person the right to petition for the issuance, amendment, or repeal of a rule.'' This provision could conceivably be invoked by a citizen to petition EPA to propose that the highway sanction apply first with respect to a section 179(a) finding covered by this action. II. Today's Action A. Final Action By this document, EPA is promulgating a rule which provides that the section 179(b)(2) offset sanction shall apply in an area 18 months from the date when EPA makes a finding under section 179(a) with regard to that area if the deficiency prompting the finding is not corrected within such period. The final rule also provides that the section 179(b)(1) highway sanction shall apply in an area 6 months following application of the offset sanction in cases where the deficiency has still not been corrected within that period. The section 179(b) sanctions shall be sequenced in this manner in all cases unless EPA proposes the highway sanction to apply first through separate notice-and-comment rulemaking. This final rule applies to plan or plan revisions required under part D but does not apply to plans or plan revisions required under part D found substantially inadequate pursuant to section 110(k)(5). The proposed rule applied to both types of SIP's; a discussion of why the latter type of SIP's_commonly known as part D ``SIP calls''_are not covered by the final rule is in section II.C.3. This rule also has the immediate effect of applying the offset sanction on September 6, 1994 in affected areas for which the Administrator has not determined that the 18-month sanction clock has expired by that date and for which the deficiency prompting the finding has not been corrected by that date. Specifically, in the notice section of today's Federal Register , EPA is providing a list of areas that will be potentially subject to sanctions on September 6, 1994. Note that the proposed rule did include tables in which EPA intended to list areas subject to sanctions. In the final rule, EPA has removed the tables from the rule and decided to provide information on areas that will be potentially subject to sanctions in the separate notice mentioned above. (Sections II.C.5. and III.B. below include a discussion of why the tables were removed from the proposed rule and why such removal does not carry any substantive significance.) B. Summary of Comments and Responses With one exception, this section consists of a brief summary of the comments received on the proposal and EPA's responses. A more detailed summary of comments and EPA's responses can be found in the docket in a document entitled `` Selection of Sequence of Mandatory Sanctions for Findings Made Pursuant to Section 179 of the Clean Air Act: Detailed Summary of Comments and EPA's Responses'' (herein referred to as ``Detailed Summary of Comments''). The one exception is for the sanction clock policy; a detailed summary is provided here, as well as in the companion document, in order to fully explain in the Federal Register the changes EPA has made to the final rule in this area and because of the complexity of this issue. 1. Sanction Sequence and Rationale a. Summary of Comments. The EPA's proposal for the sequence of mandatory sanctions and the rationale are provided in sections I.C.1. and I.C.2. of this document, as well as in the proposal at pages 51274&hyph;5. The EPA received 14 comments on this part of the proposed rule. Comments on the sanction sequence and rationale can generally be considered in four groups: (1) Commenters who believe the sequence should be reversed with the highway sanction applying first, (2) commenters who believe that EPA should determine sanction order on a case-by-case basis, (3) commenters who believe that the nature of the deficiency should be considered in determining sanction sequence, and (4) commenters who support the sequence as proposed.
