FR940628-1-00086 FR940628-1-00014 2. Part 575 would be amended by adding a new ยง575.102 to read as follows: ยง575.102 Vehicle Rollover Stability. (a) Purpose and Scope. This section requires motor vehicle manufacturers to provide information on the resistance of vehicles to rollover to aid consumers in making an informed choice in the purchase of new motor vehicles. (b) Application. This section applies to passenger cars, and to multipurpose passenger vehicles and trucks with a GVWR of 4,536 kilograms or less, and to manufacturers and dealers of such vehicles. Alternative One (c) Definition._Nearest kilometer per hour means the next lower whole kilometer per hour, in the case of a calculated critical sliding velocity value (expressed in kilometers per hour) that falls above a whole number by 0.00 to 0.49 kilometers per hour, and the next higher whole kilometer per hour, in the case of a calculated critical sliding velocity value (expressed in kilometers per hour) that falls above a whole number by 0.50 to 0.99 kilometers per hour. Critical Sliding Velocity (CSV) for a vehicle is the value determined, in kilometers per hour, from the equation: E:GRAPHICSEP28JN94.002 where, E:GRAPHICSEP28JN94.003 and I xx =roll mass moment of inertia of the vehicle, in kilogram-kilometers 2 g=gravitational constant, in kilometers/hour 2 M=mass of the vehicle, loaded, in kilograms h cg =center of gravity height of the vehicle, in kilometers TW=the average of the front and rear track width of the vehicle, in kilometers. Production year means the period from September 1 of a calendar year to August 31 of the next calendar year, inclusive. Vehicle means a group of vehicles within a make, model, or car division which have a degree of commonality in construction (e.g., body, chassis). It does not consider any level of decor, opulence, or other characteristics that do not affect CSV. (d) Reporting Requirements_ (1) Reporting. On or before January 1 of each calendar year, beginning with the 1996 calendar year, each manufacturer shall report to the Administrator a CSV for each vehicle to be manufactured in the production year beginning on September 1 of that calendar year. The CSV shall be accurate to the nearest kilometer per hour. In reporting a CSV, the manufacturer shall list the vehicle(s) to which it applies. (2) Information. On or before April 1 of each calendar year, beginning with the 1996 calendar year, the Administrator, based on the information provided by all manufacturers under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, provides manufacturers with the passenger car and multipurpose passenger vehicle/truck CSV ranges to appear on the vehicle label and in the owner's manual under paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this section. (e) Label_ (1) Attachment and Maintenance of Label. (i) Each vehicle manufactured on or after September 1, 1996 shall have affixed to it a vehicle rollover stability label as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. Each manufacturer shall affix or cause to be affixed the labels required by this paragraph at the final assembly point. (ii) Each dealer shall maintain or cause to be maintained, any vehicle rollover stability label on the vehicles it receives until the vehicles are sold to consumers for purposes other than resale. If a label becomes damaged so that any of the information on it is not legible, the dealer shall replace it by affixing an identical, undamaged label. (iii) Each vehicle required by paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section to have a vehicle rollover stability label shall have in the vehicle owner's manual the same information required to be on the label under paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(vii) of this section. (2) Location of Label. (i) The label required by paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section shall be affixed on a side window of the vehicle in a manner so that it can be read from outside the vehicle. (ii) The label shall be either a separate label, a part of the price information label required by 15 U.S.C. ยง1232, or a part of the fuel economy label required by 15 U.S.C. ยง2006. If the rollover stability label is separate and the window is not large enough to contain both the price information label and the rollover stability label, it shall be affixed on a side window, as close as possible to the price information label.
