FR940217-1-00039 FR940217-1-00008 (f) The agency has adequate resources and is willing to commit such resources, including technical assistance, to the committee, and (g) The agency will, to the maximum extent possible consistent with the legal obligations of the agency, use the consensus of the committee with respect to the proposed rules as the basis for the rules proposed by the agency for notice and comment. Negotiated Rulemaking Act Sec. 3, 5 U.S.C. 583(a). II. Subject and Scope of Rule for Negotiated Rulemaking The Commission is proposing that the technical regulations to govern the provision of Local Multipoint Distribution Service and fixed satellite use of the 28 GHz band be developed through negotiation. We believe that the selection criteria listed above are met. Technical rules are necessary to establish under what circumstances, if any, sharing between satellite and terrestrial uses is feasible. The parties whose interests are affected are identifiable from comments filed in this proceeding. These interests can be adequately represented on a committee, and we believe that representatives will act in good faith to reach a consensus on technical rules within a set time frame. We believe that the negotiated rulemaking process will better use public and private resources than would our requiring more iterations of written comments will an adequate record is developed. We have adequate resources to commit to this endeavor and would use the consensus report of the committee to develop proposed technical rules. The Commission has identified the following primary issue that should be addressed in the negotiations and resolved in the proposed rules developed by the Committee: What technical rules should be adopted for the Local Multipoint Distribution Service and/or the fixed satellite service so as to maximize the sharing of the spectrum among these services? If the Negotiated Rulemaking Committee is able to accommodate all proposed uses of the band, we ask that it proposes specific rules to effectuate a sharing plan. We ask that it provide an analysis of how benefits of its proposed solution outweigh other options for accommodating these services. Specifically, we ask that it explain: _The proper definition of the product market and geographic market for the services proposed; _The degree of competition anticipated within the relevant market (including the extent to which the proposed services are expected to compete with existing services); _The degree to which new services and technological innovations will be stimulated by the proposed allocation;
