FR940110-1-00050 FR940110-1-00006 (1) The Bank's AHP funding cycle schedule, including application due dates, as required by proposed §960.6(a)(1); (2) The Bank's priorities, and scoring criteria for applications, as required by proposed §§960.8(a) and 960.10; (3) The Bank's procedures to ensure satisfaction of the long-term requirement, as required by proposed §960.5 (a)(1) and (b); (4) The Bank's requirements for and verification procedures concerning (i) the use of subsidized advances or direct subsidies within a reasonable period of time after approval of an AHP application, as required by proposed §960.12(a), or (ii) the use of loans or grants within a reasonable period of time after repayment of such funds to a loan fund or loan consortium, as required by proposed §960.17(c)(5); (5) The Bank's verification procedures upon initial disbursement of subsidized advances or direct subsidies, as required by proposed §960.13; (6) The Bank's monitoring plan, as required by proposed §960.14(b); (7) The Bank's reporting requirements for applicants during the construction or rehabilitation phase, as required by proposed §960.15(b)(2); (8) An explanation of circumstances justifying undue hardship waivers by the Bank of imposition of remedial actions, as required by proposed §960.16 (c)(1) and (d)(1); and (9) The Bank's determination regarding the number of persons that may serve on the Bank's Advisory Council and their terms, as required by proposed §960.21(a)(1) and (4). Section 960.2(c) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank's proposed AHP implementation plan shall be submitted to its Advisory Council at least 45 calendar days before it is considered by the Bank's board of directors. The Advisory Council shall review the proposed plan and submit its recommendations to the Bank's board of directors at least seven calendar days before the Bank's board of directors is scheduled to vote on the proposed plan. The Bank's board of directors shall vote on the proposed AHP implementation plan, and shall submit its approved plan to the Board for action. The Board shall approve or disapprove the proposed plan within 60 calendar days of receipt. The Bank's plan is not effective until it is approved by the Board, and it must become effective at least 45 calendar days before the due date for AHP applications established by the Bank. Each Bank must submit its AHP implementation plan to the Board for approval no later than 180 calendar days after the publication of this rule as a final rule in the Federal Register . Section 960.2(d) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank's approved AHP implementation plan shall be made available by the Bank to the public upon request. Section 960.2(e) of the proposed rule provides that the Board will approve or disapprove proposed amendments to a Bank's approved AHP implementation plan submitted by the Bank within 60 calendar days of receipt. C. Authorized and Required Uses of AHP Subsidized Advances or Direct Subsidies Section 960.3 of the proposed rule states the general authorized uses of AHP subsidized advances and direct subsidies by applicants, §960.4 provides specific examples of such authorized and unauthorized uses and other use requirements, and §960.5 sets forth the long-term income-eligibility, affordability and income-targeting requirements for such uses. These proposed sections are discussed further below. 1. Authorized Uses of Subsidized Advances or Direct Subsidies Section 960.3 of the proposed rule, consistent with §960.3(b) (1) and (2) of the Board's existing AHP regulation, provides that applicants may use subsidized advances or direct subsidies received from a Bank under the AHP to either: (a) Finance the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of owner-occupied housing units by or for low- or moderate-income households; or (b) Finance the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of rental housing units, at least 20 percent of the units of which will be occupied by and affordable for very low-income households. See 12 CFR 960.3(b) (1) and (2). 2. Specific Use Requirements for Subsidized Advances or Direct Subsidies Section 960.3(c) of the Board's existing AHP regulation provides that ``Program funds may only be used for direct costs required to produce and/or finance affordable housing units.'' 12 CFR 960.3(c). A number of questions have arisen as to whether specific types of costs associated with the financing or production of housing may be considered ``direct costs'' for purposes of the Board's regulation. Because of the confusion in this area, the Board believes that it would be helpful to set forth in the rule examples of specific types of costs it considers to be authorized and unauthorized for AHP purposes. Accordingly, §960.4(a) (1) and (2) of the proposed rule sets forth examples of specific costs related to the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing that are authorized and unauthorized uses of AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies. However, because it is impossible to anticipate all types of costs that may arise in the course of financing or producing housing, the list of authorized and unauthorized costs in proposed §960.4(a) is not exclusive. Other costs not included arguably may or may not qualify as costs of financing the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing. If an applicant seeks to use funds under the AHP to pay for costs not specifically included in this rule, it should consult with the Bank before submitting its application for approval. The Board specifically asks for comments as to whether these authorized and unauthorized costs are appropriate.
