FR940222-1-00016 FR940222-1-00004 Therefore, the Agency is proposing to simplify the present regulations by eliminating many of the above referenced limitations and restrictions. This proposed regulation, if enacted in final form, would eliminate the inconsistency which is inherent under the present rules, and it would greatly assist potential small business applicants which seek SBA financial assistance through their real estate holding affiliates. The Agency will no longer refer to the real estate holding entity as an alter ego, but will consider it to be the passive business. It must be reiterated that SBA does not intend under this proposal to finance a passive business or investment property which requires no active involvement by the business owners. A passive business would be an acceptable and eligible applicant under these proposed regulations because it is a holding entity affiliated with an otherwise eligible small business concern. Under this proposal, a passive business applicant would be eligible if the real estate (or personal property) it holds would be used by an eligible small business concern and at least one 20 percent owner of the passive business also owns at least 20 percent of the small business concern. Under this proposal, a trust could qualify as an eligible passive business if the grantor or trustee of the trust owns at least 20 percent of the small business concern, or if a beneficiary of at least 20 percent of the trust assets has at least a 20 percent ownership in the small business concern. This ownership requirement would identify the passive business with the operating business for SBA regulatory purposes. The proposed regulation does not require that there be more than one 20 percent owner of both entities or that the principals control either entity. As long as one person is a 20 percent owner in both entities that would be sufficient to make an entity the eligibility passive business affiliate of the small business concern since that person would be considered to be a principal in both entities. Alternatively, if members of the same family (father, mother, son, daughter, wife, husband, brother or sister) meet the 20 percent ownership requirement in both the passive business and the small business concern they would be considered to be the same principal for SBA purposes. Both the passive business and the small business concern would be required to be obligated on the vote evidencing the assistance, and any person who has a 20 percent ownership interest in both entities would provide a personal guarantee to support the SBA financial assistance. Proprietors, partners, officers, directors and owners of 20 percent or more in either entity would also be subject to the collateral provisions set forth in ยง120.103&hyph;2(c) of the SBA regulations. Under this proposed rule, SBA would eliminate the present requirement in the business loan program that the passive business must only be a proprietorship, partnership or corporation in order to accommodate SBA's policy that a trust can be an eligible passive business if it otherwise comports with the requirements of this regulation. It would eliminate the present convoluted and complicated provisions which detail the listed family members who can hold ownership interests in the passive business and small business concern in varying percentages of ownership. It would also eliminate the present requirement which mandates that non-family owners have complete identity of interests. The purpose of these proposed changes is to simplify the rules and to ensure that SBA financial assistance remains available for a legitimate passive business affiliate of an eligible small business concern when the affiliate holds real estate or personal property leased to the small business concern and utilized for business purposes. SBA has proceeded in its business assistance programs on the assumption that a principal owns at least 20 percent of a business and, under ยง120.103&hyph;2(c) of its regulations, SBA generally requires a proprietor, partner, officer, director, or 20 percent owner to execute a personal guarantee as collateral for the assistance. This requirement would apply to such enumerated persons in either entity. Prudent standards of banking practice will continue to dictate the rules in providing SBA financial assistance to eligible passive businesses. In addition, SBA would evaluate on a case by case basis whether the small business concern must make use of all the real property subject to the lease immediately after execution or whether it could sublease part of the property for an interim period of time. SBA does not want to interpose itself into the details of the arrangements, so long as the Agency is assured, pursuant to the statutory provisions, that the financial assistance will be repaid. Compliance With Executive Orders 12612, 12778 and 12866, the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., and the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. ch. 35
