FR940106-0-00107 FR940106-0-00021 (p) Facility's responsibilities during suspension and after invalidation or expiration of filed attestation. A facility shall comply with the terms of its attestation, even if such attestation is suspended, invalidated, or expired, as long as any H&hyph;1A nurse is at the facility, unless the attestation is superseded by a subsequent attestation accepted for filing by ETA. (q) Facilities subject to penalties. No attestation shall be accepted for filing from a nursing contractor or other facility which has failed to comply with any penalty, sanction, or other remedy assessed in a final agency action following an investigation by the Wage and Hour Division pursuant to subpart E. § XXX .315 State plans. A State may submit an annual plan for the recruitment and retention of U.S. citizens and permanent resident aliens who are authorized to perform nursing services in the State. (a) Who should prepare and file the annual plan? The Governor of each State that chooses to submit an annual State plan shall be responsible for the preparation and filing of the annual plan. The Governor may designate any public and/or private organization(s) to assist the Governor in the development of the annual plan. (b) When and where should the annual plan be filed? If a State determines to file an annual State plan, the Governor shall submit the original plan, signed by the Governor, by U.S. mail or private carrier, to ETA at the following address: Director, U.S. Employment Service, Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., room N&hyph;4456, Washington, DC 20210. An annual State plan may be filed with ETA at any time. However, for an individual facility legitimately to attest to being subject to an annual State plan for the purposes of the fourth attestation element, Alternative II (see § XXX .310(g)(2)), such annual State plan shall have been approved prior to the date the attestation was submitted to ETA for filing and be in current effect. Therefore, if the Governor is aware that a facility within the State plans to submit an attestation for filing with ETA, the annual State plan should be mailed to ETA at least 35 days prior to the facility's submission of its attestation to ETA. (c) What overall issues shall the annual State plan address? The annual State plan shall address the overall issue of supply of and demand for nurses within the State, with particular emphasis on measures to develop a sufficient supply of U.S. nurses to meet projected demand. The State, as opposed to individual facilities, is in a position to_and may be expected to_address broad issues and perform such functions as conducting a Statewide needs assessment; overall management, facilitation and coordination among various interested entities within the State; and undertaking more regionally based approaches. The State is also in a position to devote resources which individual facilities may be lacking. (d) How should the annual State plan address the timely and significant steps? The annual State plan shall address all of the timely and significant steps in § XXX .310(g)(1)(i)(A)( 1 ) through (g)(1)(i)(A)( 5 ) generically, without regard to the specific criteria therein, on a Statewide basis. However, for the annual State plan to satisfy Alternative II of the fourth attestation requirement for an individual facility (see § XXX .310(g)(2)), the annual State plan shall indicate which of those timely and significant steps relate to individual facilities, and that each individual facility shall take such a step (either one step or more, as appropriate) to meet the appropriate specific criteria as set forth in § XXX .310(g)(1). (e) What other components may the annual State plan include? An annual State plan may include the following components: (1) The cooperation of high schools and colleges may be enlisted in counseling health workers and other individuals to enter the nursing profession.
