FR941116-0-00081 FR941116-0-00012 (5) Statement E_potential competition. This statement must describe potential competition in the relevant markets. To the extent available, the statement must include data about the potential competitors, including their costs, and their distance in miles from the carrier's terminals and major consuming markets. (6) Statement F_maps. This statement must consist of maps showing the carrier's principal transportation facilities, the points at which service is rendered under its tariff, the direction of flow of each line, the location of each of its terminals, the location of each of its major consuming markets, and the location of the alternatives to the carrier, including their distance in miles from the carrier's terminals and major consuming markets. The statement must include a general system map and maps by geographic markets. The information required by this statement may be on separate pages. (7) Statement G_market power measures. This statement must set forth the calculation of the market concentration of the relevant markets using the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index. The statement must also set forth the carrier's market share based on receipts in its origin markets and deliveries in its destination markets, if the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index is not based on those factors. The statement must also set forth the calculation of other market power measures relied on by the carrier. The statement must include complete particulars about the carrier's calculations. (8) Statement H_other factors. This statement must describe any other factors that bear on the issue of whether the carrier lacks significant market power in the relevant markets. The description must explain why those other factors are pertinent. (9) Statement I_prepared testimony. This statement must include the proposed testimony in support of the application and will serve as the carrier's case-in-chief, if the Commission sets the application for hearing. The proposed witness must subscribe to the testimony and swear that all statements of fact contained in the proposed testimony are true and correct to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief. §348.2 Procedures. (a) A carrier must file, as provided in §341.1 of this chapter, an original plus fourteen copies of its application, including its statement of position, statements, and related material, and a letter of transmittal and must submit its application on an electronic medium. The formats for the electronic filing and the paper copy can be obtained at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Division of Public Information, 825 North Capitol Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20426. A carrier must submit with its application any request for privileged treatment of documents and information under §388.112 of this chapter and a proposed form of protective agreement. In the event the carrier requests privileged treatment under §388.112 of this chapter, it must file the original and three copies of its application with the information for which privileged treatment is sought and 11 copies of the application without the information for which privileged treatment is sought. (b) A carrier must provide a copy of its letter of transmittal and its proposed form of protective agreement to each shipper and subscriber on or before the day the material is transmitted to the Commission for filing. (c) A letter of transmittal must describe the market-based rate filing, including an identification of each rate that would be market-based, and the pertinent tariffs or supplement numbers, state if a waiver is being requested and specify the statute, section, subsection, regulation, policy or order requested to be waived. Letters of transmittal must be certified pursuant to §341.2(c)(2) of this chapter and acknowledgement must be requested pursuant to §341.2(c)(3) of this chapter. (d) An interested person must make a written request to the carrier for a copy of the carrier's complete application within 20 days after the filing of the application. The request must include an executed copy of the protective agreement. Any objection to the proposed form of protective agreement must be filed under §385.212 of this chapter. (e) A carrier must provide a copy of the complete application to the requesting person within seven days after receipt of the written request and an executed copy of the protective agreement. (f) A carrier must provide copies as required by paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section by first-class mail or by other means of transmission agreed upon in writing. (g) Any intervention or protest to the application must be filed within 60 days after the filing of the application and must be filed pursuant to §§343.2 (a) and (b) of this chapter. A protest must also be telefaxed if required by §343.3(a) of this chapter. (h) A protest filed against an application for a market power determination must set forth in detail the grounds for opposing the carrier's application, including responding to its position and information and, if desired, presenting information pursuant to §348.1(c). (i) After expiration of the date for filing protests, the Commission will issue an order in which it will summarily rule on the application or, if appropriate, establish additional procedures and the scope of the investigation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27620 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
