FR941019-0-00056 FR941019-0-00008 Table of Contents Executive Summary I. Discussion A. Item 22 of Schedule 14A: Reorganization of Disclosure Rules B. General Provisions: Item 22(a) 1. Proxy Statement Format; Summary Table 2. Definitions 3. Comparative Fee Table 4. Voting Results C. Election of Directors D. Management Compensation E. Approval of Investment Advisory Contract 1. General Partners of the Investment Adviser 2. Material Factor Discussion F. Approval of Distribution Plan G. Annual Report Delivery Requirements H. Other Matters I. Date of Effectiveness II. Cost/Benefit of the Proposals III. Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis IV. Statutory Authority V. Text of Rule Amendments Executive Summary The Commission is adopting revisions to the disclosure requirements for fund proxy statements to update the proxy disclosure requirements for funds and to simplify the preparation of fund proxies. The amendments consolidate into a new item 22 in Schedule 14A disclosure requirements previously set forth in rules 20a&hyph;2, 20a&hyph;3, and 20a&hyph;4. The disclosure requirements of these rules, as modified by the amendments, are incorporated in proposed item 22, and these rules are rescinded. Item 22 includes: (i) in paragraph (a), definitions applicable to item 22 and certain general requirements; (ii) in paragraph (b), disclosure requirements applicable to solicitations in connection with the election of directors; (iii) in paragraph (c), disclosure requirements applicable to solicitations in connection with approval of an investment advisory contract or an amendment thereto; and (iv) in paragraph (d), disclosure requirements applicable to solicitations in connection with a distribution plan pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act [17 CFR 270.12b&hyph;1]. Item 22 eliminates certain of the current disclosure requirements concerning matters that are not directly relevant to solicitations to elect directors or to approve an investment advisory contract. Item 22 includes provisions designed to improve the disclosure provided to shareholders, including, among other things, a table showing all compensation paid to directors. This item also specifies information required in fund proxy statements when a fund seeks approval of a distribution plan under rule 12b&hyph;1. The Commission also is adopting other amendments to the general proxy requirements in Regulation 14A and Schedule 14A, Regulation 14C, and related requirements in Regulation S&hyph;K to accommodate item 22 and to make certain requirements more appropriate to disclosure for funds.
