FR940318-0-00196 FR940318-0-00023 •Medical devices listed in 21 CFR 2.125(e); •Lubricants, coatings or cleaning fluids for electrical or electronic equipment, which contain class II substances for solvent purposes, but which contain no other class II substances; •Lubricants, coatings or cleaning fluids used for aircraft maintenance, which contain class II substances for solvent purposes but which contain no other class II substances; •Mold release agents used in the production of plastic and elastomeric materials, which contain class II substances for solvent purposes but which contain no other class II substances, and/or mold release agents that contain HCFC&hyph;22 as a propellant where evidence of good faith efforts to secure alternatives indicates that, other than a class I substance, there are no suitable alternatives; •Spinnerette lubricants/cleaning sprays used in the production of synthetic fibers, which contain class II substances for solvent purposes and/or contain class II substances for propellant purposes; •Document preservation sprays which contain HCFC&hyph;141b as a solvent, but which contain no other class II substance; and/or which contain HCFC&hyph;22 as a propellant, but which contain no other class II substance and which are used solely on thick books, books with coated, dense or paper and tightly bound documents; •Portable fire extinguishing equipment sold to commercial users, owners of marine vessels or boats, and owners of noncommercial aircraft that contains a class II substance as a fire extinguishant where evidence of good faith efforts to secure alternatives indicate that, other than a class I substance, there are no suitable alternatives; and •Wasp and hornet sprays for use near high-tension power lines that contain a class II substance for solvent purposes only, but which contain no other class II substances. EPA did not propose any exceptions for propellant uses of class II substances since sufficient propellant substitutes are available. Uses of HCFCs granted an exemption under section 610 based on the lack of other alternatives will not face further restrictions under the SNAP program and authority under section 612, since the express purpose of the SNAP program is to restrict substitutes only in cases where other alternatives do exist. 2. Substitutes for Aerosols The class I substances that are currently being used in aerosol applications include CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12, CFC&hyph;113, CFC&hyph;114, and methyl chloroform (MCF). Class II substances that are currently being used are HCFC&hyph;22, HCFC&hyph;142b, and HCFC&hyph;141b. The Agency has elected only to discuss alternatives for CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, MCF, HCFC&hyph;22, HCFC&hyph;142b, and HCFC&hyph;141b. The uses for CFC&hyph;12 and CFC&hyph;114 are as propellants in medical applications and will not be discussed here because the substitutes for these applications are currently being developed and will have to undergo FDA review. Possible substitutes in this application include HFC&hyph;134a and HFC&hyph;227ea, which both have low toxicity and zero ozone depletion potential. Regulatory approval for these compounds, however, is contingent on FDA approval, which will likely occur over the next several years. EPA's review of these substitutes will focus exclusively on environmental effects. A variety of chemicals are currently being used or are being considered as substitutes for class I and II controlled substances used in non-inhalation aerosols and pressurized containers. The suitability of alternatives depends upon the product in which they are used. Each of these alternatives has its own physical and chemical characteristics which make it an optimal choice for the product in question, in terms of such factors as solvency properties, propellant characteristics, performance, cost, and environmental considerations. However, the Agency believes that the majority of the substitutes considered to replace the class I and II controlled substances used as propellants or solvents in aerosols and pressurized containers as propellants and solvents are currently available and easily integrated into existing aerosol production facilities. The primary substitutes for the propellant uses of CFC&hyph;11, HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b are as follows: •Saturated hydrocarbons (C3&hyph;C6). •Dimethyl ether. •HFCs. •Compressed gases. •Alternative processes.
