FR940325-0-00042 FR940325-0-00009 (ii) For heavy-duty vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of greater than 26,000 lbs and equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled engines, a written statement to the Administrator certifying that the manufacturer's evaporative emission control systems are designed, using good engineering practice, to meet the standards of §86.091&hyph;10 or §86.091&hyph;11 (as applicable) as determined by the provisions of §86.091&hyph;28. Furthermore, a written statement to the Administrator that all data, analyses, test procedures, evaluations, and other documents, on which the above statement is based, are available to the Administrator upon request. (c) Emission data. (1) Emission data, including in the case of methanol fuel, methanol, formaldehyde and organic material hydrocarbon equivalent on such vehicles tested in accordance with applicable test procedures and in such numbers as specified. These data shall include zero-mile data, if generated and emission data generated for certification as required under §86.090&hyph;26(a)(3)(i) or §86.090&hyph;26(a)(3)(ii). In lieu of providing emission data on idle CO emissions, smoke emissions or particulate emissions from methanol-fueled diesel certification vehicles the Administrator may, on request of the manufacturer, allow the manufacturer to demonstrate (on the basis of previous emission tests, development tests, or other information) that the engine will conform with the applicable emission standards of §86.090&hyph;8 or §86.090&hyph;9. (2) Certification engines. Emission data on such engines tested in accordance with applicable emission test procedures of this subpart and in such numbers as specified. These data shall include zero-hour data, if generated, and emission data generated for certification as required under §86.090&hyph;26(c)(4). In lieu of providing emission data on idle CO emissions or particulate emissions from methanol-fueled diesel certification engines, or on CO emissions from petroleum-fueled or methanol-fueled diesel certification engines the Administrator may, on request of the manufacturer, allow the manufacturer to demonstrate (on the basis of previous emission tests, development tests, or other information) that the engine will conform with the applicable emission standards of §86.091&hyph;11. (d) A statement that the vehicles (or engines) for which certification is requested conform to the requirements in §86.084&hyph;5(b), and that the descriptions of tests performed to ascertain compliance with the general standards in §86.084&hyph;5(b), and the data derived from such tests, are available to the Administrator upon request. (e) (1) A statement that the test vehicles (or test engines) with respect to which data are submitted to demonstrate compliance with the applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) of this subpart are in all material respects as described in the manufacturer's application for certification, have been tested in accordance with the applicable test procedures utilizing the fuels and equipment described in the application for certification and that on the basis of such tests the vehicles (or engines) conform to the requirements of this part. If such statements cannot be made with respect to any vehicle (or engine) tested, the vehicle (or engine) shall be identified, and all pertinent data relating thereto shall be supplied to the Administrator. If, on the basis of the data supplied and any additional data as required by the Administrator, the Administrator determines that the test vehicles (or test engine) was not as described in the application for certification or was not tested in accordance with the applicable test procedures utilizing the fuels and equipment as described in the application for certification, the Administrator may make the determination that the vehicle (or engine) does not meet the applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate). The provisions of §86.091&hyph;30(b) shall then be followed. (2) For evaporative emission durability, or light-duty truck or heavy-duty engine exhaust emission durability, a statement of compliance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section, as applicable. (f) Additionally, manufacturers participating in the particulate averaging program for diesel light-duty vehicles and diesel light-duty trucks shall submit: (1) In the application for certification, a statement that the vehicles for which certification is requested will not, to the best of the manufacturer's belief, when included in the manufacturer's production-weighted average emission level, cause the applicable particulate standard(s) to be exceeded. (2) No longer than 90 days after the end of a given model year of production of engine families included in one of the diesel particulate averaging programs, the number of vehicles produced in each engine family at each certified particulate FEL, along with the resulting production-weighted average particulate emission level. (g) Additionally, manufacturers participating in the NO X averaging program for light-duty trucks shall submit:
