FR940912-2-00143 FR940912-2-00099 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Anchorage, AK AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement (EIS) will be prepared for a proposed highway construction project in Anchorage, Alaska. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Phillip Smith, Field Operations Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, Box 21648, Juneau, Alaska 99802&hyph;1648. Telephone (907) 586&hyph;7428. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Alaska Department of Transportation and Public Facilities (ADOT&PF), will prepare an EIS on a proposal to upgrade and extend Dowling Road, an east-west arterial, from the Raspberry interchange at Minnesota Drive eastward to Lake Otis Parkway. The proposed project would be approximately three miles long. The proposed improvements would include: a four to six lane roadway for the entire length of the project; a crossing of the Alaska Railroad tracks; replacement of a bridge crossing Campbell Creek; modification or replacement of an interchange bridge at the New Seward Highway; facilities for pedestrians, bicyclists, the disabled, and transit users; signalization and illumination; and a drainage system. The proposed project would be constructed in stages. The proposed action is necessary to meet the community's current and future transportation needs. Dowling Road, between the Old Seward Highway and Lake Otis Parkway, is currently over capacity, especially during peak hours. Traffic congestion significantly delays drivers and contributes to deterioration of Anchorage's air quality. Pedestrians are poorly accommodated due to the lack of roadway shoulders and pedestrian facilities. The road improvement would alleviate traffic congestion on other east-west arterials such as Tudor Road, International Airport Road, and Dimond Boulevard. The proposed action is an integral part of the Anchorage Metropolitan Area Transportation Study Long Range Transportation Plan and the Municipality of Anchorage Official Streets and Highway Plan. Alternatives which would be considered include: (1) No action; (2) Upgrading and extending Dowling Road to connect to the Raspberry interchange at Minnesota Drive via a Rovenna Street alignment; (3) Upgrading and extending Dowling Road to connect to the Raspberry interchange at Minnesota Drive via a `C' Street/Raspberry Road alignment; (4) Traffic system management strategies that include alternatives such as improved signal timing, upgrading mass transit, and travel demand reduction strategies. The FHWA and ADOT&PF have contracted with a private consultant to prepare the EIS, develop various design alternatives, and conduct the preliminary engineering studies. The consultant will be responsible for all scoping activities including the notification of appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, private organizations, and citizens who might be potentially interested in this proposal. A series of meetings and other activities to discuss the project and solicit input from agencies and the public will be conducted in the fall of 1994 and continue into 1995. FHWA and ADOT&PF will make requests for formal cooperating agency status prior to other scoping activities. In addition, public hearings will be held after completion of the draft EIS. Public notice will be given of the time and places of the hearings at a later date. The Draft EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to the public hearing. To ensure that a full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues are identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on: September 1, 1994. Robert E. Ruby, Division Administrator, Juneau, Alaska. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22391 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
