FR941107-2-00027 FR941107-2-00007 The Department's official import statistics show that the volume of Russian alloy magnesium entries during the post-petition period of April through June 1994 (79.0 metric tons) exceeds that of the January through March 1994 pre-petition period (31.1 metric tons) by 154 percent. Nothing on the record indicates that this increase observed was the result of seasonal trends. With respect to share of domestic consumption, the information available to us at this time does not allow us to evaluate whether the increase can be accounted for by a change in domestic consumption Therefore, we find that imports were massive over a relatively short period. Accordingly, we preliminarily determine that critical circumstances exist with respect to imports of alloy magnesium from the Russian Federation except with respect to imports of alloy magnesium sold by Gerald Metals and SMW. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of pure magnesium from the Russian Federation (except those that represent sales by AIOC, Gerald Metals, Hunter Douglas, Interlink, or MG Metals) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . We are also directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of alloy magnesium from the Russian Federation (except those that represent sales by Gerald Metals or SMW) entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after either (a) the date that is 90 days prior to the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or (b) the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register , as appropriate. The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated amount by which the FMV exceeds the USP as shown below. These suspension of liquidation instructions will remain in effect until further notice. Consistent with our practice in investigations involving imports from NME countries, we have, in each of the two proceedings, calculated a single rate applicable to all exporters in the Russian Federation. The record in these investigations indicates that all Russian exporters of magnesium responded to our questionnaire. Although SMW requested a separate rate, we have not addressed the request because, in each proceeding, the rate for SMW and all other exporters in Russia is the same irrespective of whether or not SMW warrants a separate rate. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows:
