FR941006-2-00113 FR941006-2-00083 As with the CVRs discussed above, ELNs are not leveraged instruments, however, their price will still be derived and based upon the underlying linked security. Accordingly, the level of risk involved in the purchase or sale of an ELNs is similar to the risk involved in the purchase or sale of traditional common stock. Nonetheless, in considering the proposals by the Amex and the NYSE to list and trade equity-linked notes, the Commission had several specific concerns with this type of product because the final rate of return of an ELN is derivatively priced, based on the performance of the underlying security. These concerns included: (1) Investor protection concerns; (2) dependence on the credit of the issuer of the instrument; (3) systemic concerns regarding position exposure of issuers with partially hedged positions or dynamically hedged positions; and (4) the impact on the market for the underlying linked security. 39 The Commission concluded, however, that the proposals adequately addressed each of these issues such that the Commission's regulatory concerns were adequately minimized. 40 Similarly, in this proposal, the CBOE has proposed safeguards, as described above, which the Commission finds to be equivalent to those approved for the trading of ELNs by the Amex and the NYSE. In particular, by imposing the listing standards, suitability, disclosure, and compliance requirements noted above, the CBOE has adequately addressed the potential public customer concerns that could arise from the hybrid nature of ELNs. 39 Id . 40 Id . Except in two respects, the Commission finds that Amendment No. 1 confirms the proposal to rule changes already approved by the Commission for the listing and trading of ELNs by the Amex and the NYSE. 41 The two new items included in this proposal are: (1) An additional market capitalization and trading volume requirement that allows the listing of ELNs linked to an underlying security with a minimum market capitalization of $500 million and a trading volume in the year prior to listing of at least 80 million shares; and (2) allowing flexibility for the CBOE, with the concurrence of the staff of the Commission, to determine on a case-by-case basis to list ELNs that either do not satisfy the market capitalization and trading volume requirements discussed above, and/or that exceed the percentage limits regarding the outstanding shares of the linked security. The Commission believes that neither of these proposals raises any significant regulatory issues that were not addressed in the Equity-Linked Note Approval Orders. 42 The Commission finds that the proposal to add the third tier of eligible linked securities will expand the number of securities that can be linked to these equity-linked products while maintaining the requirement that the linked security be an actively traded common stock issued by a highly capitalized issuer. While the proposal introduces a third alternative for ELN eligibility that reduces the minimum market capitalization requirement of the linked security, the stock of such an issuer could only be linked to an issue of ELNs if its trading volume for the prior one-year period is at least 80 million shares, which is four times higher than the current minimum trading volume for these products as currently allowed on the Amex and the NYSE. Moreover, in recently approving proposals by the NYSE and the Amex to list and trade ELNs linked to securities (including sponsored ADRs) issued by non-U.S. companies subject to reporting requirements under the Act, the NYSE and the Amex represented to the Commission that no problems had been reported to either exchange regarding the listing and trading of these products. 43 The Commission believes that together, the new capitalization and trading volume requirements will continue to ensure that ELNs are only issued on highly liquid securities of broadly capitalized companies and that these requirements will reduce the likelihood of any adverse market impact on the securities underlying ELNs. 41 Id . 42 Id . 43 See Exchange Act Release Nos. 34545 and 34549, supra note 10. Additionally, allowing the CBOE, with the concurrence of the staff of the Commission, to approve, on a case-by-case basis, an issue of ELNs that does not satisfy one of the existing requirements regarding market capitalization and trading volume, 44 or that exceeds the maximum allowable percentage of shares of the underlying security, 45 merely adds flexibility to the proposed rule change. The Commission believes that this portion of the proposal does not raise any regulatory concerns, particularly given the requirement of obtaining the concurrence of the staff of the Commission prior to listing. 46 44 See supra note 16. 45 See supra note 18. 46 If the CBOE proposed an ELN that raised unique or significant regulatory concerns, the staff of the Commission would require the CBOE to submit a rule filing to the Commission pursuant to section 19(b) of the Act.
