FR941012-0-00070 FR941012-0-00011 Several commenters recommended that OSHA require CPR training as part of required first-aid training (Ex. 5&hyph;42, 5&hyph;49, 5&hyph;50, 9&hyph;2, 9&hyph;19). Both NIOSH and the U.S. Dept. of Interior supported the CPR training requirement. Because loggers, especially those deep in the woods are not close to medical facilities during the ``golden hour'' where resuscitation may save a person's life, OSHA agrees with the commenters that it is essential that all loggers be able to perform CPR. Therefore, in the final rule OSHA has included a requirement for annual CPR training. In addition, OSHA has specified other basic skills and knowledge in Appendix B (mandatory) that are important for providing aid to injured loggers in isolated settings. OSHA is aware that there are many well-recognized first-aid programs that have broad-based curricula which already satisfy OSHA requirements. 5. Visual and audible contact. In the hearing notice OSHA requested comment on the maximum time and/or distance separation between employees. In the proposed rule, OSHA included a requirement that employees work within visual or audible contact of another employee, so that someone would be able to respond quickly in case of an accident or other emergency. The proposed rule prohibited the use of engine noise, such as from chain saws, as a means of contact. Various State logging standards also prohibit the use of chain-saw noise as a means of signaling (Ex. 2&hyph;17, 2&hyph;18, 2&hyph;19, 2&hyph;21, 2&hyph;22, 38J, 38K). OSHA received many comments on the contact and signaling provisions. Many commenters testified that the proposed contact requirement is necessary (Ex. 5&hyph;14, 5&hyph;17, 5&hyph;27, 5&hyph;74 through 5&hyph;92, 9&hyph;2, 9&hyph;3, 9&hyph;5, 9&hyph;13; Tr. W2 197&hyph;98). One commenter said: We think that visual or audible contact is important and will save lives. There are also electronic devices, some sophisticated and some like citizen band radios, that can be used by forest workers to maintain audible contact by electronic means. We recommend that the existing proposed language be retained but modified perhaps to allow audible contact by electronic means (Tr. W2 197&hyph;98). Certain commenters urged OSHA to make the contact requirement stricter than that proposed. One commenter said employees in solitary jobs also need to remain in contact and, therefore, should be provided with two-way radios (Ex. 9&hyph;15). Another commenter said OSHA should require employees to remain within visual contact of another crew members (Ex. 9&hyph;20). Finally, two commenters recommended that OSHA require employees to work within normal hearing or calling distance of another employee (Ex. 9&hyph;19; Tr. OR 679&hyph;81). However, several commenters expressed various concerns about the contact provision, and particularly the prohibition against chain-saw noise as a means of contact. First, some participants said the requirements would have an adverse impact on small employers, especially employers with work crews consisting of three or fewer loggers (Ex. 5&hyph;21, 5&hyph;28, 5&hyph;35, 5&hyph;49, 5&hyph;53, 5&hyph;54, 5&hyph;70). For example, one commenter said: This requirement may adversely affect the livelihood of many small-scale loggers in the South who may work alone in the woods, or operate a single mobile ground skidder or felling machine and are frequently out of contact with other phases of the logging operation (Ex. 5&hyph;28). Another commenter stated: This requirement would not be practical for several reasons: (1) there are a number of logging contractors that work alone, (2) log crews with two or three members are often out of contact because the great distance between the faller and log header, (3) even at close range, visual and audible signals are attenuated by thick brush and loud machinery. My experience has been loggers will keep track of their fellow workers the best they can but, due to the nature of the job, individuals will be separated for certain lengths of time. To require loggers to be within signaling distance of one another will preclude the existence of one and two man log crews, working in thick brush, working in hilly topography, skidding long distances, the use of ear plugs or working with loud machines (Ex. 5&hyph;70). Second, some commenters believed the contact requirement conflicted with the proposed requirement to maintain a distance of two tree lengths between work areas (Ex. 5&hyph;12, 5&hyph;29, 5&hyph;4, 5&hyph;67, 5&hyph;70). These commenters said that a separation of two tree lengths between work areas might make it impossible to maintain contact due to saw noise and obstructions such as hills or vegetation. One commenter explained:
