FR940721-2-00020 FR940721-2-00015 The Navy has identified the solution to the problem of plastic discharges from surface ships and is working hard on a solution for submarines. Strict compliance with all requirements for discharges of nonplastic solid waste in special areas, however, presents a larger problem because of the nature of the waste stream and the military mission of warships. Regulation 5 of Annex V pertains to discharges in special areas and prohibits discharges of solid wastes, other than food wastes. Although the Navy has made important strides in studying the shipboard waste stream, in developing management strategies, and in developing equipment that can mitigate the effects of solid waste discharges, the Navy has not identified a final solution that would eliminate all non-food discharges in special areas. Recognizing the difficulty in achieving strict compliance with all requirements of Annex V, in section 1003(b) of the DAA&hyph;94, Congress required the Navy to prepare a plan for compliance with the requirements of Regulation 5 under Annex V. The special area compliance plan must be submitted to Congress by November 30, 1996. If the special area compliance plan demonstrates that full compliance with all the requirements of Regulation 5 of Annex V is not technologically feasible in the case of certain ships under certain conditions, it must include the following information: a. The ships for which full compliance is not technologically feasible; b. the technical and operational impediments to achieving such compliance as rapidly as is technologically feasible; and c. such other information as the Secretary of the Navy considers relevant and appropriate. In accordance with DAA&hyph;94 and to ensure the broad public understanding of the problem, the Navy will consult with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency as it prepares the special area compliance plan. The Navy will also provide the opportunity for public participation in preparation of the special area compliance plan, including public review and comment. This notice is provided to inform the public that preparation of the special area compliance plan is beginning and to solicit public comments on the scope of the studies to be planned and the alternatives to be studied. Navy Mission and Resource Constraints
