FR940721-2-00111 FR940721-2-00065 2. An Adequate Agreement State Program An effectively implemented regulatory program containing elements considered necessary by the Commission to provide an acceptable level of protection for the public health and safety from the radiation hazards associated with the use of byproduct, source, and special nuclear materials. 3. Compatible The consistency between NRC and Agreement State regulatory programs which is needed for the regulation of byproduct, source and special nuclear material which assures an orderly and effective regulatory pattern in the administration of the national radiation protection program. Compatibility shall be aimed at ensuring that interstate commerce is not impeded, that effective communication in the radiation protection field is maintained, that dose limits and radiation-protection related release limits applicable to all licensees are maintained, and that information needed for the study of trends in radiation protection and other national program needs is obtained. 4. A Compatible Agreement State Program A regulatory program containing elements considered necessary by the Commission to effectively implement the term ``compatible'' as defined above. 5. Element ``Element'' or ``program element'' is used to describe any of the essential components and functions of a radiation protection regulatory program. The term includes any aspect of a radiation protection regulatory program that is necessary to implement a program that is adequate to protect public health and safety and is compatible with the NRC regulatory program. The term ``element'' may include organizational structure, staffing level, inspection frequency, regulations, policies and procedures or any other component or function that the Commission considers necessary. 6. Practice The term ``practice'' describes a use, procedure or activity associated with the application, possession, storage or disposal of byproduct, source and special nuclear materials. The term ``practice'' is very broad and encompassing in nature. For example, the term ``practice,'' as applied in the policy statement, not only applies to very general activities involving radioactive materials such as industrial radiography, low-level waste disposal, nuclear medicine procedures, and well logging, but also includes specific activities conducted within these very broad activities, such as shallow land burial, sanitary sewerage disposal, and incineration of materials. 7. Radiation Protection Standards As used in this Policy Statement, the term ``radiation protection standards'' means dose limits and radiation-protection related release limits in 10 CFR Part 20 and 10 CFR Part 61 applicable to all licensees, or any subsequent amendments thereto. B. Elements of an Adequate Program 1. Protection The Agreement State program shall be designed and administered to protect the public health and safety of its citizens against radiation hazards. 2. Regulations Except for dose limits and radiation-protection related release limits in 10 CFR Part 20 and 10 CFR Part 61 applicable to all licensees, or any subsequent amendments thereto, or other regulations which are required to be essentially identical for compatibility purposes, an Agreement State program shall adopt regulations or other legally binding measures, equivalent to, or more stringent than, those designated by the NRC.
