FR940721-2-00059 FR940721-2-00035 (25) To the Internal Revenue Service for the application of tax penalties against employers and employee organizations that contribute to Employer Group Health Plans or Large Group Health Plans that are not in compliance with 42 U.S.C. 1395y(b). (26) To servicing Fiscal Intermediary/Carrier banks, Automated Clearing Houses, VANs and provider banks to the extent necessary to transfer to providers electronic remittance advice of Medicare payments, and with respect to provider banks, to the extent necessary to provide account management services to providers using this information. See ``Supplementary Information.'' policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: storage: Records maintained on paper and electronic media. retrievability: System is indexed by health insurance claim number. The record is prepared by the physician, supplier or other provider with identifying information received from the beneficiary to establish eligibility for Medicare and document and support payments to physicians, suppliers or other providers by the carrier. The claim data are forwarded to the Health Care Financing Administration, Bureau of Data Management and Strategy, Baltimore, MD, where they are used to update the Central Office Records. safeguards: Unauthorized personnel are denied access to the records area. Disclosure is limited. Physical safeguards related to the transmission and reception of data between Rockville and Baltimore are those requirements established in accordance with HHS standards and National Institute of Standards and Technology guidelines (e.g., security codes will be used, limiting access to authorized personnel). System securities are established in accordance with HHS Information Resource Management (IRM) Circular # 10, Automated Information Systems Security Program, and HCFA's Automated Information Systems (AIS) Guide, Systems Security Policies. retention and disposal: Records are closed at the end of the calendar year in which paid, held 2 additional years, transferred to Federal Records Center and destroyed after another 2 years. system manager(s) and address: Health Care Financing Administration, Director, Bureau of Program Operations, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21207. notification procedure: Inquiries and requests for system records should be addressed to the most convenient social security office, the appropriate carrier, the HCFA Regional Office, or to the system manager named above. The individual should furnish his or her health insurance claim number and the name as shown on social security records. An individual who requests notification of or access to a medical record shall, at the time the request is made, designate in writing a responsible representative who will be willing to review the record and inform the subject individual of its contents at the representative's discretion. record access procedures: Same as notification procedures. Requesters should also reasonably specify the records contents being sought. These procedures are in accordance with Department Regulations, 45 CFR 5b.5(a)(2).
