FR941110-2-00173 FR941110-2-00115 Continue Current Storage and Management Practices (NO ACTION) This alternative would continue present storage and management practices for depleted UF 6 at the Paducah, Portsmouth, and Oak Ridge locations for at least twenty to thirty years, until shutdown and decommissioning of the facilities. At this time, the depleted UF 6 at the Department of Energy's Paducah, Portsmouth, and Oak Ridge facilities is stored in steel cylinders the specifications for which are typically: a capacity of 14 tons, a diameter of 48 inches, a length of 12 feet, and wall thickness of 5/16 inch. There are approximately 47,000 such cylinders in storage at the three sites (29,000 at Paducah, 13,000 at Portsmouth, and 5,000 at Oak Ridge). Current management practices consist of: (1) use of special equipment to transport cylinders within the storage yards; (2) regular visual inspection of all cylinders to verify cylinder integrity; (3) replacement/refurbishment of deteriorating cylinders, as necessary; (4) construction/reconstruction of cylinder storage yards, as necessary; (5) operating procedures for control of radioactive and hazardous material exposure to workers and for response to any unanticipated releases of depleted UF 6 ; (6) restacking of cylinders when needed to facilitate inspections, and replacing wood ``saddles'' (storage chocks) with concrete saddles; (7) technical assessments of cylinder performance and development of improved inspection methods; and (8) research on coatings to apply to cylinder surfaces to control corrosion. Modifications to Depleted UF 6 Storage Facilities and Procedures This alternative would include significant changes in the Department of Energy's facilities and management procedures for depleted UF 6 in storage. Such changes could consist of one or more of the following: (1) redesign of the storage yards to add diking and runoff collection; (2) construction of storage buildings in lieu of outdoor storage; (3) provision of double-walled containers for the cylinders; and (4) increased inspection frequency. Use of Depleted UF 6 This alternative would consist of a number of sub-alternatives for depleted UF 6 use by means of conversion through chemical processes that separate the uranium from the fluorine. Likely end products could be uranium oxide, calcium fluoride, depleted uranium metal, depleted uranium concrete, hydrogen fluoride or hydrofluoric acid, the latter having commercial value in industrial processing. Locations for such conversions could include one or more of the following: (1) Department of Energy facilities where depleted UF 6 is stored; (2) One or more commercial nuclear fuel fabrication plants or industrial facilities in the United States; or (3) Commercial nuclear facilities outside of the United States. The analysis of this alternative would include the results of feasibility studies of each subalternative, as well as a discussion of the relative impacts of each subalternative. Use of the converted depleted UF 6 would be evaluated as subalternatives including: (1) use as radiation shielding in the management of nuclear materials including waste and spent nuclear fuel, and (2) use in armament manufacture. Disposal of Depleted UF 6 This alternative would consist of the analysis of potential impacts from the disposal of depleted UF 6 either in its present form, or in other forms, at appropriate waste disposal facilities. Identification of Environmental Issues. The impact analysis would consider, for each alternative, the health and safety risks to workers and to the public of material transportation, storage, and use, as well as any potential impacts to environmental resources. As to the site-specific impacts of technologies, the analyses would be generic rather than site-specific for any technology alternative; selection of a site is not part of the proposed Department of Energy action and will be preceded by appropriate NEPA documentation. The environmental impact statement would provide estimates of the maximum impacts expected. Related and Other Department of Energy NEPA Documentation. Should the depleted UF 6 strategy selection result in site-specific actions, additional NEPA documents would be prepared to consider the specific impacts on the site and vicinity from any proposed action. Such analyses would address site-specific issues such as historic resources, threatened and endangered species, critical environmental resources, floodplain, and land use. The Draft and Final Environmental Impact Statements on the Alternative Strategies for the Long-Term Management of Depleted Uranium Hexafluoride Resources at Several Geographic Locations, and related documents, will be available for inspection, when completed, at the Department of Energy's Freedom of Information Reading Rooms. The location of these Reading Rooms will be announced in the Notice of Intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. Issued in Washington, D.C., this 21st day of October, 1994. Peter N. Brush, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, Environment, Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27780; Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
