FR940505-1-00366 FR940505-1-00012 Filler means a preparation used to fill in cracks, grains, etc., of wood before applying a coating. Flow coat means to coat an object by flowing a stream of coating over an object and draining off any excess coating. Grams of VOC per liter of material means the weight of VOC per volume of material and can be calculated by the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05my94.096 Where: Ws=weight of volatile compounds in grams Ww=weight of water in grams Wes=weight of exempt compounds in grams Vm= volume of material in liters High-solids stains means stains containing more than 1 pound of solids per gallon, by weight, and can include wiping stains, glazes, and opaque stains. High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray means to spray a coating by means of a gun that operates between 0.1 and 10.0 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) air pressure. Ink means a fluid that contains dyes and/or colorants and is used to make markings, but not to protect surfaces. Low-solids stains means stains containing 1 pound of solids per gallon, or less, by weight. Mold-seal coating means the initial coating applied to a new mold or repaired mold to provide a smooth surface which, when coated with a mold release coating, prevents products from sticking to the mold. Multi-colored coating means a coating which exhibits more than one color when applied, and which is packaged in a single container and applied in a single coat. Pigmented coatings means opaque coatings which contain binders and colored pigments which are formulated to hide the wood surface, either as an undercoat or topcoat. Rate per calendar year means the amount applied between 12 a.m. January 1 and 11:59 p.m. December 31. Rate per day means the amount applied between 12 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. on the same calendar day. Repair coating means a coating used to recoat portions of a product which has sustained mechanical damage to the coating following normal painting operations. Roll coater means a series of mechanical rollers that forms a thin coating film on the surface of the roller, which is applied to a substrate by moving the substrate underneath the roller. Sealer means a coating, containing binders, which seals the wood prior to application of the subsequent coatings. Simulated wood materials means materials, such as plastic, glass, metal, etc., that are made to give a wood-like appearance or are processed like a wood product. Stencil coating means an ink or a pigmented coating which is rolled or brushed onto a template or stamp in order to add identifying letters and/or numbers to wood products. Stripper means a liquid used to remove cured coatings, cured inks, and/or cured adhesives. Toner means a wash coat which contains binders and dyes or pigments to add tint to a coated surface. Touch-up coating means a coating used to cover minor coating imperfections appearing after the main coating operation. Wash coat means a coating that contains no more than 1.0 pound of solids per gallon, by weight, which is used to seal wood surfaces, prevent undesired staining, and control penetration. Wood product coating application operations means a combination of coating application steps which may include use of spray guns, flash-off areas, spray booths, ovens, conveyors, and/or other equipment operated for the purpose of applying coating materials. Wood products means those surface-coated room furnishings which include cabinets (kitchen, bath, and vanity), tables, chairs, beds, sofas, shutters, art objects, and any other coated objects made of solid wood, and/or wood composition, and/or made of simulated wood material used in combination with solid wood or wood composition. (3) Standards. (i) VOC Content of Coatings and Strippers. (A) A person or facility shall not apply any coating to a wood product which has a VOC content, including any VOC-containing material added to the original coating supplied by the manufacturer, which exceeds the applicable limit specified below:
