FR940513-2-00248 FR940513-2-00096 (b) Financial management, including budgetary and accounting principles and techniques, in accordance with Federal guidelines, including OMB Circulars A&hyph;110 and A&hyph;122, which contain Federal administrative requirements for grants, and OMB Circular A&hyph;133, relating to audit requirements for nonprofit organizations; (c) Capacity building to develop the necessary skills to assume management responsibilities at the project; and (d) Based on the goals of the RC/RMC/RO, property management and/or any TOP activity training that is required. (2) Each grantee must ensure that this training is provided by a qualified housing management specialist (Consultant/Trainer), community development specialist, the HA, or other local/tribal agencies knowledgeable about the program. B. OMB Procurement Requirements (1) The resident grantees must follow Circular A&hyph;110, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants, and other agreements with recipients of Federal funds. OMB Circular A&hyph;110 prescribes standards and policies essential to the proper execution of procurement transactions, including standards of conduct for resident grantees' employees, officers, or agents engaged in procurement actions to avoid any conflict of interest. (2) A resident grantee may use two methods in obtaining consultant services: (a) A ``full service'' approach may be used where the applicant solicits competitive proposals for assisting in the preparation of the application, with inclusion of the consultant work if the applicant is selected to receive a grant. The evaluation criteria in the solicitation must address the qualifications and experience of prospective consultants for all tasks (the contract may stipulate that in the event that the application is not approved, the consultant is not entitled to any payment); and (b) Separation of Application Preparation from Consultant Work After Grant Award. This approach allows an applicant to solicit competitive proposals and contract with a Consultant-Trainer/Housing Management Specialist for the development of an application for technical assistance funding. If the applicant is selected for funding, the Consultant-Trainer/Housing Management Specialist must compete along with other prospective Consultant-Trainer/Housing Management Specialists through an open and free procurement process for a training and technical assistance contract. This will eliminate any competitive advantage attained by the Consultant-Trainer/Housing Management Specialist who was awarded a contract for the development of the application/Work Plan and Budget. IV. Corrections to Deficient Applications HUD will notify an applicant in writing of any technical deficiencies in the application. Any deficiency capable of cure will involve only items not necessary for HUD to assess the merits of an application against the Rating Factors specified in this NOFA. For example, signatures needed on certain forms, certifications, workplan, budget, and other required forms may be considered curable deficiencies. The applicant must submit corrections within 14 calendar days from the date of HUD's letter notifying the applicant of any technical deficiency. After the application due date, applicants will not have an opportunity to submit independently information omitted from the Application Kit that directly relates to the evaluation factors contained in the subheading ``Rating Factors'' of this NOFA so as to enhance the merits of the application. HUD encourages all applicants to submit all documents with their application before the due date, so that applicants will not be affected by the technical deficiency period. V. Other Matters A. Freedom of Information Act Applications submitted in response to this NOFA are subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). To assist the Department in determining whether to release information contained in an application in the event a FOIA request is received, an applicant may, through clear earmarking or otherwise, indicate those portions of its application that it believes should not be disclosed. The applicant's views will be used solely to aid the Department in preparing its response to a FOIA request; however, the Department is required by the FOIA to make an independent evaluation of the information. HUD suggests that an applicant provide a basis, when possible, for its belief that confidential treatment is appropriate; general assertions or blanket requests for confidentiality, without more information, are of limited value to the Department in making determinations concerning the release of information under FOIA. The Department is required to segregate disclosable information from non-disclosable items, so an applicant should be careful to identify each portion of the application for which confidential treatment is requested. The Department emphasizes that the presence or absence of comments or earmarking regarding confidential information will have no bearing on the evaluation of applications submitted in response to this solicitation. B. Environmental Impact In accordance with 40 CFR 1508.4 of the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality and 24 CFR 50.20(b) of the HUD regulations, the policies and procedures contained in this rule relate only to technical assistance and, therefore, are categorically excluded from the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act.
