FR940128-1-00073 FR940128-1-00006 The need for some type of agency guidance on smoked fish is also evidenced by several other factors. First, the 1970 final rule, which covered only hot-process smoked and smoke-flavored fish and the processing parameters that they required, is still being used as a guideline by some States. These earlier parameters could result in commercially undesirable products. These parameters ought to be updated with the current technological understanding and processing flexibility for both hot and cold smoked products. The guidance in this document can provide the basis on which such updating can occur. Second, the manufacture or sale of cold-processed fish products is not permitted in at least two States because there are no regulations or regulatory guidelines for these products (Ref. 170). There is some pressure, however, to permit the sale of these products. The Canadian Government, for example, has urged these States, Minnesota and Michigan, to permit the sale of these products so that Canadian products may be exported to the United States (Ref. 170). Some type of guidance that helps to define the processing parameters and techniques that reduce human health risks from cold-process smoked and smoke-flavored fish products would provide State, as well as federal, public health officials with the tools necessary to evaluate the safety of cold processed products manufactured in the United States, as well as those imported into the United States. Third, in 1988 FDA conducted a survey of processing parameters used by fish smoking plants in the United States. Seventy five percent of the firms surveyed did not do final product testing to ascertain whether their products met commonly recognized (Ref. 182) parameters for their products (Ref. 24). The information collected in this survey augmented information obtained from the New York State Department of Agriculture and Marketing (Ref. 24), which had conducted a similar survey of fish smoking establishments in that State at approximately the same time. A total of 64 establishments were surveyed by FDA and New York State, representing over 90 percent of the smoked fish manufacturers in the United States. Among the species of fish included in the survey were chubs, bluefish, trout, carp, salmon, whitefish, and herring. Processing information was collected from manufacturers, and samples were collected for laboratory analysis.
