FR940324-2-00082 FR940324-2-00044 Recommended Approach: CSAP invites applications that address, at a minimum, the following questions: 1. What combination of strategies is most effective in improving family management practices and/or establishing a healthy family environment for various racial/ethnic/gender populations? Which risk factors and risk factor domains must be addressed? 2. What combination of strategies is most effective in increasing bonding/commitment to school for populations differing with respect to age, gender and race/ethnicity? Which risk factors and risk factor domains must be addressed? 3. Which combination of strategies is most effective (and hence, which risk factors and risk factor domains must be addressed) in decreasing the influence and association of drug-using peer groups on members of the target population and/or to increase the association and influence of non-drug-using peer groups on the target population? For whom are they effective? 4. What combination of strategies is most effective in increasing a negative attitude toward alcohol, tobacco, and other drug use by: (a) The target population; or (b) the peer group; or (c) the family; or (d) the school; or (e) the community? Which risk factors and risk factor domains must be addressed? These questions are in addition to the ATOD-specific questions listed in the Outcome Evaluation section of part IV. All applications are to address the prevention and reduction in use of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products and other drugs. Also applicants are strongly encouraged to develop policies that promote nonuse of tobacco products by staff, clients, and visitors at project sites. Contact for Additional Information: F. Tommie Johnson, Division of Demonstrations for High Risk Youth Populations, Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, Rockwall II, Room 9B&hyph;03, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Md. 20857, (301) 443&hyph;0353. Module B: Female Adolescents Introduction: Through its High Risk Youth initiative, CSAP has sought to develop model projects that demonstrate successful techniques to alter the behaviors and attitudes toward, and prevent and/or reduce the use of alcohol, tobacco and other drugs (ATOD), including inhalants and steroids, among youth at high risk for such behavior. CSAP recognizes that female adolescents are at great risk for ATOD use and other related negative outcomes, and present a unique challenge to individuals and organizations that seek to provide outreach and prevention services to them. Female adolescents (ages 10 to 21) may use ATOD for different reasons than males, have different needs and problems associated with their use of ATOD, and require different intervention strategies to successfully prevent and decrease their ATOD use. While we know that gender differences in ATOD use exist, we know very little about what exactly these differences are. We know that interventions designed for males_such as using confrontational strategies_may not be effective for females. We do not know nearly enough, however, about how to design effective interventions for females.
