FR940513-2-00104 FR940513-2-00042 3. Specific Project Plans (55 Points) The technical and scientific merits of the proposed projects, the potential to achieve the stated objectives and the extent to which the applicant's plans are consistent with the purpose of the program. a. Core activities (10 points) b. Demonstration projects (20 points) c. Collaborative project with State and local health or education department (15 points) d. Prevention Research Training (10 points) 4. Evaluation plan (5 Points) The extent to which the overall Prevention Center theme and objectives will be evaluated in regard to progress, efficacy, and cost benefit. 5. Management and Staffing Plan (15 Points) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates the ability and capacity to carry out the overall theme, objectives, and specific project plans. 6. Institutionalization Plan (5 Points) The Center's plan for institutionalization of the Prevention Center within the parent organization. 7. Budget (Not Scored) The extent to which the budget and justification are consistent with the program objectives and purpose. Prevention Centers are strongly urged to include a plan for obtaining additional resources that lead to institutionalization of the Center. B. Review by senior Federal staff_Further review will be conducted by senior Federal staff. Factors to be considered will be: 1. Results of the peer review. 2. Program needs and relevance to national goals. 3. Budgetary considerations. Funding Priority Based on congressional appropriation language, priority will be given to funding applications that focuses on the public health needs of rural populations. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should send them to Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Atlanta, GA 30305, no later than 60 days after application due date. The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.135. Other Requirements A. Paperwork Reduction Act Projects that involve the collection of information from 10 or more individuals and funded by cooperative agreement will be subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act.
