FR940317-1-00060 FR940317-1-00013 (a) The investigation is performed to ascertain the facts of an incident. Which facts are relevant will often depend on the law and regulations applicable to the conduct of the parties involved, but as general guidance, the investigation should develop definitive answers to such questions as ``When,'' ``Where,'' ``Who,'' ``What,'' and ``How.'' Generally, the time, place, persons, and circumstances involved in an incident may be established by a simple report, but the cause and the resulting damage may require extensive effort to obtain all the pertinent facts. (b) The object of the investigation is to gather, with the least possible delay, the best available evidence without accumulating excessive evidence concerning any particular fact. The claimant is often an excellent source of such information and should be contacted early in the investigation. The investigative file should include medical records, witness interviews, photographs, and expert opinions. ยง536.15 Immediate investigation requirement. (a) Immediate investigation of an incident is required when_ (1) Property other than Government property is damaged, lost, or destroyed. Damage resulting directly or indirectly from combat need only be investigated to the extent necessary to confirm that the combat exclusion of the appropriate statute is applicable. (2) Government property is damaged, lost, or destroyed under circumstances that may give rise to a claim in favor of the Government under subpart N. (3) The incident results in injury to or death of, any civilian other than to a civilian of the Army while in performance of duty, an employee of the United States or its instrumentalities while acting within the scope of their employment. For deaths or injuries resulting directly or indirectly from combat activities of our forces, the investigation merely has to develop sufficient information to verify that the combat exception of the appropriate claims statute is applicable. (4) A claim is made. (5) Investigation is requested by another armed service of the United States. (6) A member of the uniformed services, a dependent, or any other person who is eligible for medical care at Army medical treatment facilities is injured under circumstances that permit recovery of the cost of hospital and medical care under subpart N. (7) An incident occurs in CONUS involving foreign nationals who are members of a foreign military force or civilian components of parties to the Agreement Regarding the Status of Forces of Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty, resulting in personal injury, death, or property damage (subpart G). (8) A patient, other than potential claimants excluded by ยง536.51(j), ยง536.75 (r) through (t) and ยง536.95, while under treatment by the Army Medical Service, dies, is injured, or otherwise disabled physically, mentally, or emotionally due to_
