FR940512-1-00059 FR940512-1-00010 §364.51 What requirements apply to determinations of eligibility or ineligibility? (a) Eligibility. (1) Before or at the same time as an applicant for IL services may begin receiving IL services funded under this part, the service provider shall determine the applicant's eligibility and maintain documentation that the applicant has met the basic requirements specified in §364.40. (2) The documentation must be dated and signed by an appropriate staff member of the service provider. (b) Ineligibility. (1) If a determination is made that an applicant for IL services is not an individual with a significant disability, the service provider shall provide documentation of the ineligibility determination that is dated and signed by an appropriate staff member. (2)(i) The service provider may determine an applicant to be ineligible for IL services only after full consultation with the applicant or, if the applicant chooses, the applicant's parent, guardian, or other legally authorized advocate or representative, or after providing a clear opportunity for this consultation. (ii) The service provider shall notify the applicant in writing of the action taken and inform the applicant or, if the applicant chooses, the applicant's parent, guardian, or other legally authorized advocate or representative, of the applicant's rights and the means by which the applicant may appeal the action taken. (Cross-reference: See §364.58(a).) (iii) The service provider shall provide a detailed explanation of the availability and purposes of the client assistance program established within the State under section 112 of the Act, including information on how to contact the program. (iv) If appropriate, the service provider shall refer the applicant to other agencies and facilities, including the State's VR program under 34 CFR part 361. (c) Review of ineligibility determination. (1) If an applicant for IL services has been found ineligible, the service provider shall review the applicant's current status no later than 12 months after the determination has been made. (2) The review need not be conducted in situations where the applicant has refused the review, the applicant is no longer present in the State, or the applicant's whereabouts are unknown. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796c(e)) §364.52 What are the requirements for an IL plan? (a) General. (1) Unless the individual who is to be provided IL services under this part signs a waiver in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the service provider, in collaboration with the individual with a significant disability, shall develop and periodically review an IL plan for the individual in accordance with the requirements in §364.43(c) and paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. (2) The requirements of this section with respect to an IL plan do not apply if the individual signs a waiver stating that an IL plan is unnecessary. (3) Subject to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the service provider shall provide each IL service in accordance with the IL plan. (b) Initiation and development of an IL plan. (1) Development of an individual's IL plan must be initiated after documentation of eligibility under §364.51(a) and must indicate the goals or objectives established, the services to be provided, and the anticipated duration of the service program and each component service. (2) The IL plan must be developed jointly and signed by the appropriate staff member of the service provider and the individual with a significant disability or, if consistent with State law and the individual chooses, the individual's guardian, parent, or other legally authorized advocate or representative. (3) A copy of the IL plan, and any amendments, must be provided to the individual with a significant disability or, if consistent with State law and the individual chooses, the individual's guardian, parent, or other legally authorized advocate or representative. (c) Review. (1) The IL plan must be reviewed as often as necessary but at least on an annual basis to determine whether services should be continued, modified, or discontinued, or whether the individual should be referred to a program of VR services under 34 CFR part 361 or to any other program of assistance. (2) Each individual with a significant disability or, if consistent with State law and the individual chooses, the individual's guardian, parent, or other legally authorized advocate or representative, must be given an opportunity to review the IL plan and, if necessary, jointly redevelop and agree by signature to its terms. (d) Coordination with vocational rehabilitation, developmental disabilities, and special education programs. The development of the IL plan and the provision of IL services must be coordinated to the maximum extent possible with any individualized_ (1) Written rehabilitation program for VR services for that individual; (2) Habilitation program for the individual prepared under the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act; and (3) Education program for the individual prepared under part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. (e) Termination of services. If the service provider intends to terminate services to an individual receiving IL services under an IL plan, the service provider shall follow the procedures in §364.51(b)(2)(ii) through (iv) and (c). (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796c(e))
