FR940216-0-00116 FR940216-0-00010 In the 1993 proposal, EPA adopted the approach to VOC surveys and oxygen averaging suggested by this commenter. EPA has now reconsidered, and has included in the final rule a requirement for separate oxygen averaging for simple model VOC-controlled gasoline. The final rule retains the ``simple model'' VOC emissions reduction equation for use in gasoline quality surveys during the high ozone season, however. EPA agrees that the ``simple model'' VOC equation is appropriate for use in the VOC compliance surveys. This is because the surveys are designed to help ensure that the area in fact receives the VOC reductions required by the simple model RVP and oxygen per-gallon and averaging standards, where refiners and importers do not need to demonstrate compliance on average beyond the refinery or importer level. If the surveys show compliance on average with the expected VOC reductions, then there would not be a need to ``ratchet'' the RVP or oxygen standards. However, the surveys are an enforcement and compliance tool, and do not replace the simple model standards themselves. Even if the surveys are passed, the separate RVP and oxygen content standards still apply under the simple model and refiners and importers must comply with them. Given the inherent limits on the frequency and number of VOC gasoline quality surveys they can not reasonably be treated as a substitute for the standards themselves. It is reasonable to require that a refiner or importer demonstrate compliance with the simple model oxygen content standards that apply under averaging. Under this view, the purpose of the ``simple model'' VOC equation as used in VOC compliance surveys is to allow a slight variance in oxygen due to averaging, to be offset by a slight variance in RVP due to averaging, and vice versa. The ``simple model'' VOC equation is not intended to encourage refiners to employ a strategy of producing simple model VOC-controlled gasoline well below the oxygen standard, to be offset by gasoline well below the RVP standard. The simple model RVP and oxygen standards will still apply. Under the complex model separate oxygen averaging is not necessary for VOC-controlled gasoline, because there is a specific standard for VOC emissions performance that applies to reformulated gasoline. VOC emissions performance will be used under the complex model gasoline quality surveys. b. Averaging and credits under the separate oxygen categories. Under the final rule, simple model reformulated gasoline designated as meeting the oxygen standard on average must meet the oxygen standard during the calendar year averaging period, and must meet this standard separately for VOC-controlled gasoline, and for non-OPRG gasoline. 57 This preamble section is intended to clarify the mechanism for meeting these overlapping oxygen requirements within a single refinery or oxygenate blending facility, or for a single importer. In addition, this section is intended to clarify the manner in which oxygen credits may be created, transferred, and used. 57 Non-OPRG reformulated gasoline is reformulated gasoline not intended for use in an oxygenated fuels control area during the oxygenated fuels control period. There are four possible categories of reformulated gasoline for purposes of oxygen averaging and credits: 1. VOC-controlled, non-OPRG; 2. Non-VOC-controlled, non-OPRG; 3. Non-VOC-controlled, OPRG; and 4. VOC-controlled, OPRG. 58 58 One industry group commented that there will be no gasoline in the VOC-controlled, OPRG category. EPA disagrees with this conclusion. VOC-controlled gasoline must be present in terminals in covered areas during the period May 1 through September 15. The oxygenated fuels control periods for areas that also are included in the reformulated gasoline program begin on October 1 or later, and last through either January or February, except for the New York City area, which lasts until April 30. Parties will supply OPRG gasoline to terminals in advance of October 1 in order to ``blend up'' terminals to the oxygenated fuels standard by that date. If this OPRG gasoline arrives at terminals before September 15 (which likely will occur), the gasoline also would have to meet the VOC-control standards; the product thus would be in the VOC-controlled, OPRG category. A similar situation will likely occur in the Spring in New York City, where parties will supply VOC-controlled gasoline to terminals in advance of May 1 in order to ``blend up'' terminals to meet the VOC-control standards by that date. This pre-May 1 gasoline thus would also be in the VOC-controlled, OPRG category. The final rule does not require that each of these categories must separately meet the oxygen standard. Only VOC-controlled and non-OPRG gasoline must each separately meet the oxygen standard. As a result, the oxygen averaging standards must be separately met for the following three classes of gasoline: 1. All reformulated gasoline produced or imported, consisting of all four categories; 2. VOC-controlled gasoline, consisting of the VOC-controlled, OPRG; and VOC-controlled, non-OPRG categories; and 3. Non-OPRG gasoline, consisting of the VOC-controlled, non-OPRG; and non-VOC-controlled, non-OPRG categories.
