FR941222-0-00076 FR941222-0-00011 4. The Comments The concerns set forth above are shared by most of the persons and organizations submitting comments. The great bulk of the comments submitted to the Board express strong opposition both to dispensing with briefs and to oral ALJ decisions. 8 Indeed, the proposed rules are characterized in such terms as ``ill-advised'', ``unwarranted'', and as ``sacrific[ing] accuracy, fairness and quality for expedience.'' 9 The sole comment that fully supports the proposed rule completely ignores one of our primary sources of concern (discussed extensively in our earlier statement as well as in our dissent today)_the lack of discovery in Board proceedings. The comment is thus unpersuasive. 10 8 See Comments of Jeffrey C. McGuiness (Labor Policy Association) at 2 (``strongly opposed'' to proposed rule changes); William K. Harvey (Jackson, Shields, Yeiser & Cantrell) at 1 (same); Ellen J. Dannin (California Western School of Law) at 2 (opposing ``all but the most limited use of such a process''); see also Comments cited infra note 8. All told, six of the eight comments expressed adamant opposition to these proposed changes. 9 See, respectively, Comments of Philip J. Moss (Moon, Moss, McGill & Bachelder) at 1; Thomas A. Lenz (Atkinson, Andelson, Loya, Ruud & Romo, Bachelder) at 1; Charlotte Herbert (Associated Builders and Contractors) at 1. 10 See Comment of Laurence Gold & James Coppess (AFL&hyph;CIO). This comment asserts that ``a number of federal administrative agencies expressly authorize oral decisions by ALJs,'' and urges us to join the crowd. See id. at 5. Its citations support this claim as to three agencies or administrative bodies_the Maritime Administration of the Department of Transportation, the National Transportation Safety Board, and the Department of Agriculture. The rules of two of these bodies, however, expressly provide for discovery, see 49 C.F.R. Section 821.19 (1993) (National Transportation Safety Board); 46 C.F.R. Section 201.109 (1993) (Maritime Administration); and those of the third provide for a pre-hearing conference at which the Judge may compel the parties to furnish certain information regarding their case, including documents they intend to introduce, see 7 C.F.R. Section 1.140 (1994) (Department of Agriculture). This comment's analogy to bench decisions issued by the federal district courts is similarly wide of the mark; those proceedings, of course, are conducted in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, which provide for extensive pre-trial discovery. 5. Conclusion Like our colleagues, we are in favor of expediting the Board's processes. The rules being implemented today, however, are unlikely to achieve that end, and in any event would do so at a cost that is much too high to pay. That price includes: a lack of fundamental fairness in Board proceedings, a decline in the quality of the agency's decisional product, and increasing tension in our relationship with the federal courts. In our quest for speed, we must be careful not to undermine the fundamental goals of fairness in our decisional procedure and excellence in our decisional product. Because we believe that the rules approved by our colleagues will do just that, we dissent. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31486 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7545&hyph;01&hyph;M
