FR940216-0-00148 FR940216-0-00010 A few commenters suggested that oxygenate volume be excluded from conventional gasoline volumes. EPA disagrees_Congress specified that certain NO X emissions increases be offset, but did not specify how to deal with baseline volumes, leaving it to EPA's discretion. Additionally, the reason for allowing NO X emissions to be evaluated on a nonoxygenate basis in the first place is so as not to penalize refiners whose emissions increase due to oxygenate use. It is possible that restricting baseline volumes by excluding oxygenate volumes could penalize some refiners. Thus, it would be inappropriate for EPA to restrict the applicability of the individual baseline to the nonoxygenated gasoline volume. f. Work-in-progress. EPA proposed criteria for allowing a work-in-progress (WIP) adjustment on April 16, 1992. In the February 26, 1993 proposal, EPA expanded the proposed criteria in several areas. A WIP adjustment allows the refiner to modify its baseline volumes and fuel parameter values (which affect emissions) to account for the WIP. A more detailed discussion of the rationale and background concerning WIP adjustments may be found in the RIA. Several comments reiterated a concern expressed in the regulatory negotiation discussions that a WIP adjustment should be a limited exception, structured so that few refiners would qualify. EPA agrees that the criteria for a WIP adjustment should be fairly stringent, as the adjustment was intended only for those for whom a significant investment had already been made in order to comply with another government mandate. Additionally, a broad program of adjustments could indicate that EPA exceeded its equitable discretion under Alabama Power, as discussed in the RIA. Nonetheless, most commenters supported allowing WIP adjustments for significant differences between unadjusted and WIP-adjusted values of exhaust benzene emissions, exhaust toxics emissions, NO X emissions, sulfur, olefin or T90, instead of just exhaust benzene emissions as proposed in April 1992. A few commenters suggested reducing the threshold comparison criteria (between WIP-unadjusted and adjusted values) of 5 percent for emissions and 25 percent for sulfur, T90 and olefins. EPA agreed with the substance of these comments and is reducing the thresholds between WIP and non-WIP values. A discussion of the proposed and final threshold criteria is presented in the RIA. EPA's final threshold values under this requirement are that WIP-unadjusted and adjusted emissions values must differ by 2.5 percent, and sulfur, olefins and T90 values by 10 percent. Again, only one of the thresholds has to be met in order to meet this requirement. A few comments were received regarding the requirement that the WIP be associated with other regulatory requirements, specifically, the type of the regulatory requirement that would be acceptable to EPA. EPA is clarifying this, and WIP based on a legislative or regulatory environmental requirement enacted or promulgated prior to 1/1/91 will be deemed as meeting the ``associated with other regulatory requirement'' criterion.
