FR941107-2-00182 FR941107-2-00097 Moreover, some governments are taking steps to enhance their airlines' position both by restricting the development of new, competitive services and by trying to overcome, through government fiat, their carriers' cost disadvantages that make it difficult for them to compete against U.S. airlines in a free market. These efforts underlie many of the disputes we face in international negotiations today. Such countries are responding to the highly competitive integrated and global air transportation market, in which their airlines may not be fully prepared to compete. Most foreign airlines are only beginning to adapt to the more competitive operating environment through such mechanisms as streamlining costs and realigning their operations to achieve greater productivity and operating economies. For state-owned airlines, privatization is an important initial step as it will lead those airlines to develop cost-efficient operations and, in the longer term, to expand their markets. These governments also may be reacting to the U.S. airlines' recent operating successes in the international aviation market, which are largely attributable to the U.S. airlines' productivity and competitive gains. Some national governments continue to give their national airlines financial aid. Some also distort the marketplace by permitting their national airlines to maintain ground-handling and other monopolies, by denying airlines access to necessary airport facilities, or by allowing user fees that equalize cost differentials between carriers. These actions distort competition and deprive the aviation system and consumers of the benefits that greater cost efficiency and lower prices would encourage. In the long run, these efforts will work against the overall best interest of the world economy. Moreover, they will be unsuccessful in providing long-term protection against the developing global aviation systems because no individual government can control all facets of its airlines' marketplace. U.S. Objectives We have outlined above our expectations about the future of the world air transportation industry and the role of U.S. airlines. We expect that international operations will depend more on traffic flows from multiple countries. In light of our goals, recent developments in the market and industry, and the positions and actions of our trading partners, we have designed our international aviation strategy to meet the following objectives: •Increase the variety of price and service options available to consumers. •Enhance the access of U.S. cities to the international air transportation system. •Provide carriers with unrestricted opportunities to develop types of service and systems based on their assessment of marketplace demand: _These opportunities should include unrestricted rights for airlines to operate between international gateways by way of any point and beyond to any point, at the discretion of airline management. Carriers should be able to pursue both direct service using their own equipment and indirect service through commercial relationships with other carriers; _Service opportunities should not be restricted in any manner, such as restrictions on frequencies, capacity or equipment, so that carriers may provide levels of service commensurate to market demand; _Carriers' ability to set prices should also be unrestricted to create maximum incentives for cost efficiencies and to provide consumers with the benefits of price competition and lower fares; _These opportunities should apply not only to scheduled services, but also to cargo and charter opportunities, because of their growing importance to the world's economy. •Ensure that competition is fair and the playing field is level by eliminating marketplace distortions, such as government subsidies, restrictions on carriers' ability to conduct their own operations and ground-handling, and unequal access to infrastructure, facilities, or marketing channels. •Encourage the development of the most cost-effective and productive air transportation industry that will be best equipped to compete in the global aviation marketplace at all levels and with all types of service: _Infrastructure needs should be addressed and unnecessary regulatory barriers eliminated. _Privately held airlines have better incentives to reduce costs and respond to public demand. Therefore, as we have in the past, we will be supportive of governments wishing to privatize their airlines so that their privatization efforts will be successful; and _Reduce barriers to the creation of global aviation systems such as limitations on cross-border investments wherever possible.
