FR940216-0-00171 FR940216-0-00010 XIV. Compliance With the Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) of 1980 requires federal agencies to examine the effects of the reformulated gasoline regulation and to identify significant adverse impacts of federal regulations on a substantial number of small entities. Because the RFA does not provide concrete definitions of ``small entity,'' ``significant impact,'' or ``substantial number,'' EPA has established guidelines setting the standards to be used in evaluating impacts on small businesses 95 . For purposes of the reformulated gasoline regulations, a small entity is any business which is independently owned and operated and not dominant in its field as defined by SBA regulations under section 3 of the Small Business Act. 95 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Memorandum to Assistant Administrators, ``Compliance With the Regulatory Flexibility Act,'' EPA Office of Policy, Planning, and Evaluation, 1984. In addition, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Memorandum to Assistant Administrators, ``Agency's Revised Guidelines for Implementing the Regulatory Flexibility Act,'' Office of Policy, Planning, and Evaluation, 1992. The Agency has found that the reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping regulations may possibly have some economic impact on a substantial number of small refiners. However, these regulations may not significantly affect gasoline blenders, terminal operators, service stations and ethanol blenders under the same EPA criteria. Small business entities are not required by the Clean Air Act to manufacture reformulated gasoline. Since most small refiners are located in the mountain states or in California, which has its own (more stringent) reformulated gasoline program, the vast majority of small refiners are unaffected by the federal reformulated gasoline requirements. Furthermore, all businesses (both large and small) maintain the option to produce conventional gasoline to be sold in areas not obligated by the Act to receive reformulated gasoline or those areas which have not chosen to opt into the program. All refiners will be affected by the anti-dumping requirements, which are less stringent than those for the reformulated gasoline portion of the program. The anti-dumping regulations affecting conventional gasoline are not expected to disproportionately impact small refiners of conventional gasoline. In addition, all refiners have the option to use either the simple or complex model during the first years of the reformulated gasoline program. Refiners have greater flexibility under the complex model than under the simple model (which focuses primarily on volatility control) in choosing the least-cost method of compliance. The component of the reformulated gasoline program most likely to unfavorably impact small entities is the fundamental necessity that reformulated gasoline meet more stringent emission standards and thus processing requirements. The Agency is unaware of any alternative options which might relieve the regulatory burden on small entities while simultaneously maintaining the program benefits required by the statute. Exempting small refiners from the reformulated gasoline regulations would result in the failure of meeting CAA performance standards, which is illegal. All reformulated gasoline is required to meet the same performance and compositional standards. Additionally, enforcement of a reformulated gasoline program (with exemptions or less stringent standards for some fuel producers), in-use, would be virtually impossible to enforce due to the inherent nature of the fungible gasoline distribution system in existence. Despite the inability to exempt small businesses from the requirements of the reformulated gasoline program, EPA has made accommodations where possible. One example of the versatility embedded in the reformulated gasoline regulations, by EPA, is the flexibility available to all refiners, both small and large, to choose to have one or more individual refinery conventional gasoline compliance baselines and one or more ``refiner'' baselines (i.e., more than one grouping of two or more refineries to form a compliance baseline). Another example of the flexibility of the regulations is the ability to produce reformulated gasoline on a per gallon or averaging basis. Also, certain small refiners who produced JP&hyph;4 jet fuel in 1990 may be able to adjust their baselines so as to reduce the compliance burden. It is worthy to note that although EPA has received several comments which claim that the reformulated gasoline regulations will result in closing the small business entities affected by this rule, convincing evidence supporting this claim has not been submitted. In accordance with section 604 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, EPA has prepared a regulatory flexibility analysis which includes a comprehensive justification for the determination briefly reviewed above, as well as a summary and assessment of the issues raised by public comments on the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. The complete analysis is contained within the Regulatory Impact Analysis which has been placed in the docket for this rulemaking: EPA Air Docket A&hyph;92&hyph;12. XV. Statutory Authority The statutory authority for the rules finalized today is granted to EPA by sections 114, 211 (c) and (k) and 301 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7414, 7545 (c) and (k), and 7601.
