FR940128-1-00072 FR940128-1-00006 This research has been successfully conducted by FDA, the National Marine Fisheries Service, and the industry. FDA has prepared the time, temperature, and salinity parameters in the Hazard Assessment Guide based on the results of this research. 1. Need for Guidance FDA routinely inspects smoked fish processing establishments for sanitary conditions using the guidance in 21 CFR part 110, ``Current Good Manufacturing Practice in Manufacturing, Packing, or Holding Human Food'' (Ref. 196) and in the FDA Inspection Operations Manual, Chapter 5, Establishment Inspection and section 616.6 Smoked Fish inspection methods (Ref. 197). In addition to the Establishment Inspection Reports (EIR's) discussed in section G, EIR's for smoked fish processing establishments over the past few years (1985 to the present) show evidence that the use of manufacturing procedures are not in line with CGMP's. The EIR's also show that processing parameters and controlled processing and storage techniques, commonly recognized as appropriate in the industry (Ref. 182) are not being used (Ref. 169). Typical observations by FDA officials in these inspections include: (1) Live flies in production areas providing a vehicle for contamination and recontamination of products; (2) standing water in production rooms providing a medium for microbial growth and contamination from splashed water; (3) utensils not sanitized prior to use; (4) open bags of raw materials in storage areas exposing products to flying insects and potential microbial contamination; (5) smoke racks encrusted with pieces of fish from previous processes, thus providing an opportunity for microbial growth; (6) refrigerators being used for both raw and finished products, thus providing an environment for microbial growth through cross-contamination between unprocessed and processed products; (7) overcrowded fish in brine tanks, whereby some fish are not fully submerged in brine, resulting in lower and uneven levels of salt uptake that would not be effective in inhibiting spore outgrowth; (8) salinity and microbiologic testing not performed on products; (9) low minimum water-phase salt levels (0.88 to 1.79 percent) that would not inhibit C. botulinum spore outgrowth and toxin production; and (10) poor employee practices that foster microbial contamination, including spitting into sinks adjacent to sinks used to thaw product, not washing or sanitizing hands, and street clothes in contact with product (Ref. 169). (See also Ref. 200.) As part of its Fiscal Year (FY) 91 Domestic Fish and Fishery Products Inspection Assignment, FDA conducted food safety inspections of smoked fish establishments. These inspections revealed a continuing pattern of problems in these facilities. In over half of these inspections FDA found violations that required action, ranging from minor violations, which are normally handled by informing the firm's official during the inspection, to more serious violations that prompted some form of official agency action (Ref. 200). In addition, several States, working through AFDO, have expressed concern that a potential health hazard exists with smoked and smoke-flavored fish products and have stated that a Federal regulation is necessary for uniform regulation of the production and distribution of these foods (Refs. 170 and 189). AFDO is an organization of Federal, State, and local regulatory officials with membership representing all 50 states, as well as FDA and other Federal agencies. AFDO's Central States Regional organization held a meeting in 1988, attended by public health officials from 6 states in which the smoked fish industry is concentrated, Canada, and NMFS, to discuss a Federal regulation governing the processing, storage, and distribution of smoked and smoke-flavored fish products. In December, 1989, AFDO first passed a resolution requesting that FDA expedite the rulemaking process to establish uniform Federal regulations to ensure that safe smoked fish processing methods are utilized for fish products sold in the United States. In December, 1990, AFDO passed resolution 8, which strongly encouraged FDA to ``accelerate the promulgation of smoked fish CGMP's so that concerned States can move forward with their efforts to ensure the safety of smoked fish'' (Ref. 170). FDA recognizes the need to address the hazards associated with smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products and therefore is setting forth the procedures in Appendix 1 in the interest of protecting the public health.
