FR940922-1-00078 FR940922-1-00009 (c) Proprietary interest in the tested product means a property or other financial interest in the product including, but not limited to, patent, trademark, copyright or licensing agreement. (d) Clinical investigator means any investigator who is: (i) Directly involved in the treatment or evaluation of research subjects, or (ii) Could otherwise influence the outcome of the research; for the purposes of the requirements of this part relating to financial interests, ``investigator'' includes the spouse and each dependent child of the investigator. (e) Clinical study means any study involving human subjects, including a study to establish bioavailability or bioequivalence, submitted in a marketing application subject to this part, that either: (1) The sponsor identifies as one that the sponsor relies on to establish that the product meets the regulatory requirements for marketing, or (2) FDA identifies as one that it intends to rely on to support its decision to permit the marketing of the product. Studies submitted as publications or in brief summary form will generally not be considered ``covered clinical studies'' unless FDA informs the sponsor otherwise. A sponsor may consult with FDA as to which clinical studies constitute ``covered clinical studies'' for purposes of complying with financial disclosure requirements. (f) Significant payments of other sorts means payments that exceed $5,000 (e.g., grants to fund ongoing research, compensation in the form of equipment or retainers for ongoing consultation or honoraria) or that exceed 5 percent of the total equity in a publicly held and widely traded company. ยง54.3 Scope. The requirements in this part apply to any sponsor of human drugs, biological products, or devices who has contracted with one or more clinical investigators to conduct studies to determine whether the sponsor's product meets FDA marketing requirements and who submits data from the clinical studies for agency review. ยง54.4 Disclosure requirements. For purposes of this part, a sponsor must submit a list of all clinical investigators who conducted studies to determine whether the sponsor's product meets FDA marketing requirements, identifying those clinical investigators who are full-time employees of the sponsor. The sponsor must also completely and accurately disclose or certify information concerning the financial interests of a clinical investigator who is not a full-time employee of the sponsor, and the investigator's spouse and dependent children for each covered clinical study. The clinical investigator must provide the sponsor with sufficient accurate information to make the required disclosure or certification. (a) The sponsor of an application submitted under sections 505, 506, 507, 510(k), 513, or 515 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or section 351 of the Public Health Service Act that relies in part on clinical studies shall submit, for each covered clinical study, either a certification described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or a disclosure statement described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (1) Certification. The sponsor of an application covered by this section may submit the following certification dated and signed by the chief financial officer or other responsible corporate official: With respect to all covered clinical studies [or to specific clinical studies listed below] submitted in support of this application, I certify that (name of applicant) has not entered into any financial arrangement with any clinical investigator, whereby the value of compensation to the investigator to conduct the study could be affected by the outcome of the study. I also certify that each clinical investigator was required to disclose to (name of applicant) whether the investigator had a proprietary interest in this product, or a significant equity interest in (name of applicant), and that no such interests were disclosed. I further certify that the investigator was not the recipient of significant payments of other kinds as defined in 21 CFR 54.2(f). For purposes of this statement, a clinical investigator includes the spouse and each dependent child of the investigator as defined in 21 CFR 54.2(d). This certification is made in compliance with 21 CFR part 54.
