FR940516-2-00002 FR940516-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Newspapers Used for Publication of Legal Notice, Comment and Appeal of Decisions for Pacific Northwest Region, Oregon and Washington AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice lists the newspapers that will be used by all ranger districts, forests, and the Regional Office of the Pacific Northwest Region to publish legal notice of all decisions subject to appeal under 36 CFR parts 215 and 217 and to publish notice for public comment and notice of decisions subject to the provisions of 36 CFR part 215. The intended effect of this action is to inform interested members of the public which newspapers will be used to publish the legal notice for public comment or decision. This allows the public to receive constructive notice of a decision, to provide clear evidence of timely notice, and to achieve consistency in administering the appeal process. DATES: Publication of legal notices in the listed newspapers will begin with proposals for public comment or decisions subject to appeal that are made on or after April 30, 1994. The list of newspapers will remain in effect until another notice is published in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James L. Schuler, Regional Appeals Coordinator, Pacific Northwest Region, P.O. Box 3623, Portland, Oregon 97208&hyph;3623, phone: (503) 326&hyph;2322. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Responsible Officials in the Pacific Northwest Region will give legal notice of decisions that may be subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 215 and 217 in the following newspapers which are listed by Forest Service administrative units. Where more than one newspaper is listed for any unit, the first newspaper listed is the principal newspaper, which shall be used to constitute legal evidence that the agency has given timely and constructive notice for comment and for decisions that may be subject to administrative appeal. The timeframe for appeal shall be based on the date of publication of a notice of decision in the principal newspaper. The newspapers to be used are as follows: Pacific Northwest Regional Office Pacific Northwest Regional Forester decisions on Oregon National Forests: The Oregonian , Portland, Oregon Pacific Northwest Regional Forester decisions on Washington National Forests: The Seattle Post-Intelligencer, Seattle, Washington Columbia Gorge National Scenic Area Manager decisions: The Oregonian, Portland, Oregon Oregon National Forests Deschutes National Forest Deschutes Forest Supervisors decisions: The Bulletin, Bend, Oregon Bend District Ranger decisions: The Bulletin, Bend, Oregon Crescent District Ranger decisions: The Bulletin, Bend, Oregon Fort Rock District Ranger decisions: The Bulletin, Bend, Oregon Sister District Ranger decisions: Sisters Nugget, Sisters, Oregon Bend Pine Nursery Managers decisions:
