FR940505-1-00274 FR940505-1-00012 Monitor means to measure and record. Organic compound means a chemical compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides, carbonates, and ammonium carbonate. Organic vapor means the gaseous phase of an organic compound or a mixture of organic compounds present in the atmosphere. Owner or operator means any person who owns, operates, leases, controls, or supervises an emissions source or air pollution control equipment. Person means any individual, corporation, copartnership, firm, company, partnership, joint stock company, trust, association, State, municipality, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal representative, agent, or assigns. Process means any stationary emission source other than a fuel combustion emission source or an incinerator. Source means emission source. Standard conditions means a temperature of 20 ○C (68 ○F) and a pressure of 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg). Stationary emission source and Stationary source mean an emission source which is not self-propelled. (4) Test Methods and Procedures . (i) Coatings, Inks, and Fountain Solutions . The following test methods and procedures shall be used to determine the VOC content of as applied coatings, inks, and fountain solutions to determine compliance with the limitations set forth in this section. (A) Sampling . Samples collected for analyses shall be one-liter taken into a one-liter container at a location and time such that the sample will be representative of the coating as applied (i.e., the sample shall include any dilution solvent or other VOC added during the manufacturing process). The container must be tightly sealed immediately after the sample is taken. Any solvent or other VOC added after the sample is taken must be measured and accounted for in the calculations in paragraph (a)(4)(i)(C) of this section. For multiple package coatings, separate samples of each component shall be obtained. A mixed sample shall not be obtained as it will cure in the container. Sampling procedures shall follow the guidelines presented in: (1) ASTM D3925&hyph;81 (1985) Standard Practice for Sampling Liquid Paints and Related Pigment Coating. This practice is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (2) ASTM E300 Standard Practice for Sampling Industrial Chemicals. This practice is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (B) Analyses. The applicable analytical methods specified below shall be used to determine the composition of coatings, inks, or fountain solutions as applied. (1) Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used to determine the VOC content and density of coatings. (2) Method 24A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine the VOC content and density of publication rotogravure printing inks and related coatings. (3) The following ASTM methods and practices are the analytical procedures for determining VOC: (i) ASTM D1475&hyph;85: Standard Test Method for Density of Paint, Varnish, Lacquer and Related Products. This test method is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (ii) ASTM D2369&hyph;87: Standard Test Method for Volatile Content of a Coating. This test method is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. The following minor modifications should be used for multicomponent coatings. All components of the coating are to be weighed in the proper proportion into the analysis container and mixed together just prior to analysis and the mixture is allowed to stand for at least one hour but no more than 24 hours prior to being oven dried at 110 degrees celsius for one hour. (iii) ASTM D3792&hyph;86: Standard Test Method for Water Content of Water-Reducible Paints by Direct Injection into a Gas Chromatograph. This test method is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (iv) ASTM D4017&hyph;81 (1987): Standard Test Method for Water Content in Paints and Paint Materials by the Karl Fischer Method. This test method is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (v) ASTM D4457&hyph;85: Standard Test Method for Determination of Dichloromethane and 1,1,1-Trichloroethane in Paints and Coatings by Direct Injection into a Gas Chromatograph. (The procedure delineated above can be used to develop protocols for any compounds specifically exempted from the definition of VOC.) This test method is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (vi) ASTM D2697&hyph;86: Standard Test Method for Volume Non-volatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings. This test method is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (vii) ASTM E180&hyph;85: Standard Practice for Determining the Precision Data of ASTM Methods for Analysis and Testing of Industrial Chemicals. This practice is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section.
