FR940513-0-00143 FR940513-0-00034 In light of these potential disadvantages, the Commission has determined not to adopt a lumen-per-watt index as a supplemental disclosure. The Commission has concluded that the objectives of EPA 92 will be better achieved by supplementing the basic disclosures with the Advisory Disclosure described in Part IV.C.2.c, below, which informs consumers how to use the basic disclosures to select the most efficient lamp for their needs. b. Energy operating cost. Another proposal for conveying lamp efficiency information was to require an energy operating cost disclosure. As described in the NPR, ACEEE suggested requiring disclosure of estimated annual operating cost. 103 NEMA suggested requiring disclosure of both an estimated annual operating cost and a lumens-per-watt energy index. 104 Based on these suggestions and other considerations discussed in the NPR, the Commission proposed requiring disclosure of estimated monetary cost of energy information, as an alternative, or in addition to, a lumens-per-watt disclosure of the lamp's energy efficiency. 105 103 58 FR at 60154. 104 Id. at 60153. 105 Id. at 61055. In the NPR, the Commission stated that it might require a disclosure of the estimated monetary cost of the energy used by a lamp based on its use for a specified period, such as the lamp's life in hours or a length of time based on average usage patterns. The Commission explained that such a disclosure could be based on the representative average unit cost of electricity, as specified in the Appliance Labeling Rule, 16 CFR 305.9, or on an assumed unit cost. The advantage of an operating cost disclosure is that it would reduce to monetary terms the energy costs of competing lamp products. At the same time, the Commission stated that it would consider carefully whether such disclosures, particularly when the costs are prorated over a period of time that is less than the life of a very energy efficient bulb, communicate effectively the extent to which a higher initial lamp cost can be compensated for by lower operating costs over the lamp's life. 106 106 For example, if a monetary cost of operation disclosure were adopted, one usage period for which disclosures could be calculated is 750 hours, which is approximately the life of general service incandescent lamps with the shortest lifetimes. A second option would be to set a longer period ( e.g. , 1000 hours). But, where this period exceeds the average life of the lamp, the cost of replacement of the lamp might come into play. A third option would be to use a shorter period, such as one hour, 10 hours, or 100 hours. A shorter period, however, might be too small to illustrate sufficiently energy cost differences among competing lamps. The Commission pointed out in the NPR that, if it adopted a monetary cost of operation disclosure, it would have to base the disclosure on an average or estimated usage pattern ( e.g., one year). The Commission noted, however, that there are no established usage patterns, and estimated use will vary depending upon the location and use of the lamp. In addition, the Commission would have to determine what unit cost of electricity to use. The representative average unit cost of electricity, as specified in the Appliance Labeling Rule (16 CFR 305.9), changes annually, and thus could result in consumer confusion if lamps manufactured in different years were available for sale at the same time. To avoid possible confusion, the Commission explained that it might require manufacturers to include an explanation of how the estimated energy cost was determined in immediate proximity to the monetary cost estimate disclosure. 107 The Commission recognized, however, that the additional information could unduly complicate the label, and therefore not be helpful to purchasers. 107 This would allow purchasers to compare the energy costs of competing products with different lifetimes based on a time line that is within the lifetime of all the competing products and is large enough to illustrate clearly the differences among energy costs and, therefore, of energy efficiencies. In the alternative, the Commission explained that it could require that monetary cost of operation estimates be based upon a constant unit cost of electricity, such as 10 cents per hour, which although not fully accurate for all purchasers, would facilitate lamp-to-lamp comparisons. Because some purchasers may be interested in computing lamp costs comprehensively, including the initial purchase price, the Commission proposed requiring information to enable them to make the necessary calculations to determine the ``estimated total operating cost'' of the lamp for a standard time period. 108 But, recognizing that purchasers would need to make calculations for each lamp they considered, the Commission stated that it would consider carefully the extent to which purchasers actually would use the proposed disclosures in making a purchase decision. As a practical matter, the Commission noted that purchasers, particularly retail consumers, may disregard, or consider too complex, any disclosure requiring computations of this sort, and therefore that such required disclosures may not be useful to purchasers in their efforts to choose an energy efficient lamp. The NPR solicited comments on both the annual operating and total operating cost disclosures proposed by the Commission. 109 108 Specifically, the Commission proposed requiring the following statement: IMPORTANT: Energy efficient lamps may have a higher purchase price, but could cost you less overall due to energy savings. The estimated total operating cost of this lamp for 750 hours of use is: ( [Figure A] × the purchase price for one light) + [Figure B] ). Compare this cost to the estimated total operating costs you calculate for other lamps that provide the same or similar lumens. The manufacturer would determine and preprint Figure A and Figure B in this disclosure. The NPR explained how the manufacturer would calculate these figures and included examples. The Commission proposed a more detailed disclosure for multiple filament general service incandescent lamps. 109 See Questions 3 (``Disclosure of Monetary Cost of Operation'') and 4 (``Disclosure of Estimated Total Operating Cost''), 58 FR at 60158&hyph;59. The 17 comments that addressed cost disclosures were evenly divided. Seven comments recommended that the Commission require some kind of cost disclosure. 110 Seven comments opposed such a requirement. 111 Two commentors initially supported cost disclosures, but later recommended against them. 112 One comment stated that if cost disclosures were required, the NEMA proposal described in the NPR for estimated annual operating cost along with an energy index would be the best. 113 110 ACEEE, GG&hyph;1, 1&hyph;2, (Tr.), 113&hyph;114, 149, (Supp.), GG&hyph;21, 1; Gluckstern, GG&hyph;3, 1; MN DPS, GG&hyph;9, 2; MO DNR, GG&hyph;10, 2; NEPS, GG&hyph;11, 2&hyph;3; LRC, GG&hyph;15, 2&hyph;3; US EPA, GG&hyph;17, 3. 111 GE, G&hyph;2, 7, (Tr.), 170; NEMA, G&hyph;3, 35&hyph;38, (Tr.), 131, 133, 139. (Supp.), 13, 23&hyph;26; OR DOE, GG&hyph;13, 3&hyph;5; Osram (Tr.), 131, (Supp.), 3; Philips (Supp.), G&hyph;12, 1; Green Seal (Tr.), 159; SCS, GG&hyph;16, 4&hyph;5. 112 Angelo, G&hyph;1, 3 (support), (Tr.), 136, 157, 158 (oppose); LBL, GG&hyph;7, 1&hyph;2 (support), (Supp.), G&hyph;22, 4 (oppose). 113 WA SEO, GG&hyph;18, 2.
