FR941107-2-00206 FR941107-2-00109 Discussion: The Secretary acknowledges the importance of consumer preference and believes that the issue of consumer preference is adequately addressed in the priority. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter expressed a concern that cost-effectiveness should be weighed heavily in the criteria. Discussion: The Secretary believes that sufficient weight is given to cost effectiveness. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter indicated an interest in support for closed-captioned basic cable television programming. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes the importance of access to programs shown on local stations, national commercial and public broadcast networks, as well as syndicated and cable programs shown nationally. In making awards the Secretary will continue to support the closed-captioning of basic cable television programming under existing priorities. Change: The priority has been clarified by adding the word ``cable'' to part (6) of the project requirements. (6) Demonstrate the willingness of major national television networks and cable companies to permit captioning of their programs; and Comment: One commenter urged the Department to make more than one award in order to generate private section support. Discussion: In announcing proposed priorities, the Secretary does not establish numbers of awards for projects. Information about anticipated number of awards will be provided when the Secretary invites applications for specific competitions. Changes: None. Proposed Absolute Priority 2_Cultural Experience for Deaf and Hard of Hearing Individuals Comment: Two commenters jointly recommended that the priority be expanded to include both school and community based educational interventions. Discussion: The Secretary acknowledges the value of intervention at the school and community levels. The Secretary believes that this topic should be addressed under other IDEA program authorities. Changes: None. Proposed Absolute Priority 3_Captioned Films and Video Distribution System Comment: One commenter suggested that distribution, outreach and circulation methods incorporate recommendations which grow out of the soon-to-be awarded Department of Education grant to hold a symposium on the future of captioning. Discussion: The Secretary deems it improper to mention recommendations that are yet to be made. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the annual meeting of depository managers and other related personnel should include representatives from the major educational media distribution companies. Discussion: The Secretary appreciates the commenter's suggestion. Although not a requirement under this priority, the Secretary encourages applicants to consider this as a viable option. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter proposed that the priorities include a mandate to study alternative Captioned Films and Video (CFV) catalog and delivery systems, and that a national survey of consumer needs be conducted. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that a study of alternative approaches and strategies is important to assure that we are making best use of our resources in serving our constituents. We expect that recommendations from the upcoming symposium on the future of captioning will provide us with suggested alternate approaches as information on consumer needs. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter proposed that a study be required to explore ways in which the CFV catalog might also incorporate information regarding captioned materials available from sources other than the CFV network. Discussion: It is not the intent of this priority to advertise materials other than those we distribute through the CFV program. Changes: None.
