FR941216-0-00036 FR941216-0-00011 Dam construction was responsible for the loss of approximately 40 percent of the estimated original range of the arroyo toad. Twenty-six large impoundments are currently located within the range of this species, inundating over 190 km (120 miles) of suitable habitat. Additional areas have been identified as potential dam sites and, if constructed, would destroy 25 percent of the current range (6 to 7 percent of the original range) of the arroyo toad (Sweet 1991a). In addition to habitat loss through direct inundation, dams can have significant effects on habitat quality downstream. Artificial flow regulation disrupts the natural processes that produce the terrace and pool habitats required by arroyo toads. Unseasonal water releases may prevent arroyo toads from breeding due to habitat changes (Sweet 1992). Another consequence of sustained unnatural perennial flows below dams is an adverse effect on the habitat of this species by encouraging vegetative growth in a riparian corridor, which increases ground stability and hence confines and deepens the creek channel. Water temperatures are reduced below the temperatures needed for larval development (Sweet 1991a). The arroyo toad is also sensitive to stream diversions as they cause the riparian areas to dry. Water diversions that alter normal flows have degraded habitats and adversely affected arroyo toads by leading to: (1) The early drying of breeding pools, causing breeding failures or loss of the larval population; (2) restriction of the period essential for rapid growth when newly-metamorphosed toads can forage on damp gravel bars; and (3) loss of damp subsurface soil, which may result in high adult mortality during late summer and early fall (Sweet 1992). Development projects in riparian wetlands have caused permanent losses of riparian habitats and are the most conspicuous factor in the decline of the arroyo toad (S. Sweet, pers. comm., 1991). Agriculture and urbanization have already destroyed much of the suitable arroyo toad habitat south of the Santa Clara River in Ventura County (S. Sweet, pers. comm., 1991). Stream terraces have been converted to farming, road corridors, and residential and commercial uses, while the streams themselves have been channelized for flood control. Large stretches of riparian corridor habitat have also been degraded or destroyed by cattle and feral pigs (S. Sweet, pers. comm., 1991). Recreational activities in riparian wetlands have had substantial negative effects to arroyo toad habitat and individuals, as discussed in Factor E. Off-highway vehicles cause extensive damage to the shallow pools in which arroyo toads breed (Sweet 1992). Streamside campgrounds in southern California national forests have frequently been located adjacent to arroyo toad habitat (Sweet 1992). In the Los Padres National Forest, each of the three campgrounds on Piru and Sespe Creeks were developed on terraces used by arroyo toads within 50 to 100 meters (150 to 300 feet) of their breeding pools. On the upper Santa Ynez River, also in Los Padres National Forest, three of four campgrounds are also located in arroyo toad habitat (Sweet 1991a, 1991b). The placement of campgrounds is similar in the Cleveland National Forest in San Diego County; upper San Juan Creek, upper San Luis Rey River, and Cottonwood Creek all have campgrounds situated adjacent to arroyo toad breeding habitats (M. Jennings, in litt. , 1993). The use of heavy equipment in yearly reconstruction of roads and stream crossings in the national forests has had significant and repeated impacts to arroyo toads and toad habitat. Maintenance of the road to Ogilvy Ranch, a private inholding in the Los Padres National Forest, is likely responsible for a depressed population of arroyo toads in Mono Creek. The Ogilvy Ranch road makes 18 crossings of Mono Creek, many directly through or near arroyo toad breeding pools. In summer 1992, the Los Padres National Forest declined to open the Ogilvy Ranch road in order to protect populations of arroyo toads and other candidate amphibians and reptiles. However, the road was opened with a bulldozer in the fall. As juvenile arroyo toads were likely burrowed in the soft sand adjacent to the creek, grading the road up the creek destroyed habitat and probably killed individual toads. Regular maintenance of roads in the Los Padres National Forest negatively affects arroyo toad individuals and toad habitat on the Santa Ynez River, Piru and Sespe Creeks, as well. Mining activities are an additional threat to this species. Recreational suction dredging for gold adversely affects toad habitat and individuals. Dredging destroys breeding pools used by arroyo toads and causes excessive siltation downstream, which asphyxiates eggs and small larvae. For example, during the Memorial Day weekend of 1991, four small dredges operating on Piru Creek (Los Padres National Forest) produced sedimentation visible more than 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) downstream and adversely affected 40,000 to 60,000 arroyo toad larvae. Subsequent surveys revealed nearly total destruction of the species in this stream section; fewer than 100 larvae survived, and only 4 juvenile toads were located (Sweet 1992). Several rivers in the Los Padres National Forest were recently temporarily closed to gold mining, and it is uncertain whether the ban will be made permanent. In December 1992, a group of miners challenged the Forest Service's authority to close Piru Creek to mining. These individuals practiced various methods of gold extraction until cited by the Forest Service. It is probable that future challenges will occur and, if successful, will threaten the population of arroyo toads on Piru Creek. B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Populations of the arroyo toad are becoming so small and confined that even limited taking by campers, recreationists, and scientific researchers could adversely affect this species' viability. These toads are threatened from collecting by children near the campgrounds. No data exists on the extent of such collection activities, but it is probable that it continues to occur.
