FR940810-1-00055 FR940810-1-00010 Wednesday August 10, 1994 Part X Department of the Interior Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement 30 CFR Part 903 Surface Mining and Reclamation Operations Under a Federal Program for Arizona; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 153␣/␣Wednesday, August 10, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement 30 CFR Part 903 RIN 1029&hyph;AB 81 Surface Mining and Reclamation Operations Under a Federal Program for Arizona AGENCY: Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) of the Department of the Interior (DOI) proposes a Federal program to regulate coal exploration and surface coal mining and reclamation operations on non-Federal and non-Indian lands in the State of Arizona. This includes surface effects of underground coal mining. This proposed program is necessary in order to regulate surface coal mining activities that may be taken in Arizona under applicable provisions of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA), and under regulations found in 30 CFR Part 736, in the absence of a State program. DATES: Written comments: OSM will accept written comments on the proposed rule until 4:00 p.m. local time on October 11, 1994 Public hearings: Upon request, OSM will hold a public hearing on the proposed rule in Phoenix, Arizona on September 26, 1994 at 9:30 a.m. local time. OSM will accept requests for public hearings until 4:00 p.m. local time on September 9, 1994. Individuals wishing to attend but not testify at any hearing should contact a person identified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT beforehand to verify that the hearing will be held. ADDRESSES: Written comments: Mail or hand-deliver to: Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 505 Marquette Avenue NW, Suite 1200, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 87102. Public hearings: The addresses and times for any hearings which may be scheduled will be announced prior to the hearings. Requests for public hearings: Submit requests orally or in writing to a person and address specified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas E. Ehmett, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 505 Marquette Avenue NW, Suite 1200, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87102; Telephone (505) 766&hyph;1486; or Nancy Broderick, Branch of Federal and Indian Programs, Division of Regulatory Programs, Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, 1951 Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20240; Telephone (202) 208&hyph;2564. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Public Comment Procedures. II. Background. III. Discussion of Proposed Rule. IV. Procedural Matters. I. Public Comment Procedures Availability of Copies Copies of the proposed Arizona Federal regulatory program and all written comments received in response to this notice will be available for public inspection and may be obtained at the OSM office listed above under ADDRESSES Monday through Friday, 9:00 am to 4:00 pm local time, excluding holidays. Written Comments Written comments on the proposed rules should be specific, pertain to issues pertinent to the proposed rules, and explain the reason for any recommendation. Where possible, commenters should submit three copies of their comments (see ADDRESSES ). Comments received after the time indicated under DATES or delivered to addresses other than Albuquerque, New Mexico will not necessarily be considered or included in the Administrative Record for the final rule. Public Hearing OSM will hold public hearings on the proposed rule on request only. The time, date, and address scheduled for the hearing in Phoenix, Arizona, is specified previously in this notice (see DATES and ADDRESSES ). Any person interested in participating at the hearing should inform Mr. Ehmett or Ms. Broderick (see FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT ) either orally or in writing by 4:00 p.m. local time September 9, 1994. If no one has contacted Mr. Ehmett or Ms. Broderick to express an interest in participating in a hearing by that date, the hearing will not be held. If only one person expresses an interest, a public meeting rather than a hearing may be held and the results included in the Administrative Record. If a hearing is held, it will be transcribed and will continue until all persons in attendance wishing to testify have been heard. To assist the transcriber and ensure an accurate record, OSM requests that persons who testify at a hearing give the transcriber a copy of their testimony. To assist OSM in preparing appropriate questions, OSM also requests that persons who plan to testify submit an advance copy of their testimony to OSM, at least two working days prior to the hearing. The testimony should be submitted to the address previously specified for the submission of written comments (see ADDRESSES ). Any disabled individual who has need for a special accommodation to attend a public hearing should contact the individual listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. II. Background Under §504(a) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMRCA), 30 U.S.C. 1201 et seq., the Secretary of the Interior (the Secretary) is required to promulgate a Federal program for a State for, among other reasons, the failure of the State to submit a proposed State program to the Secretary. Upon promulgation of a Federal regulatory program, the Secretary becomes the regulatory authority.
