FR940516-0-00034 FR940516-0-00013 (e) Delivery Verification. The Office of Export Licensing will, on a selective basis, require Delivery Verification documents for shipments to Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania, and the Slovak Republic that are subject to the Import Certificate procedure. *␣*␣* 19. Section 775.10 is amended: a. By revising the introductory text; b. By revising the first sentence of paragraph (a); c. By revising the first sentence of paragraph (b); d. By revising the heading and the introductory text of paragraph (c)(2); e. By revising the paragraph (c)(3); f. By revising the first sentence of paragraph (d); g. By revising the introductory text of paragraph (f); h. By redesignating footnote number 4 as footnote number 3, as referenced in the heading to paragraph (g); i. By revising the introductory text of paragraph (g)(1); j. By revising the introductory text of paragraph (g)(2)(i); k. By revising paragraph (g)(2)(ii); and l. By revising the introductory text of paragraph (h)(1), to read as follows: §775.10 Special provisions. The following special provisions apply as indicated to consignee/purchaser statements, International Import Certificates, Delivery Verification Certificates, People's Republic of China End-User Certificates, Indian Import Certificates, and Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, or Slovak Import Certificates, and other documents submitted in support of export license applications. (a) Coded terms and translation requirements. All abbreviations, coded terms, or other expressions on consignee/purchaser statements, International Import Certificates, Delivery Verification Certificates, People's Republic of China End-User Certificates, Indian Import Certificates, and Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, or Slovak Import Certificates, and other documents having special significance in the trade or to the parties to the transaction must be explained on an attachment to the document. *␣*␣* (b) Validity period. When a People's Republic of China End-User Certificate, Indian Import Certificate, Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, or Slovak Import Certificate, or an International Import Certificate is obtained in support of one or more export license applications, the applicant must submit the first application to be supported by such certificate to the Office of Export Licensing (OEL) within the validity period shown on the Certificate or 6 months from the date of the Certificate was issued, whichever is shorter. *␣*␣* (c) *␣*␣* (2) International Import Certificate, Indian Import Certificate, and the Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, or Slovak Import Certificate. Whenever the requirement for an International Import Certificate, Indian Import Certificate, or a Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, or Slovak Import Certificate for any commodity is imposed or extended by virtue of one of the following: * * * * * (3) People's Republic of China End-User Certificate. Whenever the submission requirement for a People's Republic of China End-User Certificate is imposed or extended to any commodity on the Commerce Control List by the addition of Country Group V to the ``Validated License Required'' paragraph in the applicable entry on the Commerce Control List, a license application to export such commodity need not conform to the submission requirement for 45 days from the date such commodity becomes subject to the requirement. (d) Applicant's responsibility for full disclosure. In obtaining a consignee/purchaser statement, International Import Certificate, People's Republic of China End-User Certificate, Indian Import Certificate, and Bulgarian, Czech, Hungarian, Polish, Romanian, or Slovak Import Certificate, the applicant is not relieved of the responsibility for full disclosure of any other information concerning the ultimate destination and end-use that the applicant has knowledge or belief, even if inconsistent with the representations set forth in the documents listed in this paragraph ␣␣␣(d). *␣*␣* * * * * *
