FR940627-0-00261 FR940627-0-00019 (c) Reference substances. These may include, but need not be limited to, sodium azide, 2-nitrofluorene, 9-aminoacridine, 2-aminoanthracene, congo red, benzopurpurin 4B, trypan blue or direct blue 1. (d) Test method._(1) Principle. Motor vehicle combustion emissions from fuel or additive/base fuel mixtures are, first, filtered to trap particulate matter and, then, passed through a sorbent resin to trap semi-volatile gases. Bacteria are separately exposed to the extract from both the filtered particulates and the resin-trapped organics. Assays are conducted using both test mixtures with and without a metabolic activation system and exposed cells are plated onto minimal medium. After a suitable period of incubation, revertant colonies are counted in test cultures and compared to the number of spontaneous revertants in unexposed control cultures. (2) Description. Several methods for performing the test have been described. The procedures described here are for the direct plate incorporation method and the azo-reduction method. Among those used are: (i) Direct plate incorporation method; (ii) Preincubation method; (iii) Azo-reduction method; (iv) Microsuspension method; and (v) Spiral assay. (3) Strain selection _(i) Designation. Five tester strains shall be used in the assay. At the present time, TA1535, TA1537, TA98, and TA100 are designated as tester strains. The fifth strain will be chosen from the pool of Salmonella strains commonly used to determine the degree to which nitrated organic compounds, i.e. , nitroarenes, contribute to the overall mutagenic activity of a test substance. TA98/1,8&hyph;DNP 6 or other suitable Rosenkranz nitro-reductase resistant strains will be considered acceptable. The choice of the particular strain is left to the discretion of the researcher. However, the researcher shall justify the use of the selected bacterial tester strains. (ii) Preparation and storage of bacterial tester strains. Recognized methods of stock culture preparation and storage shall be used. The requirement of histidine for growth shall be demonstrated for each strain. Other phenotypic characteristics shall be checked using such methods as crystal violet sensitivity and resistance to ampicillin. Spontaneous reversion frequency shall be in the range expected as reported in the literature and as established in the laboratory by historical control values. (iii) Bacterial growth. Fresh cultures of bacteria shall be grown up to the late exponential or early stationary phase of growth (approximately 108&hyph;109 cells per ml). (4) Exogenous metabolic activation. Bacteria shall be exposed to the test substance both in the presence and absence of an appropriate exogenous metabolic activation system. For the direct plate incorporation method, the most commonly used system is a cofactor-supplemented postmitochondrial fraction prepared from the livers of rodents treated with enzyme-inducing agents, such as Aroclor 1254. For the azo-reduction method, a cofactor- supplemented postmitochondrial fraction (S&hyph;9) prepared from the livers of untreated hamsters is preferred. For this method, the cofactor supplement shall contain flavin mononucleotide, exogenous glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase, NADH and excess of glucose-6-phosphate. (5) Control groups _(i) Concurrent controls. Concurrent positive and negative (untreated) controls shall be included in each experiment. Positive controls shall ensure both strain responsiveness and efficacy of the metabolic activation system.
