FR940825-2-00171 FR940825-2-00108 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY College and University Affiliations Program (CUAP) (formerly ``University Affiliations Program''); Application Notice for Fiscal Year 1995 ACTION: Notice_request for prospectuses. SUMMARY: The Office of Academic Programs of the United States Information Agency's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs announces an open competition to award grants to post-secondary educational institutions for academic exchange programs. This is a two-step competition. For Step I, interested institutions whose proposed projects are eligible in terms of partner country(ies) and academic discipline(s) (see below) should submit a five-page, double-spaced prospectus. Agency panels will review prospectuses according to the established review criteria listed below. In Step II, approximately forty-five to fifty institutions will be invited to submit comprehensive proposals which will be reviewed by independent academic review panels and by an Agency panel. Subject to the availability of funds, 16&hyph;20 grants will then be awarded in Fiscal Year 1995 with a minimum of two grants for each geographic region (described below). Overall grant making and funding authority for this program is contained in Fulbright-Hays Act, also known as the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, Public Law 87&hyph;256. The purpose of the Act is ``to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and the people of other countries *␣*␣*; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations *␣*␣* and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic and peaceful relations between the United States and the other countries of the world.'' Projects must conform with Agency requirements and guidelines outlined in this announcement. USIA projects and programs are subject to the availability of funds. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications with USIA concerning this announcement should refer to the above title and reference number E/ASU&hyph;94&hyph;01. DATES: Step I deadline: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, D.C. time on Friday, October 7, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on October 7, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each applicant to ensure that prospectuses are received by the above deadline. Step II schedule: Those applicants with successful prospectuses will be invited on or about November 30, 1994 to submit comprehensive proposals due at the Agency on or about February 22, 1995. Final awards will be made on or about August 1, 1995. Program dates: Grants should begin on September 1, 1995. Program duration: September 1, 1995&hyph;August 31, 1998. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Sue Borja or Ms. Deborah Trent, College and University Affiliations Program (CUAP), E/ASU, Room 349, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20547, phone: (202) 619&hyph;5289, fax: (202) 401&hyph;1433, e-mail: sborja@usia.gov. Interested applicants should read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the CUAP staff or submitting their prospectuses. Please note that there is no separate application package. All information necessary for submitting a prospectus is contained in the RFP. Once the deadline for submission of the comprehensive proposal has passed, the CUAP staff may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until after the Bureau proposal review process has been completed. ADDRESSES: Applicants must follow all instructions given in this announcement and send only complete applications including the original and 10 complete copies along with a 31/2 ’ ’ diskette (DOS compatible software includes Wordperfect, microsoft word and ASCII) to: U.S. Information Agency, Ref.: E/ASU&hyph;95&hyph;01, Office of Grants Management, E/XE, Room 336, 301 4th St., S.W., Washington, DC 20547. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Bureau's authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a nonpolitical character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social, and cultural life. Diversity should be interpreted in the broadest sense and encompass differences including but not limited to race, gender, religion, geographic location, socio-economic status, and physical challenges. Applicants are strongly encouraged to adhere to the advancement of this principle. Overview The objectives of the College and University Affiliations program are to: •Promote institutional linkages between U.S. and foreign institutions of higher education in academic disciplines and in countries and regions without significant, privately funded exchanges. •Provide significant mutual benefit to both the U.S. and foreign institutions involved in the exchanges. •Support current Agency disciplinary and geographic programming priorities. •Develop skills and knowledge and advance scholarship and teaching in the disciplines supported through the program. •Advance mutual understanding between the U.S. and the countries or regions represented in the linkages.
