FR941207-0-00026 FR941207-0-00003 The proposal provided that the net current exposure would be determined by adding together all positive and negative market values of individual contracts subject to the netting contract. The net current exposure would equal the sum of the market values if that sum is a positive value, or zero if the sum of the market values is zero or a negative value. The proposals did not alter the calculation method for potential future exposure. 6 6 Potential future exposure is estimated by multiplying the effective notional amount of a contract by a credit conversion factor which is based on the type of contract and the remaining maturity of the contract. Under the Board/OCC proposal, a potential future exposure amount would be calculated for each individual contract subject to the netting contract. The individual potential future exposures would then be added together to arrive at one total add-on amount. Under the proposal, institutions would be able to net for risk-based capital purposes only with a written bilateral netting contract that creates a single legal obligation covering all included individual rate contracts and does not contain a walkaway clause. 7 The proposal required an institution to obtain a written and reasoned legal opinion(s) stating that under the master netting contract the institution would have a claim to receive, or an obligation to pay, only the net amount of the sum of the positive and negative market values of included individual contracts if a counterparty failed to perform due to default, insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, or similar circumstances. 7 A walkaway clause is a provision in a netting contract that permits a non-defaulting counterparty to make lower payments than it would make otherwise under the contract, or no payment at all, to a defaulter or to the estate of a defaulter, even if the defaulter or the estate of the defaulter is a net creditor under the contract. The proposal indicated that the legal opinion must normally cover: (i) The law of the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is chartered, or the equivalent location in the case of noncorporate entities, and if a branch of the counterparty is involved, the law of the jurisdiction in which the branch is located; (ii) the law that governs the individual contracts covered by the netting contract; and (iii) the law that governs the netting contract. The proposal provided that an institution must maintain in its files documentation adequate to support the bilateral netting contract. Documentation would typically include a copy of the bilateral netting contract, legal opinions and any related translations. In addition, the proposal required an institution to establish and maintain procedures to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting contracts would be kept under review. Under the proposal, the Federal Reserve could disqualify any or all contracts from netting treatment for risk-based capital purposes if the requirements of the proposal were not satisfied. In the event of disqualification, the affected contracts would be treated as though they were not subject to the master netting contract. The proposal indicated that outstanding netting by novation arrangements would not be grandfathered, that is, such arrangements would have to meet all of the proposed requirements for qualifying bilateral netting contracts.
