FR940223-2-00163 FR940223-2-00097 (4) Subject to subrule (5), an amended Complaint shall be filed no later than 5 days before the expiration of the time period for filing a Notice of Appearance pursuant to rule 40. (5) An amended Complaint may, with leave of the panel, be filed after the time limit set out in subrule (4) but no later than 20 days before the expiration of the time period for filing briefs pursuant to subrule 57(1). (6) Leave to file an amended Complaint may be requested of the panel by the filing of a Notice of Motion for leave to file an amended Complaint accompanied by the proposed amended Complaint. (7) Where the panel does not grant a motion referred to in subrule (6) within the time period for filing briefs pursuant to subrule 57(1), the motion shall be deemed to be denied. Notice of Appearance 40. (1) Within 45 days after the filing of a first Request for Panel Review of a final determination, the investigating authority and any other interested person who proposes to participate in the panel review and who has not filed a Complaint in the panel review shall file with the responsible Secretariat a Notice of Appearance containing the following information (model form provided in the Schedule): (a) the information set out in subrule 55(1); (b) a statement as to the basis for the person's claim of entitlement to file a Notice of Appearance under this rule; (c) in the case of a Notice of Appearance filed by the investigating authority, any admissions with respect to the allegations set out in the Complaints; (d) a statement as to whether appearance is made (i) in support of some or all of the allegations set out in a Complaint under subrule 39(2)(b), (ii) in opposition to some or all of the allegations set out in a Complaint under subrule 39(2)(b), or (iii) in support of some of the allegations set out in a Complaint under subrule 39(2)(b) and in opposition to some of the allegations set out in a Complaint under subrule 39(2)(b); and (e) where the final determination was made in Canada, a statement as to whether the person filing the Notice of Appearance (i) intends to use English or French in pleadings and oral proceedings before the panel, and (ii) requests simultaneous translation of any oral proceedings. (2) Any complainant who intends to appear in opposition to allegations set out in a Complaint under subrule 39(2)(b) shall file a Notice of Appearance containing the statements referred to in subrules (1)(b) and (1)(d) (ii) or (iii). Record for Review 41. (1) The investigating authority whose final determination is under review shall, within 15 days after the expiration of the time period fixed for filing a Notice of Appearance, file with the responsible Secretariat (a) nine copies of the final determination, including reasons for the final determination; (b) two copies of an Index comprised of a descriptive list of all items contained in the administrative record, together with proof of service of the Index on all participants; and (c) subject to subrules (3), (4) and (5), two copies of the administrative record. (2) An Index referred to in subrule (1) shall, where applicable, identify those items that contain proprietary information, privileged information or government information by a statement to that effect. (3) Where a document containing proprietary information is filed, it shall be filed under seal in accordance with rule 44. (4) No privileged information shall be filed with the responsible Secretariat unless the investigating authority waives the privilege and voluntarily files the information or the information is filed pursuant to an order of a panel. (5) No government information shall be filed with the responsible Secretariat unless the investigating authority, after having reviewed the government information and, where applicable, after having pursued appropriate review procedures, determines that the information may be disclosed.
