FR940525-1-00066 FR940525-1-00008 ( 3 ) In specifying the nutrient, the claim uses the terms ``saturated fat'' and ``cholesterol'' and lists both; ( 4 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of coronary heart disease risk reduction to diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol; and ( 5 ) The claim states that coronary heart disease risk depends on many factors. (B) Nature of the food . The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat,'' ``low saturated fat,'' and ``low cholesterol'' as defined in ยง317.362, except that the product may meet all the requirements for ``extra lean'' in ยง317.362. (4) Optional information . (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors in addition to saturated fat and cholesterol about which there is general scientific agreement that they are major risk factors for this disease: A family history of coronary heart disease, elevated blood total- and LDL-cholesterol, excess body weight, high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diabetes, and physical inactivity. (ii) The claim may indicate that the relationship of saturated fat and cholesterol to heart disease is through the intermediate link of ``blood cholesterol'' or ``blood total- and LDL-cholesterol.'' (iii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between dietary saturated fat and cholesterol and risk of coronary heart disease and the significance of the relationship. (iv) In specifying the nutrient, the claim may include the term ``total fat'' in addition to the terms ``saturated fat'' and ``cholesterol.'' (v) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with ``Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans.'' (vi) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have coronary heart disease. The source of this information must be identified, and it must be current information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (vii) The claim may state that individuals with elevated blood total- or LDL-cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. If the claim defines high or normal blood total- or LDL-cholesterol, then it shall state that individuals with high blood cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. (5) Model health claims . The following model health claims may be used in food labeling to describe the relationship between dietary saturated fat and cholesterol and risk of heart disease: (i) While many factors affect heart disease, diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol may reduce the risk of this disease. (ii) Development of heart disease depends upon many factors, but its risk may be reduced by diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and healthy lifestyles. (iii) Development of heart disease depends on many factors, including a family history of the disease, high blood LDL-cholesterol, diabetes, high blood pressure, being overweight, cigarette smoking, lack of exercise, and the type of dietary pattern. A healthful diet low in saturated fat, total fat, and cholesterol, as part of a healthy lifestyle, may lower blood cholesterol levels and may reduce the risk of heart disease. (iv) Many factors, such as family history of the disease, increased blood total- and LDL-cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diabetes, and being overweight, contribute to developing heart disease. Eating a diet low in saturated fat, cholesterol, and total fat may help reduce the risk of heart disease. (v) Diets low in saturated fat, cholesterol, and total fat may reduce the risk of heart disease. Heart disease is dependent upon many factors, including diet, a family history of the disease, elevated blood LDL-cholesterol levels, and physical inactivity. (e) Fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables and cancer _(1) Relationship between diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables and cancer risk. (i) Cancer is a constellation of more than 100 different diseases, each characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. Cancer has many causes and stages in its development. Both genetic and environmental risk factors may affect the risk of cancer. Risk factors include a family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors. (ii) The scientific evidence establishes that diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables are associated with a reduced risk of some types of cancer. Although the specific role of total dietary fiber, fiber components, and the multiple nutrients and other substances contained in these foods are not fully understood, many studies have shown that diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing foods are associated with reduced risk of some types of cancer. (2) Significance of the relationship between consumption of diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables and risk of cancer. (i) Cancer is ranked as a leading cause of death in the United States. The overall economic costs of cancer, including direct health care costs and losses due to morbidity and mortality, are very high. (ii) U.S. diets tend to be high in fat and low in grain products, fruits, and vegetables. Studies in various parts of the world indicate that populations who habitually consume a diet high in plant foods have lower risks of some cancers. These diets are generally low in fat and rich in many nutrients, including, but not limited to, dietary fiber. Current dietary guidelines from the Federal Government and nationally recognized health professional organizations recommend decreased consumption of fats (less than 30 percent of calories), maintenance of desirable body weight, and increased consumption of fruits and vegetables (five or more servings daily), and grain products (six or more servings daily).
