FR941116-0-00181 FR941116-0-00022 (f) With respect to each producer, the maximum quantity eligible for target price put options is limited to the quantity determined by multiplying the participant's 1994 production adjustment payment acreage times the crop payment yield. The quantity eligible for price support put options is limited to the actual production eligible to be pledged as collateral for a CCC price support loan less any amount enrolled at the target price strike price level. Additionally, the total quantity of corn enrolled in the pilot program per participant shall not exceed 10 option contracts (50,000 bushels), and the total quantity of wheat and soybeans enrolled shall not exceed 3 option contracts (15,000 bushels). (g) In order for producers of seed corn who enroll in the Options Program to receive the same benefits of the program as other enrolled producers, such producers shall have the actual quantity considered priced increased by the ratio of the farm payment yield established for the crop for the farm and the actual yield. (h) If a producer enrolled in the program is not in compliance with the provisions of the 1994 production adjustment program for wheat or corn, as applicable, the producer will be required to repay any premiums and incentive payments made, in addition to any interest determined in accordance with the provisions of such program agreement. Subpart D_Payments and Documentation ยง1415.20 Premium and incentive payments. (a) Producers participating in the Options Program will be reimbursed by CCC for the cost of the put option premium, subject to the total payment limitation specified in ยง1415.24. (b) Producers who comply with all terms and conditions of the CCC&hyph;300 agreement will receive an incentive payment equal to $.05 cents per bushel (or $250 per option contract of 5000 bushels) for purchasing a target price or loan rate put option. (c) The incentive payments will be issued: (1) At the expiration of the options program contract for all eligible bushels; (2) After all participation requirements have been fulfilled, and: (i) The options position has been closed through either: (A) Selling the put option; (B) Exercising the put option; or (C) Allowing the put option to expire; and (ii) The commodity has been priced. (d)(1) Producers enrolled in the options program shall price their enrolled grain: (i) To a licensed, bonded grain dealer, grain merchant, or warehouse; or (ii) for short hedges, through a registered commodity broker. (2) Documentation must be provided that such a transaction took place. (e) Payments due eligible producers must be made within 30 calendar days after the payment due date specified in part 1413 of this chapter. If such payments are not issued within 30 calendar days after the due date, the producer will be also issued prompt payment interest. (f) CCC will collect the excess premium issued at the time the actual payment acreage is reported by the producer, and no incentive payment will be issued with respect to the overstated acreage if, for target price participation, the acreage enrolled in the 1994 production adjustment program which is used in determining deficiency payments is less than the intended payment acreage specified in the agreement. However, the producer will be allowed to keep the put option with respect to the additional bushels. (g) The producer will not be allowed to increase the quantity of the commodity enrolled in the program if, for target price participation, the acreage enrolled in the 1994 production adjustment program, which is used in determining deficiency payments, is more than the intended payment acreage specified in the agreement. (h) Producers enrolled in the program at the target price level who have received an advance deficiency payment on production enrolled in the program will have such amount deducted from the premium earned for the put options. ยง1415.21 Documentation. (a) To receive reimbursement for the cost of the premium of the put option, the producer shall provide to CCC documentary evidence of the purchase. (b) Such documentation shall include: (1) Broker's or brokerage firm's name and address; (2) Producer's account number; (3) The commodity for which the put option was purchased; (4) The date the put option was purchased;
