FR940921-2-00082 FR940921-2-00069 A written instrument that contains less than the total of the terms cannot, by definition, be ``the'' conveyance. He further points out that the filing system under the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted in the various states, is totally dissimilar from the filing system under section 503 of the Federal Aviation Act. He also says that the leading court cases which discuss the purposes of the Federal aircraft recording system do not factually involve the issue of whether proprietary information may be omitted. The case for permitting documents to be recorded with deletions is set out in letters from Pegasus Capital Corporation; Crowe and Dunlevy; American Airlines; USAir; AINA Holdings, Inc.; British Aerospace, Inc.; Milbank, Tweed, Hadley and McCloy; United Airlines; Paul, Hastings, Janofsky, and Walker; Federal Express; Air Transport Association; and McAfee and Taft. In regard to policy issues, practically all persons supporting FAA's recording documents with omissions or redactions have mentioned the significant harm which would befall airlines if confidential financial information were required to be released. They assert that the harm comes not only as a result of the advantage to other airlines in knowing proprietary information about the competition, but also in the weakened negotiating position of airlines if lenders are aware of financial concessions in previous agreements. Moreover, it is urged that foreign airlines and nonaviation businesses would have a distinct advantage in competing for capital. Several airlines point out that there is a significant amount of information concerning airline fitness already available to the public. In any event, they say that the Registry was never intended as a database for financial information which even airlines' stockholders can't obtain. Several commenters suggest that full disclosure does not benefit the public at large but only parochial interests. With respect to legal issues, practically all pro-omission commenters point out that there is no statutory or regulatory basis to require disclosure of confidential financial information. By reference to legislative history, case law, and ``plain meaning'' of section 503 of the Federal Aviation Act, they point out that the Registry was established as a clearing house solely to allow interested persons to check on interests in aircraft. An attorney in Oklahoma City argues that FAA's position with respect to permitting omissions has not really changed since 1938. He alleges that neither FAA nor its predecessor, Civil Aeronautics Authority, ever required a promissory note with underlying financial information be filed with a chattel mortgage. He also alleges that the Registry has historically accepted security agreements which contain blanks representing financial terms. Several commenters analogize the FAA recording system to that established in each of the states based on the Uniform Commercial Code's model. One airline suggests that the FAA recording system would pass legal muster even if it were only a ``notice system.'' A law firm says a ``bare-bones conveyance'' is recordable with ``superfluous information in an unrecorded document.'' Four commenters have pointed out that since 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4) exempts release of commercial or financial information under the Freedom of Information Act, the Registry should not disclose such information. An airline says that under section 1104 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958 (49 App. U.S.C. 1505), disclosure of information obtained by FAA is not permitted if such disclosure would ``adversely affect the competitive position of any carrier in foreign air transportation.'' Two law firms say that FAA should not be in the business of determining the validity of instruments since that is reserved to the states under section 506 of the Act. An Oklahoma City attorney says that Congress' intent in creating the FAA recording system can be gleaned from section 503(g) of the Act (49 App. U.S.C. 1503(g)) which authorizes FAA to issue regulations providing for endorsements upon certificates of registrations ``as may be necessary to facilitate the determination of the rights of parties dealing with civil aircraft *␣*␣*.'' The same attorney suggests that a recordable ``conveyance'' is simply whatever the Registry will accept under §49.33(a) of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 49.33(a)). In answer to Locke Parnell's assertion that permitting documents to be recorded with omissions requires rulemaking action by FAA, a commenter says that the ``policy'' or ``rule'' which permits omissions is exempted from rulemaking by the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A) because it is an interpretative rule. All comments have been reviewed. We now begin discussion by considering the statutory language. In pertinent part, section 503(a)(1) of the Act (49 App. U.S.C. 2403(a)(1)) provides: The Secretary of Transportation shall establish and maintain a system for the recording of *␣*␣* any conveyance which affects the title to, or any interest in, any civil aircraft of the United States. Under section 101(20) of the Act (49 App. U.S.C. 1301(20)), a ``conveyance'' means: A bill of sale, contract of conditional sale, mortgage, assignment of mortgage, or other instrument affecting title to, or interest in, property.
