FR940706-0-00032 FR940706-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 23 [Docket No. 118CE, Special Condition 23&hyph;ACE&hyph;76] Special Conditions,; Ballistic Recovery Systems, Modified for Small General Aviation Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Final special conditions. SUMMARY: These special conditions are being issued for the supplementary type certification of the Ballistic Recovery Systems, Inc., parachute recovery system installed in small general aviation airplanes. This system is referred to as the GARD. Airplanes modified to use this system will incorporate novel or unusual design features for which the applicable airworthiness regulations do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards. These special conditions contain the additional airworthiness standards that the Administrator considers necessary to establish a level of safety equivalent to the original certification basis for these airplanes. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lowell Foster, Aerospace Engineer, Standards Office (ACE&hyph;100), Small Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service, Federal Aviation Administration, 601 East 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri, 64106; telephone (816) 426&hyph;5688. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On January 12, 1987, the Ballistic Recovery System, Inc. (BRS), 9242 Hudson Boulevard, Lake Elmo, Minnesota 55042, filed an application for a supplemental type certificate (STC) to install the GARD&hyph;150 parachute recovery system on Cessna 150/A150 Series and 152/A152 Model Airplanes. Subsequently, they received the STC under Special Condition 23&hyph;ACE&hyph;33, dated November 17, 1987. The parachute recovery system is intended to recover an airplane in emergency situations such as mid-air collision, loss of engine power, loss of airplane control, sever structural failure, pilot disorientation, or pilot incapacitation with a passenger on board. The GARD&hyph;150 system, which is only used as a last resort, is intended to prevent serious injuries to the airplane occupants by parachuting the airplane to the ground. BRS followed their STC on the Cessna 150/A150 and 152/A152 Series with request for special conditions on the General Aviation Recovery Device (GARD) system that would be applicable to most general aviation airplanes. The nature of the parachute recovery system applies to most general aviation airplanes with similar configurations and characteristics. Separate special conditions for each airplane model are not needed. Parachute recovery systems typically consist of a parachute packed in a canister mounted on the airframe. A solid propellant rocket motor or compressed air may deploy the canopy and is usually located on the side of the canister. A door positioned above the canister seals the canister, parachute canopy, and rocket motor from the elements and provides free exit when the canopy is deployed. These systems are deployed by a mechanical pull handle mounted so that the pilot and passenger can reach it. At least two separate and independent actions are required to deploy the system. A multicable bridle attaches the canopy bridle to the airplane primary structure. The cable lengths are designed to provide the best airplane touchdown attitude. The cables are routed externally and covered with small frangible fairings from the fuselage exist holes to the attach points. The applicants must supplement the FAA-approved Flight Manual as part of the STC. The supplement will describe the system, define the operating envelope with appropriate warnings, and define required system maintenance and inspection information. A separate FAA-approved Operating Manual describing the previous items will be provided for those airplanes that do not have an FAA-approved Flight Manual. Recommended placards should be located near the pull handle in clear view of the pilot to identify the system and operating envelope, state deployment actions, and provide appropriate warnings. A warning placard should also be located on the canister near the rocket motor. Discussion The installation of parachute recovery systems in part 23, VLA, and primary category airplanes was not envisioned when the certification basis for these airplanes was established. In addition, the Administrator has determined that current regulations do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards for a parachute recovery system; therefore, this system is considered a novel and unusual design feature. Special conditions may be issued and amended, as necessary, as part of the type certification basis if the Administrator finds that the airworthiness standards designated in accordance with §21.101(b)(1) do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards because of the novel and unusual design features of the airplane modification. Special conditions, as appropriate, are issued after public notice in accordance with §11.49 (as amended October 25, 1989), as required by §§11.28 and 11.29(b). The special conditions become part of the type certification basis, as provided by §21.17(a)(2). The flight test demonstration requirements will ensure that the parachute recovery system will perform its intended function without exceeding its strength capabilities. Demonstrations will be required to show that the parachute will deploy in various specified flight conditions. Occupant restraint requirements will ensure that airplanes modified with a parachute recovery system are equipped with a restraint system designed to protect the occupants from injury during parachute deployment and ground impact.
