FR941202-0-00078 FR941202-0-00010 (b) Each owner or operator of a remote-reservoir batch cold solvent cleaning machine shall employ a tightly fitting cover over the solvent sump that shall be closed at all times except during the cleaning of parts. (c) Each owner or operator of a batch cold solvent cleaning machine complying with paragraphs (a)(2) or (b) of this section shall comply with the work and operational practice requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(8) of this section. (1) All waste solvent shall be collected and stored in closed containers. The closed container may contain a device that allows pressure relief, but does not allow liquid solvent to drain from the container. (2) If a flexible hose or flushing device is used, flushing shall be performed only within the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine. (3) The owner or operator shall drain solvent cleaned parts for 15 seconds or until dripping has stopped, whichever is longer. Parts having cavities or blind holes shall be tipped or rotated while draining. (4) The owner or operator shall ensure that the solvent level does not exceed the fill line. (5) Spills during solvent transfer shall be wiped up immediately. The wipe rags shall be stored in covered containers meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (6) When an air- or pump-agitated solvent bath is used, the owner or operator shall ensure that the agitator is operated to produce a rolling motion of the solvent but not observable splashing against tank walls or parts being cleaned. (7) The owner or operator shall ensure that, when the cover is open, the cold cleaning machine is not exposed to drafts greater than 40 meters per minute (132 feet per minute), as measured between 1 and 2 meters (3.3 and 6.6 feet) upwind and at the same elevation as the tank lip. (8) Sponges, fabric, wood, and paper products shall not be cleaned. (d) Each owner or operator of a batch cold cleaning machine shall submit an initial notification report as described in §63.468(a) and a compliance report as described in §63.468(b). No further reporting or recordkeeping is required. §63.463 Batch vapor and in-line cleaning machine standards. (a) Except as provided in §63.464, each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall ensure that each existing or new batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart conforms to the design requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section. (1) Each cleaning machine shall be designed or operated to meet the control equipment or technique requirements in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section. (i) An idling and downtime mode cover, as described in §63.463(d)(1)(i), that may be readily opened or closed, that completely covers the cleaning machine openings when in place, and is free of cracks, holes, and other defects. (ii) A reduced room draft as described in §63.463(e)(2)(ii). (2) Each cleaning machine shall have a freeboard ratio of 0.75 or greater. (3) Each cleaning machine shall have an automated parts handling system capable of moving parts or parts baskets at a speed of 3.4 meters per minute (11 feet per minute) or less from the initial loading of parts through removal of cleaned parts. (4) Each vapor cleaning machine shall be equipped with a device that shuts off the sump heat if the sump liquid solvent level drops to the sump heater coils. (5) Each vapor cleaning machine shall be equipped with a vapor level control device that shuts off sump heat if the vapor level in the vapor cleaning machine rises above the height of the primary condenser. (6) Each vapor cleaning machine shall have a primary condenser.
