FR941006-2-00030 FR941006-2-00018 Petitioners seek a declaratory order holding that the proposed facilities would have the primary function of gathering natural gas and would thereby be exempt from the Commission's jurisdiction pursuant to Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act. In support of its claim that the primary function of the proposed facility is gathering, Petitioners point out the following: (1) The length (45 to 60 miles) and diameter (14 inches) are comparable to other OCS facilities previously determined to be gathering, (2) the geographic configuration of the facility (a, straight line, relatively small diameter gathering line feeding production into an interstate pipeline) is consistent with other OCS gathering facilities, (3) preliminary separation, dehydration, and compression will be done on the MARS TLP, (4) the facility will be located entirely behind onshore processing plants, and (5) the facility would be owned and operated by companies engaging primarily in exploration, production and non-jurisdictional gas gathering activities. Comment date: November 1, 1994, in accordance with the first paragraph of Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. 5. Southern Natural Gas Co. [Docket No. CP94&hyph;809&hyph;000] Take notice that on September 27, 1994, Southern Natural Gas Company (Southern), P.O. Box 2563, Birmingham, Alabama 35202&hyph;2563, filed in Docket No. CP94&hyph;809&hyph;000 a request pursuant to Sections 157.205, 157.212, and 157.216 of the Commission's Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.205, 157.212, and 157.216) for authorization to abandon certain regulating and measurement facilities and change the operation of an existing delivery point for Alabama Gas Corporation (Alagasco), under the blanket certificate issued in Docket No. CP82&hyph;406&hyph;000, pursuant to Sections 7(b) and 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act, all as more fully set forth in the request which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. Southern states that it is currently authorized to sell and deliver natural gas to the Chilton County Gas District (Chilton) at the Chilton County Delivery Point (Chilton County), in Shelby County, Alabama, and to transport and sell natural gas to Alagasco at the Montevallo Point of Delivery, also in Shelby County. Southern states that, in October 1993, Alagasco acquired the distribution facilities of Chilton. It is indicated that the two above-mentioned delivery points lie adjacent to each other. Southern states that, since Alagasco now serves the distribution facilities behind both of these delivery points, Alagasco has requested and Southern has agreed to consolidate deliveries at these two delivery points so that all gas that is now delivered to Alagasco at Chilton County would be delivered to Alagasco at Montevallo. Accordingly, Southern proposes to abandon the measurement facilities at Chilton County. Southern states that, in order to accommodate the combined stream of volumes at Montevallo, Southern requests authorization under ยง157.212(a) of the Commission's Regulations to deliver gas to Montevallo at a contract delivery pressure of mainline pressure not less than 150 psig and to install a 3-inch rotary meter to have the ability to measure accurately the additional level of flow at the higher pressure. Southern also indicates that, to implement the change in contract delivery pressure, it requests authorization to abandon two 3-inch regulators at Montevallo which had been used to reduce pressure from Southern's mainline to the present contract delivery pressure of 75 psig. In addition, Southern proposes to abandon the meter station at Chilton County. Southern states that the modification of the Montevallo Station would eliminate the need to continue the Chilton County Station. In addition, Southern states that the abandonment of the Chilton County Station would decrease Southern's maintenance costs. Southern advises that the total volumes to be delivered to Alagasco after the request do not exceed the total volumes authorized prior to the request. Also, Southern indicates that the proposed activity is not prohibited by its existing tariff and that it has sufficient capacity to accommodate the changes proposed herein without detriment or disadvantage to Southern's other customers. In addition, Southern indicates that the changes in operations at Montevallo would have no impact on Southern's ability to serve its peak day and annual requirements. Comment date: November 14, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph G at the end of this notice.
