FR940928-0-00055 FR940928-0-00019 Interested persons are invited to participate in the rulemaking by submitting data, comments, or information with respect to the test procedures set forth in this notice to the address indicated at the beginning of the notice. Comments should be identified both on the envelope and on the documents as ``Test Procedures for Fluorescent and Incandescent Lamps, Docket No. EE-RM&hyph;94&hyph;220&hyph;IF.'' Eight (8) copies are requested to be submitted. If possible, the Department would appreciate an electronic copy of the comments on a 3.5'' diskette. The Department is currently using WordPerfect TM 5.1. All submittals received by the date specified at the beginning of this notice will be considered by the Department of Energy before final action is taken on the Interim Final Rule. Pursuant to the provisions of 10 CFR 1004.11, any person submitting information which he or she believes to be confidential and exempt by law from public disclosure should submit one complete copy of the document and seven copies, if possible, from which the information believed to be confidential has been deleted. The Department of Energy will make its own determination with regard to the confidential status of the information and treat it according to its determination. Factors of interest to the Department of Energy when evaluating requests to treat as confidential information that has been submitted include: (1) A description of the items; (2) an indication as to whether and why such items are customarily treated as confidential within the industry; (3) whether the information is generally known by, or available from, other sources; (4) whether the information has previously been made available to others without obligation concerning its confidentiality; (5) an explanation of the competitive injury to the submitting person which would result from public disclosure; (6) an indication as to when such information might lose its confidential character due to the passage of time; and (7) why disclosure of the information would be contrary to the public interest. B. Issues for Public Comment The Department of Energy is interested in receiving comments and data concerning the accuracy and workability of these test procedures. Also, the Department of Energy welcomes discussion on improvements or alternatives to these approaches. In particular, the Department of Energy is interested in gathering comments on the following: •Number of lamps tested in 12 months. •Frequency of sampling, i.e., by production lot, by month, etc. •Definition of cold temperature fluorescent lamp. List of Subjects in 10 CFR Part 430 Administrative practice and procedure, Energy conservation, Household appliances, Incorporation by reference. Issued in Washington, D.C., August 10, 1994. Christine A. Ervin, Assistant Secretary, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
