FR941019-1-00002 FR941019-1-00001 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 50 RIN 3150&hyph;AE97 Shutdown and Low-Power Operations for Nuclear Power Reactors AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is proposing to amend its regulations to require power reactor licensees to: Assure that uncontrolled changes in reactivity, reactor coolant inventory, and loss of subcooled state in the reactor coolant system when subcooled conditions are normally being maintained, will not occur when the plant is in either a shutdown or low power condition; assure that containment integrity is maintained or can be reestablished in a timely manner as needed to prevent releases in excess of the current limits in the regulations when the plant is in either a shutdown or low power condition; establish controls in technical specifications limiting conditions for operation and surveillance requirements or plant procedures required by technical specifications administrative controls for equipment which the licensee identifies as necessary to perform their safety function when the plant is in a shutdown or low power condition; evaluate realistically the effect of fires stemming from activities conducted during cold shutdown or refueling conditions, determine whether such fires could realistically prevent accomplishment of the normal decay heat removal capability, and if so, either provide measures to prevent loss of normal decay heat removal or establish a contingency plan that would ensure that an alternate decay heat removal capability exists; and for licensees of PWRs only, provide instrumentation for monitoring water level in the RCS during midloop operation. The proposed amendments would provide substantial additional protection to public health and safety from the risk of a core-melt accident. DATES: The comment period expires January 3, 1995. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments to: Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555&hyph;0001, ATTN: Docketing and Service Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm Federal workdays. Copies of comments received may be examined and copied for a fee at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW (Lower Level), Washington, DC.
