FR940610-2-00180 FR940610-2-00092 Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee; Transport Airplane and Engine Issues AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of new task assignment for the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. SUMMARY: Notice is given of new task assignments for the Flight Test Working Group of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC). This notice informs the public of the activities of the ARAC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael H. Borfitz, Assistant Executive Director, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee, Transport Airplane and Engine Issues, FAA Engine & Propeller Directorate, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, Massachusetts 01803; telephone (617) 238&hyph;7110, fax (617) 238&hyph;7199. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On January 22, 1991 (56 FR 2190), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) established the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC). The committee provides advice and recommendations to the FAA Administrator, through the Associate Administrator for Regulation and Certification, on the full range of the FAA's rulemaking activities with respect to aviation-related issues. In order to develop such advice and recommendations, the ARAC may choose to establish working groups to which specific tasks are assigned. Such working groups are comprised of experts from those organizations having an interest in the assigned task. A working group member need not be a representative of the full committee. One of the working groups established by the ARAC is the Flight Test Working Group. The FAA announced at the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA)-Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Harmonization Conference in Toronto, Canada June 2&hyph;5, 1992, that it would consolidate within the ARAC structure an ongoing objective to ``harmonize'' the Joint Aviation Requirements (JAR) and the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR). Task The Flight Test Working Group's tasks are as follows: Task 1_Gate Requirements for High Lift Devices: Recommend to the ARAC simplified and clarified requirements related to gated positions on the control used by the pilot select the position of an airplane's high lift devices. Task 2_Flight Characteristics in Icing Conditions: Recommend to the ARAC new or revised requirements and compliance methods related to airplane performance and handling characteristics in icing conditions. Reports For each task listed above, the Flight Test Working Group should develop and present to the ARAC: 1. A recommended work plan for completion of the task, including the rationale supporting such plan, for consideration at the meeting of the ARAC to consider transport airplane and engine issues held following publication of this notice; 2. A detailed conceptual presentation on the proposed recommendation(s), prior to proceeding with the work stated in item 3. below; 3. A draft Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), with supporting economic and other required analyses, and/or any other related guidance material or collateral documents the working group determines to be appropriate; or, if new or revised requirements of compliance methods are not recommended, a draft report stating the rationale for not making such recommendations; and 4. A status report at each meeting of the ARAC held to consider transport airplane and engine issues. Participation in Working Group Task An individual who has expertise in the subject matter and wishes to become a member of the working group should write to the person listed under the caption FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT expressing that desire, describing his or her interest in the task and stating the expertise he or she would bring to the working group. The request will be reviewed with the assistant chairman and working group leader, and the individual will be advised whether or not the request can be accommodated. The Secretary of Transportation has determined that the information and use of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee are necessary in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on the FAA by law. Meetings of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee will be open to the public, except as authorized by section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Meetings of the working group will not be open to the public, except to the extent that individuals with an interest and expertise are selected to participate. No public announcement of working group meetings will be made. Issued in Washington, DC, on June 3, 1994. Chris A. Christie, Executive Director, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14145 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
