FR940607-2-00050 FR940607-2-00040 The HCP addresses the following species of concern and listed plants, in addition to the federally protected species which will be covered by the plan: Short-nosed kangaroo rat, San Joaquin antelope squirrel, San Joaquin pocket mouse, Bakersfield saltbush, Slough thistle, recurved larkspur, Tulare pseudobahia, striped adobe lily, Bakersfield cactus, California jewel flower, San Joaquin wooly-threads, Hoover's wooly-star and Kern mallow. The federally listed species are scattered generally throughout the open, non-urbanized lands of the Metropolitan Bakersfield area. According to biological surveys conducted for the HCP and surveys conducted by others since 1980, several of the species of concern may no longer occur in the area. the San Joaquin kit fox is the most widespread of the species of concern and is most frequently affected by urbanization in the HCP area. High potential for impact and the need for large preserves make the kit for a natural focus for the HCP. Much of the area is in intensive agriculture, but retains value for kit fox in prey and even for dens in berms, near water impoundments, and on fallow land. Urbanization of agricultural land will result in a take of species, loss of habitat, and intensification of population related take ( e.g., road kills). The natural lands of the area have greater species value and represent more viable long-term habitat. The HCP describes a method of collecting funds for the acquisition and/or enhancement of natural lands and restorable lands for purpsoes of preserves. Areas targeted for acquisition have been identified for conservation by the Service and CDFG as part of the Biological Framework for Natural Lands and Endangered Species in the southern San Joaquin Valley. The HCP also provided for the minimization of take within the developed area. The HCP addresses two categories of land: (1) Natural land, meaning land generally in grazing and with original soil and topography intact, and (2) open land, which includes natural land as well as agriculture and all other non-urban land in the area. Urbanization of either category would pay the same mitigation fee, but the two are distinguished for the purposes of environmental assessment and permit monitoring. The HCP provides for: 1. Acquisition and management of a minimum of 3 acres of significant value endangered species habitat for every 1 acre of ``natural'' land developed within the HCP area, or acquisition and management of 1 acre of significant value endangered species habitat for every 1 acre of ``open'' land developed within the HCP area, whichever is greater. 2. Land acquisition outside of the HCP area with consideration to pre-approved acquisition areas identified by CDFG. 3. Acquisition and management of between 500 and 1,000 acres of land in the northeast portion of the study area for the primary purpose of preserving the Bakersfield cactus. 4. Acquisition and management of land, as feasible, adjacent to the Kern Water Bank project on the west side of I&hyph;5, south of Panama Lane. 5. Pursuit of cooperative agreements for restoring and enhancing land, as feasible, within the Kern Water Bank project area and provide funding as appropriate. 6. Limited relocation or displacement of individuals in areas affected by development as a means of reducing direct take of endangered species.
