FR940404-2-00137 FR940404-2-00092 DEPARTMENT OF STATE [Public Notice 1975] Participation of Private-Sector Representatives on U.S. Delegations As announced in Public Notice No. 655 (44 FR 17846), March 23, 1979, the Department is submitting its June 1992 through December 1993 list of U.S. accredited Delegations which included private-sector representatives. Publication of this list is required by Article III(c) of the guidelines published in the Federal Register on March 23, 1979. Dated: March 21, 1994. Frank R. Provyn, Managing Director, Office of International Conferences. United States Delegation to the Maritime Transport Committee (MTC), June 1 and 3&hyph;4 and Informal Meeting Between Members of the Maritime Transport Committee and Representatives of the Central and Eastern European Countries (June 1&hyph;3), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, June 1&hyph;4, 1992 Representative Geoffrey Ogden, Director, Office of Maritime and Land Transport, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Alternate Representative Ralph Edwards, Office of International Affairs, Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation Adviser Appropriate USOECD, Mission Officer, Paris Private Sector Advisers Philip J. Loree, Chairman, Federation of American Controlled Shipping, New York, New York Donald L. O'Hare, Sea-Land Corporation, Iselin, New Jersey Peter Prowitt, American President Corporation, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the Inter-American Telecommunications Conference (CITEL), Permanent Technical Committee II and Permanent Technical Committee III, Organization of American States (OAS), Mexico City, Mexico, August 24&hyph;28, 1992 Representative Warren G. Richards, Director, Radio Spectrum Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Advisers Giselle Gomez, Electronics Engineer, Office of Regulatory Affairs, United States Information Agency Cecily Holiday, Branch Chief, Satellite Radio, Federal Communications Commission H. Donald Messer, Broadcast Satellite Program Manager, United States Information Agency Lawrence Palmer, Telecommunication Policy Specialist, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Thomas Walsh, Senior International Engineer, Federal Communications Commission Private Sector Advisers William Borman, Vice President, Global Spectrum Management, Motorola Corporation, Washington, DC Alan L. Box, President, EZ Communications, Fairfax, Virginia Robert D. Briskman, President, Satellite CD Radio, Washington, DC Martin Deckett, Director, Business Development, ORBCOM Incorporated, Fairfax, Virginia David Fine, Assistant Vice President, Government and International Relations, Southwest Bell, Washington, DC Mario Florian, Consultant, ORBCOM Incorporated, Fairfax, Virginia Richard G. Gould, Consultant, Telecommunications Systems, Washington, DC Ronald Lepkowski, Consultant, Alexandria, Virginia Alireza Mahmoodshahi, Technical Staff, AT&T Bell Laboratories, Holmdel, New Jersey Edward E. Reinhardt, Consultant, McLean, Virginia Allan Renshaw, Program Manager, Starsys Global Positioning Incorporated, London, Maryland Glenn S. Richards, Attorney, American Mobile Satellite Corporation, Washington, DC Paul Rinaldo, Technical Director, American Radio Relay League, Washington, DC Kenneth Springer, Staff Engineer, National Association of Broadcasters, Washington, DC Valerie Schulte, Senior Associate General Council, National Association of Broadcasters, Washington, DC
