FR941117-0-00202 FR941117-0-00013 To encourage the development of state-based depositories, the Commission has amended Rule 15c2&hyph;12 to require that Participating Underwriters reasonably determine that the information undertaken to be provided, in addition to being submitted to the NRMSIRs, or, in some cases, to the MSRB, will be submitted to a state information depository (``SID''), if an appropriate SID has been established in that state. Further, as discussed below, 166 an exemption conditioned on making annual financial information available upon request or to a SID, and providing notices of material events to each NRMSIR or the MSRB, and to a SID, has been adopted. An appropriate SID would be a depository operated or designated 167 by the state that receives information from all issuers within the state, and makes this information available promptly to the public on a contemporaneous basis. 168 The Commission staff is prepared to provide guidance in particular instances regarding a SID's qualification for purposes of the rule. 166 See Section II.D.1. infra. 167 There is no requirement that SIDs be instrumentalities of a state. A number of private organizations already function as state-based repositories, at times at no cost to the taxpayer. The Commission defers to each state's determination whether to have a private or public entity be its SID. 168 As with NRMSIRs, for a SID to give preferential treatment to a NRMSIR by giving it market information before it is made available to other NRMSIRs would be wholly inconsistent with functioning as a SID. 4. Information Delivery Requirements The Proposing Release asked to whom the required information should be delivered. It also requested comment on the feasibility of requiring NRMSIRs to inform the MSRB when they receive disclosure information from issuers, and whether such information also should be required to be placed with the MSRB, in addition to or in lieu of a NRMSIR. The NRMSIRs did not address the issue of requiring them to inform the MSRB whenever they received disclosure information from an issuer, although one commenter argued that designating the MSRB as a repository only would add an unnecessary layer to the dissemination process. 169 Other commenters suggested designating a single central repository. 170 Similarly, some commenters suggested imposing a requirement that disclosure information be delivered to all NRMSIRs, 171 while others suggested that NRMSIRs be required to share the information received with other NRMSIRs, 172 and a third group preferred the establishment of a central index. 173 State-based information gatherers and disemminators had diverging views on this issue. 174 169 Letter of Bloomberg L.P. 170 See , e.g. , Artemis Capital Group, Ltd. (proposing that the Commission designate the MSRB's MSIL system as the single central repository); Letter of Chapman and Cutler (there should be one central source of information). 171 See, e.g. , Letter of J.J. Kenny Co.; Letter of National Association of Independent Public Financial Advisers. 172 See, e.g. , Letter of MSRB; Letter of Richard A. Ciccarone. 173 Letter of Storch & Brenner (on behalf of R.R. Donnelly Financial); Letter of The Bond Buyer. 174 The Ohio Municipal Advisory Council stated that it is feasible to require repositories to inform the MSRB as to which issuers have released information to it. Under Cypress Capital Corporation's proposal, the indexing party would receive descriptions of all materials received by the Louisiana Repository. But see , Letter of NASACT (requirement that a repository be required to notify a central index each time an item of information is received by the repository is unduly burdensome and unnecessary). Based on these comments, the Commission has determined to require that annual financial information undertaken to be provided be deposited with each NRMSIR and the appropriate SID in the issuer's state. Any audited financial statements submitted in accordance with the undertakings also must be delivered to each NRMSIR and to the SID in the issuer's state, if such a depository has been established. The requirement to have annual financial information and audited financial statements delivered to all NRMSIRs and the appropriate SID is a modification of the Proposed Amendments. This modification will ensure that all NRMSIRs receive disclosure information directly. It also permits the Commission to adopt the amendments without a delay for the creation of a central index or a system of information sharing among NRMSIRs. 175 The requirement to send information to all NRMSIRs rather than a single NRMSIR of the issuer's or obligated person's choice, should not impose significant burdens or costs, other than duplication and mailing costs. Furthermore, this requirement to deliver disclosure to the NRMSIRs and the appropriate SID also allays the anti-competitive concerns raised by the creation of a single NRMSIR. 175 Some commenters expressed an interest in creating a central index and an information sharing system. Letter of Storch & Brenner (on behalf of R.R. Donnelly Financial); Letter of Dow Jones Telerate, Inc. The Commission is prepared to review such mechanisms for centralized collection and dissemination if requested to do so. In contrast to annual financial information, under the amendments, notices of material events, as well as notices of a failure by an issuer or other obligated person to provide annual financial information must be delivered to each NRMSIR or the MSRB, and the appropriate SID. The Commission is of the view that permitting issuers and obligated persons to file such notices either with each NRMSIR or with the MSRB (as well as the appropriate SID) will facilitate prompt and wide disclosure. The amendments reflect the preference of some commenters for filing such notices in one central place, such as the MSRB, rather than having to file with multiple NRMSIRs. The Commission expects that if notices are filed with the MSRB, the MSRB will make these notices available to all NRMSIRs on a prompt and contemporaneous basis.
