FR940803-1-00021 FR940803-1-00004 Incidental fees, such as fees associated with state escheat laws, garnishment or attorneys fees, to change names on an account, to generate a midcycle periodic statement, to wrap loose coins, and fees for photocopying forms 2. Amount of fees. Credit unions must state the amount and conditions under which a fee may be imposed. Naming and describing the fee typically satisfies this requirement. Some examples are: ``$4.00 monthly service fee'' ``$7.00 and up'' or ``fee depends on style of checks ordered'' for check printing fees 3. Tied-accounts. Credit unions must state if fees that may be assessed against an account are tied to other accounts at the credit union. For example, if a credit union ties the fees payable on a share draft account to balances held in the share draft account and in a regular share account, the share draft account disclosures must state that fact and explain now the fee is determined. 4. Regulation E statements. Some fees are required to be disclosed under both Regulation E (12 CFR ยง205.7) and part 707. If such fees, such as ATM transaction fees, are disclosed on a Regulation E statement, they need not be disclosed again on a periodic statement required under part 707. (b)(5) Transaction limitations 1. General rule. Examples of limitations on the number or dollar amount of share deposits or withdrawals that credit unions must disclose are: Limits on the number of share drafts or checks that may be written on an account for a given time period Limits on withdrawals or share deposits during the term of a term share account Bylaw limitations (e.g., maximum amount of shares which may be held by any one member, NCUA Standard FCU Bylaws, Art. III, ยง2, and limitations of withdrawals, NCUA Standard FCU Bylaws, Art. III, ยง5(a)) Limitations required by Regulation D, such as the number of withdrawals permitted from money market share accounts by check to third parties each month (but they need not disclose that the credit union reserves the right to require a seven-day notice for a withdrawal from an account). (b)(6) Features of term share accounts (b)(6)(i) Time requirements 1. ``Callable'' term share accounts. In addition to the maturity date, credit unions must state the date or the circumstances under which the credit union may redeem a term share account at the credit union's option (a ``callable'' term share account). (b)(6)(ii) Early withdrawal penalties 1. General. The term ``penalty'' need not be used to describe the loss that may be incurred by members for early withdrawal of funds from term share accounts. 2. Examples. Examples of early withdrawal penalties are: Monetary penalties, such as ``$10.00'' or ``seven days' dividends plus accrued but uncredited dividends'' Adverse changes to terms such as the dividend rate, annual percentage yield, or compounding frequency for funds remaining in shares or on deposit Reclamation of bonuses 3. Relation to rules for IRAs or similar plans. Penalties imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for certain withdrawals from IRAs or similar pension or savings plans are not early withdrawal penalties. (b)(6)(iv) Renewal policies 1. Rollover term share accounts. Credit unions are not required to provide a grace period, to pay dividends during the grace period, or to disclose whether or not dividends will be paid during the grace period. Credit unions offering a grace period must give the length of the grace period. Commentary, Appendix B, Model Clauses, ยงB&hyph;1(i)(iv). 2. Nonrollover term share accounts. Credit unions that pay dividends on funds following the maturity of term share accounts that do not renew automatically need not state the rate (or annual percentage yield) that may be paid. Term share club accounts will generally have a specific maturity data and be nonrollover. (b)(7) Bonuses 1. General. Credit unions are required to state the amount and type of bonus, and disclose any minimum balance or time requirement to obtain the bonus and when the bonus will be provided. If the minimum balance or time requirement is otherwise required to be disclosed, credit unions need not duplicate the disclosure for purposes of this paragraph. (b)(8) Nature of dividends 1. General. Dividends are not payable until declared and unless sufficient current and undivided earnings are available after required transfers to reserves at the close of a dividend period. A disclosure explaining dividends educates members and protects credit unions in the event that a prospective dividend cannot be paid, or is not properly payable. This disclosure is required for all dividend-bearing share accounts except term share accounts. 2. State-chartered credit unions with interest-bearing deposit accounts. If a member of a state-chartered credit union is opening only an interest-bearing deposit account, or is requesting account disclosures only for an interest-bearing deposit account, the disclosures must generally include the following information on any dividend-bearing share portion of the account (e.g., membership share): the par value of a share; a statement that the portion of the deposit that represents the par value of the membership share will earn dividends and that dividends are paid from current income and available earnings after required transfers to reserves. Further additional disclosures, such as a separate dividend rate and annual percentage yield for the membership share, are not required (as they would agree with the remainder of the account, invested in an interest-bearing deposit). (c) Notice to existing accountholders 1. General. Only members who receive periodic statements (provided regularly at least four times per year) and who hold accounts of the type offered by the credit union as of the compliance date of part 707 (generally January 1, 1995) must receive the notice. If following receipt of the notice members request disclosures, credit unions have twenty calendar days from receipt of the request to provide the disclosures. Rate and annual percentage yield information in such disclosures must conform to that required for disclosures upon request As an alternative to including the notice in or on the periodic statement, the final rule permits credit unions to send the account disclosures themselves, as long as they are sent at the same time as the periodic statement (the disclosures may be mailed either with the periodic statement or separately). 2. Form of the notice. The notice may be included on the periodic statement, in a member newsletter, or on a statement stuffer or other insert, if it is clear and conspicuous and it is sent with the first periodic statement after the compliance date of part 707. The notice cannot be sent in a separate mailing from the periodic statement. 3. Timing. The notice may accompany the first periodic statement after the compliance date for part 707, or the periodic statement for the first cycle beginning after that date. For example, a credit union's statement cycle is December 15, 1994_January 14, 1995. The statement is mailed on January 15. The next cycle is January 15, 1995 through February 14, 1995, and the statement for that cycle is mailed on February 15. The credit union may provide the notice either on or with the January 15 statement or on or with the February 15 statement, as it covers the first cycle after January 1, 1995.
