FR940413-0-00035 FR940413-0-00007 The Champlain Warehouse Service should be shown on the entry or release documents in accordance with ยง142.3(a)(6), since there is no known buyer of the merchandise at the time of its importation and those are the premises in the U.S. to which the imported goods are being delivered. Example 4. Calgary Instruments Limited ships a small parcel containing a medical instrument to the UPS (United Parcel Service) hub in Sweetgrass, Montana, for subsequent delivery to Memorial Hospital in Great Falls, Montana. Reliable Broker is the importer of record for this shipment. Memorial Hospital is the ultimate consignee for this shipment, since it is the purchasing party, and UPS is merely a nominal consignee in the transaction. Example 5. An employee of Ontario Jewelry Sales Limited of Mississauga, Canada, imports in her personal baggage a collection of diamonds for display and possible sale at a jewelry exhibition taking place at the Intercontinental Hotel in Manhattan, New York. As in Example 3, since this shipment is not being imported subject to a contract of purchase or delivery at the time of importation, the Intercontinental Hotel should be shown on the entry or release documents in accordance with ยง142.3(a)(6), since that is the place to which the diamonds are being delivered. Example 6. The Wilkins Fur Company, Limited, of Toronto, ships twenty mink coats to the Williamson Exposition Company of Boston, which is handling the arrangements for a trade fair on behalf of the National Association of Fur Garment Wholesalers to be held at the Plaza Hotel in New York City. Since there is no known buyer at the time of importation of the mink coats, the Williamson Exposition Company of Boston should be shown on the entry or release documents in accordance with ยง142.3(a)(6), since that is the entity to which the coats are consigned. Example 7. Manitoba Auto Supply of Winnipeg ships ignition kits to the U.S. The buyer shown on the invoice is Minneapolis Auto Specialties of 2800 Hennepin, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Marty's Car Parts in Racine, Wisconsin, is shown as the ``ship to'' party. As in Example 1, the ultimate consignee for Customs purposes is Minneapolis Auto Specialties, since that is the party which purchased the merchandise from the Canadian shipper. Example 8. Manitoba Auto Supply ships ignition kits to Minneapolis Auto Specialties in Duluth, Minnesota. The buyer shown on the invoice is Minneapolis Auto Specialties located at 2800 Hennepin in Minneapolis, Minnesota. As in Example 7, Minneapolis Auto Specialties in Minneapolis is the ultimate consignee since that is the party in the U.S. which purchased the merchandise. Example 9. Acme Compressor Company, Limited, of Edmonton, Alberta, buys an air compressor from the Trucking Supply Company of Regina, Saskatchewan, and is listed as the buyer on the invoice. Acme ships the compressor to the Lindquist Trucking Company in Ambrose, North Dakota. The Lindquist Trucking Company should be shown on the entry or release documents in accordance with ยง142.3(a)(6), since that is the place in the U.S. to which the goods are being delivered.
