FR940126-2-00038 FR940126-2-00020 (7) Local Boards must complete and return all required forms to the National Board. (Local Board Plan, Local Board Certification Form, and Local Board Roster). (8) Local Boards shall secure and retain signed forms from each LRO certifying that program guidelines have been read and understood, and that the LROs will comply with cost eligibility and reporting requirements. (9) Local Boards must establish a system to ensure that no duplication of service occurs within the expenditure categories of rent, mortgage or utility assistance (RMU). (10) Local Boards must notify the National Board of changes in the Local Board chair, staff contact, or LRO contacts, including complete addresses and phone numbers. (11) Local Boards that determine they can better utilize their resources by merging with neighboring boards may do so. The head of government or his or her designee for each jurisdiction must sit on the merged board, along with agency representatives from each jurisdiction. The merged Local Board must ensure that the award amount designated for each civil jurisdiction is used to provide assistance to individuals within that jurisdiction. (12) Local Boards are required to be familiar with current guidelines and to provide technical assistance to service providers. Advice and counsel can be provided by National Board staff. (13) An appeals process must be established to address participation or funding including, where deemed appropriate, the involvement of individuals not a part of the dispute in the decision, to hear and resolve appeals made by funded or non-funded organizations, and to investigate complaints made by individuals or organizations. Appeals should be handled promptly. Cases that cannot be handled locally should be referred in writing to the National Board and include details on action that has been taken. Cases involving fraud or other misuse of Federal funds should be reported to the Office of the Inspector General, FEMA, in writing or by telephone at 1&hyph;800&hyph;323&hyph;8603. (14) The chair of the Local Board or his or her designated staff will be the central coordination point of contact between the National Board and the LRO selected to receive assistance from EFSP. To facilitate program coordination, the chair of the Local Board will contact the State agencies through which surplus food and other Federal assistance are provided. (15) Local Boards will be responsible for monitoring programs carried out by the LROs they have selected to receive funds. Local Boards should work with LROs to ensure that funds are being used to meet immediate food and shelter needs on an ongoing basis. Local Boards may not alter or change National Board cost eligibility or approve expenditures outside the National Board's criteria without National Board permission. (16) The Local Board should reallocate funds whenever it determines that the original allocation plan does not reflect the actual need for services or if an LRO is unable to use its full award effectively. Funds must be recovered and may be reallocated if an LRO makes ineligible expenditures or uses funds for items that have clearly not been approved by the Local Board. Funds held in escrow for LROs which have unresolved compliance problems can be reallocated or may be reclaimed by the National Board. The Local Board may approve reallocation of funds between LROs that are already participating in the program. However, the National Board must be notified in writing. The Local Board may also return funds to the National Board for reissuance to another LRO or request reallocation of remaining funds before they are released by the National Board (e.g., second/third payments). If the Local Board wishes to reallocate funds to an agency that was not approved on the original board plan, a written request for approval must be made to the National Board. An LRO must be approved by the National Board prior to receipt of funds. If a Local Board is unable to satisfy the National Board that it can utilize funds in accordance with this plan, the National Board may reallocate the funds to other jurisdictions.
