FR940527-1-00089 FR940527-1-00014 One concern that we have about the use of the current ratio as a measure is that it may be possible for hospitals to manipulate cost report statistics to meet a current ratio threshold. Some analysis suggests that the current ratio should be supplemented by measures such as days in accounts receivable and/or days in accounts payable in order to reduce the prospects for manipulation. We will continue to study this issue before publication of a final rule on this special exceptions provision. We welcome comments on the use of the current ratio as a measure of hospital financial vulnerability, on the appropriate threshold under this measure, and on whether the current ratio should be supplemented by other measures. An eligible hospital must pass an age of asset test in order to qualify for an exception. Hospitals almost universally have plant and equipment of varying ages. The average age of a hospital's assets is commonly determined as the ratio of accumulated depreciation to current depreciation expense. The current version of the Medicare cost report (HCFA 2552&hyph;92) allows for determination of average age of assets for all hospital assets, for building and fixed equipment alone, or for moveable equipment alone. The average age of buildings and fixed equipment can be determined on the basis of information on the current Medicare cost report (HCFA 2552&hyph;92, Worksheet G, Lines 14, 14.01, 16, 16.01, 18, 18.01, 20, and 20.01, and Worksheet A&hyph;7, Part III, Column 9, Lines 1 and 3). We propose a two-part age of asset test to identify aging hospitals that undertake needed major capital replacement or renovation projects during the transition. The test would only consider changes in the average age of building and fixed equipment (determined by the ratio of accumulated depreciation for building and fixed equipment to current depreciation for building and fixed equipment) in order to focus on major capital replacement and renovation projects. We believe that it is appropriate to grant exceptions only to aging hospitals that undertake and complete major capital projects during the capital prospective payment transition period. The first part of the age-of-asset test is designed to determine whether a hospital had relatively aged fixed assets at the beginning of the capital transition period (that is, the hospital's first cost reporting period beginning on or after October 1, 1991). We would determine a hospital's average age of building and fixed equipment using cost report data for the first year of the transition in comparison to the national average age of buildings and fixed equipment for that year. The threshold for qualifying under this part of the test would be the 75th percentile. We do not believe that the special protection we are proposing under this provision should be extended to hospitals who cannot demonstrate an urgent need for replacement or renovation of facilities. We believe that an average age of assets at or above the 75th percentile nationally is a sufficient indicator that a hospital had a pressing need for renovation or replacement at the beginning of the capital transition period to serve as a threshold qualifier for a special exception. We would determine whether a hospital is at or above the 75th percentile nationally on the basis of Medicare cost report data for FY 1992. That data is becoming available this year. Preliminary but incomplete data suggest that the average age of buildings and fixed equipment at the 75th percentile is approximately 16.4 years. We intend to make a final determination on the basis of more complete data that will become available at a later date. The second part of the test would compare the average age of buildings and fixed equipment in the cost reporting period beginning in FY 1992 with the average age of fixed assets in the year the hospital reports the completion of a major capital replacement or renovation. A major renovation or replacement of hospital capital during the transition period should result in a dramatically reduced average age of buildings and fixed equipment compared to the first year of the transition. We are therefore proposing that the test would be whether a hospital's average age of buildings and fixed equipment has declined by at least 50 percent since the first year of payment under the capital prospective payment system. Thus, a hospital whose average age of buildings and fixed equipment is at or above the 75th percentile nationally in the first year of capital prospective payment, and whose average age of buildings and fixed equipment has declined by at least 50 percent in a designated year later in the transition, meets the age-of-assets test. We welcome comment on the use of an average age of asset measure, on the age-of-assets test as we have conceived it, and on the appropriate threshold levels to apply under such a test.
