FR941116-0-00203 FR941116-0-00023 (a) Purchase procedures for ordering military resale commodities are available from the central nonprofit agencies. Authorized resale outlets (military commissary stores, Armed Forces exchanges and like activities of other Government departments and agencies) shall request the central nonprofit agency responsible for the military resale commodity being ordered to designate the nonprofit agency or its agent to which the outlets shall forward orders. (b) Authorized resale outlets shall stock military resale commodities in as broad a range as practicable. Authorized resale outlets may stock commercial items comparable to the military resale commodities they stock, except that military commissary stores shall stock military resale commodities in the 800- and 900-series exclusively, unless an exception has been granted on an individual store basis for the stocking of comparable commercial items for which there is a significant customer demand. (c) *␣*␣* (3) Issue guidance requiring commissary store personnel to maximize sales potential of military resale commodities. (4) Establish policies and procedures which reserve to its agency headquarters the authority to grant exceptions to the exclusive stocking of 800- and 900-series military resale commodities. (d) The Defense Commissary Agency shall provide the Committee a copy of each directive which relates to the stocking of military resale commodities in commissary stores, including exceptions authorizing the stocking of commercial items in competition with 800- and 900-series military resale commodities. (e) *␣*␣* Zone pricing is used for delivery to Alaska and Hawaii. 21. Section 51&hyph;6.8 is amended by adding paragraph (e) to read as follows: §51&hyph;6.8 Deletion of items from the Procurement List. * * * * * (e) The Committee may delete an item from the Procurement List without a request from a central nonprofit agency if the Committee determines that none of the nonprofit agencies participating in the JWOD Program are capable and desirous of furnishing the commodity or service to the Government, or if the Committee decides that the commodity or service is no longer suitable for procurement from nonprofit agencies employing people who are blind or have other severe disabilities. In considering such an action, the Committee will consult with the appropriate central nonprofit agency, the nonprofit agency or agencies involved, and the contracting activity. 22. Section 51&hyph;6.12 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (c), and (d) and adding paragraph (e) to read as follows: §51&hyph;6.12 Specification changes and similar actions. (a) Contracting activities shall notify the nonprofit agency or agencies authorized to furnish a commodity on the Procurement List and the central nonprofit agency concerned of any changes to the specification or other description of the commodity. * * * * * (c) For services on the Procurement List, the contracting activity shall notify the nonprofit agency furnishing the service and the central nonprofit agency concerned at least 90 days prior to the date that any changes in the statement of work or other conditions of performance will be required. (d) If an emergency makes it impossible for a contracting activity to give the 90-day notice required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the contracting activity shall inform the nonprofit agency and the central nonprofit agency concerned of the reasons it cannot meet the 90-day notice requirement when it places the order or change notice. (e) Nonprofit agencies shall recommend changes in specifications, item descriptions, and statements of work that will improve the commodity or service being provided, reduce costs, or improve overall value to the Government. Contracting activities shall respond promptly to these recommendations and work with the nonprofit agencies to implement them when appropriate. 23. Section 51&hyph;6.13 is revised to read as follows: §51&hyph;6.13 Replacement and similar commodities. (a) When a commodity on the Procurement List is replaced by another commodity which has not been recently procured, and a nonprofit agency can furnish the replacement commodity in accordance with the Government's quality standards and delivery schedules, the replacement commodity is automatically considered to be on the Procurement List and shall be procured from the nonprofit agency designated by the Committee at the fair market price the Committee has set for the replacement commodity. The commodity being replaced shall continue to be included on the Procurement List until there is no longer a Government requirement for that commodity.
