FR940516-0-00005 FR940516-0-00002 Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. The FAA is considering further rulemaking action to revise this rule to require the installation of steel retention brackets, nuts having part number NAS1805, and modified washers on all engine mount bolts. However, the proposed compliance time for these actions is sufficiently long so that notice and time for prior public comment would not be impracticable. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ``ADDRESSES.'' All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;59&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The FAA has determined that this regulation is an emergency regulation that must be issued immediately to correct an unsafe condition in aircraft, and is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866. It has been determined further that this action involves an emergency regulation under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979). If it is determined that this emergency regulation otherwise would be significant under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures, a final regulatory evaluation will be prepared and placed in the Rules Docket. A copy of it, if filed, may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption `` ADDRESSES .'' List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. ยง39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive: 94&hyph;10&hyph;05 Boeing: Amendment 39&hyph;8912. Docket 94&hyph;NM&hyph;59&hyph;AD. Applicability: Model 747 series airplanes; equipped with Pratt & Whitney JT9D&hyph;3 and &hyph;7 series engines (does not apply to &hyph;70 series engines); certificated in any category. Compliance: Required as indicated, unless accomplished previously. To prevent complete migration of the forward lower engine mount bolt out of the joint, which could result in the separation of the engine from the strut, accomplish the following: (a) For all applicable airplanes: Within 60 days after the effective date of this AD, visually inspect the forward lower engine mount for migration of the forward lower engine mount bolts, both transverse and forward-aft, in accordance with Boeing Alert Service Bulletin 747&hyph;71A2269, dated April 14, 1994 (hereafter referred to as ``the service bulletin''). The maximum gap for the transverse bolt and the forward-aft bolt in the joint is 0.06 inch; a bolt is considered to have migrated if the gap exceeds this value. Prior to further flight, accomplish the requirements of either paragraph (b) or (c) of this AD, as applicable. (b) For airplanes not equipped with a steel retention bracket installed in accordance with Boeing Service Bulletin 747&hyph;71&hyph;2192 or its production equivalent, accomplish the following: (1) If the inspection required by paragraph (a) of this AD indicates that the bolt has not migrated, accomplish paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this AD:
