FR940204-1-00034 FR940204-1-00002 (vi) Combined financial data of the System with Insurance Fund. (4) The supplemental information shall be presented in a columnar format and include, at a minimum, the selected financial data listed in the schedules in Appendix A of this part. The prescribed components shall be designated as column headings and they may be abbreviated in the schedules. The schedules may be presented separately or in accompanying notes to the Systemwide combined financial statements and shall contain additional disclosures sufficient to explain the basis of the presentation of the supplemental information, the components, and any adjustments contained therein to enable readers to understand the effect of each component on the Systemwide combined financial statements. (n) List the names of the System Audit Committee members in the report to investors. (o) The report to investors shall include a cross-reference sheet setting forth the item numbers and captions in the same order as prescribed in this subpart and the page or pages on which the corresponding information appears. Subpart C_Quarterly Reports to Investors ยง630.40 Contents of the quarterly report to investors. (a) General. The quarterly report to investors shall contain the information specified in this section along with any other material information necessary to make the required disclosures, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The quarterly report must be presented in a format that is easily understandable and not misleading. (b) Rules for condensation. For purposes of this subpart, major captions to be provided in interim financial statements are the same as those provided in the financial statements contained in the annual report to investors, except that the financial statements included in the quarterly report may be condensed into major captions in accordance with the rules prescribed under this paragraph. (1) Interim balance sheets. When any major balance sheet caption is less than 10 percent of total assets and the amount in the caption has not increased or decreased by more than 25 percent since the end of the preceding fiscal year, the caption may be combined with others. (2) Interim statements of income. When any major income statement caption is less than 15 percent of average net income for the 3 most recent fiscal years and the amount in the caption has not increased or decreased by more than 20 percent since the corresponding interim period of the preceding fiscal year, the caption may be combined with others. In calculating average net income, loss years should be excluded. If losses were incurred in each of the 3 most recent fiscal years, the average loss shall be used for purposes of this test.
