FR940930-0-00086 FR940930-0-00016 Response: We included ``not given birth prior to age 30'' as a factor indicating a high risk of developing breast cancer in the interim final rule based upon advice we received from NCI, and, in response to the comment, we have consulted further with NCI. NCI staff have advised us that the relative risk of women who have ``not given birth prior to age 30'' developing breast cancer is 1.4; that is, a woman who has not given birth prior to age 30 has a 40 percent higher chance of developing breast cancer over her lifetime than would otherwise be the case. This elevated risk applies over the age range of 40 to 49 that is subject to the high risk factor provision specified in the Medicare statute. Based on the advice of NCI, we have decided to retain in this final rule ``not given birth prior to age 30'' as a factor indicating a high risk of developing breast cancer. Comment: One commenter believed that there is a need to clarify the meaning of the term ``personal history of breast cancer'' that is cited in ยง410.34(b)(4) as one of the factors indicating a high risk of developing breast cancer. The commenter also requested clarification as to whether a biopsy that reveals a lump to be benign is reasonable evidence of ``a history of breast cancer.'' Response: The use of the term ``a personal history of breast cancer'' in ยง410.34(b)(4) of the interim final rule was intended to mean that there is documented evidence in the woman's medical record that she has tested positive for breast cancer. Thus, a woman who has a biopsy of a lump in her breast that is determined to be benign would not be considered to have ``a history of breast cancer.'' Comment: One commenter expressed concern that the interim final rule made no reference to the possibility that the Medicare program may pay for certain medically necessary mammograms that are performed more often than the frequencies stated in the statute and the interim final rule for screening mammograms. The commenter suggested that we clarify this. Response: The commenter is correct that the Medicare program may pay for certain medically necessary mammograms (also referred to as diagnostic mammograms as distinguished from screening mammograms) that are performed more frequently than the frequencies stated in the law and the interim final rule for screening mammograms. We stated this fact in the interim final rule (55 FR 53511). Under this policy, mammograms are covered if medically necessary to diagnose a specific complaint or medical problem that has been identified by the patient or her attending physician, including medical problems that may have been identified on the basis of a previous screening mammogram. This coverage is based on sections 1861(s)(1) and (s)(3) of the Act, which provide for Medicare coverage of interpretation of diagnostic X-ray tests by a physician. Comment: Three commenters observed that a diagnostic mammogram requires essentially the same level of professional attention and professional expertise as does a screening mammogram, and one of these commenters suggested that similar quality standards be applied to both types of mammography services under the Medicare program. Response: We agree. As we noted in response to a previous comment, a diagnostic mammogram and a screening mammogram are similar in many respects, and the Congress recognized this fact when it enacted the MQSA, which authorized the application of quality standards to both types of mammograms, effective October 1, 1994. Accordingly, we are including a condition for coverage in this rule at ยง410.34(b)(2) that, in order to qualify for payment for diagnostic mammograms under the Medicare program, suppliers of these services must meet the same FDA certification requirements that we are adopting in this final rule for screening mammograms. (These certification requirements are set forth in section 354 of the PHS Act, implemented by 21 CFR part 900, subpart B.)
