FR940610-0-00143 FR940610-0-00025 Section 75.118 is revised to remove references to items that were formerly required in a continuation application. The items listed in paragraph (b) of this section are no longer needed because adequate information already will be provided in the initial application in accordance with the revised §75.117. The performance report now will become due before the beginning of the continuation award, and will provide the information on which the funding decision will be made. This section makes clear that a performance report must be submitted, prior to the next budget period, for all multi-year awards, and that the Secretary will establish the specific due date for submission of the report. In addition, this section changes any references to ``applicant'' so that it now will refer to the ``recipient'' because an application will no longer be a part of the continuation award process. Section 75.232 is revised to incorporate the new procedure under which the Department performs its cost analysis on the basis of the initial application. The Department does a cost analysis to verify cost data in the detailed budget. In doing so, it evaluates specific elements of cost, and examines an applicant's proposed costs to determine if they are necessary, reasonable, and allowable under applicable statutes and regulations. Section 75.253 is amended to make the performance reports due by the dates set by the Secretary (§75.253(a)). It is important that recipients understand that performance reports now will be due before the end of the current budget period because this information will be used in lieu of continuation applications in deciding whether to make continuation awards. If a recipient fails to submit a performance report as required by these regulations, the Secretary will not continue funding for the project. Paragraph (c) of §75.253 also is amended to clarify the Department's policy regarding funds that remain unobligated by a recipient. The current §75.253(c) states when the Department would reduce the amount of new funds made available for a continuation award to a recipient. Implicit in the current rule is the policy that the Department would, under certain circumstances, add the unobligated funds to the amount of new funds made available for a continuation award. Consistent with this policy, §75.253(c) clearly indicates the circumstances under which the Department will add the amount of unobligated funds to the amount of new funds made available for a continuation award, as well as the circumstances under which it will reduce those funds. Section 75.590 is revised to clarify that the grant recipient's annual evaluation is its performance report. The current regulation in §75.590 requires a recipient to evaluate the project annually but does not require the recipient to submit the evaluation to the Department. Under this amended regulation, the criteria for the annual evaluation required by §75.590 is incorporated into the performance report. In this regard, the revised introduction to this section now says that a ``recipient shall submit a performance report, or, for the last year of a project, a final report, that evaluates [the project] at least annually *␣*␣*.'' This change is designed to make clear that the performance report required under §75.117, as amended by these regulations, must meet the standards established in §75.590. These standards require an evaluation of the recipient's progress in achieving the objectives in its approved application, the effectiveness of the project in meeting the purposes of the program under which it is funded, and the effect of the project on the participants being served by the project. Under the amended §§75.590 and 75.117, a recipient will no longer have to submit a continuation application and also prepare a separate evaluation of the project. Instead, a single performance report, meeting the standards of §75.590 will be submitted. Also, the final report of a project required under §§74.82(b) and 80.40(b) must meet the standards in §75.590. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering the Department's programs effectively and efficiently. Burdens, specifically associated with information collection requirements, if any, are identified and explained elsewhere in this preamble under the heading Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these final regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For the most part these revisions are adopted to streamline the non-competing continuation award process and the process of reviewing requests for the use of unobligated funds carried over from one budget period to the next. The final revisions will not result in major changes in Departmental policy that might have significant economic impact on small entities. Rather, the effect of these rules is to shift the time when certain information is provided to the Department and eliminate the need for cumbersome continuation award applications. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Sections 75.112, 75.117, 75.118 and 75.590 contain information collection requirements. The information collection requirements for §§75.112 and 75.117 have already been approved under the Office of Management and Budget control number 1875&hyph;0102.
