FR940711-2-00178 FR940711-2-00073 (2) Rental Voucher and Rental Certificate Renewals Headquarters will allocate funds directly to the HUD State or Area Offices/Native American Programs Offices for the renewal of rental voucher and rental certificate funding increments expiring in Fiscal Year 1994. Renewal funding will be provided in-kind (i.e., rental voucher funding for expiring rental voucher increments, and rental certificate funding for expiring rental certificate increments). (Approximately 177,000 units and $4.7 billion in budget authority.) (3) Section 23 Conversions Headquarters will allocate rental certificate funds directly to the HUD State or Area Offices for tenant-based rental assistance to residents of Section 23 leased housing for which leases are expiring. HUD State or Area Office requests for funding under this category will be approved on a first-come, first-served basis. HUD State or Area Offices must include all data necessary to determine the amount of funds required. (Approximately 374 units and $7.4 million in budget authority.) (4) Section 8 Amendments Headquarters will allocate Rental Certificate Program cost amendments to provide budget authority increases to HA rental certificate programs. Headquarters will allocate the funds on an as needed basis. (Approximately $289.6 million in budget authority.) (5) HA Portability Fees Headquarters will allocate these funds to pay special preliminary fees to HAs under Rental Voucher and Rental Certificate Program portability provisions. The Department issued a HUD Notice PIH 92&hyph;14 (PHA), dated April 22, 1992, that describes administrative procedures for requesting the special preliminary fees. These funds will be allocated to the HAs on a first-come, first-served basis. (Approximately $6 million in budget authority.) (6) Litigation Headquarters will allocate funding to meet the anticipated needs in settlement of litigation. (Approximately 1,312 units and $43.8 million in budget authority.) (7) Moving to Opportunity Demonstration_National Competition Headquarters will allocate funding to assist families with children to move out of areas with high concentrations of persons living in poverty through contracts with nonprofit organizations. Appropriations were provided for rental certificates and rental vouchers to be used in a demonstration limited to cities with populations over 350,000 in metropolitan areas of over 1,500,000 population. HUD will conduct a national competition for Section 8 funding. The criteria will be published in a NOFA. (Approximately 4,364 units and $164 million in budget authority.) (8) Family Unification Demonstration_National Competition Headquarters will allocate funding to assist families with children for whom the lack of adequate shelter is a primary factor which would result in the imminent placement of the family's child, or children, in out-of-home care or delay in the discharge of the child, or children, to the family from out-of-home care. HUD will conduct a national competition for Section 8 funding. The criteria will be published in a NOFA. (Approximately 2,200 units and $77.4 million in budget authority.) (10) Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing_National Competition Headquarters will allocate funding under this joint effort between HUD and the Department of Veterans Affairs whereby rental vouchers are provided to assist homeless veterans to obtain rental housing after they have received treatment from a Veterans Affairs (VA) medical facility. HUD is conducting a national competition. The criteria will be published in a NOFA. (Approximately 700 units and $18.35 million in budget authority.) (12) Disaster Funding for Northridge, CA Earthquake Headquarters allocated funding from a supplemental appropriation from Congress for rental certificates to assist very low-income families who were involuntarily displaced from their homes as a result of the Northridge earthquake in the Los Angeles area. (Approximately 15,000 units and $200 million in budget authority.) III. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements A. Obtaining Application Materials An Application Kit, which includes Form HUD&hyph;52515, Application for Existing Housing, may be obtained from the local HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office. (Except as provided for Indian Housing Authorities in Section III(B), Submitting Applications, of this NOFA, only an original application and one copy should be submitted; it is not necessary to submit additional copies of the application.) In addition, the basic application and other required submissions are available from the HUD State or Area Office, as follows: Form HUD&hyph;52515; Certification for a Drug- Free Workplace; Text for the Certification Regarding Lobbying; and Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities. B. Submitting Applications HA applications must be received in the HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office by 3:00 p.m. local time (i.e., the time at the office where the application is to be submitted) on August 25, 1994. The Native American Programs Office is the place of official receipt for IHA applications. An IHA also must submit, at the same time, a copy of its application to the HUD State or Area Office that has jurisdiction over the portion of the State in which the IHA is located. HUD State or Area Offices/Native American Programs Offices will be responsible for notifying their HAs of the exact address and room number where applications are to be submitted. Copies transmitted via facsimile (FAX) transmission will not be accepted for processing. C. General (1) Applications must be submitted to the local HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office on Form HUD&hyph;52515 in accordance with the applicable program regulations. (2) The application should include a narrative description of how the application meets, or will meet, the application selection criteria. Failure to submit a narrative description is not cause for application rejection; however, the HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office can only rate and rank the application based on information the Office has on-hand. (3) Attachment 1 at the end of this notice lists the HUD State or Area Offices and the number of units and budget authority available for each allocation area. HAs should limit their applications for the ``fair share'' program to a reasonable number of rental vouchers and rental certificates, based on the capacity of the HA to lease all the units within 12 months of ACC execution. The number of units on the HA application may not exceed the greater of: (a) Ten percent (10%) of the total rental vouchers and rental certificates under reservation for the HA; or (b) 50 units.
