FR941230-0-00133 FR941230-0-00021 Subpart C_Preparation of a Proposal ยง3402.9 Application package. An application package will be made available to any potential grant applicant upon request. This package will include all necessary forms and instructions to apply for a grant under this program. The package also includes the regulatory provisions applicable to the program. ยง3402.10 Proposal cover page. The Proposal Cover Page, Form CSRS 701, must be completed in its entirety including all authorizing signatures. One copy of each grant application must contain the original pen-and-ink signature of: (a) The Project Director(s); (b) The Authorized Certifying Representative for the college or equivalent administrative unit; and (c) The Authorized Certifying Representative for the institution. ยง3402.11 National need summary. Using the National Need Summary, Form CSRS&hyph;702, applicants must summarize the proposed graduate program of study and the academic and research strengths of the institution in the national need area for which funding is requested. To the extent possible, applicants should emphasize the uniqueness of the proposed graduate program of study. The summary should not include any reference to the specific number of fellowships requested. The information on the summary page will be used in assigning the most appropriate panelists to review a proposal. If a proposal is supported, this page may be used in program publications. ยง3402.12 National need narrative. A narrative for the national need area should be written in five sections limited to no more than 20 pages, and preceded by a table of contents. The table of contents is not considered part of the 20-page limitation. The narrative should be typed on one side of the page only, using a font no smaller than 12 point, and double-spaced. The five sections to be included in the narrative are as follows: Sec. 1. In this section, applicants should establish clearly that the proposed program of study and research will result in the development of outstanding expertise in the national need area for which funding is requested and will do so in a reasonable period of time. Applicants should present a detailed description of the proposed graduate program of study and research. This section of the narrative should contain, but need not be limited to, the following components: (a) The plan should specifically address the course work which Fellows will be required to take rather than the overall spectrum of departmental offerings. Identify courses, summarize content, and discuss sequencing. Explain how course work will relate to Fellows' research. (b) Identify and describe areas of research that Fellows will be encouraged to engage in via a thesis or dissertation. (c) Discuss graduate program examination requirements, such as a proficiency or qualifying examination, a comprehensive examination, and an oral examination. (d) Include a projected timetable for completing the proposed graduate program of study and research. (e) If admission to a proposed doctoral program does not require a Master's degree, discuss how institutional procedures allow for the bypass of a Master's degree. Sec. 2. In this section, applicants should highlight thoroughly any special features of the graduate program such as the extent to which it will involve an inter-disciplinary, multi-disciplinary, or cross-disciplinary approach resulting in the development of expertise transcending a single discipline. Applicants should also discuss any other special features such as development of an unusual collateral specialization in a related discipline, experiential learning opportunities such as practicums or internships, unique mentoring programs, seminars, or a multi-university collaborative approach.
