FR940907-2-00066 FR940907-2-00044 Payment Safeguards Criterion Carrier functions that may be reviewed under this criterion include, but are not limited to: •Medical Review: We may assess the ability of the Medicare contractors to apply their analytical skills and focus resources on particular providers or claim types which represent unnecessary or inappropriate care. We may review contractor efforts in developing effective means of addressing aberrancies identified through analyzing data to target prepay and postpay review. This forms the basis of corrective actions such as educating the provider and/or become the basis of medical review policies or review screens as directed by the carrier manual and Budget and Performance Requirements. We may also review a sample of the contractor's use of medical coverage guidelines to determine if the contractor's use of each medical review screen is supported by sufficient documentation. We may assess the effectiveness of contractors' medical review efforts at developing means of addressing aberrancies identified during the analysis of all local and national data and take action to assure that the focused medical review procedures and systems designed and utilized by the contractor have allowed it to meet program requirements. We may also review a contractor's efforts to review information or documentation located in the fraud unit. •Medicare Secondary Payer: The Medicare Secondary Payer (MSP) program may use the MSP review guide to review the carrier's MSP processes in administering the program and for identifying and recovering mistaken Medicare payments in accordance with the Medicare Carrier Manual (MCM), Part 3, §§3375, 4306.3, and 4307&hyph;4308.1, and pertinent HCFA instructions and transmittals. We may develop outcome measures to assess the carrier's accuracy in reporting savings and to determine if claim development procedures are followed. We may also evaluate the accuracy and timeliness of claims payment and determine if the Common Working File, internal systems and required software are utilized as prescribed. We may also evaluate the contractor's ability to prioritize and process recoveries in compliance with instructions, determine if recoveries of all payers are processed equally, and ensure that audit trail documentation exists. •Fraud and Abuse: The Fraud and Abuse program may use the formally established mechanism to review the carriers in the basic level of fraud detection, deterrence and development as described in MCM, Part 3, §14000ff, and pertinent HCFA issued instructions and transmittals. We may assess the ability of the contractor to identify fraud cases that exist within its service area, and to take appropriate action to dispose of these cases. We may review the contractor's efforts in investigating allegations of fraud made by beneficiaries, providers, HCFA, OIG, and other sources. We may develop an outcome measure to assess the contractor's ability to put in place an effective fraud detection and deterrence program. Fiscal Responsibility Criterion We may review the carrier's efforts to establish and maintain appropriate financial and budgetary internal controls over benefit payments and administrative costs. Proper internal controls must be in place to ensure that contractors comply with their agreements with HCFA. Additional matters to be reviewed under the Fiscal Responsibility criterion may include, but are not limited to: •Bottom line unit cost; •Compliance with the Budget and Performance Requirements; •Adherence to Chief Financial Officer's Act; •Overall control of administrative cost and benefit payments. Administrative Activities Criterion We may measure a carrier's administrative ability to manage the Medicare program. We may address the efficiency and effectiveness of their operation, their system of internal controls and compliance with our directives and initiatives. A carrier's evaluation under this criterion may include, but is not limited to, implementation reviews of: •Proper systems security; •ADP maintenance; •Disaster recovery plan; •Corrective action plans; •Task management plans; •Data and reporting requirements; •Management improvement plans.
