FR940622-0-00025 FR940622-0-00011 •Any medical facility that suffers a financial loss as a direct result of a participating hospital's violation of section 1867 of the Act may obtain damages available in a civil action against the participating hospital, under the law of the State in which the hospital is located, and may obtain such equitable relief as is appropriate. •No civil action to obtain damages, as described above, may be brought more than 2 years after the date of the violation with respect to which the action is brought. •The following terms are defined for purposes of section 1867 of the Act: ``emergency medical condition,'' ``hospital,'' ``participating hospital,'' ``to stabilize,'' ``stabilized,'' and ``transfer.'' •The provisions of section 1867 of the Act do not preempt any State or local law except where they directly conflict. •Participating hospitals are not to delay a medical screening examination or treatment to ask about an individual's status or method of payment. •Participating hospitals with specialized capabilities or facilities are obligated to accept the appropriate transfer of an individual requiring such services if the hospital has the capacity to treat them. •Except when a delay would jeopardize the health and safety of individuals, or when there was no screening examination, the appropriate PRO will assess whether the individual had an emergency condition that had not been stabilized before the Office of Inspector General (OIG) imposes a civil monetary penalty or exclusion. •Hospitals are required, among other things, to maintain medical and other records related to individuals transferred to and from a hospital for a period of 5 years from the transfer date. Each hospital must maintain a list of on-call physicians available to provide stabilizing treatment. Each hospital must also post a conspicuously placed sign in its emergency department that lists the individuals' rights regarding their examination and treatment. •Hospitals are not to penalize or take an adverse action against a physician or a qualified medical person who refused to authorize the transfer of an unstabilized individual with an emergency medical condition or against a hospital employee because the employee reported a violation. 2. Summary of the Related OBRA 89 and OBRA 90 Provisions Set forth below is a brief summary of the new and revised provisions from OBRA 89 (enacted December 19, 1989) and OBRA 90 (enacted November 5, 1990) that were added to strengthen and clarify the requirements concerning the examination, treatment and transfer of individuals with emergency medical conditions.
