FR940524-2-00031 FR940524-2-00024 (3) the approximate percentage of U.S. communities or the U.S. population to which municipal solid waste composting facilities are available. For purposes of this Order, a disclosure elsewhere on the product package shall be deemed to be ``in close proximity'' to such terms if there is a clear and conspicuous cross-reference to the disclosure. The use of an asterisk or other symbol shall not constitute a clear and conspicuous cross-reference. A cross-reference shall be deemed clear and conspicuous if it is of sufficient prominence to be readily noticeable and readable by the prospective purchaser when examining the part of the package on which the representation appears. III It Is Further Ordered that respondent, Keyes Fibre Company, a corporation, its successors and assigns, and its officers, agents, representatives, and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of any paper product or package in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from misrepresenting, in any manner, directly or by implication, the extent to which any such product or package is capable of being recycled or the extent to which recycling collection programs for such product or package are available. IV It Is Further Ordered that respondent, Keyes Fibre Company, a corporation, its successors and assigns, and its officers, agents, representatives, and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the manufacturing, labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of any paper product or package in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, that any product or package offers any environmental benefit, unless at the time of making such representation, respondent possesses and relies upon competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence, that substantiates such representation. V Nothing in this Order shall prevent respondent from using any of the terms cited in Parts I, II and III, or similar terms or expressions, if necessary to comply with any federal rule, regulation, or law governing the use of such terms in advertising or labeling. VI It Is Further Ordered that for five (5) years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this Order, respondent, or its successors and assigns, shall maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: A. All materials that were relied upon in disseminating such representation; and B. All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in its possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into question such representation, or the basis relied upon for such representation, including complaints from consumers. VII It Is Further Ordered that the respondent shall distribute a copy of this Order to each of its operating divisions and to each of its officers, agents, representatives, or employees engaged in the preparation and placement of advertisement, promotional materials, product labels or other such sales materials covered by this Order. VIII It Is Further Ordered that respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporation such as a dissolution, assignment, or sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries, or any other change in the corporation which may affect compliance obligations under this Order. IX It Is Further Ordered that respondent shall, within sixty (60) days after service of this Order upon it, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has complied with this Order.
