FR941130-1-00055 FR941130-1-00011 (3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under §6.20 of this chapter. * * * * * 20. Section 29.35 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §29.35 Changes or modification of approved analyzers and detectors; issuance of modification of certificate of approval. (a)(1) To change any feature of an approved analyzer or detector an applicant may request a modification of the original certificate of approval issued by MSHA by filing an application for such modification in accordance with the provisions of this section. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 33_[AMENDED] 21. Section 33.6 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows. §33.6 Applications. (a)(1) No investigation or testing will be undertaken by MSHA except pursuant to a written application, in duplicate (except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e) of this section), accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, to cover the fees; and all prescribed drawings, specifications, and all related materials. The application and all related matters and all correspondence concerning it shall be sent to the Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under §6.20 of this chapter. * * * * * 22. Section 33.12 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §33.12 Changes after certification. * * * * * (a)(1) Application shall be made as for an original certificate, requesting that the existing certification be extended to cover the proposed changes, and shall be accompanied by drawings, specifications, and related data showing the changes in detail. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 35_[AMENDED] 23. Section 35.6 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §35.6 Applications. (a)(1) No investigation or testing will be undertaken by MSHA except pursuant to a written application, in duplicate, accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, to cover the fees; and all descriptions, specifications, test samples, and related materials. The application and all related matters and correspondence concerning it shall be sent to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under §6.20 of this chapter. * * * * * 24. Section 35.12 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §35.12 Changes after certification. * * * * * (a)(1) Application shall be made, as for an original certificate of approval, requesting that the existing certification be extended to cover the proposed change. The application shall be accompanied by specifications and related material as in the case of an original application. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29121 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;43&hyph;P
