FR940826-2-00079 FR940826-2-00055 Finally, to prevent anticompetitive harm to the cellular infrastructure equipment market, the proposed Final Judgment restrains McCaw from providing certain confidential information of other cellular infrastructure equipment suppliers to AT&T's manufacturing division. II Events Giving Rise To The Alleged Violation A. Background 1. Cellular Services Markets Cellular carriers operate on either of two bands of radio frequencies, referred to as the ``A-side'' and the ``B-side.'' 1 The FCC awarded one A-side and one B-side license separately in 306 metropolitan areas, referred to as MSAs, and 428 rural areas called RSAs. Initially, the FCC awarded the B-side license to the local telephone company or an affiliate thereof and the A-side license to firms other than the local telephone company. 2 Cellular licenses are transferable, and since the initial awards there has been considerable consolidation of ownership. Telephone companies have acquired many A-side licenses outside of the areas in which they provide local exchange service. Cellular service is fully interconnected with landline telephone networks, and subscribers can both originate calls to and receive calls from landline subscribers, including long distance calls. 1 For purposes of this Competitive Impact Statement, the term ``cellular'' is used to refer to the mobile and portable radio telephone service today provided by two licensees in each geographic area. 2 Cellular licenses held by AT&T or the Bell Companies, at the time of AT&T's divestiture of those Bell Companies in 1984, were retained by the Bell Companies and are now generally held by affiliates of their respective parent Regional Holding Companies. Cellular service is a relevant product market and a ``line of commerce'' within the meaning of Section 7 of the Clayton Act. Unlike conventional landline telephone service, cellular service provides customers with the added feature of mobility, and landline telephone service therefore is not a substitute. The relevant geographic markets are those service areas in which the FCC has licensed cellular carriers to provide cellular service. With extremely limited exceptions, there are no providers of mobile telephone services other than the two cellular carriers. At the current time, the holders of these cellular licenses, including McCaw, exercise market power in the provision of cellular service. These duopolies are characterized by rapidly growing demand and minimal price competition, resulting in high margins to cellular carriers. 2. The Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Market A cellular system consists primarily of one or more mobile telephone switching offices (``MTSOs'' or ``switches'') connected to numerous cell sites. A cell site is a radio facility that receives and transmits cellular calls. Cellular carriers provide cellular service by dividing their licensed service areas into ``cells''_each with a corresponding cell site_and reusing the radio channels in different cells. The principal components of a cell site are radio units, radio frames and software (referred to collectively as ``radio base stations''). A switch is a large central computer facility connected to cell sites, other MTSOs and local and long distance telephone networks. The MTSO controls the ``handoff'' of calls between the cells and transfers calls between the cellular systems and the wireline networks of local exchange carriers and interexchange carriers. A cellular system in a large metropolitan area like New York City or Baltimore/Washington might typically include two to four switches and more than one hundred radio base stations. One principal method of expanding the capacity of a cellular system is to increase the number of cells. The creation of these new cells requires the purchase and deployment of an additional radio base station for each new cell. At some point in expanding the capacity of a system it also becomes necessary to add additional switches. Another method of capacity expansion currently being used is to convert the radio transmissions from analog to digital. This conversion requires the deployment of new radios and cell site equipment. In North America, cellular switches made by one manufacturer are not compatible with radio base stations made by another. Accordingly, a cellular carrier seeking to expand the capacity of a particular system must obtain additional switches and radio base stations from its incumbent cellular infrastructure equipment supplier. Digital conversion requires the deployment of switch and cell site equipment and software that is noncompatible between manufacturers. Enhancements that add customer features or improve a system's capacity or efficiency are added to systems primarily through switch or cell site software upgrades. Because the interfaces between the cellular infrastructure equipment and software are proprietary, the equipment vendor is, today, the only one who can provide these enhancements. In addition, cellular carriers are largely dependent on their equipment vendors for ongoing engineering support and maintenance, as well as efficiency and service enhancing features. Thus, once a cellular carrier has made the decision to deploy a particular vendor's cellular infrastructure equipment in a particular system, that carrier becomes locked in to that vendor's equipment and must either continue to purchase equipment and software from that same vendor or incur the substantial costs of replacing the deployed switches and radio base stations of the incumbent vendor. As cellular systems grow, so also does the cost of switching vendors. Equipment providers typically have access to proprietary and competitively sensitive information of their cellular carrier customers. Some of this information is acquired in the performance of installation, maintenance and other services provided by the manufacturers to the cellular carriers. For example, through its access to a cellular carrier's switch, a manufacturer has access to day-to-day operating information about the switch, including usage patterns. Manufacturers must also receive advance notice of planned system expansions so that they may allocate equipment and other resources to that customer. Manufacturers also work closely with their customers in the development of new services and features, sometimes on a proprietary basis, This development work necessarily provides the manufacturer with insights into, and advance notice of, its cellular carrier customer's marketing and sales plans. Cellular infrastructure equipment is a relevant product market. Cellular infrastructure equipment manufactured for use in North America is based on a different standard than equipment manufactured for use by European cellular providers. Accordingly, equipment used in North America is not compatible with equipment manufactured for use in Europe. In many of the cities in which McCaw has an interest in the A-side cellular system, the B-side competitor has deployed and is operating its system using AT&T cellular infrastructure equipment. Major markets in which McCaw competes with AT&T customers include, among others, New York, Dallas, San Francisco, Miami, St. Louis, Tampa, Orlando, Salt Lake City, Kansas City and Pittsburgh. McCaw uses Ericsson equipment in the majority of its systems. AT&T currently has the ability to raise the costs, inhibit the ability to increase system capacity and capabilities and degrade the quality of service of its locked in B-side equipment customers. AT&T could achieve this by increasing the prices of its equipment and software or by withholding or delaying the development or delivery of necessary equipment, software, services or other upgrades.
