FR940124-1-00073 FR940124-1-00008 (c)(1) An accrediting agency shall take appropriate action if its review of an institution or program under any standard indicates that the institution or program is not in compliance with that standard. (2) If the agency believes that the institution or program is not in compliance with the standards, the agency shall_ (i) Take prompt adverse action against the institution or program; or (ii) Require the institution or program to take appropriate action to bring itself into compliance, or to ensure its continued compliance, with the agency's standards within a time frame specified by the agency. (3) The accrediting agency has sole discretion to determine the time frame specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for the institution or program to bring itself into compliance with agency standards. However, except as indicated in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, the specified period may not exceed 18 months. (4) If the institution or program does not bring itself into compliance within the specified period, the agency must take adverse action unless the agency extends the period for achieving compliance for good cause. (d) An accrediting agency shall have a reasonable basis for determining that the information it relies on for making the assessments described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section is accurate. (e) An accrediting agency that has established and applies the standards in paragraph (b) of this section may establish any additional accreditation standards as it deems appropriate. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1091, 1099b) ยง602.27 Additional required operating procedures. (a) To be listed by the Secretary as a nationally recognized accrediting agency, an accrediting agency must demonstrate to the Secretary that it satisfies the procedural requirements contained in other provisions of this part and the additional requirements contained in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section. (b) If the accrediting agency accredits institutions and that accreditation enables those institutions to seek eligibility to participate in Title IV, HEA programs_ (1) The agency requires the institution to_ (i) Notify the agency if the institution plans to establish a branch campus or an additional location; and (ii) Submit a business plan described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section if the institution plans to operate a branch campus or additional location_ (A) That is geographically apart from the main campus; (B) That has its own separate administrative structure, services, and facilities, and (C) At which the institution plans to offer a complete educational program;
