FR940419-2-00174 FR940419-2-00087 This Policy does not address the appropriateness of approving anticipated bypasses through NPDES permits in advance outside the CSO context. 8. Implementation Schedule The permittee should include all pertinent information in the long term control plan necessary to develop the construction and financing schedule for implementation of CSO controls. Schedules for implementation of the CSO controls may be phased based on the relative importance of adverse impacts upon WQS and designated uses, priority projects identified in the long-term plan, and on a permittee's financial capability. Construction phasing should consider: a. Eliminating overflows that discharge to sensitive areas as the highest priority; b. Use impairment; c. The permittee's financial capability including consideration of such factors as: i. Median household income; ii. Total annual wastewater and CSO control costs per household as a percent of median household income; iii. Overall net debt as a percent of full market property value; iv. Property tax revenues as a percent of full market property value; v. Property tax collection rate; vi. Unemployment; and vii. Bond rating; d. Grant and loan availability; e. Previous and current residential, commercial and industrial sewer user fees and rate structures; and f. Other viable funding mechanisms and sources of financing. 9. Post-Construction Compliance Monitoring Program The selected CSO controls should include a post-construction water quality monitoring program adequate to verify compliance with water quality standards and protection of designated uses as well as to ascertain the effectiveness of CSO controls. This water quality compliance monitoring program should include a plan to be approved by the NPDES authority that details the monitoring protocols to be followed, including the necessary effluent and ambient monitoring and, where appropriate, other monitoring protocols such as biological assessments, whole effluent toxicity testing, and sediment sampling. III. Coordination With State Water Quality Standards A. Overview WQS are State adopted, or Federally promulgated rules which serve as the goals for the water body and the legal basis for the water quality-based NPDES permit requirements under the CWA. WQS consist of uses which States designate for their water bodies, criteria to protect the uses, an anti-degradation policy to protect the water quality improvements gained and other policies affecting the implementation of the standards. A primary objective of the long-term CSO control plan is to meet WQS, including the designated uses through reducing risks to human health and the environment by eliminating, relocating or controlling CSOs to the affected waters.
