FR941121-1-00011 FR941121-1-00006 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 93&hyph;57; Notice 2] RIN 2127&hyph;AF00 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Lamps, Reflective Devices and Associated Equipment AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice responds to a notice of request for comments that NHTSA published in 1993 implementing the grant of a petition by Robert Bosch GmbH. It proposes an amendment to the Federal motor vehicle standard on lighting that would permit replaceable lenses on integral beam and replaceable bulb headlamps that incorporate on-board headlamp aimers, provided that such headlamps meet more rigorous environmental tests. The benefit of headlamps with replaceable lenses is that the lens or reflector could be replaced in the event of breakage of either without the present necessity to replace both components if only one is damaged. DATES: Comments are due February 21, 1995. The amendments would be effective 30 days after publication of the final rule in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to the docket number and notice number, and be submitted to: Docket Section, Room 5109, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590 (Docket hours are from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrick Boyd, Office of Rulemaking, NHTSA (202&hyph;366&hyph;6346). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 12, 1993, NHTSA published a Notice of Request for Comments in implementation of a grant of a petition for rulemaking submitted by Robert Bosch GmbH (58 FR 42924). The notice sought views relevant to a decision on whether to proceed with rulemaking to amend Standard No. 108 to allow the lens to be replaceable on a replaceable bulb headlamp equipped with an on-vehicle aiming device. In addition to comments on the five benefits ascribed by Bosch to replaceable lens headlamps, NHTSA asked for comments on fifteen relevant issues. The reader is referred to the notice for further information. Comments were submitted by 21 interested persons: Advocates for Highway Safety (Advocates), American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA), American Honda, Fiat Auto R&D USA, Ford Motor Company, General Electric Worldwide Automotive Lighting (GE), General Motors Corp. (GM), Hella KG Hueck & Co., KC Hilites, Koito Manufacturing Co. Inc., Oscar Lidstrom, Jr., Maine Bureau of Highway Safety, Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles, Mercedes-Benz of North America, Osram Sylvania, Inc., PACCAR, Inc., Stanley Electric Co. Ltd., Virginia State Police, Volkswagen of North America (on behalf of itself and Audi), Volvo of North America, and J. L. Witt. The concept of replaceable lenses for certain headlamps was opposed by three commenters: Advocates, GE, and KC Hilites. Six others expressed reservations: AAMA, GM, Maine, Massachusetts, Stanley, and Koito. The remaining 12 commenters either actively supported the concept or submitted comments that did not indicate opposition to it. Where appropriate, these comments are mentioned in the discussion of issues that follows. NHTSA's evaluation of the comments that were submitted has synthesized agency concerns into three issues: the photometric performance of headlamps after relensing, the durability performance of headlamps before and after relensing, and the economic benefits to the consumer of replaceable lens headlamps. Photometric Performance of Headlamps After Relensing The first issue of concern is whether a headlamp with a replaceable lens will provide photometric performance equivalent to a headlamp using the original lens. NHTSA had previously denied two petitions (from GM and BMW of North America) for replaceable lens headlamps, principally from concern for potential aiming problems and corroded reflectors. The potential for misaim has two bases. The first is relevant to mechanically aimable headlamps, which have three alignment pads on the lens to orient alignment tools. Some designs use pads ground to the individual characteristics of each reflector/lens assembly. This creates lamp-to-lamp differences in lenses, irrelevant when the lens is permanently attached to the reflector assembly, but of possible concern when lenses may be replaced. Even in designs without custom ground pads, continuation of proper aim is dependent upon the repeatability of the attachment of the lens to the reflector. Small differences in fit or gasket crush could modify the interaction between the reflector and the lens and thereby reorient the aiming pads. The aiming pad issue does not arise under the Bosch petition because it includes only headlamps with on-board aiming devices, which aim the reflector without reference to the lens. Bosch provided data from photometric tests demonstrating that, absent the aiming pad considerations, headlamp photometry was insensitive to lens replacement. The illumination at required test points produced by the test reflector and bulb was nearly identical in each test, using five replaceable lenses with different production dates. The differences between lenses of the same part number and any variations in lens alignment due to repeated replacement had no apparent effect on the photometric performance of the combination of new components.
