FR940811-2-00090 FR940811-2-00056 Action: Letter of Reprimand and proposed civil money penalty in the amount of $5,000. Cause: A false statement made to the Department in connection with an application for HUD-FHA mortgage insurance for a multifamily mortgage. The company certified that certain funds of the mortgagor entity were on deposit in a bank account prior to the time the account was established. 5. New England Funding Group, Inc., Marblehead, Massachusetts Action: Withdrawal of HUD-FHA mortgagee approval. Cause: Misrepresentation by the company that it was an approved Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) seller/servicer. 6. Lambrecht Company, Southfield, Michigan Action: Withdrawal of HUD&hyph;FHA mortgagee approval. Cause: Failure to meet HUD&hyph;FHA mortgagee approval requirements due to cessation of operations. 7. Wells Federal Bank, Wells, Minnesota Action: Proposed Settlement Agreement that provides for reimbursement to the Department for the overpayment of a claim in connection with a Title I property improvement loan. Cause: Improper submission of an insurance claim to the Department in connection with a Title I property improvement loan. 8. Approved Mortgage Corporation, Homestead, Florida Action: Letter of Reprimand and proposed civil money penalty in the amount of $500. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that cited the company for failure to implement a Quality Control Plan for loan origination in accordance with HUD&hyph;FHA requirements. 9. Pacific Northwest Mortgage, Renton, Washington Action: Letter of Reprimand and proposed civil money penalty in the amount of $500. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that cited the company for failure to comply with HUD&hyph;FHA reporting requirements under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA). 10. Centerbank Mortgage Company, Waterbury, Connecticut Action: Settlement Agreement that includes payment to the Department in the amount of $5,000 and compliance with HUD-FHA loan servicing requirements. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that disclosed violations of HUD&hyph;FHA loan servicing requirements that included: failure to implement an adequate Quality Control Plan; failure to properly recertify Section 235 mortgages; and failure to provide detailed explanations in notices sent to mortgagors advising them of rejection for the assignment program. 11. Canyon Springs Financial d/b/a American Builders Mortgage Santa Ana, California Action: Letter of Reprimand and proposed civil money penalty in the amount of $1,000. Cause: A HUD monitoring review which cited the company for failure to implement an acceptable Quality Control Plan, and failure to comply with HUD&hyph;FHA reporting requirements under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA). 12. Meridian Mortgage Financial Corporation, Aurora, Colorado Action: Letter of Reprimand and proposed civil money penalty in the amount of $1,000. Cause: A HUD monitoring review which cited the company for failure to implement an acceptable Quality Control Plan, and failure to comply with HUD-FHA reporting requirements under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA). Dated: August 4, 1994. Nicolas P. Retsinas, Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19633 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;P
