FR940223-2-00131 FR940223-2-00082 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Mountain Loop, WA AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will be prepared for a proposed highway construction project on Forest Highway 7 between Darrington and Silverton, otherwise known as Mountain Loop, in the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest, Snohomish County, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Allan Stockman, Environmental Engineer, or Edrie Vinson, Environmental Specialist, Federal Highway Administration, Western Federal Lands Highway Division, 610 East Fifth Street, Vancouver, Washington 98661&hyph;3893. Telephone: (206) 696&hyph;7952. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the U.S. Forest Service, the Washington State Department of Transportation, and Snohomish County, will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement on a proposal to construct the Mountain Loop Highway, Forest Highway 7, in the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest between White Chuck River, east of Darrington to Barlow Pass, which is east of Silverton. The proposed highway would connect State Route 530 with State Route 92, completing a recreational and scenic highway loop along the South Fork and the Sauk Rivers in the Cascade Range. The proposal would involve reconstruction of an existing unimproved road to two lane paved surface. The total length is about 22.5 km (14 miles). The highway is considered necessary to accommodate recreational traffic and a developing tourism industry. The recreational loop is access to three wilderness areas, a Wild and Scenic river, a National Scenic Byway, hiking trails, camping facilities, and fishing opportunities. The road is seasonally open. Heavy snows close the road during most winters. Alternatives under construction include: No action; road closure; build on existing alignment; construct an Elliott Creek bypass; and construct a single lane couplet around the Elliot Creek slide. Various lane widths will be analyzed with the build alternatives. Announcements describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies. These will also be sent to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed, or are known to have interest in this proposal. Public scoping meetings will be held in Granite Falls, Darrington, and a location between Lynwood and Everett. Public notices will be given on the dates, times, and places of all the meetings. It is important that the full range of issues related to this proposed action be identified, all reasonable alternatives be considered, and significant impacts be thoroughly analyzed. To ensure this, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments, suggestions, and/or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address and phone number provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research, Planning, and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on: February 11, 1994. James N. Hall, Division Engineer, Vancouver, Washington. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4027 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
