FR940214-1-00040 FR940214-1-00009 The preliminary revisions underwent concurrent public review and committee balloting which lasted 2 months. The final revisions also underwent public review and committee balloting and were approved May 3, 1993. A quorum of two-thirds of the subcommittee was necessary to vote the document's approval. The announcement of the 1993 edition of ``Recommended Practice for Reuse of Hemodialyzers'' was made in the ``AAMI News'', the ``American National Standards Institute Reporter'', and in press releases to 500 trade journals. The 1993 edition (ANSI/AAMI RD47) may be purchased from AAMI, 3300 Washington Boulevard, suite 400, Arlington, Virginia 22201&hyph;4598. Upon final approval of the incorporation by reference, the 1993 edition will be available for inspection at the HCFA Information Resource Center, 6325 Security Boulevard, Room G&hyph;10&hyph;A East High Rise Building, Baltimore, MD 21207, or the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. The 1993 edition is directed to the physician in charge of hemodialyzer reprocessing by either the manual or automated method and describes the essential elements of good practices for reprocessing dialyzers to help assure device safety and effectiveness. Some of the salient changes included in the document are: •New Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) recommended environmental exposure limits of chemicals; •Significant simplification and clarification of the process of validating indirect performance measurements; •A new section on equipment safety that recommends testing the function of the reprocessing system after repair of automated equipment unless a system has an autotest mode; •A definition for ``rebound'' that describes the disinfectant rebound effect; •Revisions regarding use, testing, and removal of chemical germicide and more detailed specifications on germicides involved in reuse; •An expanded section on safety monitoring of clinical test results; •Several new bibliographical references; •Appendices that list the rationales for the revised sections and include a new basic formaldehyde assay test method; and •Revised requirements for personnel qualifications and training, patient considerations, water and reprocessing equipment. V. Provisions of the Proposed Regulations We propose to revise §405.2140(a)(5) to require that ESRD facilities meet the AAMI standards on water quality found in sections 3.2.1, 3.2.2, and B1&hyph;B5 of Appendix B of ``Hemodialysis Systems'' (2nd Edition) which would be incorporated by reference. We would indicate that copies of this publication may be purchased from AAMI and are available for inspection at the HCFA Information Resource Center or the Office of the Federal Register. In §405.2150(a)(1), we propose to require ESRD facilities reusing hemodialyzers to meet the 1993 edition of the AAMI guidelines on ``Recommended Practice for Reuse of Hemodialyzers'' which we propose to incorporate by reference. We would indicate that copies of the 1993 edition may be purchased from AAMI and are available for inspection at the HCFA Information Resource Center or the Office of the Federal Register. We would remove §405.2150(a)(2) concerning staff exposure to chemical germicides, paragraph (a)(3)(iii) concerning reporting adverse patient reactions to the manufacturer; and paragraph (b) concerning the standard for dialyzer caps. These topics are covered in the following sections of the revised 1993 AAMI guidelines which would be incorporated by reference: •Section 8_Physical plant and environmental safety considerations •Section 11_Reprocessing •Section 13_Monitoring •Annex A_Section A11.4_Germicide. VI. Response to Comments Because of the large number of items of correspondence we normally receive on a proposed rule, we are not able to acknowledge or respond to them individually. However, we will consider all comments that we receive by the date and time specified in the DATES section of this preamble, and if we proceed with the final rule, we will respond to the comments in the preamble to the final rule. VII. Collection of Information Requirements This rule contains no information collection requirements. Consequently, this rule need not be reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under the authority of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ).
