FR940505-1-00057 FR940505-1-00012 For example, the Amendments contain new and highly specific targets for Reasonable Further Progress. Section 182(b)(l) in the Amendments requires plans under the Act to provide for VOC emissions reductions of at least 15 percent by 1996, and section 182(c)(2)(B) requires an additional 9 percent emissions reduction every three years after 1996. Each of these sections contains detailed instructions for calculating the creditability of those reductions. Sections 182(b)(1) and 182(c)(2). While EPA does not believe that these progress requirements are applicable to its FIP obligation, EPA has concluded that it is wise policy to achieve some degree of progress during the time preceding the attainment dates. As a result, the FIPs do establish incremental reduction targets for the purpose of ensuring attainment by the applicable attainment date. At this time, the State of California has become delinquent in meeting a few requirements in the new Act, thereby giving rise to new EPA FIPs obligations under the new Act's deadlines. FIPs to address these deficiencies, which primarily involve submissions of RACT catch-ups and emission statements, are not yet due. EPA will address these FIPs in separate rulemakings as they become due. c. FIPs may use new provisions providing additional flexibility. Since EPA has concluded that the new law applies to its FIP obligation, EPA may avail itself of new provisions of the law that furnish additional flexibility in designing implementation plans. The Ninth Circuit in its opinion recognized that EPA could take advantage of increased flexibility in the new Act. For example, the Court noted that EPA now has authority under new section 182(e)(5) to approve some parts of the South Coast ozone SIP that it had disapproved in 1988. Coalition for Clean Air, 971 F. 2d at 226. Similarly, as explained below, EPA believes it may invoke section 182(e)(5) in designing its FIP to obtain greater flexibility to anticipate new control techniques or the improvement of existing techniques. To the extent that EPA invokes such discretionary provisions of the new Act, it will satisfy any new prerequisites prescribed in those sections. For example, as explained below, in order for EPA's FIP to obtain the benefit of the latitude granted by section 182(e)(5) to rely on measures anticipating improvements in technology, the FIP must address progress requirements of that section which otherwise would have been inapplicable. As described in more detail below, EPA in its FIPs is also applying the new law's classifications for each ozone nonattainment area, and, for Sacramento, the provision for ``bumping'' up an area to a new classification. As with section 182(e)(5), where EPA relies on a new provision for added flexibility, it intends to fulfill any conditions imposed on the exercise of that authority. EPA recognizes that its FIPs must weave a complicated path between the old and new laws, and that its FIP obligation is necessarily a hybrid of old and new. This complexity is unavoidable, however, because of the anomalous nature of the task EPA faces: EPA must cure a failure under an old Act, since repealed, but administer the cure under new law.
