FR940506-0-00024 FR940506-0-00012 D. Operation of the Data Sets 1. Mandatory, Optional, and Conditional Nature of the Fields In the consensus data sets adopted by Order No. 563, data fields were denominated as mandatory, optional, and conditional. 13 The Commission found that the rule required all pipelines to support the mandatory data fields. Pipelines would choose whether to support the optional fields, unless they were required to support these fields by their tariff. The Commission also stated that pipelines were required to display all information, whether mandatory or optional, on their on-line EBBs. 13 Conditional fields are filled only when a condition in another field is met. AER/MRT seek clarification that the Commission was standardizing only the information to be provided on the on-line EBBs, not the format in which the information is to be displayed. Others seek clarification about the display of all the mandatory data fields on the on-line EBBs. 14 They contend certain mandatory fields in the downloadable data sets are required only for file transfers, but not for interactive, on-line transactions. They assert users of on-line EBBs will know some of the information in the mandatory fields without having it displayed, so that required posting of the information is unnecessary and will only clutter the EBB screens. 15 They maintain that the only requirement should be that the on-line EBB contain information comparable to the data sets. 14 KGPC, PEC Pipeline Group, Tenneco Gas, Working Groups 1 & 2. 15 Working Groups 1 & 2 point to the fields for rate schedule, stand-alone offer indicator (whether the offer is tied to another offer), and offer type (indicating the type of capacity being offered) as examples of information that would be implicitly known to users of on-line EBBs and so need not be included on the EBB display. KGPC, PEC Pipeline Group, and AER/MRT also request clarification that pipelines are not required to display optional information on their on-line EBBs unless they choose to do so or their tariffs require the display of that information. NGC requests clarification that pipelines must support the conditional fields. The Commission will clarify its requirements. The Commission required all pipelines to support the mandatory fields because Order No. 563 included certain substantive requirements that pipelines may not previously have been required by their restructuring orders to disclose on their EBBs. For example, not all pipelines may be providing the information found in the operationally available capacity and critical notice data sets on their EBBs. The intent of the requirement was only to ensure that the downloadable data sets and the on-line EBBs conveyed comparable information. Accordingly, the Commission agrees that fields not required for on-line EBB use need not be displayed, so long as the on-line EBB and the downloadable data set convey comparable information.
