FR940516-1-00107 FR940516-1-00006 Vehicle and equipment manufacturers that use regulated engines would be required to use appropriate certified nonroad engines in their vehicles and equipment after August 1, 1996. EPA requests comment on whether a separate effective date for nonroad vehicle and equipment manufacturers should be established and, if so, whether that date should be three months after the August 1, 1996 effective date for nonroad engine manufacturers (that is, November 1, 1996). It appears, based on best available data, that the start of large volume equipment production is approximately November 1 of every year. EPA is considering this separate effective date because it is concerned that equipment manufacturers have small inventories of noncertified engines that could not be incorporated into equipment by the August 1 effective date. EPA would consider extending this flexibility to six months, that is, February 1, 1997, if manufacturers could quantitatively demonstrate that the increased risk of stockpiling noncertified engines by the equipment manufacturers would be minimal and the inventory buildup would be normal. EPA also requests comment on whether a separate effective date for equipment manufacturers should be based on introduction of equipment into commerce, rather than the date of equipment manufacture. The August 1996 effective date allows engine manufacturers over two years of lead time from the date of this proposal, and more than one year beyond the 1995 implementation date imposed by CARB. EPA is not proposing the same effective date as CARB in order to allow manufacturers some lead time between the CARB and federal effective dates to bring preempted engines into compliance; however, EPA requests comment on the feasibility of a 1995 effective date for federal standards, particularly for those engines that are not preempted from state regulation. While EPA acknowledges the need for sufficient lead time to perform research, develop testing capacity, apply emission control technology, and manufacture clean engines, EPA's view is that engine manufacturers have been aware for a considerable period of time that emission regulations were likely to impact their products in the near future. In 1990, CARB was required under the California Clean Air Act (CCAA) to develop emission standards for lawn and garden and utility equipment engines by December of 1990. In November of 1990, Congress amended the federal Clean Air Act, requiring that EPA study emissions of nonroad engines and vehicles by November of 1991 and promulgate applicable regulations by November of 1992 if these sources were found to contribute significantly to air pollution. At a public workshop held in March of 1992, EPA discussed the importance of emissions from small SI engines, announcing its intent to develop applicable regulations. Consequently, manufacturers have known since March 1992, at the latest, that EPA was planning to develop standards applicable to their products, and have already had more than two years to assess emission control technologies and develop testing capacity. Several state and environmental interest groups have expressed concerns that a 1996 effective date delays the realization of reductions of in-use air pollutant emissions unnecessarily and limits the ability of many states to adhere to the schedules mandated in the CAA for reasonable further progress toward volatile organic compound reductions from 1990 levels and for attainment of the ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standard. Manufacturers have argued that a 1996 effective date offers too little lead time given that this proposed rule covers various categories of equipment that California is preempted from regulating.
