FR940202-0-00064 FR940202-0-00006 (c) Debt instruments issued for publicly traded property_ (1) Issue price. If a substantial amount of the debt instruments in an issue is issued for property that is traded on an established market (within the meaning of paragraph (f) of this section) and the issue is not described in paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1) of this section, the issue price of each debt instrument in the issue is the fair market value of the property, determined as of the issue date (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section). For purposes of the preceding sentence, property means a debt instrument, stock, security, contract, commodity, or nonfunctional currency. But see ยง1.988&hyph;2(b)(2) for circumstances when nonfunctional currency is treated as money rather than as property. (2) Issue date. The issue date of an issue described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is the first date on which a substantial amount of the debt instruments in the issue is issued for traded property. (d) Other debt instruments_ (1) Issue price. If an issue of debt instruments is not described in paragraph (a)(1), (b)(1), or (c)(1) of this section, the issue price of each debt instrument in the issue is determined as if the debt instrument were a separate issue. If the issue price of a debt instrument that is treated as a separate issue under the preceding sentence is not determined under paragraph (a)(1), (b)(1), or (c)(1) of this section, and if section 1274 applies to the debt instrument, the issue price of the instrument is determined under section 1274. Otherwise, the issue price of the debt instrument is its stated redemption price at maturity under section 1273(b)(4). See section 1274(c) and ยง1.1274&hyph;1 to determine if section 1274 applies to a debt instrument. (2) Issue date. The issue date of an issue described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section is the date on which the debt instrument is issued for money or in a sale or exchange. (e) Special rule for certain sales to bond houses, brokers, or similar persons. For purposes of determining the issue price and issue date of a debt instrument under this section, sales to bond houses, brokers, or similar persons or organizations acting in the capacity of underwriters, placement agents, or wholesalers are ignored. (f) Traded on an established market (publicly traded)_ (1) In general. Property (including a debt instrument described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) is traded on an established market for purposes of this section if, at any time during the 60-day period ending 30 days after the issue date, the property is described in paragraph (f)(2), (f)(3), (f)(4), or (f)(5) of this section. (2) Exchange listed property. Property is described in this paragraph (f)(2) if it is listed on_ (i) A national securities exchange registered under section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f); (ii) An interdealer quotation system sponsored by a national securities association registered under section 15A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o&hyph;3); or (iii) The International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, Limited, the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, the Tokyo Stock Exchange, or any other foreign exchange or board of trade that is designated by the Commissioner in the Internal Revenue Bulletin (see ยง601.601(d)(2)(ii) of this chapter). (3) Market traded property. Property is described in this paragraph (f)(3) if it is property of a kind that is traded either on a board of trade designated as a contract market by the Commodities Futures Trading Commission or on an interbank market. (4) Property appearing on a quotation medium. Property is described in this paragraph (f)(4) if it appears on a system of general circulation (including a computer listing disseminated to subscribing brokers, dealers, or traders) that provides a reasonable basis to determine fair market value by disseminating either recent price quotations (including rates, yields, or other pricing information) of one or more identified brokers, dealers, or traders or actual prices (including rates, yields, or other pricing information) of recent sales transactions (a quotation medium). A quotation medium does not include a directory or listing of brokers, dealers, or traders for specific securities, such as yellow sheets, that provides neither price quotations nor actual prices of recent sales transactions. (5) Readily quotable debt instruments_ (i) In general. A debt instrument is described in this paragraph (f)(5) if price quotations are readily available from dealers, brokers, or traders. (ii) Safe harbors. A debt instrument is not considered to be described in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section if_ (A) No other outstanding debt instrument of the issuer (or of any person who guarantees the debt instrument) is described in paragraph (f)(2), (f)(3), or (f)(4) of this section (other traded debt); (B) The original stated principal amount of the issue that includes the debt instrument does not exceed $25 million; (C) The conditions and covenants relating to the issuer's performance with respect to the debt instrument are materially less restrictive than the conditions and covenants included in all of the issuer's other traded debt (e.g., the debt instrument is subject to an economically significant subordination provision whereas the issuer's other traded debt is senior); or (D) The maturity date of the debt instrument is more than 3 years after the latest maturity date of the issuer's other traded debt. (6) Effect of certain temporary restrictions on trading. If there is any temporary restriction on trading a purpose of which is to avoid the characterization of the property as one that is traded on an established market for Federal income tax purposes, then the property is treated as traded on an established market. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a temporary restriction on trading need not be imposed by the issuer. (7) Convertible debt instruments. A debt instrument is not treated as traded on an established market solely because the debt instrument is convertible into property that is so traded. (g) Treatment of certain cash payments incident to lending transactions_ (1) Applicability. The provisions of this paragraph (g) apply to cash payments made incident to private lending transactions (including seller financing).
