FR940719-2-00081 FR940719-2-00052 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Office of the Secretary Children's Disability Research Issues AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, HHS. ACTION: Request for applications to conduct children's disability policy research issues. SUMMARY: The Department wishes to conduct research to provide a clearer understanding of the policy issues pertaining to children's disability. This project looks at children with disabilities in a cross-cutting way. Policy issues revolve around a comprehensive set of services, including health care, education, and income supports. Little information on children with disabilities exists at the national level and even less is known about the use, cost, and impact of services for these children. This project is intended to foster new policy research by encouraging the use of smaller data sets from states, local areas, or facilities in order to address our policy concerns. We estimate that the scope and level of effort will require from 12 to 17 months to accomplish. A total of $600,000 is available for awards in the $50,000 to $100,000 range. (See part V.E.4). DATES: The closing date for submitting an application is July 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send applications to: Grants Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., room 405F, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, Washington, DC 20201. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Grants Officer at above address, (202) 401&hyph;3951. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Part I. Background Approximately 4.5 million or one in fifteen children under the age of 18 have a disability. The sizable number of children with disabilities is a result of many factors, including rising life expectancies during the entire century, advances in neonatal care and medical technology, and improvements in treatment for chronic diseases, many of which were previously fatal. Children with disabilities are living longer, typically well into adulthood. Over the past two decades, children with a wide range of disabilities, chronic conditions and illnesses have increasingly become part of regular family and community life. A patchwork of public programs have been enacted to provide families with a range of supports to keep their young members with disabilities at home (rather than in hospitals, institutions or other residential settings), send them to local schools with non-disabled peers, and foster their participation in typical community services and programs. Administration of these public programs is spread among different Federal Departments and different agencies within those Departments. Most public programs are found in either the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) or in the Department of Education (DEd). DHHS public programs providing such support include: Supplemental Security Income (SSI), which provides income support for children who are blind or disabled, Medicaid, especially through the Early and Periodic Screening, Diagnosis and Treatment (EPSDT) benefit, and also certain Medicaid state plan services such as rehabilitation and therapies, home and community based waivers, and ``TERFA 134'' or other eligibility options that serve children whose families have incomes over the poverty level; and the Title V Maternal and Child Health Block Grants, which enable states to plan, promote, coordinate, and evaluate health care for mothers and children and provide health services to those individuals who do not have access to adequate health care. The major DEd program is the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), originally authorized in 1975 as the Education for all Handicapped Children's Act, which mandated that public schools provide a ``free appropriate education in the least restrictive environment'' for all eligible children with disabilities. IDEA also provides early intervention and preschool programs for children who have a disability, or are at risk of developing one. More children with disabilities are participating in these public programs, due to both epidemiological factors (higher survival rates) and to more generous programmatic definitions of disability. Advocates for children with disabilities have won significant court decisions resulting in broader definitions of disability and more generous benefits. A case in point is the 1990 Supreme Court decision Zebley v Sullivan, which broadened the definition of disability for the SSI program. Growing program rolls and increasing costs give rise to a number of policy issues. The lack of data on disability among children, as well as on their service use and costs complicates analysis of policy options. For example:
