FR940930-0-00165 FR940930-0-00028 In cases where installations of conversion configurations are performed by parties other than the certifier, EPA envisions that the certifier will enter into legally binding agreements with said installers. To facilitate EPA enforcement actions each installer must be listed on the certificate filed with EPA at the time of certification for each conversion configuration, and the certifier must submit a revised list to EPA when new installers are added. The certifier is responsible for compliance with any applicable production line testing requirements (e.g., Selective Enforcement Auditing in federal certification) regarding the availability of vehicles and emissions testing facilities at the certifier's facilities and at those of the certifier's installers. Identification of a converted CFV as a LEV, ULEV, or ZEV will be based on the information provided to EPA at the time of the certification of the conversion configuration. To aid in their identification, a converted CFV must be labeled as such on the engine labels. Consistent with other EPA certification programs, records are required to be maintained of the tests performed to support the certification application, and these records must be made available to EPA enforcement personnel upon request. Certifiers must maintain records of each vehicle converted including the make of the vehicle, vehicle identification number, serial number of the conversion kit, date and location of the conversion, and the results of the post-installation emission test discussed in the following section. c. Conversion installation quality test . i. Background. The CFV emission standards are considerably more stringent than conventional standards, and converted vehicles certified as CFV's will be eligible to earn marketable purchase and emission credits and to receive TCM exemptions as CFVs in the Clean Fuel Fleet program (LEVs, ULEVs, ZEVs or ILEVs). In the NPRM EPA requested comment on whether additional requirements are necessary to ensure compliance with the CFV standards given that the conversion industry historically has consisted of a large number of relatively small businesses that have not previously faced specific emissions performance requirements. Specifically, EPA requested comment on whether it would be useful to require a post-installation test for converted vehicles to assess the quality of the conversion installation from an emissions perspective. Such a test is required by the California Air Resources Board in its regulation of alternative fuel retrofit systems. 35 35 Title 13, California Code of Regulations, Sections 2030 and 2031. Of those commenting on this subject, all expressed concern regarding reports of poor emissions performance of some converted vehicles presently in use and stated that EPA should promulgate strict standards to instill consumer confidence in the emissions performance of CFVs. There was support for the EPA concept of a post-installation test requirement to help identify poor installations or defective conversion kit hardware that would otherwise result in high emissions.
