FR940607-0-00081 FR940607-0-00017 5. Section 563.170 is amended by revising paragraph (c)(1)(iv) to read as follows: §563.170 Examinations and audits; appraisals; establishment and maintenance of records. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (iv) One or more written appraisal reports, prepared at the request of the lender or its agent and for the lender's use, and signed prior to the approval of such application (except in the case of an approval conditioned upon obtaining an appraisal) that satisfies the requirements of part 564 of this chapter: Provided, however, That nothing in this paragraph (c)(1)(iv) shall apply to property improvement loans, as that term is used in 24 CFR 200.167, insured by the Federal Housing Administration for which that agency does not require an appraisal or certification of valuation; * * * * * PART 564_APPRAISALS 6. The authority citation for part 564 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1462, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1828(m), 3331 et seq. 7. Section 564.2 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (d) through (l) as paragraphs (e) through (m), respectively, and by adding a new paragraph (d) to read as follows: §564.2 Definitions. * * * * * (d) Business loan means a loan or extension of credit to any corporation, general or limited partnership, business trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, sole proprietorship, or other business entity. * * * * * 8. Section 564.3 is amended by revising paragraph (a), redesignating paragraphs (b) through (d) as paragraphs (d) through (f), and adding new paragraphs (b) and (c) to read as follows: §564.3 Appraisals required; transactions requiring a State certified or licensed appraiser. (a) Appraisals required. An appraisal performed by a State certified or licensed appraiser is required for all real estate-related financial transactions except those in which: (1) The transaction value is $250,000 or less; (2) A lien on real estate has been taken as collateral in an abundance of caution; (3) The transaction is not secured by real estate; (4) A lien on real estate has been taken for purposes other than the real estate's value; (5) The transaction is a business loan that: (i) Has a transaction value of $1 million or less; and (ii) Is not dependent on the sale of, or rental income derived from, real estate as the primary source of repayment; (6) A lease of real estate is entered into, unless the lease is the economic equivalent of a purchase or sale of the leased real estate; (7) The transaction involves an existing extension of credit at the lending institution, provided that: (i) There has been no obvious and material change in market conditions or physical aspects of the property that threatens the adequacy of the institution's real estate collateral protection after the transaction, even with the advancement of new monies; or (ii) There is no advancement of new monies, other than funds necessary to cover reasonable closing costs; (8) The transaction involves the purchase, sale, investment in, exchange of, or extension of credit secured by, a loan or interest in a loan, pooled loans, or interests in real property, including mortgaged-backed securities, and each loan or interest in a loan, pooled loan, or real property interest met OTS regulatory requirements for appraisals at the time of origination; (9) The transaction is wholly or partially insured or guaranteed by a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency; (10) The transaction either: (i) Qualifies for sale to a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency; or (ii) Involves a residential real estate transaction in which the appraisal conforms to the Federal National Mortgage Association or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation appraisal standards applicable to that category of real estate; (11) The regulated institution is acting in a fiduciary capacity and is not required to obtain an appraisal under other law; or (12) The OTS determines that the services of an appraiser are not necessary in order to protect Federal financial and public policy interests in real estate-related financial transactions or to protect the safety and soundness of the institution. (b) Evaluations required. For a transaction that does not require the services of a State certified or licensed appraiser under paragraph (a)(1), (a)(5) or (a)(7) of this section, the institution shall obtain an appropriate evaluation of real property collateral that is consistent with safe and sound banking practices. (c) Appraisals to address safety and soundness concerns. The OTS reserves the right to require an appraisal under this part whenever the agency believes it is necessary to address safety and soundness concerns. * * * * * 9. Section 564.4 is revised to read as follows: §564.4 Minimum appraisal standards. For federally related transactions, all appraisals shall, at a minimum: (a) Conform to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation, 1029 Vermont Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20005, unless principles of safe and sound banking require compliance with stricter standards;
