FR940513-1-00064 FR940513-1-00017 As a result of the NRC recommendation, Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (the 1990 amendments) added a new section to the Act, section 183(f), that requires the EPA to promulgate standards applicable to emissions of VOC and other air pollutants resulting from the loading and unloading of tank vessels. The 1990 amendments also revised section 112 of the Act to require the EPA to publish a list of categories of major sources and area sources of listed HAP and to promulgate emissions standards for each listed category of emission sources. In the Agency's initial list of categories of sources to be regulated under section 112(c) of the Act, the marine vessel loading and unloading source category was not listed because the Agency intended to regulate the emissions of HAP as well as VOC under the authority of section 183(f) of the Act (57 FR 31566, July 16, 1992). After publication of this initial list of source categories, the Agency decided to regulate HAP emissions from major sources of marine vessel loading and unloading facilities under authority of section 112 of the Act (58 FR 60021, November 12, 1993). B. Legal Authority for Tank Vessel Standards 1. Clean Air Act Section 183(f) Section 183(f) of the Act requires the Administrator, in consultation with the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, to Promulgate standards applicable to the emissions of VOC and any other air pollutant from loading and unloading of tank vessels (as that term is defined in section 2101 of title 46 of the United States Code) which the Administrator finds causes, or contributes to, air pollution that may be reasonably anticipated to endanger public health or welfare. Such standards shall require the application of reasonably available control technology, considering costs, any non-air-quality benefits, environmental impacts, energy requirements and safety factors associated with alternative control techniques. The Act further directed the Administrator to limit the application of the standards, to the extent practicable, to loading and unloading facilities and not to tank vessels. The standards were to be promulgated within 2 years after enactment of the amended Act and must be effective within 2 years of promulgation. The Coast Guard was directed to issue regulations ``to insure the safety of the equipment and operations which are to control emissions from the loading and unloading of tank vessels *␣*␣*.'' 2. Clean Air Act Section 112 Title III of the 1990 amendments revised section 112 of the Act to reduce the amount of nationwide air toxics emissions. Under title III, section 112 was amended to give the EPA the authority to establish national standards to reduce air toxics from industries that generate these emissions. Section 112(b) contains a list of 189 HAP, the emissions of which are to be regulated. Specific HAP on the list include benzene (including benzene from gasoline), toluene, and hexane. Section 112(c) directs the EPA to use this pollutant list to develop and publish a list of all categories of major and area sources of the pollutants on the HAP list. National emissions standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP) will be developed for each of the source categories on that list. The list of source categories was published in the Federal Register on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576) and was revised to include marine vessel loading and unloading operations on November 12, 1993 (58 FR 60021). The NESHAP are to be developed to control HAP emissions from both new and existing major and area sources according to the statutory directives set out in section 112(d) of the Act. (Section 112(a) defines a major source as any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit considering control, 10 tons per year or more of any HAP or 25 tons per year of any combination of HAP. An area source is any stationary source that is not considered ``major''.) The statute requires the standards to reflect the maximum degree of reduction in emissions of HAP that is achievable for new or existing sources. This control level is referred to as the ``maximum achievable control technology (MACT)'', the selection of which must reflect consideration of the cost of achieving the emission reduction, any nonair quality health and environmental impacts, and energy requirements for control levels more stringent than the MACT floors. The MACT floor is the minimum stringency level for MACT standards. For new sources, MACT must be no less stringent than the level of emission control already achieved in practice by the best controlled similar source. For existing sources, MACT must be no less stringent than the average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 12 percent of existing sources or the best performing 5 sources in categories or subcategories with fewer than 30 sources.
