FR940110-1-00086 FR940110-1-00006 Section 960.21(g)(1) of the proposed rule carries forward the requirement in the Board's existing AHP regulation that each Bank shall reimburse members of its Advisory Council for transportation and subsistence expenses they incur for each day devoted to attending quarterly meetings with representatives of the board of directors of the Bank. See 12 CFR 960.14(e). Section 960.21(g)(2) of the proposed rule adds a new requirement that each Bank shall pay members of its Advisory Council a fee for each day devoted to attending quarterly meetings with representatives of the board of directors of the Bank. The Board is proposing this change in light of the additional responsibility given to Advisory Council members under the proposed rule to advise the Banks on preparation of the AHP implementation plans. The Board specifically requests comments as to whether the Banks should be required to pay fees, and whether the amount to be paid should be set forth in the final AHP rule so that a uniform fee is paid to all Advisory Council members, or whether the fees should be set by the board of directors of each Bank. Q. Effective Dates Section 960.22 of the proposed rule provides that, if published as a final rule, this part shall become effective 30 days from such publication in the Federal Register . In addition, the provisions of this part, or portion thereof, may be applied to projects approved for AHP funding prior to the effective date of the final rule to the extent all relevant parties agree thereto in writing. The Finance Board would not need to approve any such retroactive application of the final rule. This proposed provision is intended to allow the retroactive application to existing AHP projects of provisions of the revised AHP rule that are less restrictive than existing AHP requirements, to the extent all relevant parties (the Bank, the applicant, the sponsor, the owner, and if applicable, the loan fund or loan consortium) agree to such application of the new provisions. The Board specifically requests comments on this proposed provision. III. Regulatory Flexibility Act The proposed rule applies only to the Banks, which do not come within the meaning of ``small entities,'' as defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA). See 5 U.S.C. 601(6). Therefore, in accordance with section 605(b) of the RFA, see id. section 605(b), the Finance Board hereby certifies that this proposed rule, if promulgated as a final rule, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. IV. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements contained in this proposed rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. chapter 35. The title, description of need and use, and the respondent description for the information collection requirements are discussed in the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION. Any comments on the proposed information collections should be sent to Gary Waxman, Paperwork Reduction Project, OMB, room 3208, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. In accordance with 5 CFR 1320.12 and 1320.15, the following table discloses the estimated annual reporting burden for each collection of information in the proposed rule:
