FR940516-1-00046 FR940516-1-00003 The capability to vent pressure from a pipeline should never take the form of bypassing the SDV but should be from the respective ends of the pipelines. (f) Bidirectional operations. Response _Not affected. (g) Pigging operations. Response_ Subsea valves should be fitted with remote position indicators to ensure the valve is fully open during pigging operations. Question _What measures could be taken to enhance performance and reliability_in particular, how could problems identified in response to question one be alleviated? Response_ Locating the SDV above the maximum wave height would alleviate most problems described in question one. Control lines are relatively short and the valve is readily accessible for maintenance and repairs. There are designs where safety can be achieved by other methods. There are also ``economical'' platforms where the producer accepts more risk to reduce facility costs. The location of the SDV should be commensurate with the level of protection afforded to other high-risk facilities on the platform. The SDV's should be manufactured from materials which will avoid valve replacement and offer reliable performance. The valve should have manual actuators and quick connect ends to facilitate operation or removal. Platform operating decks should be made of plate, not grating. Plate acts as a fire wall. If the deck is made of plate, the SDV can be safely located on the deck. The SDV's should be self-operating and fail-safe closed. Valves should be routinely inspected and tested as well as continuously monitored. The SDV and control system should be protected from mechanical damage. Placement of SDV's on the platform would improve reliability but would also minimize their effectiveness. Redundant control and instrumentation systems may be desirable. Standards should be established for value specifications and certification. Quality control in manufacturing could also enhance their reliability. Valve technology has advanced to the point that reliable subsea operation is available. Advancement in the areas of a valve failure data base and check valve technology could yield further reliability and performance. Require a surface SDV as well as a subsea valve. Question _What types of SDV's are available that could be located on the seafloor? Response_ Any valve designed for subsea service such as a quarter turn ball valve, check valve, or a gate valve could perform as an SDV. The use of hydraulically operated valves could present a pollution problem. It is the actuator that needs to be scrutinized. No existing SDV would likely serve the purpose when located on the seafloor. Hydraulic or pneumatic systems would be most practical. Some manufacturers have devised an SDV for subsea service.
