FR940616-0-00092 FR940616-0-00011 Comment: Definition Should Include Direct Threat Standard and Eliminate Standard of Significant Risk of Substantial Interference with the Safety of Others. Five commenters supported incorporating the ``direct threat'' standard that is included in the Fair Housing Act, rather than the standard of ``significant risk of substantial interference with the safety or enjoyment of others or with his own health or safety,'' as set forth in the part 9 rule. One commenter stated that it was absolutely improper to permit evaluation of whether an individual is a potential risk to his or her own health or safety. The commenter stated that: ``In the housing context, such a concern can never be related to an essential eligibility requirement. Where an individual may pose a risk to him or herself and to others, the Fair Housing Act standard of direct threat to the health and safety of others is adequate.'' Response. As discussed in section II of this preamble, the Department has added a new ยง9.131, which addresses the direct threat standard. Self-Evaluation (ยง9.110) Section 9.110(a) provides that HUD shall, within one year of the effective date of the part 9 final rule, evaluate its current policies and practices, and the effects of those policies and practices, including regulations, handbooks, notices and other written guidance, that do not or may not meet the requirements of part 9, and, to the extent modification of any such policies is required, HUD shall take the necessary corrective actions. Comment: Self-Evaluation Section Should Be Delayed by Final Rule Deadlines. Two commenters suggested that this section be revised to state that remedial actions, which HUD has begun or is planning, will not be delayed by the ``deadlines in this section.'' One of the commenters stated that the part 9 final rule should clearly state that HUD will complete the self-evaluation of its policies and practices within one year of the effective date of the final rule. Response. The Department periodically reviews the requirements of its various programs, and the policies and practices of these programs, to ensure that all HUD programs, both HUD assisted and HUD conducted, reflect existing statutory requirements. Given this periodic review process, the Department does not intend or foresee any delay in the evaluation of HUD conducted programs to ensure that these programs meet the requirements of part 9, as required by ยง9.110. Comment: HUD Should Review Its Federal Preference Criteria, As Part of Its Self-Evaluation Process. One commenter urged the Department to review its Federal preference criteria for housing programs funded by the Department. The commenter stated that the current criteria are not clear on the definition of what is not a ``regular sleeping accommodation'' and that Federal preferences should be revised to give top preference to individuals released from institutions, such as hospitals, nursing homes and rehabilitation facilities. Response. A review of Federal preference criteria for housing programs is not appropriate in connection with the development and implementation of this part 9 rule. This rule is concerned with the implementation of section 504 solely as it applies to HUD conducted programs. Federal preferences in housing affect all HUD housing programs, not only housing owned by HUD. Any changes to the list of individuals that should be given preferences in federally-assisted or federally-conducted housing is more appropriate for proposed rulemaking that provides for advance notice to, and solicitation of comment from, the public. Comment: Expand Public Participation in the Self-Evaluation Process to Include Comments on Fair Housing Issues. Section 9.110(b) of the part 9 rule provides that HUD shall provide an opportunity to interested persons, including individuals with disabilities or organizations representing individuals with disabilities, to participate in the self-evaluation process by submitting comments, both oral and written. One commenter recommended that HUD expand this section of the self-evaluation process to include fair housing issues that relate to people with disabilities. Response. As discussed throughout this preamble, the mandate and the scope of the Fair Housing Act and section 504 are different. Accordingly, it is inappropriate for issues specifically related to the Fair Housing Act to be included in the section 504 self-evaluation process. However, to the extent that section 504 incorporates or overlaps with the Fair Housing Act, these issues may be raised in connection with the self-evaluation process. Comment: Files Should Be Maintained Permanently. Section 9.110(c) of the part 9 rule provides that HUD shall, for a period of at least three years following the completion of the self-evaluation, maintain on file and make available for public inspection: (1) A list of interested persons; (2) a description of the areas examined and any problems identified; and (3) a description of any modifications made or to be made. Two commenters recommended that HUD maintain this file permanently. The commenters stated that HUD may make progress in the implementation and enforcement of section 504 if HUD's efforts are permanently catalogued, and that this progress is more important than maintaining consistency with the DOJ's coordination regulation. Response. The Department believes that successful implementation and enforcement of section 504 will not be hindered by the rule's requirement to maintain the ``self-evaluation'' files for a period of three years. The Department notes that under ยง9.110, HUD is not required to discard the self-evaluation files after the three year period has expired. Rather, HUD is required to maintain these files for a period of at least three years following the completion of the self-evaluation. HUD may maintain these files permanently or indefinitely. Accordingly, the Department believes that the minimum three-year requirement is sufficient.
