FR940819-0-00041 FR940819-0-00016 Antidrug Program Plan Submission Several changes were proposed in this NPRM to the plan submission provisions. First, the address to which plans and plan amendments must be submitted has been changed to reflect the Drug Abatement Division's current address. Second, the ``transition'' provisions of the rule for new aviation employers (paragraph A., section IX) have been changed to eliminate the substantial grace period previously provided. Commenters supported the FAA's view that given the published guidance available from the FAA and from private sector entities and the wealth of material and experience now available, there is no longer a reason to permit carriers to begin operations without having implemented an FAA-approved antidrug program. The FAA noted in the preamble to the final rule that the compliance deadlines for new businesses might be accelerated in the future (53 FR 47043; November 21, 1988), and, accordingly, this final rule prohibits covered employers from beginning operations without an approved antidrug program. The program must be implemented, and all covered employees subject to testing, not later than the inception of operations. Any person hired by a new certificate holder to perform a safety-sensitive function after the issuance of the certificate must undergo pre-employment testing. Additionally, each new employer must ensure that employees performing safety-sensitive functions by contract are subject to an FAA-approved antidrug program within 60 days of the implementation of the employer's program. This requirement will impose no significant burden on new operators and any burden is outweighed by the benefits gained by public safety. Third, the consortium plan submission section has been revised to require that each consortium program must provide for notification to the FAA of changes in membership. Finally, a new provision (section IX, paragraph A.6.) expressly states that covered employers must ensure that they are continuously covered under an approved antidrug program. This new section reflects the FAA's recognition of the fluid nature of the aviation industry, in which locations, contracts, and even corporate identities are subject to frequent changes. Employees Located Outside the United States As noted in the preamble to the NPRM, the original antidrug rule published in 1988 applied to employees performing safety-sensitive functions for the specified employers regardless of whether the employees were located within the territory of the United States or were located in a foreign country. In recognition of the international implications of the rule, however, the effective date of the rule with respect to employees located outside the territory of the United States was deferred on a number of occasions. Significant practical and legal concerns surrounding implementation of the antidrug rule outside the territory of the United States remain and the FAA has substantially revised the international section of the antidrug rule (section XII, appendix I).
