FR940503-1-00015 FR940503-1-00004 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;23&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Saab Model SAAB SF340A and SAAB 340B Airplanes, Equipped With Flight Equipment and Engineering Limited Model 121 Series Seats AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Saab Model SAAB SF340A and SAAB 340B airplanes. This proposal would require repetitive inspections to detect cracking of the tray stop spindle and backrest spindle bosses on the inboard sections of certain seats; and replacement of the inboard sections, if necessary. This proposal would also require repair and identification of the modification plate, which would terminate the requirement to inspect repetitively. This proposal is prompted by reports of fatigue cracking in the vicinity of the tray stop spindle and backrest spindle bosses, which could lead to excessive movement and eventual failure of the backrest on these seats during aft loading. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent failure of the backrest on these seats, which could inhibit emergency egress. DATES: Comments must be received by June 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;23&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Flight Equipment and Engineering Limited, Technical Manager, Nissen House, Grovebury Road, Leighton Buzzard, Bedfordshire, LU7 8TB, United Kingdom. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Quam, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2145; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;23&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter.
