FR940217-2-00017 FR940217-2-00012 Department of the Navy Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for Disposal and Reuse of the Naval Radio Transmitting Facility, Suffolk, VA Pursuant to Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as implemented by the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508), the Department of the Navy announces its intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to evaluate the environmental effects of disposal and reuse of the Naval Radio Transmitting Facility (NRTF) Driver, Suffolk, Virginia. This disposal is being conducted in accordance with the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990. Closure of NRTF Driver was recommended by the 1993 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission to eliminate redundancy in geographic coverage in naval telecommunications. The recommendations became effective in September 1993. The proposed action to be evaluated in the EIS involves the disposal of land, buildings, and infrastructure of NRTF Driver for subsequent reuse. The Navy intends to analyze the environmental effects of the disposal of NRTF Driver based on the reasonably foreseeable reuse of the property, taking into account uses to be identified by the City of Suffolk Reuse Planning Group. The property will likely be developed for mixed uses, including recreation, housing, and light industry. In coordination with the City of Suffolk's reuse plan, other federal agencies may offer uses for the property. The EIS will evaluate alternative reuse concepts of the property, including the ``no-action'' alternative, which would be retention of the property by the Navy in caretaker status. However, because of the process mandated by the Base Closure and Realignment Act, selection of the ``no-action'' alternative would be considered impracticable for the Navy to implement. The EIS will evaluate impacts of reuse of NRTF Driver on the natural environment including wetlands and wildlife habitat, as well as the socioeconomic environment, which includes potential impacts to population, housing, and schools. The Navy will conduct a cultural resource survey to determine whether any sensitive archaeological resources exist within the property. Additionally, the Navy is conducting an Environmental Baseline Survey to determine if any areas of environmental contamination exist. The Navy will initiate a scoping process for the purpose of determining the scope of issues to be addressed and for identifying the significant environmental issues related to disposal and reuse of the property. The Navy will hold a public scoping meeting on March 3, 1994, beginning at 7 p.m., at the John Yeates Middle School, located on 4901 Bennett Pasture Road, Suffolk, Virginia. This meeting also will be advertised in local newspapers. A brief presentation will precede request for public comments. The Navy and the City of Suffolk will provide a brief introduction and description of the proposed action. Navy representatives will be available to receive comments from the public regarding issues of concern to the public. It is important that federal, state, and local agencies and interested individuals take this opportunity to identify environmental concerns that should be addressed during the preparation of the EIS. In the interest of time, each speaker will be asked to limit his or her oral comments to 5 minutes. Agencies and the public are also invited and encouraged to provide written comments in addition to, or in lieu of, oral comments at the scoping meeting. To be most helpful, scoping comments should clearly describe specific issues or topics that the commentor believes the EIS should address. The Navy will provide comment cards at the scoping meeting. Prepared statements also will be accepted at the scoping meeting. Written statements and/or questions regarding the scoping process should be mailed no later than March 18, 1994, to Commander, Atlantic Division, Naval Facilities Engineering Command, 1510 Gilbert Street, Norfolk, Virginia 23511&hyph;2699. (Attn: Mr. Robert Waldo, (Code 2032RW)), telephone (804) 445&hyph;2305. Dated: February 14, 1994. Michael P. Rummel, LCDR, JAGC, USN, Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3618 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;AE&hyph;M
