FR940525-2-00111 FR940525-2-00064 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. There are no new failure modes associated with the proposed changes. Since the plant will continue to operate as designed, the proposed changes will not modify the plant response to the point where it can be considered a new accident. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes do not have any adverse impact on the protective boundaries nor do they affect the consequences of any accident previously analyzed. The Technical Specification operability and surveillance requirements will still ensure that the systems are tested and within the limits. Changing the limits requires a safety evaluation and PORC review which will ensure that the licensing basis is maintained. Therefore, the proposed changes will not impact the margin of safety as defined in the basis of any Technical Specification. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Learning Resource Center, Three Rivers Community-Technical College, Thames Valley Campus, 574 New London Turnpike, Norwich, Connecticut 06360. Attorney for licensee: Gerald Garfield, Esquire, Day, Berry & Howard, City Place, Hartford, Connecticut 06103&hyph;3499. NRC Project Director: John F. Stolz. Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, et al., Docket No. 50&hyph;336, Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 2, New London County, Connecticut Date of amendment request: April 22, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would delete the requirements regarding the condenser air ejector monitor from Tables 3.3&hyph;12 and 4.3&hyph;12 of the Millstone Unit 2 Technical Specifications. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The proposed technical specification change has been reviewed against the criteria of 10 CFR 50.92, and it has been determined not to involve a significant hazards consideration (SHC). Specifically, the proposed change does not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously analyzed. Deleting the operability and surveillance requirements for the condenser air ejector monitor from Tables 3.3&hyph;12 and 4.3&hyph;12 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications would leave the steam generator blowdown monitor as the primary method of monitoring and isolating steam generator blowdown. The proposed license amendment imposes stricter limitations on the operation of Millstone Unit No. 2, because it requires the use of a single monitor, the steam generator blowdown monitor, to meet the requirements of Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specification 3.3.3.9 (Table 3.3&hyph;12). While NNECO [Northeast Nuclear Energy Company] is proposing to delete the operability and surveillance requirements for the condenser air ejector monitor from the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications, there are no plans to change any of the design features or functions or the condenser air ejector monitor, or any of the specified surveillances or frequency for such surveillances. The condenser air ejector monitor will continue to isolate blowdown upon a high radiation alarm. Additionally, steam generator blowdown isolation is required to ensure compliance with 10 CFR 20. It is not required to ensure compliance with 10 CFR 100. Therefore, the condenser air ejector monitor does not perform any safety function. The condenser air ejector monitor is not safety related. It is not credited in any radiological consequence calculations presented in the Millstone Unit No. 2 FSAR [Final Safety Analysis Report]. Based on the above, this proposed license amendment does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident form any accident previously evaluated. The proposed license amendment does not involve any physical changes to plant equipment or any changes to plant procedures that would be a precursor to an accident. NNECO has no plans to change any of the specified surveillances or frequency for such surveillances. The condenser air ejector monitor will continue to isolate blowdown upon a high radiation alarm. Also, the proposed license amendment imposes stricter limitations on the operation of Millstone Unit No. 2 because it requires the use of a single monitor, the steam generator blowdown monitor, to meet the requirements of Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specification 3.3.3.9 (Table 3.3&hyph;12). Therefore, this proposed license amendment does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident form any accident previously evaluated. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Deleting the operability and surveillance requirements for the condenser air ejector monitor from Tables 3.3&hyph;12 and 4.3&hyph;12 of the Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specifications would leave the steam generator blowdown monitor as the primary method of monitoring and isolating steam generator blowdown. The proposed license amendment imposes stricter limitations on the operation of Millstone Unit No. 2, because it requires the use of a single monitor, the steam generator blowdown monitor, to meet the requirements of Millstone Unit No. 2 Technical Specification 3.3.3.9 (Table 3.3&hyph;12). Therefore, this proposed license amendment does not impact or reduce the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Learning Resource Center, Three Rivers Community-Technical College, Thames Valley Campus, 574 New London Turnpike, Norwich, Connecticut 06360. Attorney for licensee: Gerald Garfield, Esquire, Day, Berry & Howard, City Place, Hartford, Connecticut 06103&hyph;3499. NRC Project Director: John F. Stolz. Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, et al., Docket No. 50&hyph;336, Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 2, New London County, Connecticut
