FR940110-1-00064 FR940110-1-00006 (2) For households in AHP-assisted rental housing units, rent payments, and where they are not already included in rent payments, a reasonable estimate of utility costs excluding telephone service. Section 960.9(c)(1)(iii) of the proposed rule provides that a household subject to the 20 percent requirement is required to meet such requirement only at the time it initially purchases or occupies a unit. (ii) Alternative requirements. Section 960.9(c)(2)(i) of the proposed rule provides that the 20 percent requirement shall not apply where a Bank provides subsidized advances or direct subsidies to an applicant for a rental housing project, which project also receives funds from a federal or state rental housing program that requires qualifying households to pay as rent a certain percentage of their monthly income or a designated amount, provided that the household meets the housing payment requirements of the other program. Section 960.9(c)(2)(ii)(A) of the proposed rule provides that the 20 percent requirement shall not apply where the total amount of AHP funds provided through a Bank subsidized advance or direct subsidy used to finance rehabilitation of a housing unit by a very low-income household that already owns and occupies the housing unit is $10,000 or less per such household. In addition, proposed §960.9(c)(2)(ii)(B) provides that the 20 percent requirement shall not apply where the total amount of AHP funds provided through a Bank subsidized advance or direct subsidy used to finance the purchase of a housing unit by a very low-income household is $5,000 or less per such household. This is a change from the interim rule which permits this alternative to the 20 percent requirement only for households that are above the threshold income level for very low-income households and at or below the income level to qualify as low- or moderate-income households. The Board did not intend to exclude very low-income households from taking advantage of this alternative when it adopted the interim rule. Accordingly, proposed §960.9(c)(2)(ii)(B) corrects this error. Section 960.9(c)(2)(iii) of the proposed rule provides that the 20 percent requirement shall not apply where the total amount of AHP funds provided through a Bank subsidized advance or direct subsidy used to finance rehabilitation or purchase of a housing unit by a low- or moderate-income household is $5,000 or less per such household. Section 960.9(c)(2)(iv) of the proposed rule provides that the 20 percent requirement shall not apply where a Bank provides subsidized advances or direct subsidies ultimately benefiting a household with an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application, which is participating in a self-help, sweat equity or similar housing program. Under the proposed rule, the household is required to contribute its skilled or unskilled labor valued at a minimum of $2,000 per household. The household must work cooperatively with others to construct or rehabilitate housing which the household or other program participants are purchasing or already own and occupy, and the program must involve supervision of the work performed by skilled builders or rehabilitators. d. Project feasibility . The AHP application must indicate that the proposed project is feasible. This determination must be based on an analysis of project sources and uses of funds, project multi-year operating pro formas for rental housing projects, projections of sales and prices for owner-occupied housing units, and local market conditions. The analysis must show that the project is financially viable and likely to be completed within a reasonable period of time, and is likely to operate or sell and remain affordable to the designated income-eligible households over the long-term period committed to in the AHP application. See proposed §960.9(d). A feasibility requirement also is contained in §960.5(a)(2)(ii) of the Board's existing AHP regulation. See 12 CFR 960.5(a)(2)(ii). e. Qualifications of sponsor. The AHP application must indicate that the sponsor has the qualifications and ability to perform its responsibilities as committed to in the AHP application. See proposed §960.9(e). This proposed provision is not included as a threshold requirement in the Board's existing AHP regulation, although it is required under the regulation to be included by an applicant in its AHP application. See 12 CFR 960.4(c)(4). The Board believes that this provision should be included as a threshold requirement, since a project should not be funded if the sponsor lacks the qualifications and ability to undertake the project. f. Creditworthiness of applicant. Consistent with the Board's existing AHP regulation, §960.9(f) of the proposed rule provides that the applicant must have the ability to qualify for an advance from the Bank to fund the project described in the AHP application. See 12 CFR 960.5(a)(2)(iii).
