FR940318-0-00114 FR940318-0-00023 2. Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on SNAP Process and Proposed Determinations On May 12, 1993 EPA published in the Federal Register a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) for SNAP (58 FR 28094). The NPRM described the proposed structure and process for administering the SNAP program and proposed determinations on the acceptability of key substitutes. The Notice also contained the proposed regulatory language that would serve as the legal basis for administering and enforcing the SNAP program. In the NPRM, EPA recognized that notice-and-comment rulemaking procedures were necessary to establish regulations governing SNAP. EPA further concluded that rulemaking was required to place any substance on the list of unacceptable substances, to list a substance as acceptable only with certain use restrictions, or to remove a substance from either the list of unacceptable or acceptable substitutes. EPA did not believe, however, that rulemaking procedures were required to list alternatives as acceptable with no restrictions. Such listings would not impose any sanction, nor remove any prior license to use a substance. 3. Final Rulemaking This final rule promulgates the SNAP process and the first set of determinations on SNAP substitutes. The Agency may revise these decisions in the future as it reviews additional substitutes and receives more data on substitutes already covered by the program. However, EPA expects future changes to the SNAP lists to be minor, and thus not to represent an undue burden on the regulated community. The principal changes the Agency expects to make in the future are to add new substitutes or sectors to the lists, rather than to change a substitute's acceptability. Further, once a substitute has been placed on either the acceptable or the unacceptable list, EPA will conduct notice-and-comment rulemaking to subsequently remove a substitute from either list, as described below in section VII. This final rule also addresses comments that the Agency received on the NPRM, and incorporates further data on substitutes received during the comment period. 4. Updates of SNAP Determinations Three mechanisms exist for revising or expanding the list of SNAP determinations published in this final regulation. First, under section 612(d), the Agency will review and either grant or deny petitions to add or delete substances from the SNAP list of acceptable or unacceptable alternatives. Section VIII of this final rule presents EPA's method for handling petitions. The second means of revising or expanding the list of SNAP determinations is through the notifications, described below, which must be submitted to EPA 90 days before introduction of a substitute into interstate commerce for significant new use as an alternative to a class I or class II substance. These 90-day notifications are required by section 612(e) of the CAA for producers of alternatives to class I substances for new uses and by EPA regulations issued under sections 114 and 301 of the Act to implement section 612(c) in all other cases. Section VII of this final rule discusses the Agency's approach for processing these notifications, including a strategy for integrating SNAP notifications with other chemical review programs already being implemented by EPA under authorities provided in the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). Other parts of this final rule also explain how the Agency addresses the overlap between SNAP regulations and regulations issued under other titles of the CAA. Finally, the Agency believes that section 612 authorizes it to initiate changes to the SNAP determinations independent of any petitions or notifications received. These amendments can be based on new data on either additional substitutes or on characteristics of substitutes previously reviewed. 5. Outreach and Substitute Clearinghouse Public outreach and the substitute information clearinghouse comprise the technical assistance component of the SNAP program. The purpose of this effort is to provide information for the public to use in selecting acceptable substitutes. Sections VII.A.3.f. and VII.A.3.g describe the Agency's approach for establishing the clearinghouse and performing outreach.
