FR940628-2-00010 FR940628-2-00005 Forest Service Newspapers Used for Publication of Legal Notice of Appealable Decisions for Intermountain Region, Utah, Idaho, Nevada, and Wyoming AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice lists the newspapers that will be used by all ranger districts, forests, and the Regional Office of the Intermountain Region to publish legal notice of all decisions subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 215 and 36 CFR part 217. The intended effect of this action is to inform interested members of the public which newspapers will be used to publish legal notices of decisions, thereby allowing them to receive constructive notice of a decision, to provide clear evidence of timely notice, and to achieve consistency in administering the appeals process. DATES: Publication of legal notices in the listed newspapers will begin with decisions subject to appeal that are made on or after April 30, 1994. The list of newspapers will remain in effect until October 1994 when another notice will be published in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: K. Dale Torgerson, Regional Appeals and Litigation Manager, Intermountain Region, 324 25th Street, Ogden, UT 84401, phone (801) 625&hyph;5279. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The administrative appeal procedures 36 CFR part 215 and 36 CFR part 217, of the Forest Service require publication of legal notice in a newspaper of general circulation of all decisions subject to appeal. This newspaper publication of notices of decisions is in addition to direct notice to those who have requested notice in writing and to those known to be interested and affected by a specific decision. The legal notice is to identify: the decision by title and subject matter; the date of the decision; the name and title of the official making the decision; and how to obtain copies of the decision. In addition, the notice is to state the date the appeal period begins which is the day following publication of the notice. The timeframe for appeal shall be based on the date of publication of the notice in the first (principal) newspaper listed for each unit. The newspapers to be used are as follows: Regional Forester, Intermountain Region For decisions made by the Regional Forester affecting National Forests in Idaho: The Idaho Statesman, Boise, Idaho For decisions made by the Regional Forester affecting National Forests in Nevada: The Reno Gazette-Journal, Reno, Nevada For decisions made by the Regional Forester affecting National Forests in Wyoming: Casper Star-Tribune, Casper, Wyoming For decisions made by the Regional Forester affecting National Forests in Utah: Standard-Examiner, Ogden, Utah If the decision made by the Regional Forester affects all National Forests in the Intermountain Region, it will appear in: Standard-Examiner, Ogden, Utah Ashley National Forest Ashley Forest Supervisors decisions: Vernal Express, Vernal, Utah Vernal District Ranger decisions: Vernal Express, Vernal, Utah Flaming Gorge District Ranger for decisions affecting Wyoming: Casper Star Tribune, Casper, Wyoming Flaming Gorge District Ranger for decisions affecting Utah: Vernal Express, Vernal, Utah Roosevelt and Duchesne District Ranger decisions: Uintah Basin Standard, Roosevelt, Utah Boise National Forest Boise Forest Supervisor decisions: The Idaho Statesman, Boise, Idaho Mountain Home District Ranger decisions: Mountain Home News, Mountain Home, Idaho Boise District Ranger decisions: The Idaho Statesman, Boise, Idaho Idaho City District Ranger decisions: The Idaho Statesman, Boise, Idaho
