FR940127-2-00173 FR940127-2-00097 2. Institutional ability/capacity/record: Applicant institutions should demonstrate their potential from program excellence and/or provide documentation of successful programs. If an organization is a previous USIA grant recipient, responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past USIA grants as determined by the Office of Contracts (M/KG) will be considered. Relevant program evaluation of previous projects may also be considered in this assessment. 3. Project personnel: Personnel's thematic and logistical expertise should be relevant to the proposed program. Resumes should be relevant to the specific proposal. 4. Program planning: A detailed work plan should provide milestones for the accomplishment of each phase of the project and clearly demonstrate how the grantee institution will meet milestones. In addition, the work plan should indicate how the work plan will accomplish the overall project goals. 5. Thematic expertise: Proposal should demonstrate the organization's expertise in the subject area. 6. Cross-cultural expertise and area expertise: Proposals should show evidence of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as relevant knowledge of target area/country. 7. Multiplier effect/follow-on activities: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, to include maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual ties. Proposals should also reflect an institutional commitment for continued exchange activity beyond the term of the USIA grant. 8. Cost-effectiveness: Overhead and administrative costs should be kept as low as possible. All other items proposed for USIA funding should be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objectives. 9. Cost-sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as direct funding contributions and/or in-kind support from the prospective grantee institution. 10. Project evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the activity's success. In this respect the applicant should include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique and a methodology that will be used to link outcomes to original project objectives. Applicants will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. Notice: The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by USIA that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the U.S. Government. Awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by the U.S. Congress and allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification: All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about June 1, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: January 14, 1994. Barry Fulton, Acting Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1680 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
