FR941220-0-00099 FR941220-0-00014 Appendix A to Subpart H: Guidance for Determination of the ``Actual Wage'' Subpart I_Enforcement of H&hyph;1B Labor Condition Applications Sec. XXXX .800␣Enforcement authority of Administrator, Wage and Hour Division. XXXX .805␣Complaints and investigative procedures. XXXX .810␣Remedies. XXXX .815␣Written notice and service of Administrator's determination. XXXX .820␣Request for hearing. XXXX .825␣Rules of practice for administrative law judge proceedings. XXXX .830␣Service and computation of time. XXXX .835␣Administrative law judge proceedings. XXXX .840␣Decision and order of administrative law judge. XXXX .845␣Secretary's review of administrative law judge's decision. XXXX .850␣Administrative record. XXXX .855␣Notice to the Employment and Training Administration and the Attorney General. Subpart H_Labor Condition Applications and Requirements for Employers Using Nonimmigrants on H&hyph;1B Visas In Specialty Occupations and as Fashion Models § XXXX .700 Purpose, procedure and applicability of subparts H and I. (a) Purpose. With respect to nonimmigrant workers entering the United States (U.S.) on H&hyph;1B visas pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA): (1) Establishes an annual ceiling of 65,000 (exclusive of spouses and children) on the number of foreign workers who may be issued H&hyph;1B visas; (2) Defines the scope of eligible occupations for which nonimmigrants may be issued H&hyph;1B visas and specifies the qualifications that are required for entry as an H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant; (3) Requires an employer seeking to employ H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants to file a labor condition application (LCA) with and have it certified by the Department of Labor (DOL) before a nonimmigrant may be provided H&hyph;1B status by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS); and (4) Establishes a system for the receipt and investigation of complaints, as well as for the imposition of fines and penalties for misrepresentation or for failure to fulfill a condition of the labor condition application. 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(b), 1182(n), 1184(g)(1)(A), and 1184(i). (b) Procedure for obtaining an H&hyph;1B visa classification. Before a nonimmigrant may be admitted to work in a ``specialty occupation'' or as a fashion model of distinguished merit and ability in the United States under the H&hyph;1B visa classification, there are certain steps which must be followed: (1) First, an employer shall submit to DOL, and obtain DOL certification of, a labor condition application. The requirements for obtaining a certified labor condition application are provided in this subpart. The labor condition application (Form ETA 9035) and instructions may be obtained from DOL Regional Offices listed in § XXXX .720 of this part. (2) After obtaining DOL certification of a labor condition application, the employer may submit a nonimmigrant visa petition (INS Form I&hyph;129), together with the certified labor condition application, to INS, requesting H&hyph;1B classification for the foreign worker. The requirements concerning the submission of a petition to, and its processing by, INS are set forth in INS regulations. The INS petition (Form I&hyph;129) may be obtained from an INS district or area office. (3) If INS approves the H&hyph;1B classification, the nonimmigrant then may apply for an H&hyph;1B visa abroad at a consular office of the Department of State, or apply to the INS for a change of visa status if already in the United States. (c) Applicability. (1) Subparts H and I of this part apply to all employers seeking to employ foreign workers under the H&hyph;1B visa classification in specialty occupations or as fashion models of distinguished merit and ability. (2) During the period that the provisions of Appendix 1603.D.4 of Annex 1603 of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) apply, subparts H and I of this part shall apply to the entry and employment of a nonimmigrant who is a citizen of Mexico under and pursuant to the provisions of section D or Annex 1603 of NAFTA in the case of all professions set out in Appendix 1603.D.1 of Annex 1603 of NAFTA other than registered nurses. Therefore, the references in this part to ``H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant'' apply to such nonimmigrants, who are classified by INS as ``TN.'' In the case of a registered nurse, the provisions of 20 CFR part 655, subparts D and E, and 29 CFR part 504, subparts D and E, shall apply. § XXXX .705 Overview of responsibilities. Three federal agencies are involved in the process which leads to H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant classification. The employer also has continuing responsibilities under the process. This section briefly describes the responsibilities of each of these entities.
