FR940713-1-00025 FR940713-1-00001 (i) The establishment shall position a trimmer or trimmers between the viscera harvest and the final wash to trim carcasses for trimmable lesions and quality defects, and to remove for reprocessing carcasses that are contaminated on inner surfaces with feces. The trimmer or trimmers shall be positioned on the processing line in a manner that does not impede inspection. (ii) If the on-line/off-line carcass inspector finds any carcasses on the processing line that should have been designated for reprocessing, he or she shall stop the line for proper disposition, and require removal of the carcasses, and recording of any such carcasses condemned by the establishment. Carcasses that are reprocessed by the establishment shall be returned to the processing line by the establishment at a point after the viscera harvest and prior to the on-line/off-line carcass inspector. (iii) If the on-line/off-line carcass inspector finds any fecal contamination on a reprocessed carcass, the establishment shall be required to rework all remaining reprocessed carcasses in that reprocessed lot which shall be identified as prescribed in ยง381.91(b). (iv) Under the following conditions, the establishment's production rate shall be reduced immediately to the extent necessary to ensure process control in preventing fecal contamination, and for such duration, until FSIS determines that the establishment can demonstrate process control at the higher production rate: (A) When the on-line/off-line carcass inspector finds any fecal contamination on a carcass, other than reprocessed carcasses, or (B) When the establishment or the inspector finds any fecal contamination on a carcass during testing under the Finished Product Standards Program, as prescribed in paragraph (h) of this section. (d) Inspector helper. The on-line post-mortem inspector shall be flanked by an establishment employee assigned to duties such as removing carcasses previously designated by the establishment for knife salvage, off-line trimming, or reprocessing or, as directed by the inspector, removing birds for veterinary disposition or correlation. (e) Inspection rates. (1) Establishments shall operate at the rates prescribed in ยง381.67. Establishments that operate under an approved PQC program, as prescribed in paragraph (i) of this section, may operate at higher rates than establishments operating without PQC. (2) For the establishment to run its production line at maximum speed, optimal conditions must be maintained so that inspection may be conducted efficiently. The inspector in charge or his or her designee determines the speed at which each processing line may be operated to permit inspection. A variety of conditions may affect this determination including the health of each flock and the manner in which birds are being presented to the inspector for inspection and the accuracy of the establishment sorters. (f) Facilities. Each inspection station must comply with the facility requirements in ยง381.37(c). (g) Recordkeeping. Establishments shall record information pertaining to the birds that are condemned. (h) Finished Product Standards. The Finished Product Standards (FPS) shall be conducted in all poultry slaughter establishments. (1) For purposes of this paragraph (h), the following definitions shall apply: (i) Cumulative sum (CUSUM). A statistical concept used by the establishment and monitored by the inspector whereby compliance is determined based on sample results collected over a period of time. For purposes of determining compliance with the finished product standards, the CUSUM is equal to the sum of prior test results plus a measure of the current test minus the tolerance, with the condition that the resulting CUSUM cannot go below zero. (ii) Tolerance number. A measure that equates to product being produced at a national product quality level. (iii) Action number. A level reached by the CUSUM where the process is out of control and product action is required by the establishment or the inspector. (iv) Start number. A value halfway between zero and the action number. The start number is used to determine the starting CUSUM for the first subgroup of a shift and to reset the CUSUM value if the CUSUM is equal to or greater than the action number.
