FR940228-1-00159 FR940228-1-00010 Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. What other administrative capability or financial responsibility standards should be considered? •Agencies other than the Department that are permitted to request the same information should only be allowed to request documents used by the Department. [New York] •No other standards of financial responsibility should be considered. [Kansas City, San Francisco] V. Institutional Refund Policy Section 484B(b)(2) requires that each institution participating in any Title IV, HEA program shall have a fair and equitable refund policy under which the institution refunds unearned tuition, fees, room and board, and other charges, to a student who received Title IV assistance (including Federal PLUS loans received on the student's behalf) for a student who does not register for the period of attendance for which assistance was intended or withdraws or otherwise fails to complete the period of enrollment for which assistance is provided. An institution's refund policy is considered to be fair and equitable if the policy provides for a refund in an amount of at least the largest of the amounts provided under_ (1) The requirements of applicable State law; (2) The specific refund standards established by the institution's nationally recognized accrediting agency if those standards are approved by the Secretary; (3) The pro rata refund calculation described in the statute for any student whose withdrawal date is on or before the 60 percent point in time in the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged. The term `` pro rata refund,'' means a refund by the institution to a student attending that institution for the first time of not less than that portion of the tuition, fees, room, board, and other charges assessed the student by the institution equal to the portion of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged that remains on the last recorded day of attendance by the student, rounded downward to the nearest 10 percent of that period, less any unpaid charges owed by the student for the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged, and less a reasonable administrative fee not to exceed the lesser of five percent of the tuition, fees, room and board, and other charges assessed the student, or $100. ``The portion of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged that remains,'' is determined_ (1) In the case of an educational program that is measured in credit hours, by dividing the total number of weeks comprising the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged into the number of weeks remaining in that period as of the last recorded day of attendance by the student; (2) In the case of an educational program that is measured in clock hours, by dividing the total number of clock hours comprising the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged into the number of clock hours remaining to be completed by the student in that period as of the last recorded day of attendance by the student; and (3) In the case of a correspondence program, by dividing the total number of lessons comprising the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged into the number of lessons not submitted by the student. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. How should the ``60 percent point in time'' be determined? Should this be based on scheduled time in the program or actual attendance?
