FR941019-0-00018 FR941019-0-00003 9. Section 303.10 is amended by: a. In paragraph (a)(2), by removing the words ``the Director, or to an associate director or a regional director or deputy regional director'' and adding in lieu thereof the words ``a Director, or to an associate director, or to a regional director, deputy regional director or regional manager''; b. In paragraph (b)(2)(i), by removing the citation ``303.0(b)(26)'' and adding in lieu thereof the citation ``303.0(b)(31)''; and c. In paragraph (c)(1)(i), by removing the words ``Orders of correction'' and adding in lieu thereof the words ``Notifications to primary regulator''. 10. Section 303.11(b) is revised to read as follows: ยง303.11 Confirmation, limitations, rescissions and special cases. * * * * * (b) Action under delegated authority not mandated. (1) The Director (DOS) or the Director (DCA) may, in writing, rescind the authority of an associate director, regional director, deputy regional director or regional manager to act on an application, request, notice of acquisition of control or enforcement matter, and may himself act on the same. (2) (i) An associate director, regional director, deputy regional director or regional manager may, in writing, recommend that the authority to act on an application, request, notice of acquisition of control or enforcement matter not be exercised by him; in such cases, the authority to act on such application, request, notice of acquisition of control or enforcement matter may be exercised by the Director (DOS) or the Director (DCA). The Director may, in writing, recommend that the authority to act on an application, request, notice of acquisition of control or enforcement matter may not be exercised by him; in such cases the Board of Directors will act on the application, request, notice of acquisition of control or enforcement matter. (ii) A regional counsel may, in writing, recommend that the authority to act on an application made by insured depository institutions pursuant to section 19 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1829) or an enforcement matter not be exercised by him; in such cases the authority to act in such enforcement matters may be exercised by the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement. The Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement may, in writing, recommend that the authority to act on an application pursuant to section 19 of the Act or enforcement matter not be exercised by him; in such cases, the Board of Directors will act on the application or enforcement matter. (iii) Upon determining not to act upon the application, request, notice of acquisition of control or enforcement matter under delegated authority, the regional manager, deputy regional director, regional director, associate director, or the Director (DOS) or the Director (DCA), and/or the regional counsel, or the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement, as the case may be, shall forward the application, request, notice of acquisition of control or enforcement matter, together with his recommendations as to the disposition of such application, request, notice of acquisition of control or enforcement matter to the appropriate authority as determined by the rules set forth in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and/or (ii) of this section. * * * * * 11. Section 303.13 is amended by: a. Removing the words ``for the Division of Supervision'' after the words ``regional director'' and adding the word ``DOS'' before the words ``regional director'' in the following places: (1) 303.13(b)(1) (2) 303.13 (c)(1)(i) and (c)(2) (3) 303.13 (d)(1) and (d)(2)(i) (4) 303.13(e) (5) 303.13 (f)(1), (f)(3) and (f)(4) (6) 303.13(g) b. Revising paragraph (h) to read as follows: ยง303.13 Applications and notices by savings associations. * * * * * (h) Delegations. The authority to act on applications and notices filed pursuant to ยง303.13, and to make any and all determinations called for in regard to the same, is delegated to the Director (DOS), and where confirmed in writing by the director, to an associate director, or to the regional director or deputy regional director. 12. Section 303.14 is amended: a. In paragraph (a)(4)(iv), by removing the words ``(Division of Supervision)'' after the words ``regional director'' and adding the word ``DOS'' before the words ``regional director''; and b. By revising paragraph (e) to read as follows: ยง303.14 Change in senior executive officer or board of directors. * * * * * (e) Delegations. The authority to issue notices of disapproval or notices of intent not to disapprove under this section; to grant waivers of the prior notice requirement; to determine the informational adequacy of a notice; to designate an insured nonmember bank as a troubled institution; and to determine when the 30-day period begins to run is delegated to the Director (DOS), and where confirmed in writing by the director, to an associate director, or to the regional director or deputy regional director.
