FR940323-1-00024 FR940323-1-00005 In implementing the provisions of section 1920 that specify that presumptive eligibility determinations must be based on family income, we would require the qualified provider in all cases to apply to the woman's gross family income the highest, most advantageous income criteria applicable to the pregnant woman under the approved plan. The ``applicable'' level would usually be the higher of either the poverty level standard or the medically needy income level (without spenddown). This means that income disregards are not considered, and in the case of blind or disabled individuals in section 1902(f) States, or in States that have a medically needy program, the cost of incurred medical expenses could not be deducted in order to reduce income to the allowed income level (spending down). Consideration of disregards and incurred medical expenses would allow some women to have income above the ``applicable level'' specified in section 1920(b)(1)(A). We believe Congress intended by the use of the term ``applicable level'' to require qualified providers only to make simple calculations and not complicated adjustments of income such as those involved in applying spenddown rules or in disregarding certain types of income. To impose detailed calculations and complicated adjustments on providers would be administratively burdensome and contrary to efficient administration because of the short-term nature of the presumptive eligibility status and because no other eligibility requirements (not even resources) are considered. We believe that we are not imposing an undue hardship on a pregnant woman by not allowing spenddown or not disregarding certain income. If the provider makes a decision that the woman does not ``appear'' to meet the income criteria, the pregnant woman still has the right to apply for regular Medicaid within a reasonable period of time and have a formal eligibility determination made. Under a formal eligibility determination, the agency may find that the pregnant woman is retroactively eligible for regular Medicaid during the presumptive period under the authority of section 1902(a)(34) of the Act. Section 1920(b)(2) of the Act, as added by OBRA '86 and amended by section 411(k)(16) of MCCA, specifies the qualifications that a provider must meet in order to be allowed to make presumptive eligibility determinations. The provider must_ (1) Be eligible to receive payments under Medicaid; (2) Be an entity that provides services of the following type: outpatient hospital services as specified in section 1905(a)(2)(A) of the Act or rural health clinic services and any other ambulatory services offered by a rural health clinic and otherwise included in the plan as described in section 1905(a)(2)(B); or be an entity that provides clinic services by or under the direction of a physician described in section 1905(a)(9) of the Act;
