FR941006-1-00012 FR941006-1-00006 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 17 CFR Part 240 [Release No. 34&hyph;34753; File No. S7&hyph;28&hyph;94] RIN 3235&hyph;AG21 Customer Limit Orders AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission proposes a rule setting standards for market makers in handling customer limit orders in NASDAQ National Market System securities. The rule would prohibit a market maker from trading for its own account, directly, or indirectly, at a price at which the market maker could execute a customer limit order it is holding, without executing the customer's limit order at the limit price or a price more favorable to the customer under the specific terms and conditions by which the order is accepted by the market maker. DATES: Comments should be submitted on or before December 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons should submit three copies of their written data, views and opinions to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549, and should refer to File No. S7&hyph;28&hyph;94. All submissions will be made available for public inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, Room 1024, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Scott C. Kursman, (202) 942&hyph;3197, Attorney, Office of Market Supervision, Division of Market Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission, Mail Stop 5&hyph;1, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction and Background The Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') today is proposing a rule (17 CFR 240.15c5&hyph;1) to prohibit market makers in NASDAQ National Market System (``NASDAQ/NMS'') securities from trading ahead of customer orders that they are holding at the same or better price. The Commission is proposing to change existing practices because it believes this will enhance broker-dealer competition, promote efficient pricing of securities, facilitate best execution of customer orders and better reflect investor expectations in the NASDAQ/NMS market. The growth of the NASDAQ market and the concomitant visibility of and investor interest in its companies has changed investors' expectations. In designing the proposed rule, the Commission has been mindful of the special role of NASDAQ market makers in discovering prices and providing liquidity in NASDAQ/NMS stocks. The proposal seeks comment on specific trading standards that would govern individual market makers. The proposed rule is intended to have the effect of giving priority to orders that improve the market ( i.e. , narrow the bid-ask spread) being made by a specific market maker. Generally, an order to buy or sell a security at a specified price (``limit order'') is first received by the customer's broker, who either routes the order to an affiliated or non-affiliated market maker for execution or, if the firm is itself a market maker in the security, to the firm's market making desk. The combination of limit order execution and market maker functions can lead to the market maker competing with a customer for executions. While the past few years have seen several positive efforts at improving limit order handling practices in the NASDAQ market, the Commission believes that it should consider a limit order priority rule to ensure protection for all customer orders in this market. The priority accorded a customer limit order today is different depending on the structure of the marketplace of execution. The rules of national securities exchanges generally require specialists and other market professionals to yield to a customer's limit order; the specialist cannot trade for its own account at prices equal to or better than the limit order until the limit order is executed. 1 The rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers (``NASD'') similarly prohibit third market makers (over-the-counter market makers in listed securities) from trading ahead of customer limit orders in the third market. 2 1 See, e.g., New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') Rule 92, 2 NYSE Guide (CCH) ¶2092. The priority rules of the New York Stock Exchange do permit an exception to this general principle for pre-arranged crosses of 25,000 shares or more. Such a cross may be executed on the floor without interacting with pre-existing limit orders at the same price. A preexisting limit order, however, may interact with the buyer or seller in the cross if it provides a price that is better than the proposed cross price. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31343 (October 21, 1992), 57 FR 48645 (October 27, 1992). 2 NASD Bylaws, Schedule G, Section 4(f), NASD Manual (CCH) ¶1921. Third market dealers account for more than 9% of listed stock trades.
