FR941205-2-00069 FR941205-2-00043 (f) The conditions set forth in paragraphs (e), (f) and (l) of Section II below are satisfied. Section II_Exemption for Receipt of Fees The restrictions of sections 406(a) and 406(b) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1)(A) through (F) of the Code, shall not apply as of November 20, 1992, to: (1) the receipt of fees by M&I from the Funds for acting as an investment adviser to the Funds in connection with the investment by the Client Plans in shares of the Funds; and (2) the receipt and proposed retention of fees by M&I from the Funds for acting as custodian and shareholder servicing agent to the Funds as well as for any other services to the Funds which are not investment advisory services (i.e. ``secondary services'') in connection with the investment by the Client Plans in shares of the Funds, provided that the following conditions and the general conditions of Section III are met: (a) No sales commissions are paid by the Client Plans in connection with the purchase or sale of shares of the Funds and no redemption fees are paid in connection with the sale of shares by the Client Plans to the Funds. (b) The price paid or received by a Client Plan for shares in a Fund is the net asset value per share at the time of the transaction, as defined in Section IV(e), and is the same price which would have been paid or received for the shares by any other investor at that time. (c) Neither M&I nor an affiliate, including any officer or director of M&I, purchases or sells shares of the Funds from or to any Client Plan. (d) Each Client Plan receives a credit, either through cash or the purchase of additional shares of the Funds pursuant to an annual election made by the Client Plan, of such Plan's proportionate share of all fees charged to the Funds by M&I for investment advisory services, including any investment advisory fees paid by M&I to third party sub-advisers, within no more than one business day of the receipt of such fees by M&I. (e) The combined total of all fees received by M&I for the provision of services to a Client Plan, and in connection with the provision of services to the Funds in which the Client Plan may invest, are not in excess of ``reasonable compensation'' within the meaning of section 408(b)(2) of the Act. (f) M&I does not receive any fees payable pursuant to Rule 12b&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act in connection with the transactions. (g) The Client Plans are not employee benefit plans sponsored or maintained by M&I. (h) The Second Fiduciary receives full and detailed written disclosure of information concerning the Funds (including a current prospectus for each of the Funds and statement describing the fee structure) in advance of any investment by the Client Plan in a Fund.
