FR941007-1-00050 FR941007-1-00009 The Revised Proposal In General The revised proposal retains, to a significant extent, the principles and structure underlying the December proposal but makes significant changes to the details in order to respond to many of the concerns raised in the comments. Like the December proposal, the revised proposal would eliminate the existing regulation's twelve assessment factors and substitute a performance-based evaluation system. In order to take into account community characteristics and needs, the revised proposal would make explicit the assessment context against which the tests and standards set out in the proposed regulation would be applied. This assessment context would include consideration of: (1) Demographic data about the community; (2) information about community characteristics and needs; (3) information about the institution's capacity and constraints; (4) information about the institution's product offerings and business strategy; (5) data on the prior performance of the institution; and (6) data on the performance of similarly-situated lenders. The agencies, rather than the institution, would develop the assessment context for each institution. The agencies will neither require nor request an institution to provide data for this assessment context, although any data offered by an institution would be considered. As in the December proposal, the agencies would give particular attention to the institution's record of helping to meet credit needs in low- and moderate-income geographies. However, the revised proposal would further emphasize the institution's performance with respect to low- and moderate- income individuals, and other individuals and areas where appropriate, given community characteristics and needs. The agencies also have modified the definitions of low- and moderate-income geographies in response to concerns that the definitions in the December proposal were too low for high cost areas. Under the revised proposal, the qualifying income levels would be adjusted to reflect prevailing housing construction costs or significant anomalies in family income levels. The agencies would make available annually a list of qualifying income levels by geographic area. The lending, service and investment tests would continue to constitute the primary method by which the agencies would assess the CRA performance of independent retail institutions with at least $250 million in assets and affiliates of holding companies with at least $250 million in bank and thrift assets. However, the revised proposal changes how an institution's ratings on the three tests would be combined to produce the institution's overall composite rating. The revised proposal would give primacy to lending performance by requiring an institution to receive a ``satisfactory'' or better rating on the lending test in order to receive a ``satisfactory'', or better, overall rating. At the same time, the rating system would increase the importance of the service and investment tests, because the effect of those tests on the overall rating would no longer be limited to situations in which an institution had extraordinarily strong or weak performance on one of the tests. The agencies also have made modifications to the details of the lending, service and investment tests in order to broaden their scope. Rather than rely presumptively on a few quantitative measures that could then be adjusted or rebutted by other considerations, the tests would be based from the outset on a broader range of quantitative and qualitative criteria that would include both those criteria that formed the basis for the presumptive ratings in the December proposal and those additional considerations contained in the adjustment and rebuttal sections of the December proposal. The revised proposal therefore would not use rebuttable presumptions and adjustments. These revisions to the lending, investment and service tests would increase, rather than reduce, the number of judgments that examiners would be required to make in the examination process. The agencies believe that a CRA evaluation system eliminating all examiner judgment would not be desirable, even if it were achievable. Preservation of examiner judgment to take into account the characteristics and needs of an institution's community and the capacity and constraints of the institution is critical.
