FR940404-1-00038 FR940404-1-00016 40 CFR Part 52 [Region II Docket No. 125, NJ&hyph;14&hyph;1&hyph;6160; FRL&hyph;4857&hyph;7] Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plan; New Jersey Emission Statement Program AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is proposing to approve the State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision submitted by the State of New Jersey on February 19, 1993 for the purpose of implementing an Emission Statement Program for stationary sources in New Jersey. The SIP was submitted by New Jersey to satisfy the Clean Air Act requirements for stationary sources to report annually to the State on their emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and oxides of nitrogen (NO x ) and for the State to make this data available to EPA and the public. DATES: Comments on this proposed action must be received on or before May 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to: William J. Muszynski, P.E., Acting Regional Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, Region II Office, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York 10278. Copies of the State's submittal are available for inspection during normal business hours at the following locations: Environmental Protection Agency, Region II Library, 26 Federal Plaza, room 402, New York, New York 10278. New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy, Office of Air Quality Management, Bureau of Air Quality Planning, 401 East State Street, CN418, Trenton, New Jersey 08625. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William S. Baker, Chief, Air Programs Branch, Environmental Protection Agency, 26 Federal Plaza, room 1034A, New York, New York 10278, (212) 264&hyph;2517. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The air quality planning and SIP requirements for ozone nonattainment and transport areas are established in subparts I and II of part D of title I of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990 (the Act). EPA has published a ``General Preamble'' and ``Appendices to the General Preamble'' (see 57 FR 13498 (April 16, 1992), and 57 FR 18070 (April 28, 1992)) describing how EPA intends to review SIPs submitted under title I of the Act. EPA has also issued a draft guidance document entitled, ``Guidance on the Implementation of an Emission Statement Program'' (July 1992), describing the requirements for the Emission Statement Program discussed in this rulemaking. The EPA is also conducting a rulemaking process to modify 40 CFR part 52 to reflect the requirements of the Emission Statement Program. Section 182(a) establishes requirements for stationary sources to prepare and submit to the state each year emission statements showing actual emissions of VOCs and NO x . Further, states with ozone nonattainment areas are required to submit a revision to their SIPs by November 15, 1992 establishing this Emission Statement Program. Facilities are required to submit their first emission statement to a state within three years of promulgation of the Act and annually thereafter. If either VOC or NO x is emitted at or above the minimum reporting level that is established in a state Emission Statement Program, the other pollutant (NO x or VOC) from the same facility should be included in the emission statement, even if the pollutant is emitted at levels below the minimum reporting level. Section 182(a)(3)(B)(ii) of the Act allows states to waive, with EPA approval, the requirement for an emission statement for classes or categories of sources with less than 25 tons per year of actual plant-wide NO x and VOC emissions in nonattainment areas if the class or category is included in the base year and periodic inventories and emissions are calculated using emission factors established by EPA (such as those found in EPA publication AP&hyph;42) or other methods acceptable to EPA. New Jersey's Submittal On November 15, 1992, New Jersey submitted a SIP revision for ozone which included a proposed Emission Statement Regulation. On February 19, 1993, New Jersey submitted a SIP revision containing the adopted regulation, Subchapter 21, ``Emission Statements'' of Chapter 27, Title 7 of the New Jersey Administrative Code, effective April 20, 1993. Subsequent to the February 19 submittal, a problem was identified with New Jersey's enabling legislation. The enabling legislation, which did not support the proposed regulation regarding confidentiality provisions, was modified to conform to EPA's policy which does not allow confidentiality of emissions data submitted as part of the Emission Statement Program. This modified legislation was signed on August 13, 1993 by the Governor of New Jersey. EPA has determined that New Jersey now has the necessary authority to promulgate an Emission Statement Regulation. On May 24, 1993, New Jersey submitted a letter justifying the exemption of gasoline dispensing facilities from the Emission Statement Program, since none of the sources in this category exceeded the applicable threshold. New Jersey has included emissions from these exempted sources in the base year inventory and will continue to report them in subsequent inventories. Further, on February 3, 1994, New Jersey submitted a letter requesting a waiver from the Emission Statement Program of all sources emitting below the applicable threshold. EPA's Findings EPA has determined that an acceptable Emission Statement Program must have several components. Specifically, a state must submit it as a revision to its SIP, and the Emission Statement Program must meet the minimum requirements for reporting as outlined in EPA's, ``Guidance on the Implementation of an Emission Statement Program'' (July 1992). The program must include, at a minimum, provisions for source applicability, definitions, compliance, and specific source reporting requirements. EPA has concluded that the New Jersey program meets these requirements. EPA's detailed review of New Jersey's Emission Statement Program is contained in a technical support document available from the source for further information identified at the beginning of this document. Applicability In ozone nonattainment areas, facilities which emit VOC or NO x in amounts of 25 tons per year or more must submit an emission statement. The entire State of New Jersey is designated nonattainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standard for ozone. New Jersey's regulation appropriately requires facilities anywhere in the State actually emitting or having the potential to emit ten tons per year or more of VOC or 25 tons per year or more of NO x to submit an annual emission statement. In accordance with the provision to waive reporting requirements, New Jersey has requested a waiver from the Emission Statement Program for sources emitting less than ten tons per year of plant-wide VOC and less than 25 tons per year of plant-wide NO x . New Jersey has included these sources of emissions (calculated using emission factors established or approved by EPA) in the base year inventory and will continue to do so in the periodic inventories. EPA has determined that New Jersey has complied with the emission statement waiver provisions outlined in EPA guidance. New Jersey has addressed the emission statement applicability provisions in a manner that is acceptable to EPA. Definitions The key definitions that New Jersey included in its Emission Statement Regulation are consistent with the EPA guidance. Compliance All measures and other elements in the SIP must be enforceable by the State and EPA. The EPA criteria addressing the enforceability of SIPs and SIP revisions were stated in a September 23, 1987 memorandum (with attachments) from J. Craig Potter, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation (see 57 FR 13541). SIP provisions must also contain a program that provides for enforcement of the control measures and other elements in the SIP (see section 110(a)(2)(C)). The State of New Jersey has a program in its SIP that will ensure that the requirements of section 182(a)(3)(B) are adequately enforced. New Jersey will continue to provide EPA with status reports which outline the degree of compliance of sources and which indicate the sources that have and have not met the provisions of the Emission Statement Program. In addition, New Jersey has established penalty amounts to be assessed for each reporting violation. In letters dated June 24 and October 8, 1993, New Jersey provided EPA with quarterly Emission Statement Status Reports. These reports showed the total number of facilities from which emission data was requested, the number of facilities that met, and that failed to meet the provisions. Also in these reports, New Jersey provided a listing of the facilities that did not comply with the emission statement reporting requirements. New Jersey has included, as part of its February 19, 1993 submittal, compliance schedules with appropriate penalties for sources failing to comply. EPA has determined that New Jersey has an adequate enforcement program in place to satisfy the compliance requirements of an Emission Statement Program. Reporting Requirements In accordance with EPA requirements, New Jersey has required the necessary source-supplied data elements from facilities. The survey forms that New Jersey has provided to facilities for use in reporting emission statement data are not EPA forms but require the necessary data. New Jersey submitted a letter on May 24, 1993 committing to meet EPA's requirements on reporting by verifying facility-supplied data and by submitting required data to EPA. New Jersey will submit facility and state-supplied data to the Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS) on an annual basis. Summary EPA is proposing to approve this portion of the SIP submittal as meeting the specific requirements for an Emission Statement Program. Nothing in this proposed rule should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. SIP approvals under section 110 and subchapter I, part D of the Act do not create any new requirements, but simply approve requirements that the State is already imposing. Therefore, because the Federal SIP-approval does not impose any new requirements, I certify that it does not have a significant impact on small entities. Moreover, due to the nature of the Federal-state relationship under the Act, preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of state action. The Act forbids EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds. Union Electric Co.T1 v. U.S. E.P.A. , 427 U.S. 246, 256&hyph;66 (S.Ct. 1976); 42 U.S.C. 7410 (a)(2). This proposed rule has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. A future document will inform the general public of these tables. On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget waived Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions (54 FR 2222) from the requirements of section 3 of Executive Order 12291 for a period of two years. The EPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions. The OMB has agreed to continue the wavier until such time as it rules on EPA's request. This request continues in effect under Executive Order 12866 which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hydrocarbons, Nitrogen dioxide, Ozone, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Volatile organic compounds. Authority: 42 U.S.C 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: March 18, 1994. William J. Muszynski, P.E., Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7989 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
