FR940810-0-00056 FR940810-0-00021 There were relatively few comments received on this issue. Some felt that asbestos in soil resulted in negligible exposures and that wetting to prevent fugitive emissions during earth moving would be sufficient control (e.g., Ex. 7&hyph;6). Another participant said there was a lack of control technology and called for further study to determine the extent and location of problems (Ex. 7&hyph;63). The industrial hygienists who had raised the issue of worker exposure to naturally occurring asbestos, described the occurrence of asbestos in the soil of Fairfax County, Virginia (Ex. 7&hyph;143). They reported that water misting during disturbance of asbestos-containing soils was effective in controlling exposures. They recommended the use of negative pressure air purifying respirators, protective clothing and showers to control exposures. OSHA finds that the record indicates that certain construction sites in mostly well-defined areas contain deposits of naturally occurring asbestos. In such areas, airborne asbestos during earthmoving activities may result in significant exposures. In such cases, wetting of the excavation site, often required by local authorities, should be sufficient to suppress measurable airborne asbestos concentrations. Information regarding the presence of asbestos in the vicinity of construction sites may be available from state environmental agencies, the United States Geological Survey, and the Bureau of Mines. In the absence of information which is readily available showing asbestos contamination of soil in the immediate vicinity of a construction site, the employer is not required to take any action under this standard. Paragraph (a) Shipyard Employment Asbestos Standard. 29 CFR 1915.1001.: Workers engaged in shipyard industry activities, i.e. shipbuilding, ship repair, and other work in shipyards, who are exposed to asbestos have been protected by inclusion in 1986 general industry and construction standards published in 1986. Like in other non-construction industries, OSHA intended employees working in shipyards to be protected by the general industry standard, except for those operations which were specifically listed as covered by the construction standard, i.e. renovation, removal, demolition and repair. In 1988, OSHA convened the Shipyard Employment Standards Advisory Committee (SESAC), comprised of members from labor, private industry, state and federal government, and professional and trade associations. The Committee's charter directed it ``to develop a single set of comprehensive health and safety standards for Shipyards.'' In the 1990 NPRM, OSHA sought information and comment on how best to provide equivalent protection to workers engaged in shipyard activities. The Agency noted that although it had considered these operations to be regulated under the general industry standard in the 1986 rulemaking, subsequent considerations led OSHA to observe that many shipyard industry activities are construction-like in nature. In response, SESAC drafted alternative regulatory text which it submitted to this rulemaking docket with the recommendation that it be adopted as a vertical asbestos standard for shipyards (29 CFR 1915, Ex. 7&hyph;77). The Committee stated: ``Maritime is neither general industry nor construction_it is maritime. ``This committee was formed by the Secretary of Labor with the objective in its charter to ``recommend *␣*␣* one comprehensive set of standards*␣*␣*for the shipbuilding, ship repair and shipbreaking industries*␣*␣*'' (Advisory Committee Charter). Additional comment and testimony on this issue was submitted during the rulemaking. For example, Charles Sledge, Jr. of the Norfolk Naval Shipyard in his testimony stated that he did not feel that shipyard industry work meets the definition of construction work defined in 29 CFR 1910.12 (Ex. 28). Although he preferred keeping shipyard industry operations under the general industry asbestos standard, he recommended that OSHA apply the SESAC-recommended standard to shipyard activities rather than the construction asbestos standard. He pointed out that most asbestos work in shipyards takes place in fixed locations and does not have the transient nature of true construction work. Mr. Sledge also felt that shipyards have developed ways to stay below the PEL and that any change would result in requiring expensive alterations of facilities, and a need for additional training.
