FR940920-2-00014 FR940920-2-00006 We have reviewed the Botero Report and have concerns regarding the data and the statistical parameters used to perform the statistical analysis on European, Canadian and U.S. rose prices. For example, Dr. Botero's relied on prices that may not be comparable. U.S. prices for a single hybrid tea variety rose were compared to European prices for all hybrid tea variety roses; and U.S. import prices, rather than U.S. domestic prices, were compared to European domestic prices. These comparisons may be inappropriate_we have no basis to conclude that a single hybrid tea rose is representative of all hybrid tea roses, or that U.S. import prices are representative of U.S. domestic prices. Moreover, Dr. Botero's F-test results appear to be invalid. Dr. Botero apparently used the incorrect degrees of freedom_(k,n&hyph;2) instead of (k&hyph;1,n&hyph;2). More importantly, Dr. Botero appears to have misread the ``F Table'': he reported the value of F n&hyph;2,k at the 99 percent confidence level, rather than F k&hyph;1,n&hyph;2 at the 99 percent confidence level. Finally, Dr. Botero provided no explanation of his use of a 99 percent confidence level. In light of these questions, the Department, at this stage, finds the information on the record inconclusive as to whether the third country and U.S. markets are negatively correlated. We intend to further evaluate the Botero Report for purposes of making our final determination. Further details relating to this issue are set forth in the September 12, 1994, memorandum to Barbara Stafford. Peak to Non-Peak Factor Third country sales in Flowers were not made over the entire year. They were made only in peak months. The record established that Colombian growers had little access to the European auction system and were only able to export flowers to Europe during those months when domestic supply was low. On the other hand, the Colombian growers targeted 80 percent of their production to the U.S. market and made sales to the United States in every month. As a result, the Department determined that it was unable to make contemporaneous sales comparisons in all months and would be required to compare low-value U.S. sales in off-peak months with high-value third country sales in peak months. The circumstances on the record in this case are somewhat different. One of the three companies reporting third country sales has year-round sales to a single third country market, while the other two companies have third country sales in every month in the markets selected by the Department pursuant to ยง353.49(c). Therefore, it appears that the Department may have sufficient contemporaneous sales in the aggregate for all twelve months of the POI. Further, the Department has based FMV on two six-month averages; the use of such averages also should reduce any potential for distortion. Perishability Factor The third factor considered in Flowers was related to the role of perishability on production and sale. This factor included: (1) The extreme perishability of the subject merchandise; (2) the inability of producers to control short-term production; and (3) the inability to store or make alternative use of the product. The Department found that the respondents planned 80 percent of their production around the U.S. market and sold excess production in markets in which they did not necessarily plan to sell. These factors combined to create a ``chance element'' to third country sales which raised the concern that any observed price differences would be unrelated to dumping. We note that there are substantial similarities between flowers and roses. First, roses, like flowers, are extremely perishable. Second, rose growers have relatively greater, though still minor, control over short-term production than flower growers because of their ability to pinch back buds. Third, as with flowers, roses cannot be stored and we note that there are only very minor alternative uses ( e.g., drying). While some respondents are able to sell a small percentage of their production to markets other than the United States as a regular part of their business plan, which reduces to some extent the ``chance'' element to selling excess production, we note that this was also true with some companies in Flowers. See Methodological Issues Concerning Colombian Cut Flowers, Sparks Commodities, Inc. 1989. In view of the questions raised above, we conclude that, for the purpose of the preliminary determination, the evidence at this stage is not sufficient to justify departure from our normal practice of reliance on third country prices. However, we intend to revisit this issue in our final determination in light of further information and analysis with regard to the three factors set out in Flowers as well as any other facts that might be relevant on this issue. Third Country Sales For three of the 16 respondents, the home market was not viable; therefore, we based FMV on third country sales ( See the September 12, 1994, memorandum from the team to Barbara R. Stafford). These three companies and their selected third country markets were: Grupo Clavecol (Argentina and Canada); Grupo Sabana (Canada); and Grupo Tropicales (Argentina and Germany). In accordance with 19 CFR 353.49(c), we selected for two of these respondents more than one third country because a single third country did not meet the Department's viability standards. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.49, we selected the appropriate third country market(s) for each respondent based on the following criteria: similarity of merchandise sold in the third country to the merchandise exported to the United States, the volume of sales to the third country, and the similarity of market organization and development between the third country and U.S. markets. For a complete discussion of the selection of third country market(s), see the June 24, 1994, memorandum from the team to Barbara R. Stafford.
