FR940506-1-00040 FR940506-1-00012 Notification of Observer Contractors by Processors and Operators of Vessels Required To Carry Observers Processors and operators of vessels required to carry observers under the Research Plan would be responsible for meeting their observer coverage requirements. To ensure that an observer will be available, processors and vessel operators would be required to notify the appropriate agency or observer contractor, as identified by NMFS, not less than 60 days prior to their need for an observer. This notification must be in writing or facsimile copy. A second notification to the appropriate observer contractor, in writing, facsimile copy, or by telephone, must be made not less than 10 days prior to the need for an observer, to make final arrangements for observer deployment. Proposed ports from which observers may embark/disembark are Akutan, Atka, Beaver Inlet, Chignik, Cordova, Craig, Dutch Harbor, Homer, Juneau, Ketchikan, Kenai, King Cove, Kodiak, Petersburg, Sand Point, Seward, Sitka, St. George, St. Paul, Valdez, Wrangell, and Yakutat. Ports were selected using the following criteria: (1) Previous selection by observer contractors, (2) accessibility and transportation costs, and (3) availability of overnight accommodations. Public comments on this list of ports is specifically encouraged. This list would be reviewed annually by NMFS, in consultation with the Council and the State, during the annual budget review process. During the first year of the Research Plan (1995), observer coverage requirements would be as described in ยง677.10(a). NMFS would publish subsequent observer coverage requirements, along with the names of the observer contractors, information for contacting contractors, and a list of embarkment/disembarkment ports for observers, annually in the Federal Register , prior to the beginning of the calendar year to which the coverage requirements apply (see Observer Coverage in this preamble). Coordination Between the Federal Groundfish Observer Program and the State King and Tanner Crab Observer Program Under the Research Plan Under authority of the FMP for the Commercial King and Tanner Crab Fisheries in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands, the State king and Tanner crab observer program for the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area was designed by the Board and is administered by ADF&G. NMFS and ADF&G would form a work group to maximize efficiency in administration and implementation of the groundfish, halibut, and king and Tanner crab observer programs. The University of Alaska, as an observer training entity, would be a member of this work group when required to help in the development of observer training and debriefing procedures. The work group would review costs and identify possible cost-saving measures, including the use of contractors to perform some or all of the duties under the Research Plan, other than briefing or debriefing. The work group also would review the costs and benefits of training observers in Alaska or elsewhere. The work group would address items including: (1) Development of consistent, cost-effective, and compatible observer training and debriefing procedures; (2) development of a consistent data collection, transmission, and processing system, including a single database available to both agencies on a real-time basis; and (3) identification of costs that are appropriate for reimbursement to the State pursuant to the Magnuson Act. NMFS and ADF&G would annually provide to the Council a report detailing steps taken to improve overall coordination between the two observer programs and to improve administrative efficiency.
