FR940207-1-00028 FR940207-1-00002 2. Consumers outside the premises . Advertisements may be ``indoor signs'' even though they may be viewed by consumers from outside. An example is a banner in an institution's glass-enclosed branch office, that is located behind a teller facing customers but also may be seen by passersby. Section 230.9_Enforcement and Record Retention (c) Record Retention 1. Evidence of required actions . Institutions comply with the regulation by demonstrating they have done the following: •Established and maintained procedures for paying interest and providing timely disclosures as required by the regulation, and •Retained sample disclosures for each type account offered to consumers, such as account-opening disclosures, copies of advertisements, and change-in-term notices; and information regarding the interest rates and annual percentage yields offered. 2. Methods of retaining evidence . Institutions must retain information needed to reconstruct the required disclosures or other actions. They need not keep disclosures or other business records in hard copy. Records evidencing compliance may be retained on microfilm, microfiche, or by other methods that reproduce records accurately (including computer files). 3. Payment of interest . Sufficient rate and balance information must be retained to permit the verification of interest paid on an account, including the payment of interest on the full principal balance. Appendix A to Part 230_Annual Percentage Yield Calculation Part I. Annual Percentage Yield for Account Disclosures and Advertising Purposes 1. Rounding for calculations . The following are examples of permissible rounding rules for calculating interest and the annual percentage yield: •The daily rate applied to a balance rounded to five or more decimals •The daily interest earned rounded to five or more decimals Part II. Annual Percentage Yield Earned for Periodic Statements 1. Balance method . The interest figure used in the calculation of the annual percentage yield earned may be derived from the daily balance method or the average daily balance method. The balance used in the annual percentage yield earned formula is the sum of the balances for each day in the period divided by the number of days in the period. 2. Negative balances prohibited . Institutions must treat a negative account balance as zero to determine the balance on which the annual percentage yield earned is calculated. (See commentary to §230.7(a)(2).) A. General Formula 1. Accrued but uncredited interest . To calculate the annual percentage yield earned, accrued but uncredited interest: •Shall not be included in the balance for statements that are issued at the same time or less frequently than the account's compounding and crediting frequency. For example, if monthly statements are sent for an account that compounds interest daily and credits interest monthly, the balance may not be increased each day to reflect the effect of daily compounding. •Shall be included in the balance for succeeding statements if a statement is issued more frequently than compounded interest is credited on an account. For example, if monthly statements are sent for an account that compounds interest daily and credits interest quarterly, the balance for the second monthly statement would include interest that had accrued for the prior month. 2. Rounding . The interest earned figure used to calculate the annual percentage yield earned must be rounded to two decimals to reflect the amount actually paid. For example, if the interest earned for a statement period is $20.074 and the institution pays the consumer $20.07, the institution must use $20.07 (not $20.074) to calculate the annual percentage yield earned. For accounts that pay interest based on the daily balance method, compound and credit interest quarterly, and send monthly statements, the institution may, but need not, round accrued interest to two decimals for calculating the annual percentage yield earned on the first two monthly statements issued during the quarter. However, on the quarterly statement the interest earned figure must reflect the amount actually paid. B. Special Formula for Use Where Periodic Statement Is Sent More Often Than the Period for Which Interest Is Compounded 1. Statements triggered by Regulation E . Institutions may, but need not, use this formula to calculate the annual percentage yield earned for accounts that receive quarterly statements and that are subject to Regulation E's rule calling for monthly statements when an electronic fund transfer has occurred. They may do so even though no monthly statement was issued during a specific quarter. This formula must be used for accounts that compound and credit interest quarterly and that receive monthly statements, triggered by Regulation E, which comply with the provisions of §230.6.
