FR940706-0-00035 FR940706-0-00002 List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 23 Aircraft, Aviation safety, and Signs and symbols. Citation The authority citation for this special condition is as follows: Authority: Secs. 313(a), 601, and 603 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958; as amended (49 U.S.C. 1354(a), 1421, and 1423); 49 U.S.C. 106(g); 14 CFR 21.16 and 101; and 14 CFR 11.28 and 11.49. Adoption of Special Condition Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration issues the following special conditions as part of the supplemental type certification basis for the BRS GARD system installed in small general aviation airplanes: 1. Flight Test Demonstration (a) The system must be demonstrated in flight to satisfactorily perform its intended function, without exceeding the system deployment load factors, for the critical flight conditions, except as allowed in 1(c). (b) Satisfactory deployment of the parachute must be demonstrated, at the most critical airplane weight and balance, for the following flight conditions: (1) Power off stall with slow entry, (2) Spin with deployment at one turn, (3) Never exceed speed with 1g normal load. (c) Flight demonstrations are not required for airplanes with similar characteristics, (such as configuration, weight, and speed) to airplanes that have already received an STC for the installation. Only airplanes where a significant change from airplanes that have already received an STC need to include a flight demonstration. A significant change in airplane characteristics could be defined as any variation that could potentially cause the airplane to react to parachute deployment different from original tests. 2. Occupant Restraint Each seat in an airplane modified with the parachute recovery system must be equipped with a restraint system, consisting of a seat belt and shoulder harness, that will protect the occupants from head and upper torso injuries during parachute deployment and ground impact at the critical load conditions. 3. Parachute Performance (a) The parachute must comply with the applicable requirements of TSO&hyph;C23c, or an approved equivalent, for the critical airplane weights. (b) The system limit load factor for deployment must not exceed 80 percent of the airplane ultimate load factor. (c) It must be shown that, although the airplane structure may be damaged, the airplane impact during touchdown will result in an occupant environment in which serious injury to the occupants is improbable. (d) It must be shown that, with the parachute deployed, the airplane can impact the ground in various adverse weather conditions, including winds up to 15 knots, without endangering the airplane occupants. 4. System Function and Operations (a) It must be shown that there is no fire hazard associated with activation of the system. (b) The system must be shown to function reliably and to perform its intended function. (c) It must be shown that arming and activating the system can only be accomplished in a sequence that makes inadvertent deployment extremely improbable. (d) It must be demonstrated that the system can be activated without difficulty by various sized people, from a 10th percentile female to a 90th percentile male, while sitting in the pilot or copilot seat. (e) The system must be labeled to show its identification, function, and operating limitations. (f) It must be shown that the occupants will be protected from serious injury after touchdown under various adverse weather conditions, including high winds. 5. System Protection (a) All components of the system must provide protection against deterioration due to weathering, corrosion, abrasion, and other causes. (b) Adequate provisions must be made for ventilation and drainage of the parachute canister and associated structure to ensure the sound condition of the system. 6. System Inspection Provisions (a) Instructions for continued airworthiness must be prepared for the system that meet the requirements of ยง23.1529. (b) Adequate means must be provided to permit the close examination of the parachute and other system components to ensure proper functioning, alignment, lubrication, and adjustment during the required inspection of the system. 7. Operating Limitations (a) Operating limitations must be prescribed to ensure proper operation of the system within the approved flight envelope of the airplane. (b) Operating limitations must be prescribed for inspecting, repacking, and replacing the parachute and deployment mechanism at approved intervals. Issued in Kansas City, Missouri on June 22, 1994. Gerald W. Pierce, Acting Manager, Small Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16233 Filed 7&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;33&hyph;M
