FR941004-1-00070 FR941004-1-00018 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: (1) Carol Williams, Associate Commissioner, Children's Bureau, Administration on Children, Youth and Families or (2) Dan Lewis, Deputy Associate Commissioner, Children's Bureau, Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Telephone (202) 205&hyph;8622 or (202) 205&hyph;8618 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The preamble to this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) is organized as follows: I. Introduction A. Overview B. Enactment of New Legislation: Family Preservation and Support Services C. Previous Legislation: Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act of 1980 (Pub.L. 96&hyph;272) D. Family Preservation and Family Support: Services and Principles E. Development of Family Support and Family Preservation Services F. ACF Implementation of the New Legislation: Lessons Learned from the Field G. Vision for Family Preservation and Family Support Services II. Section by Section Discussion of the NPRM A. Highlights of the NPRM B. Section by Section Discussion III. Impact Analysis I. Introduction A. Overview While many public, private, and nonprofit entities provide a wide range of services to families in need, the primary governmental responsibility for child and family services rests with the States. Each State has its own legal and administrative structures and programs that address the needs of children and families. The Federal government assists States, and, under some programs, Indian tribes, to provide services to children and families through a variety of block grants; formula grants; discretionary grants; and national efforts in the areas of research, evaluation, technical assistance, and data collection. Title IV&hyph;B of the Social Security Act has been a part of the Act since its inception in 1935. Historically, title IV&hyph;B has provided Federal formula grants to States to establish, extend, and strengthen child welfare services. Services are available to all children including the disabled, homeless, neglected, and dependent. Title IV&hyph;B grants to Indian tribes were first awarded in FY 1983. Closely related programs include title IV&hyph;E of the Social Security Act (an open-ended entitlement program providing funds to States for foster care maintenance and adoption assistance payments and a formula grant program providing funds for independent living services for youth); title XX of the Social Security Act (the social services block grant which States use to fund a wide range of social services); State formula grants to assist States to provide child abuse and neglect prevention, intervention, and treatment services; the Head Start program; and in recent years, a number of discretionary grant programs, e.g., Abandoned Infants, Temporary Child Care and Crisis Nurseries, the Comprehensive Child Development Program, and the Family Resource and Support program. B. Enactment of New Legislation: Family Preservation and Support Services In August, 1993, under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, Pub. L. 103&hyph;66, Congress amended title IV&hyph;B to change the name of the title from ``Child Welfare Services'' to ``Child and Family Services;'' create a new subpart 1 entitled ``Child Welfare Services'' from existing statutory language; and add a new subpart 2, ``Family Preservation and Support Services.'' (42 U.S.C. 630&hyph;635)
