FR940503-0-00044 FR940503-0-00009 (b) To become accredited and maintain accreditation, a laboratory shall supply, upon request, the following information: (1) Legal name and full address; (2) Ownership of the laboratory; (3) Organization chart defining relationships that are relevant to performing testing and calibrations covered in the accreditation request; (4) General description of the laboratory, including its facilities and scope of operation; (5) Name, address, and telephone and FAX number of the authorized representative of the laboratory; (6) Names or titles and qualifications of laboratory staff nominated to serve as approved signatories of calibration or test reports that reference NVLAP accreditation; (7) The laboratory Quality Manual; and (8) Other information as may be needed for the specific LAP(s) in which accreditation is sought. 26. Section 285.33 is revised to read as follows: ยง285.33 Criteria for accreditation. (a) Scope. (1) This section sets out the general requirements in accordance with which a laboratory has to demonstrate that it operates, if it is to be recognized as competent to carry out specific calibrations or tests. (2) Additional requirements and information which have to be disclosed for assessing competence or for determining compliance with other criteria may be specified by NVLAP, depending upon the specific character of the task of the laboratory. (3) This section is for use by calibration and testing laboratories in the development and implementation of their quality systems. It may also be used by accreditation bodies, certification bodies and others concerned with the competence of laboratories. (b) Organization and management. (1) The laboratory shall be legally identifiable. It shall be organized and shall operate in such a way that its permanent, temporary and mobile facilities meet these requirements. (2) The laboratory shall: (i) Have managerial staff with the authority and resources needed to discharge their duties; (ii) Have policies to ensure that its personnel are free from any commercial, financial and other pressures which might adversely affect the quality of their work; (iii) Be organized in such a way that confidence in its independence of judgement and integrity is maintained at all times; (iv) Specify and document the responsibility, authority and interrelation of all personnel who manage, perform or verify work affecting the quality of calibrations and tests; (v) Provide supervision by persons familiar with the calibration or test methods and procedures, the objective of the calibration or test and the assessment of the results. The ratio of supervisory to non-supervisory personnel shall be such as to ensure adequate supervision; (vi) Have a technical manager (however named) who has overall responsibility for the technical operations; (vii) Have a quality manager (however named) who has responsibility for the quality system and its implementation. The quality manager shall have direct access to the highest level of management at which decisions are taken on laboratory policy or resources, and to the technical manager. In some laboratories, the quality manager may also be the technical manager or deputy technical manager; (viii) Nominate deputies in case of absence of the technical or quality manager; (ix) Have documented policy and procedures to ensure the protection of clients' confidential information and proprietary rights; (x) Where appropriate, participate in interlaboratory comparisons and proficiency testing programs. (c) Quality system, audit and review. (1) The laboratory shall establish and maintain a quality system appropriate to the type, range and volume of calibration and testing activities it undertakes. The elements of this system shall be documented. The quality documentation shall be available for use by the laboratory personnel. The laboratory shall define and document its policies and objectives for, and its commitment to, good laboratory practice and quality of calibration or testing services. The laboratory management shall ensure that these policies and objectives are documented in a quality manual and communicated to, understood, and implemented by all laboratory personnel concerned. The quality manual shall be maintained current under the responsibility of the quality manager. (2) The quality manual, and related quality documentation, shall state the laboratory's policies and operational procedures established in order to meet the requirements of procedures. The quality manual and related quality documentation shall also contain: (i) A quality policy statement, including objectives and commitments, by top management; (ii) The organization and management structure of the laboratory, its place in any parent organization and relevant organizational charts; (iii) The relations between management, technical operations, support services and the quality system; (iv) Procedures for control and maintenance of documentation; (v) Job descriptions of key staff and reference to the job descriptions of other staff; (vi) Identification of the laboratory's approved signatories;
