FR941220-2-00042 FR941220-2-00029 [Release No. 34&hyph;35096; File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;14] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Securities Trust Company; Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change Implementing a Fixed Income Transaction System Automated Book Entry Feature for Municipal Bonds December 13, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 21, 1994, the Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC'') filed with the Securities and exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared primarily by MSTC. The Commission is publishing this notice and order to solicit comments from interested persons and to grant accelerated approval of the proposed rule change. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change MSTC proposes to adopt a new automated book entry feature for municipal bonds. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, MSTC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MSTC has prepared summaries, set forth in section (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Under the proposed rule filing, MSTC proposes to adopt an automated book entry movement feature to work in conjunction with the Midwest Clearing Corporation's (``MCC'') interface 2 with the National Securities Clearing Corporation's (``NSCC'') fixed income transaction system (``FITS'') for municipal securities. 3 The book entry movement feature for municipal securities transactions compared through FITS will be similar in functionality and procedure to the current institutional delivery system where book entry delivery is set up in advance for automatic settlement on settlement date. A municipal bond trade entered for comparison into FITS will be set up for automatice book entry delivery once the trade achieves a compared status as long as the settlement date entered for the trade is a date in the future of the trade date. New issue or unusual trade types that compare without a settlement date or items that compare on or after settlement date will not be subject to automatice book entry delivery. These exception items must be submitted manually. 2 For a complete description of the Midwest Clearing Corporation's and the Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia's interface with NSCC's FITS for municipal securities, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33524 (January 26, 1994), 59 FR 4958 [File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;93&hyph;04 and SCCP&hyph;93&hyph;03] (order approving interfaces with NSCC's FITS). 3 For a detailed description of NSCC's FITS, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 32747 (August 13, 1993), 58 FR 44530 [File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;02] (order approving implementation of FITS for municipal securities) and 34867 (October 20, 1994), 59 FR 54018 [File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;94&hyph;16] (order approving expansion of NSCC's FITS to include corporate bonds and unit investment trusts). Participants will have the flexibility to specify the position from which an automatic book entry delivery should originate. MSTC expects that this decision often will be based on the most frequently used safekeeping position as identified on the participant's account profile. Participants will have the option of changing this standing origination location as necessary. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition MSTC does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Section 17A(b)(3)(F) 4 of the Act requires the rules of a clearing agency be designed to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. The Commission believes that the automated book entry delivery feature should help promote prompt and accurate clearing and settlement by reducing errors by automatically generating book entry movements on behalf of the delivering MSTC participants for compared trades. Section 17A(a)(2)(A)(i) 5 of the Act directs the Commission to facilitate the establishment of a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. The Commission believes that the proposal furthers this goal by creating cooperation by automating the process of trades being cleared and settled at Midwest Clearing Corporation and MSTC. 4 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1988). 5 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(a)(2)(A)(i) (1988). MSTC has requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing. The Commission finds good cause for so approving the proposed rule change because accelerated approval will allow MSTC participants to utilize and to take full advantage in a more timely fashion of the benefits of the automated book entry movement feature for municipal securities. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submission should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 5th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filings will also be available at the principal office MSTC. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;14 and should be submitted by January 10, 1995. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;14) be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 6 6 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31168 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
