FR940323-0-00089 FR940323-0-00023 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB66 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Determination of Endangered Status for the Plant Ipomopsis Sancti-Spiritus (Holy Ghost Ipomopsis) AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines the plant Ipomopsis sancti-spiritus (Holy Ghost ipomopsis) is an endangered species, under the authority of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended. This species occurs at a single location in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains, San Miguel County, New Mexico. Its survival is threatened by limited distribution, low plant numbers, the proximity of development, and intensity of human activity in the area. Potential threats include road maintenance, chemical herbicide and pesticide use, biological pest controls, and any natural or manmade factors that would reduce the already low numbers or significantly alter the habitat. This action will implement Federal protection provided by the Act for Holy Ghost ipomopsis. Critical habitat is not being designated. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this rule is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the New Mexico Ecological Services Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 3530 Pan American Highway NE., suite D, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87107. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Philip Clayton, at the above address (505/883&hyph;7877). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Ipomopsis sancti-spiritus (Holy Ghost ipomopsis) is an erect, biennial to short-lived perennial plant, known only from the Sangre de Cristo Mountains of San Miguel County, in north central New Mexico. It was first collected by Dr. Edward F. Castetter in 1929. Mr. Reggie Fletcher, U.S.D.A. Forest Service, collected the species in 1977. Wilken and Fletcher (1988) later described the plant as a species distinct from the closely related Ipomopsis aggregata. The Holy Ghost ipomopsis is a member of the phlox family (Polemoniaceae). It is 30&hyph;80 centimeters (cm) (12&hyph;31 inches (in)) tall, with mostly solitary stems, occasionally branched from the base. The leaves are oval in outline, 3&hyph;6 cm (1&hyph;2.4 in) long, with 9&hyph;15 linear divisions. The basal leaves form a loose to compact rosette that dies back at flowering. The leaves are gradually reduced in size up the length of the stem. The flowers are tubular, pink, and about 2&hyph;2.5 cm (0.8&hyph;1 in) long. The stamens do not extend beyond the corolla tube. The Holy Ghost ipomopsis occurs at an elevation of approximately 2,440 meters (m) (8,000 feet (ft)). The species is found only in a 3.2-kilometer (km) (2-mile (mi)) segment of a canyon in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains. The plants are restricted to steep, south- or southwest-facing slopes, primarily in openings under ponderosa pine (Pinus ponderosa ), Douglas fir ( Pseudotsuga menziesii ), Gambel oak ( Quercus gambellii ), and quaking aspen ( Populus tremuloides ). The substrate is a sandy to pebbly limestone conglomerate derived from the Terrero and Espritu Santo formations (Wilken and Fletcher 1988). The plant grows in small openings or clearings on the forested slopes, and it is likely that fire may have played a role in the past in maintaining open habitat for this species. Plants have colonized the cut-and-fill slopes of a Forest Service road, indicating some preference for open, disturbed areas. The entire population of the Holy Ghost ipomopsis consists of approximately 1,200&hyph;2,500 plants, located on Forest Service and private lands within the boundaries of the Santa Fe National Forest. Approximately 80 percent of the population occupies the cut-and-fill slopes along a Forest Service road; the remaining 20 percent of the population occurs on the natural dry and open habitat higher up on the canyon slopes. Most of the occupied habitat is along a Forest Service road that provides access to summer homes and Forest Service campgrounds. In this location, the plants and their habitat are vulnerable to harm from road maintenance, wildfire, fire management, and possible pesticide spraying. Surveys conducted by Forest Service personnel and New Mexico Energy, Minerals and Natural Resources Department botanists within a 24-km (15-mi) radius of the known population have failed to locate any additional populations of the species (Sivinski and Lightfoot 1991).
