FR941028-1-00034 FR941028-1-00005 III. Impacts A. Surge Control Vessels and Bottoms Receivers The proposed revisions to the compliance date and the control requirements for surge control vessels and bottoms receivers will not affect the estimated emissions reduction and control cost for the rule. In the background analyses used to characterize emissions, emission reductions, and control costs for this rule, the EPA treated surge control vessels and bottoms receivers as either process vents or storage vessels. This approach was taken due to the lack of sufficient data to characterize surge control vessels and bottoms receivers and the EPA's view that this equipment could be best characterized as a storage vessel. Consequently, the proposed revisions to the compliance date and the requirements of ยง63.170 have no effect on the emission reductions or cost estimates. B. Compressors The proposed revisions to the compliance date for compressors provisions are estimated to have a negligible effect on the emissions reduction due to the equipment leak control requirements. Emissions from compressors contribute only a small portion of the estimated emissions from equipment leaks because there are very few compressors located in SOCMI process units. Information from earlier EPA studies also shows that the majority of compressors in SOCMI already meet most, if not all, of the equipment specifications in ยง63.164. Moreover, because of the nature of the equipment changes and the long lead time, the EPA believes the proposed revisions will not result in delays of installation of required controls. These proposed revisions to subpart H are not expected to affect the estimated cost of compliance with the rule. IV. Administrative A. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements of the previously promulgated NESHAP were submitted to and approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). A copy of this Information Collection Request (ICR) document (OMB control number 1414.02) may be obtained from Sandy Farmer, Information Policy Branch (PM&hyph;223Y); U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; 401 M Street, SW; Washington, DC 20460 or by calling (202) 260&hyph;2740. Today's changes to the NESHAP would have a minor impact on the information collection burden estimates made previously. The added provisions provide a mechanism to request compliance extensions and are not required reports. Therefore, the ICR has not been revised. B. Executive Order 12866 Review The HON rule promulgated on April 22, 1994 was considered ``significant'' under Executive Order 12866 and a regulatory impact analysis (RIA) was prepared. The amendments proposed today would revise compliance dates to provide the time necessary for installation of controls and do not add any additional control requirements. The EPA believes that these proposed amendments would have a negligible impact on the results of the RIA and the change is considered to be within the uncertainty of the analysis. For the reasons discussed in section III, the impacts on emissions reduction are also believed to be negligible. C. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 requires the identification of potentially adverse impacts of Federal regulations upon small business entities. The Act specifically requires the completion of a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis in those instances where small business impacts are possible. Because this rulemaking imposes no adverse economic impacts, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis has not been prepared. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 63 Air pollution control, Intergovernmental relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 605(b), I hereby certify that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small business entities. Dated: October 24, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
