FR941006-2-00225 FR941006-2-00113 Appendix III State Justice Institute Scholarship Application (This application does not serve as a registration for the course. Please contact the education provider.) Applicant Information: 1. Applicant Name: (Last)␣(First)␣(M) 2. Position: 3. Name of Court: 4. Address: Street/P.O. Box City State Zip Code 5. Telephone No. 6. Congressional District: Program Information: 7. Course Name: 8. Course Dates: 9. Course Provider: 10. Location Offered: Estimated Expenses: (Please note, scholarships are limited to tuition and transportation expenses to and from the site of the course up to a maximum of $1,500.) Tuition: $ Transportation: $ (airfare, trainfare or if you plan to drive, the approximate distance and mileage rate) Amount Requested: $ Additional Information: Please attach a current resume or professional summary, and answer the following questions. (You may attach additional pages if necessary.) 1. How will your taking this course benefit you, your court, and the State's courts generally? 2. Is there any education or training currently available through your State on this topic? 3. How will you apply what you have learned? Please include any plans you may have to develop/teach a course on this topic in your jurisdiction/State, provide in-service training, or otherwise disseminate what you have learned to colleagues. 4. Are State or local funds available to support your attendance at the proposed course? If so, what amount(s) will be provided? 5. How long have you served as a judge or court manager? 6. How long do you anticipate serving as a judge or court manager, assuming reelection or reappointment? 7. How long has it been since you attended a non-mandatory continuing professional education program? Statement of Applicant's Commitment If a scholarship is awarded, I will submit an evaluation of the educational program to the State Justice Institute and to the Chief Justice of my State. Signature Date Please return this form and Form S&hyph;2 to: State Justice Institute, 1650 King Street, Suite 600, Alexandria Virginia 22314. State Justice Institute_Scholarship Application Concurrence I, XXXX , Name of Chief Justice (or Chief Justice's Designee) have reviewed the application for a scholarship to attend the program entitled XXXX , prepared by XXXX , (Name of Applicant) and concur in its submission to the State Justice Institute. The applicant's participation in the program would benefit the State; the applicant's absence to attend the program would not present an undue hardship to the court; and receipt of a scholarship would not diminish the amount of funds made available by the State for judicial education. Signature Name Title Date
