FR940429-0-00138 FR940429-0-00014 Changes: None. Incarcerated Student Comments: Two commenters commended the Secretary's exclusion of persons in half-way houses or home detention or sentenced to serve on weekends from the definition of ``incarcerated student.'' They noted that this exclusion helps to reduce burden by eliminating the need to identify and track these individuals. Discussion: The Secretary appreciates the support for this provision. Changes: None. Recognized Equivalent of a High School Diploma Comments: A few commenters suggested broadening the definition of students who excelled academically in high school. They suggested that persons in the upper quartile of their high school graduating class and persons who have passed standardized tests be considered as having excelled in high school. One commenter asked the Secretary to remove this provision because it could potentially be open to abuse. Other commenters noted that the Secretary proposed to consider an academic transcript resulting from the successful completion of a two-year transfer program to be the recognized equivalent of a high school diploma and suggested that the following transcripts also be so recognized: the transcript of a student who completed at least one semester or quarter of a two-year transfer program; and the transcript of a student enrolled in a two-year program if most of the credits in that program could be transferred to a bachelor's degree program. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the recognized equivalent of a high school diploma is generally a GED and the two provisions discussed by the commenter apply only in exceptionally limited circumstances. Therefore, the Secretary does not believe it useful to expand either provision at this time. The Secretary has reconsidered his position and no longer believes that a student's class standing in high school is an adequate indication that the student excelled in high school. The final rules reflect the Secretary's current policy in this area. Changes: None. Sections 600.4, 600.5, and 600.6␣Institution of Higher Education, Proprietary Institution of Higher Education, and Postsecondary Vocational Institution Comments: Several commenters noted that while section 496(e) of the HEA required an institution to submit a dispute with an accrediting agency regarding its loss of accreditation to initial arbitration prior to bringing other legal action, the NPRM proposed requiring the institution to agree to binding arbitration. Most of these commenters were concerned that requiring binding arbitration would violate an institution's right to have its case reviewed in court. Other commenters noted that while institutions have to agree to binding arbitration, accrediting agencies do not have to so agree. Another commenter asked whether an institution would retain its institutional eligibility under this part while it undergoes binding arbitration. Discussion: In the NPRM, the Secretary stated that he proposed that an institution agree to binding arbitration ``so that any legal action after arbitration would be limited to whether the arbitrator's decision was arbitrary or capricious. The Secretary believes that this approach best carries out the purpose of section 496(e) by limiting, to the maximum extent possible, litigation in this area.'' The Secretary is still of this view. The Secretary recognizes that the HEA does not specifically require an accrediting agency to agree to binding arbitration but anticipates that accrediting agencies will agree to such arbitration without the necessity of a regulatory requirement since it significantly limits the cost and length of appeals of their final decisions. Moreover, if an accrediting agency does not agree to binding arbitration, institutions will be free to appeal their final adverse decisions in federal courts. If an institution loses its accreditation as a result of a final accrediting agency action, it loses its eligibility under this part because of its lack of accreditation. If it takes that accrediting agency to binding arbitration, it will not regain that eligibility unless the arbitrator requires the agency to restore the institution's accreditation. Changes: None. Section 600.5␣Proprietary Institution of Higher Education Two-year rule Comment: Several commenters questioned how the Secretary would determine whether a program offered for two years prior to an institution's initial eligibility application was substantially the same as a program it listed in its application for approval.
