FR940506-2-00014 FR940506-2-00006 [A&hyph;614&hyph;801] Fresh Kiwifruit From New Zealand; Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review AGENCY: Import Administration/International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of preliminary results of antidumping duty administrative review. SUMMARY: In response to a request by the respondent, the New Zealand Kiwifruit Marketing Board, the Department of Commerce has conducted an administrative review of the antidumping duty order on fresh kiwifruit from New Zealand. The review covers one exporter and the period November 27, 1991, through May 31, 1993. The review indicates the existence of margins for the exporter. As a result of this review, we preliminarily determine to assess antidumping duties equal to the difference between the United States price and foreign market value. Interested parties are invited to comment on these preliminary results. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Amer M. Kayani or Thomas F. Futtner, Office of Antidumping Compliance, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230; telephone (202) 482&hyph;5346 or 482&hyph;3814, respectively. Background On June 2, 1992, the Department of Commerce (the Department) published the antidumping duty order on fresh kiwifruit from New Zealand (57 FR 23203). The Department published a notice of ``Opportunity to Request Administrative Review'' on June 7, 1993 (58 FR 31941). The respondent, the New Zealand Kiwifruit Marketing Board (NZKMB), requested that we conduct an administrative review for the period November 27, 1991, through May 31, 1993. We published a notice of ``Initiation of Antidumping and Countervailing Duty Administrative Review'' on July 21, 1993 (58 FR 39007), announcing an administrative review of the NZKMB. The Department has now conducted this administrative review in accordance with section 751 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Tariff Act). Scope of the Review The product covered by this review is fresh kiwifruit. Processed kiwifruit, including fruit jams, jellies, pastes, purees, mineral waters, or juices made from or containing kiwifruit, are not covered under the scope of this review. The subject merchandise is currently classifiable under subheading 0810.90.20.60 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS). Although the HTS number is provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this review is dispositive. United States Price Exporter's Sales Price: As provided in section 772(c) of the Tariff Act, we used the exporter's sales price (ESP) as U.S. price for certain sales by the NZKMB to the United States; these sales were made to the first unrelated party in the United States after importation, and hence warranted ESP methodology. We calculated ESP based on packed F.O.B. (ex-New Zealand coolstore), and packed F.O.B., freight-prepaid prices. We made deductions, where appropriate, for New Zealand inland freight (coolstore to port), loading charges in New Zealand, ocean freight, basic marine insurance, charter insurance, U.S. import duties, U.S. brokerage and handling, U.S. inland freight (decreased to account for prepaid freight where applicable), and price discounts ( i.e., advertising allowances, special advertising allowances, market adjustment discounts, advertising rebates which actually constituted discounts, and discounts for quality problems). In accordance with sections 772(e) (1) and (2) of the Tariff Act, we made additional deductions, where appropriate, for agent commissions, broker commissions, credit, direct advertising, and indirect selling expenses. Indirect selling expenses included inventory carrying costs, repacking, U.S. primary and U.S. satellite coolstore charges, New Zealand and U.S. instore insurance, fire insurance, product liability and tamper insurance, earthquake insurance, indirect advertising, quality control expenses, miscellaneous selling-agent-related charges, U.S.-incurred indirect expenses, and New Zealand incurred indirect selling expenses associated with selling in the United States. We increased the U.S. price to account for post sale price adjustments not reflected in the gross price. Purchase Price: As provided in section 772(b) of the Tariff Act, we used purchase price to represent the U.S. price for sales made on a CIF basis directly by the NZKMB. Deductions were made, where appropriate, for ocean freight, foreign inland freight, and inland/marine insurance in accordance with section 772(d)(2) of the Tariff Act. Foreign Market Value The Department determined that home market sales did not constitute a viable basis for calculating foreign market value (FMV). Therefore, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.48 and 353.49(b), the Department chose sales to Japan as the basis of FMV. Japan is the largest third-country market based on information submitted by the NZKMB. Neither the petitioner nor the respondent raised in this review any other factor relevant to third country selection, hence we did not consider any other factor in determining the third-country market.
