FR941003-0-00005 FR941003-0-00001 The Department is also making a related amendment to the regulations at 7 CFR 273.12(c) for changes in medical expenses that are discovered from a source other than the household. Currently, those regulations require the State agency to act on all changes in a household's circumstances, including those it discovers from a source other than the household. Often times, however, the State agency must contact the household to verify such unreported changes. Since the intent of section 1717 is to avoid recurrent reporting and verification on the part of households receiving the medical expense deduction, the Department is amending 7 CFR 273.12(c) to require that the State agency act on those changes in medical expenses it learns of from a source other than the household only if it can act without contacting the household for further information or verification. The household will be informed about the changes in accordance with the notice requirements at 7 CFR 273.13. Those changes learned from a source other than the household which are not verified upon receipt and therefore necessitate contact with the household for verification purposes shall not be acted upon until the household is recertified. Implementation This rule is effective and must be implemented no later than October 1, 1994. For quality control purposes, any variances resulting from the implementation of the rule shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from the required implementation date, in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii). The provision must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at the household's request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. The State agency must provide restored benefits to such households back to the required implementation date or the date of application whichever is later. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of application whichever is later. List of Subjects 7 CFR Part 272 Alaska, Civil rights, Food stamps, Grant programs_social programs, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 7 CFR Part 273 Administrative practice and procedure, Aliens, Claims, Food stamps, Fraud, Grant programs_social programs, Penalties, Records, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Social Security.
