FR940627-0-00127 FR940627-0-00019 The following sections describe the criteria which determine F/FA categories for each fuel family. It should be noted that the criteria that define baseline F/FA products for each fuel family are not meant to be fuel specifications. The baseline criteria used for grouping purposes in this final rule consider the potential health implications of the composition of the fuel or additive/base fuel mixture and might differ from previously established commercial fuel specifications, such as those established by the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), the California Air Resources Board (CARB), or federal ``substantially similar'' criteria. a. Gasoline. EPA discussed in the NPRM two options (Option A and Option B) for distinguishing the baseline and non-baseline categories for the gasoline fuel family (see 57 FR 13187&hyph;13188). Today's action uses Option A for the classification of gasoline products. A discussion supporting this decision is included in the ``Summary and Analysis of Comments for the Fuels and Fuel Additives Registration Regulations'' (available in public docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07). A synopsis of EPA's analysis follows. The major differences between the two alternative grouping options considered by EPA in the NPRM were: (1) The cutoff point for oxygen content to distinguish between baseline and non- baseline products, and (2) the approach for handling F/FAs that have received a waiver under CAA section 211(f). Under Option A, the baseline category was to be limited to F/FAs having less than 1.5 weight percent oxygen by weight. Because the cut-off point of 1.5 percent is consistent with the minimum oxygen requirement for reformulated gasolines, reformulated gasolines would not be considered baseline under Option A. Instead, gasolines with 1.5 percent or more oxygen were to be sorted into different non- baseline groups depending on the oxygenated compounds they contained. In contrast, Option B used an oxygen cutoff point of 2.7 weight percent, based on current ``substantially similar'' criteria (see 56 FR 5352). F/FAs which exceeded this limit but had been granted a waiver for the excess oxygen were also to be designated as baseline. After careful evaluation, EPA has selected Option A for the grouping of gasolines in this final rule. In arriving at this decision, EPA considered the testing and potential health effects implications of both grouping options. The main purpose of the grouping system is to sort F/FAs based on the similarities of their emission components. After analyzing existing emission characterization data, EPA concluded that Option B did not provide an adequate approach for the testing of gasoline F/FAs because it does not distinguish between formulations that may have significantly different emission characteristics. EPA's evaluation showed that the emissions from oxygenated gasolines are not the same as for non-oxygenated gasolines and that, furthermore, the emission profiles differ according to the particular oxygenated compound present in a fuel formulation. Differences in emission species will affect the toxicological characteristics of the fuel or additive/base fuel mixture. Option B was found inappropriate because it would have allowed the grouping of gasolines containing significant amounts of different oxygenated compounds into one single group. These different compounds may have distinguishable toxic effects. Therefore, EPA selected Option A for the grouping of gasolines in this final rule in order to adequately examine the potential health effects of the different oxygenated compounds. EPA believes this best effectuates the goal of CAA Section(e) to require testing of each fuel or fuel additive. In this final rule, gasoline formulations are defined as those containing more than 50 percent gasoline by volume. Based on current ``substantially similar'' criteria (see interpretative rule at 56 FR 5352), the sulfur content for all gasoline formulations in the gasoline fuel family is limited to 0.1 percent by weight. F/FAs in the baseline gasoline category must contain no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, and/or sulfur. Gasoline baseline formulations must possess, at the time of manufacture, all the physical and chemical properties of an unleaded gasoline and applicable volatility class standards as specified in the latest version of ASTM standard for Automotive Spark-Ignition Engine Fuel, D 4814. As discussed above, the oxygen content of baseline gasolines must be less than 1.5 percent by weight. The baseline gasoline category includes all gasoline fuels and additives (evaluated as additive/base fuel mixtures) meeting the above criteria. The non-baseline gasoline category is comprised of F/FAs which conform to the baseline specifications in terms of elemental composition, but exceed the specified baseline oxygen limit. Thus, this category includes gasoline formulations with no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and/or sulfur, which have been blended with oxygenates (i.e., alcohol, ether, ester, furan, and any other compound used to increase the oxygen content of the gasoline formulation), such that the total oxygen content of the gasoline-oxygenate blend is at least 1.5 weight percent. Included in the non-baseline gasoline category are reformulated gasolines and oxygenated gasolines with at least 1.5 percent oxygen (by weight), including a number of formulations which have previously been granted CAA section 211(f) waivers on oxygen content. The atypical category in the gasoline fuel family includes F/FAs which contain elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and/or sulfur. (Trace contamination by other elements does not cause a F/FA to be classified as atypical, however.)
