FR940919-0-00061 FR940919-0-00016 b. Organics_Nonwastewaters i. The Universal Treatment Standards Promulgated in Today's Rule EPA is promulgating UTS for organics in nonwastewaters as proposed with the exception of the standards for m- and p-cresols. These are the only organic constituents for which commenters provided data supporting changes to the proposed UTS. Although organic nonwastewater UTS differ in some cases from the previously promulgated standards, the same technology basis, combustion, can meet the limits. In the previous standards as well as the UTS, the organic standards are based on a detection level in a combustion residue (adjusted upward by a variability factor accounting for analytic and process variability). Differences between UTS and previous standards reflect a more consistent assessment of achievable detection levels for various constituents in combustion residues, and continue to be achievable using BDAT, combustion. Because the essential technical issue at the heart of these adjustments is the value of the detection limit, most of these changes reflect analytical artifacts rather than absolute differences in the quantities of toxics available for release following land disposal. ii. Modifications to Universal Treatment Standards Made in Response to Comments A petroleum refiner involved in building a biological treatment system submitted data on organic nonwastewaters, and indicated their concern about the lower treatment standards for certain organic constituents that were proposed as UTS. The Agency evaluated the commenter's data and found, in some cases, the commenter was requesting that UTS levels be set at levels higher than the maximum levels in their untreated wastes. Furthermore, the commenter's data did not represent proper monitoring. The Agency was able to determine from their data, however, that one limit, the proposed m- and p-cresol limit, should be raised from 3.2 mg/kg to 5.6 mg/kg. This adjustment is based on other factors described below. The proposed UTS for m- and p-cresol was 3.2 mg/kg, which differed from the proposed UTS for o-cresol, which was 5.6 mg/kg. Today's rule promulgates 5.6 mg/kg for both o-cresol and m- and p-cresol. The proposed limits for cresols were based on a detection limit of 2 mg/kg for o-cresol and 1 mg/kg for m- and p-cresol from an incinerator ash study used to develop nonwastewater standards in the Third Third rulemaking. The differences in detection limits occurred because EPA used different treatment tests to set the limits for o- versus m- and p-cresol. Examination of the same test runs revealed that where o-cresol had a detection level of 2 mg/kg, the detection level for m- and p-cresol was also 2 mg/kg. In addition, where the detection level for m- and p-cresol was 1 mg/kg, the detection level for o-cresol was also 1 mg/kg. Upon further review of other data, the Agency observed that within a test, o-cresol and m- and p-cresols had the same detection levels. The numbers for o-cresol and m- plus p-cresol promulgated in today's rule were calculated with the same detection limit, as justified by the data review, and the same recovery factor. The resulting identical treatment standards reflect the fact that incineration treats both of these isomer groups to the same level, within the existing analytical constraints. iii. Use of Alternative Treatment Technologies to Combustion In establishing numerical treatment standards, the Agency allows the use of any technology (other than impermissible dilution) to comply with the limits. Some previous standards, namely those for petroleum refining wastes, were based on combustion as well as thermal desorption and solvent extraction. Under UTS, organic nonwastewater standards are based on and achievable by combustion. As for other technologies, EPA assessed whether the changes in limits disrupted commitments made to use these other technologies. With regard to thermal desorption, EPA examined comments on the proposed levels by three ’vendors of thermal desorption units (Seaview Thermal Systems (STS), Separation and Recovery Systems, Inc. (SRS), and Ecova (formerly Waste Tech Services)), BDAT Background Development Documents for treatment standards applicable to petroleum wastes, the Marathon delisting petition, and other available literature. These data demonstrate the achievability of UTS by thermal desorption for petroleum refining wastes. This was an expected result, given the comments on the Phase I LDR rule which addressed F037 and F038 petroleum refining wastes. In these comments, a thermal desorption company called for limits lower than today's UTS limits (these data reflected lower detection levels, not necessarily better treatment than today's UTS). Also important in the use of thermal desorption are the operating conditions: raising the temperature, and/or the detention time increases the amount of hazardous organic constituents desorbed. As for solvent extraction, the data used for development of the K048&hyph;K052 treatment standards achieved UTS levels for about half of the demonstration runs. Operating conditions, such as solvent selection, solvent to waste ratios, detention time, and number of treatment passes significantly affect treatment results, and the agency believes these parameters can be adjusted to comply with the UTS. There may, however, be other factors which result in this technology not being selected, and based on information available to the Agency, no petroleum refining facilities are utilizing solvent extraction. EPA requested comments on the achievability of the proposed UTS for petroleum refining wastes when treated via noncombustion technologies. (See 58 FR 48106&hyph;48107.) EPA also requested comments on whether the industry has invested in non-combustion technologies, including those designated as BDAT in previous rules that cannot meet the UTS. In particular, EPA requested information on the type of treatment, performance data, and an explanation of why existing treatment could not be adjusted and operated more efficiently to comply with the UTS. EPA also pointed out it was willing to revise the proposed UTS, if data indicated that appropriate noncombustion technologies could achieve slightly higher levels than those proposed for UTS. Only one commenter, Valero, Inc., submitted comments with regard to a contractual agreement for the construction of a full scale bioslurry reactor and data from a bench scale treatability study. None of the other petroleum refining commenters indicated they had invested in noncombustion technologies. Valero, Inc., and two remediation companies, Retec Technologies and OHM Corporation, submitted data on biotreatment of organic constituents. They reported treatment efficiencies from 40 to 60 percent for some PNAs and questioned whether the proposed treatment standards can be routinely achieved by biotreatment technologies. EPA does not generally consider such treatment efficiencies adequate for organic constituents. As indicated previously, facilities can use any technology other than impermissible dilution to comply with the treatment standards. If design and operating conditions can be adjusted to meet the limits, this could be full compliance. If not, the technology may still be appropriate for remediation wastes, for which standards are currently being revised in the development of HWIR.
