FR940627-0-00185 FR940627-0-00019 (ii) Upon issuance of a notice of intent to cancel, EPA will forward a copy of the notice to the registrant by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the address of record given in the registration, along with an explanation of the reasons for the proposed cancellation. (iii) The registrant will be afforded 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice of intent to cancel to submit written comments concerning the notice, and to demonstrate or achieve compliance with the specific data requirements which provide the basis for the proposed cancellation. If the registrant does not respond in writing within 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice of intent to cancel, the cancellation of the registration shall become final by operation of law and the Administrator shall notify the registrant of such cancellation. If the registrant responds in writing within 60 days from the date of receipt of the notice of intent to cancel, the Administrator shall review and consider all comments submitted by the registrant before taking final action concerning the proposed cancellation. The registrants' communications should be sent to the following address: Director, Field Operations and Support Division, 6406J_Fuel/Additives Registration, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. (iv) As part of a written response to a notice of intent to cancel, a registrant may request an informal hearing concerning the notice. Any such request shall state with specificity the information the registrant wishes to present at such a hearing. If an informal hearing is requested, EPA shall schedule such a hearing within 60 days from the date of receipt of the request. If an informal hearing is held, the subject matter of the hearing shall be confined solely to whether or not the registrant has complied with the specific data requirements which provide the basis for the proposed cancellation. If an informal hearing is held, the designated presiding officer may be any EPA employee, the hearing procedures shall be informal, and the hearing shall not be subject to or governed by 40 CFR part 22 or by 5 U.S.C. 554, 556, or 557. A verbatim transcript of each informal hearing shall be kept and the Administrator shall consider all relevant evidence and arguments presented at the hearing in making a final decision concerning a proposed cancellation. (v) If a registrant who has received a notice of intent to cancel submits a timely written response, and the Administrator decides after reviewing the response and the transcript of any informal hearing to cancel the registration, the Administrator shall issue a final cancellation order, forward a copy of the cancellation order to the registrant by certified mail, and promptly publish the cancellation order in the Federal Register . Any cancellation order issued after receipt of a timely written response by the registrant shall become legally effective five days after it is published in the Federal Register . (g) Modification of Regulation. (1) In special circumstances, a manufacturer subject to the registration requirements of this rule may petition the Administrator to modify the mandatory testing requirements in the test standard for any test required by this rule by application to Director, Field Operations and Support Division, at the address in paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section. (i) Such request shall be made as soon as the test sponsor is aware that the modification is necessary, but in no event shall the request be made after 30 days following the event which precipitated the request. (ii) Upon such request, the Administrator may, in circumstances which are outside the control of the manufacturer(s) or his/their agent and which could not have been reasonably foreseen or avoided, modify the mandatory testing requirements in the rule if such requirements are infeasible. (iii) If the Administrator determines that such modifications would not significantly alter the scope of the test, EPA will not ask for public comment before approving the modification. The Administrator will notify the test sponsor by certified mail of the response to the request. EPA will place copies of each application and EPA response in the public docket. EPA will publish a notice in the Federal Register annually describing such changes which have occurred during the previous year. Until such Federal Register notice is published, any modification approved by EPA shall apply only to the person or group who requested the modification; EPA shall state the applicability of each modification in such notice. (iv) Where, in EPA's judgment, the requested modification of a test standard would significantly change the scope of the test, EPA will publish a notice in the Federal Register requesting comment on the request and proposed modification. However, EPA may approve a requested modification of a test standard without first seeking public comment if necessary to preserve the validity of an ongoing test undertaken in good faith. (2) [Reserved] (h) Special Requirements for Additives. An additive which is a direct test subject, either because it is the chosen representative of a group or because it is not a member of a group, is subject to the following rules: (1) All required emission characterization and health effects testing procedures shall be performed on the mixture which results when the additive is combined with the base fuel for the appropriate fuel family (as specified in §79.55) at the maximum concentration recommended by the additive manufacturer pursuant to §79.21(d). This combination shall be known as the additive/base fuel mixture. (i) The appropriate fuel family to be utilized for the additive/base fuel mixture is the fuel family which contains the specific type(s) of fuel for which the additive is presently registered or for which the manufacturer of the additive is seeking registration. (ii) Fuels and additives belonging to more than one fuel family. (A) If a fuel or additive product is registered in two or more fuel families as of May 27, 1994, then the manufacturer of that product is responsible for testing (or participating in group testing of) each formulation in compliance with the requirements of this subpart for each fuel family in which the manufacturer wishes to maintain a product registration for its fuel or additive. (B) If a fuel or additive manufacturer is seeking to register such product in two or more fuel families, then the product shall be considered, for testing and registration purposes, to be a member of each fuel family in which the manufacturer is seeking registration. The manufacturer is responsible for testing (or participating in group testing of) each formulation in compliance with the requirements of this subpart for each fuel family in which the manufacturer wishes to obtain a product registration for its fuel or additive. (iii) In the case of the methanol fuel family, which contains two base fuels (M100 and M85 base fuels, pursuant to § 79.55(d)), the applicable base fuel is the one which represents the fuel/additive group (specified in §79.56(e)(4)(i)(C)) containing fuels of which the most gallons are sold annually. (iv) Aftermarket additives which are intended by the manufacturer to be added to the fuel tank only at infrequent intervals shall be applied according to the manufacturer's specifications during mileage accumulation, pursuant to §79.57(c). However, during emission generation and testing, each tankful of fuel used must contain the fuel additive at its maximum recommended level. If the additive manufacturer believes that this maximum treatment rate will cause adverse effects to the test engine and/or that the engine's emissions may be subject to artifacts due to overuse of the additive, then the manufacturer may submit a request to EPA for modification of this requirement and related test procedures. Such request must include objective evidence that the modification(s) are needed, along with data demonstrating the maximum concentration of the additive which may actually reach the fuel tanks of vehicles in use.
