FR940819-2-00097 FR940819-2-00066 In The United States District Court For The District of Columbia, United States of America, Plaintiff, v. Microsoft Corporation, Defendant. Civil Action No. 94&hyph;1564, Judge Charles R. Richey July 15, 1994. Complaint (For Violations of Sections 1 & 2 of the Sherman Act) The United States of America, acting under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States, brings this civil action to prevent and restrain the defendant Microsoft Corporation (``Microsoft'') from using exclusionary and anticompetitive contracts to market its personal computer operating system software. By these contracts, Microsoft has unlawfully maintained its monopoly of personal computer (``PC'') operating systems and has unreasonably restrained trade. Virtually all major PC manufacturers find it necessary to offer Microsoft operating systems on most of their PCs. Microsoft's monopoly power allows it to induce these manufacturers to enter into anticompetitive, long-term licenses under which they must pay royalties to Microsoft not only when they sell PCs containing Microsoft's operating systems, but also when they sell PCs containing non-Microsoft operating systems. These anticompetitive contracts help Microsoft maintain its dominance in the PC operating system market. By inhibiting competing operating systems' access to PC manufacturers, Microsoft's exclusionary contracts slow innovation and deprive consumers of an effective choice among competing PC operating systems. These contracts outlined below constitute illegal monopolization and unlawful restraints of trade, and the United States seeks this Court's order declaring Microsoft's anticompetitive contracts illegal and otherwise remedying the unlawful effects of Microsoft's anticompetitive conduct. Jurisdiction, Venue and Commerce 1. This Court has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to Section 4 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. §4, and 28 U.S.C. §§1331, 1337. 2. Venue is proper in this district under Section 12 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. §22, and under 28 U.S.C. §1391 because defendant Microsoft transacts business and is found within this district. 3. Microsoft sells and licenses operating systems for PCs throughout the United States and the world. Microsoft delivers copies of its operating systems to PC manufacturers and retail customers across state lines and international borders. Thus, Microsoft is engaged in, and its activities substantially affect, interstate and foreign commerce. The major developers of other PC operating systems are exclusively U.S. companies. The Defendant Microsoft and Its Products 4. Microsoft is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Washington, with its principal place of business located at One Microsoft Way, Redmond, Washington. 5. Microsoft develops, licenses, sells and supports several types of software products for PCs, including ``operating systems'' and ``applications.'' 6. PC operating systems control the operation of a computer by managing the interaction between the computer's microprocessor, memory and attached devices such as keyboards, display screens, disk drives, and printers. A PC operating system functions as the ``central nervous system'' of the PC. PC operating system software is designed to work with specific microprocessors, the integrated circuits that function as the ``brain'' of the computer. 7. Most of the personal computers in the world today use the x86 class of microprocessors, originally designed by Intel Corporation. The x86 class includes Intel 286, 386, 486, and Pentium microprocessors, as well as microprocessors manufactured by other companies that use a substantially similar architecture and instruction set. Unless otherwise specified, the term ``PC'' refers to personal computers that use the x86 class of microprocessors. 8. In 1980, Microsoft licensed from another company a PC operating system which it modified and introduced in 1981 as the Microsoft Disk Operating System (``MS&hyph;DOS''). According to Microsoft's 1993 Annual Report, as of June 30, 1993, approximately 120 million PCs in the world utilized MS&hyph;DOS. 9. In 1985, Microsoft introduced a more sophisticated PC operating system product it calls ``Windows.'' Windows has a ``graphical user interface'' which allows users to give instructions by pointing and clicking on their computer screen with a ``mouse'' or other similar device. Windows also allows users to run more than one application at a time. All versions of Windows released to date require the presence of an underlying operating system, either MS&hyph;DOS or a close substitute. Microsoft estimates that over 50 million PCs now use Windows. 10. Applications are software programs that work ``on top of'' PC operating systems to enable users to perform a broad range of functions. Applications communicate through the PC operating system with the computer's hardware. Commonly used applications include word processors and spreadsheets, such as WordPerfect, Lotus 1&hyph;2&hyph;3, and Quattro Pro among others. At least 50,000 applications now run on MS&hyph;DOS and over 5,000 have been written to run on Windows. Microsoft sells a variety of its own very successful and profitable applications. 11. Microsoft markets its PC operating system primarily through original equipment manufacturers (``OEMs''), which manufacture PCs. It also markets through independent, non-exclusive distributors. Microsoft has agreements with virtually all of the major microcomputer OEMs. 12. Microsoft generally distributes MS&hyph;DOS only to OEMs. To retail customers, Microsoft generally offers only upgrades for MS&hyph;DOS. In the first half of 1994, the share of Windows units sold by Microsoft through the OEM channel was approximately 80%. The Relevant Market and Microsoft's Monopoly Power 13. The relevant product market is personal computer operating systems for the x86 class of microprocessors (hereinafter the ``PC operating system market''). Because operating systems written for other microprocessors will not work on machines with an x86 class microprocessor, OEMs who sell x86 machines and customers who buy such machines cannot use other operating systems. 14. The relevant geographic market is the world. 15. Microsoft has monopoly power in the relevant market and has had monopoly power since at least the mid-1980s. For almost a decade Microsoft has retained an extremely high market share_consistently in excess of 70%.
