FR940127-1-00042 FR940127-1-00012 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Notice of Finding on a Petition to Add Pinus albicaulis (Whitebark Pine) to the List of Threatened and Endangered Species. AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of petition finding. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day finding for a petition to amend the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. The Service finds that the petitioners have not presented substantial information indicating that listing Pinus albicaulis (whitebark pine) may be warranted. DATES: The finding announced in this notice was made on January 13, 1994. Comments and information concerning this petition finding may be submitted until further notice. ADDRESSES: Questions, comments, or information concerning this petition should be sent to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2617 East Lincolnway, suite A, Cheyenne, Wyoming 82001. The petition, finding, and supporting data are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0Jane P. Roybal (see addresses above) (307/772&hyph;2374). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), requires that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information to demonstrate that the petitioned action may be warranted. This finding is to be based on all information available to the Service at the time. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of the receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . If the finding is positive, the Service also is required to promptly commence a review of the status of the involved species. The Service has made a 90-day finding on a petition to list Pinus albicaulis (whitebark pine). The petition, dated February 5, 1991, was submitted by the Great Bear Foundation, Missoula, Montana, and was received by the Service on February 11, 1991. The petitioners requested that the Service list the whitebark pine as endangered in western Montana, northern Idaho, western Wyoming, and northeastern Washington, and as either threatened or endangered in the Cascade region of Oregon and Washington, and that critical habitat be designated. Under the Act, the Service is required to address the status of plant species over their entire range (unlike vertebrate species where distinct population segments may be listed). Therefore, the Service views the petition as a petition to list the whitebark pine throughout its range, which extends from central California to western Wyoming, north through Oregon, Washington, and Montana to Alberta and British Columbia.
