FR940616-0-00008 FR940616-0-00003 Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Parts 915 and 944 [Docket Nos. FV93&hyph;915&hyph;2FR and FV91&hyph;288&hyph;FR] Avocados Grown in South Florida and Imported Avocados; Changes to Maturity and Reporting Requirements AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule revises minimum maturity requirements and suspends certain reporting requirements for avocados grown in South Florida. This rule is designed to ensure that only mature fruit is shipped to the fresh market, thereby improving grower and importer returns and promoting orderly marketing conditions. For avocados imported into the United States, this final rule reinstates maturity requirements with certain revisions; adds an exemption for certain avocado varieties; removes the exemption for avocados grown in the southern hemisphere; and adds exemptions from maturity requirements for avocados imported for certain uses. This rule is needed so that imported avocados meet the same minimum size and color maturity requirements as those established for avocados under the Federal marketing order covering Florida avocados, consistent with section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 20, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Caroline C. Thorpe, Marketing Specialist, Marketing Order Administration Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, P.O. Box 96456, room 2523&hyph;S, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456; telephone: 202&hyph;720&hyph;5127; or Aleck J. Jonas, Southeast Marketing Field Office, USDA/AMS, P.O. Box 2276, Winter Haven, Florida 33883; telephone: 813&hyph;299&hyph;4770. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rule is issued under Marketing Agreement No. 148 and Order No. 915 (7 CFR part 915), as amended, regulating the handling of avocados grown in South Florida, hereinafter referred to as the order. The order is effective under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674), hereinafter referred to as the Act. This rule is also issued under section 8e of the Act, which requires the Secretary of Agriculture to issue grade, size, quality, or maturity requirements for certain listed commodities, including avocados, imported into the United States that are the same as, or comparable to, those imposed upon the domestic commodities, under Federal marketing orders. The Secretary has determined that the maturity requirements for imported avocados should be the same as those established for avocados grown in South Florida under the order. The Department is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. This final rule will not preempt any state or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 8c(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and requesting a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. A handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing, the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after the date of the entry of the ruling. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of the import rule. Pursuant to requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this action on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. Import regulations issued under the Act are based on those established under Federal marketing orders. There are about 65 avocado handlers subject to regulation under the marketing order covering avocados grown in Florida and about 95 avocados producers in South Florida. There are about 20 avocado importers who will be subject to the avocado import maturity requirements. Small agricultural producers have been defined by the Small Business Administration (13 CFR 121.601) as those whose annual receipts are less than $500,000, and small agricultural service firms, which include avocado handlers and importers, have been defined by the Small Business Administration as those having annual receipts of less than $5,000,000. The majority of the Florida avocado handlers and producers, and avocado importers may be classified as small entities.
