FR940630-2-00177 FR940630-2-00128 Appendix D HOME Program Regulations Relating to the provision of Technical Assistance to Community Housing Development Organizations (CHDOs) [The the definition of ``community housing development organization'' in §92.2, and the text of §§92.300 and 92.302 are republished for informational purposes.] §92.2␣Definitions. Community housing development organization means a private nonprofit organization that (1) Is organized under state or local laws; (2) Has no part of its net earnings inuring to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual; (3) Is neither controlled by, nor under the direction of, individuals or entities seeking to derive profit or gain from the organization. A community housing development organization may be sponsored or created by a for-profit entity, but: (i) The for-profit entity may not be an entity whose primary purpose is the development or management of housing, such as a builder, developer, or real estate management firm. (ii) The for-profit entity may not have the right to appoint more than one-third of the membership of the organization's governing body. Board members appointed by the for-profit entity may not appoint the remaining two-thirds of the board members; and (iii) The community housing development organization must be free to contract for goods and services from vendors of its own choosing; (4) Has a tax exemption ruling from the Internal Revenue Service under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; (5) Does not include a public body (including the participating jurisdiction). An organization that is State or locally chartered may qualify as a community housing development organization; however, the State or local government may not have the right to appoint more than one-third of the membership of the organization's governing body and no more than one-third of the board members may be public officials. Board members appointed by the State or local government may not appoint the remaining two-thirds of the board members; (6) Has standards of financial accountability that conform to Attachment F of OMB Circular No. A&hyph;110 (Rev.) ``Standards for Financial Management Systems.'' (7) Has among its purposes the provision of decent housing that is affordable to low-income and moderate-income persons, as evidenced in its charter, articles of incorporation, resolutions or by-laws; (8) Maintains accountability to low-income community residents by_ (i) Maintaining at least one-third of its governing board's membership for residents of low-income neighborhoods, other low-income community residents, or elected representative of low-income neighborhood organizations. For urban areas, ``community'' may be a neighborhood or neighborhoods, city, county or metropolitan area; for rural areas, it may be a neighborhood or neighborhoods, town, village, county, or multi-county area (but not the entire State); and (ii) Providing a formal process for low-income, program beneficiaries to advise the organization in its decisions regarding the design, siting, development, and management of affordable housing; (9) Has a demonstrated capacity for carrying out activities assisted with HOME funds. An organization may satisfy this requirement by hiring experienced accomplished key staff members who have successfully completed similar projects, or a consultant with the same type of experience and a plan to train appropriate key staff members of the organization; and (10) Has a history of serving the community within which housing to be assisted with HOME funds is to be located. In general, an organization must be able to show one year of serving the community (from the date the participating jurisdiction provides HOME funds to the organization). However, a newly created organization formed by local churches, service organizations or neighborhood organizations may meet this requirement by demonstrating that its parent organization has at least a year of serving the community. §92.300␣Set-aside for community housing development organizations (CHDOs). (a) For a period of 24 months after the allocation (including, for a state, funds reallocated under §92.451(c)(2)(i) and, for a unit of general local government, an allocation transferred from a state under §92.102(b)) is made available to a participating jurisdiction, the participating jurisdiction must reserve not less than 15 percent of these funds for investment only in housing to be developed, sponsored, or owned by community housing development organizations. The funds must be provided to a community housing development organization and the funds are reserved when a participating jurisdiction enters into a written agreement with the community housing development organization. If a community housing development organization's involvement in a project is as an owner it must have control of the project, as evidenced by legal title or a valid contract of sale. If it owns the project in partnership, it or its wholly owned for-profit subsidiary must be the managing general partner. In acting in any of the capacities specified, the community housing development organization must have effective management control. (b) Each participating jurisdiction must make reasonable efforts to identify community housing development organizations that are capable, or can reasonably be expected to become capable, of carrying out elements of the jurisdiction's approved housing strategy and to encourage such community housing development organizations to do so. If during the first 24 months of its participation in the HOME Program a participating jurisdiction cannot identify a sufficient number of capable CHDOs, up to 20 percent of the minimum CHDO set-aside of 15 percent specified in paragraph (a) of this section, above, (but not more than $150,000 during the 24 month period) may be expended to develop the capacity of CHDOs in the jurisdiction. (c) Up to 10 percent of the HOME funds reserved under this section may be used for activities specified under §92.301. (d) HOME funds required to be reserved under this section are subject to reduction, as provided in §92.500(d). (e) If funds for operating expenses are provided under §92.206(g) to a community housing development organization that is not also receiving funds under paragraph (a) of this section for housing to be developed, sponsored or owned by the community housing development organization, the participating jurisdiction must enter into a written agreement with the community housing development organization that provides that the community housing development organization is expected to receive funds under paragraph (a) of this section within 24 months of receiving the funds for operating expenses, and specifies the terms and conditions upon which this expectation is based.
