FR940920-1-00072 FR940920-1-00008 The February 11, 1991 guidelines specify guideline emission levels for PM and opacity. Particulate matter is measured as a concentration (milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm)) and is corrected to 7 percent O 2 , and opacity is measured on a percentage basis. The format for the PM and opacity guidelines would not change, but Cd, Pb, and Hg emission guideline limits would be added. Emissions of Cd, Pb, and Hg would be calculated as a concentration (mg/dscm) corrected to 7 percent O 2 . For Hg, the proposed emission guidelines would also establish an alternative percentage reduction requirement. A new method (Method 29) that would measure these pollutants is being proposed in a separate part of today's Federal Register . The February 11, 1991 guidelines establish control requirements for SO 2 and HCl (MWC acid gases) by specifying both numerical emission levels, calculated as parts per million by volume (ppmv) corrected to 7 percent O 2 , dry basis, and percentage reduction requirements for both SO 2 and HCl. Today's proposed guidelines would also be based on the same format. Today's proposal would also establish a guideline emission level (ppmv) for NO X emissions. The NO X guideline emission level would apply to MWC units at MWC plants with capacities to combust greater than 225 Mg/day. In addition to controlling stack emissions, the February 11, 1991 emission guidelines establish combustion operating guidelines for MWC's. These operating guidelines are part of good combustion practices (GCP) and ensure that emissions of MWC organics (dioxins/furans) are minimized on a continuous basis. The GCP requirements are included in today's proposal, but they are being extended to apply to MWC's at plants of 35 Mg/day aggregate capacity or larger. Additionally, some minor revisions are being proposed. The proposed revisions would include: (1) A requirement that all shift supervisors and chief facility operators obtain full (as opposed to provisional) operator certification; (2) ``stand in'' authority for MWC control room operators; and (3) required training of MWC shift supervisors. These items are discussed below. The February 11, 1991 emission guidelines require provisional certification of the chief facility operator and shift supervisors by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) or a State certification program. Development of a site-specific training manual to be used for training other MWC personnel is also required. Today's proposal would require that the chief facility operator and shift supervisor obtain both provisional and then full operator certification. Today's proposal would allow for the optional certification of one or more control room operators. Under the February 11, 1991 guidelines, all chief facility operators and shift supervisors must be certified, and one of these individuals must be onsite during all periods of MWC operation. Under today's proposal, a provisionally certified control room operator may ``stand in'' for the chief facility operator or shift supervisor during periods in which the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor is offsite, in order to fulfill the requirement that a certified individual be on site during all periods of MWC operation. This would provide additional operating flexibility. Today's proposal would also require that all chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators complete the MWC training program developed by the EPA or a State program. The EPA has developed a model training program that has been distributed to State air pollution control agencies, EPA Regional Offices, and MWC industry groups. The EPA believes that operator training is an integral part of the implementation of GCP. Today's proposed guidelines also establish guidelines for fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions from ash handling facilities. These guidelines would establish a no visible emissions level, and would apply to all buildings, external ash transfer equipment, and ash handling areas at the MWC facility. D. Proposed Emission Guidelines Today's proposal would establish emission guidelines for MWC organics (dioxins/furans), MWC metals (PM, opacity, Cd, Pb, and Hg), MWC acid gases (SO 2 and HCl), and NO X . The guidelines also propose requirements for fly ash/bottom ash fugitive handling, MWC operating practices (CO, load, and flue gas temperature), and operator training and certification. The proposed guidelines would divide the MWC population into two subcategories: The first would be for MWC units located at small MWC plants (i.e., those with aggregate capacities to combust greater than 35 Mg/day of MSW but equal to or less than 225 Mg/day), and the second would be for MWC units at large plants (i.e., those with aggregate capacities to combust more than 225 Mg/day of MSW). The aggregate capacity of all existing MWC units at one site would be added together to define aggregate MWC plant capacity for the purposes of the emission guidelines. The proposed emission guidelines for each subcategory and subclass of MWC's are summarized in table 1.
