FR940505-1-00404 FR940505-1-00012 (3) Standards . (i) No owner or operator of a unit subject to the standards of this paragraph shall operate the unit unless the owner or operator complies with the requirements of paragraphs (m)(3)(i)(A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section. Any owner or operator that chooses to comply with this paragraph by means of paragraph (m)(3)(i) (C) or (D) of this section shall also comply with the requirements of paragraphs (m)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section. (A) Replace the unit with an electric motor in accordance with the applicable compliance schedule specified in paragraph (m)(5) of this section. (B) Decrease the annual operating time of the unit to less than 200 hours per calendar year in accordance with the operating time phase-down schedule specified in paragraph (m)(5)(v) of this section. Any owner or operator that chooses to comply with this paragraph shall comply with the monitoring requirements of paragraph (m)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. (C) No owner or operator of a stationary internal combustion engine shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain NO X in excess of the following applicable limit expressed as NO 2 corrected to 15 percent parts per million by volume (ppmv) stack gas O 2 on a dry basis averaged over a period of 15 consecutive minutes: ( 1 ) Rich-burn, general: 25 ppmv. ( 2 ) Lean-burn, general: 45 ppmv. ( 3 ) Diesel: 80 ppmv. ( 4 ) Rich-burn, waste gas: 50 ppmv. ( 5 ) Lean-burn, waste gas: 125 ppmv. ( 6 ) Each emission limit expressed in paragraphs (m)(3)(i)(C)( 1 ) through ( 5 ) of this section may be multiplied by X, where X equals the engine efficiency (E) divided by a reference efficiency of 30 percent. Engine efficiency (E) shall be determined using one of the methods specified in paragraph (m)(3)(i)(C)( 6 )( i ) or ( ii ) of this section, whichever provides a higher value. However, engine efficiency (E) shall not be less than 30 percent. An engine with an efficiency lower than 30 percent shall be assigned an efficiency of 30 percent. E:GraphicsEP05MY94.108 where energy input is determined by a fuel measuring device accurate to # 5 percent and is based on the HHV of the fuel. Percent efficiency (E) shall be averaged over 15 consecutive minutes and measured at peak load for the applicable engine. E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.109 where LHV=the lower heating value of the fuel; and HHV=the higher heating value of the fuel (D) In lieu of complying with the NO X emission limit in paragraph (m)(3)(i)(C)( 1 ), ( 2 ), or ( 3 ) of this section, an owner or operator shall achieve the applicable percent reduction of the NO X concentration in the uncontrolled exhaust gas stream specified below. A controlled ppmv NO X limit shall be established in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (m)(7) of this section for the purpose of demonstrating compliance with the applicable percent reduction. ( 1 ) Rich-burn, general: 96 percent. ( 2 ) Lean-burn, general: 94 percent. ( 3 ) Diesel: 90 percent. (ii) Standards for carbon monoxide (CO). Any owner or operator of a stationary internal combustion engine subject to the requirements of paragraph (m)(3)(i)(C) or (D) of this section shall establish a controlled ppmv CO emission limit that represents good operating and combustion practices. No owner or operator shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain CO in excess of the lowest of one of the following limits: (A) 120 percent of the CO ppmv level established by an initial compliance test in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (m)(7) of this section; or (B) 4,500 ppmv. The owner or operator shall subsequently comply with the limit once it is established. The ppmv CO emissions shall be corrected to 15 percent volume stack gas O 2 on a dry basis averaged over a period of 15 consecutive minutes.
