FR941012-0-00068 FR941012-0-00011 OSHA believes that first aid training for only a select few individuals, such as supervisors and fellers, is not adequate to ensure that injured loggers receive first aid that is timely and appropriate. First, when only a few selected employees are trained, they may not be close enough to the site of the accident to render assistance in time. The WIR survey indicates that more than one-half of all injuries reported occurred at cutting sites, that in most cases are remote from landings and from medical facilities (Ex. 2&hyph;1). The WIR survey is consistent with the OSHA FCI study, that indicated that more than 70 percent of logging employees killed were working at cutting sites (Ex. 4&hyph;61). One hearing participant reinforced this problem: The rigging crew is often 1,000 feet and sometimes 5,000 feet from the landing. The work site is usually on rough, steep ground, and these workers often use hazardous cutting implements such as axes and chain saws. If the first aid trained person and the first aid kit are in the yarder, that can be 15 minutes or more from where the worst exposure is (Tr. OR 21). In addition, since the final rule allows employees to maintain contact with another employee by visual or audible contact, an employee may be miles from the contact person when radio communication is used. In such cases, the contact person may not be able to provide immediate first aid assistance. Second, limiting first aid training to all supervisors and some additional personnel may not be adequate when supervisors are not at the work site when an accident occurs. According to the State of Washington, logging supervisors usually have two or more logging crews working directly for them (Ex. 5&hyph;34). These logging crews are often dispersed over five square miles or more. In addition, in larger operations, foremen usually see each crew only once a day and rarely for more than one hour of the workshift. Another commenters said in his experience it was not uncommon to find a group of employees working in a location without a supervisor and no other employee in the group has a current first aid certificate (Ex. 91&hyph;5). Third, a logger's injuries may be of such severity that several persons trained in first aid may be needed to stabilize the injured employee and treat the injury. If only one employee is trained, the first aid assistance may not be sufficient. Fourth, when only one employee in a work site is trained, as the proposed rule contemplates, first aid will obviously be inadequate if the trained person is the one who is injured. (Although first-aid training does include instruction in self-aid, the injuries may be severe enough to incapacitate the trained employee.) For example, in a small working crew that has no supervisor, the feller may be the only employee who is trained in first-aid. If the feller is injured, there may be no other logger in that work crew who is trained to provide first aid. The WIR survey indicates that one-half of all loggers who were injured were performing felling tasks (i.e., felling, limbing, bucking) at the time. Fifth, when only a few employees receive first-aid training, there is a greater likelihood that there could be crucial gaps in coverage due to sickness, vacations, other leave, or employee turnover of those few who have received training. In addition, an employer may not know from day to day if an employee will be present that is holding a current first aid certificate (Ex. 5&hyph;7).
