FR940217-1-00017 FR940217-1-00005 Lastly, Schedule 8 would be used by those broker-dealers, banks, and trust companies that market their clearing or depository services independently from their other brokerage or investment management services. It should be noted that reproposed Schedules 7b and 8 incorporate the ID System to the extent that they permit a large trader to list the applicable ID System numbers or LTIDs of the custodian or nominee for an omnibus account and other interested parties ( i.e., owners and controllers). The Commission believes that, due to the wide-spread use and automated nature of the ID System, most of these numbers are routinely communicated among, and maintained in an automated fashion by, market participants. The disclosure of other large traders required by these Schedules would provide an important and common basis for disaggregation. Rarely would a large trader be required to complete all five of these reproposed Schedules. The Commission believes that such a filing probably would occur only if a diversified financial services company decided to aggregate the accounts of all of its divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates into a single Form 13H filing. The complexity of the Form 13H disclosures under the reproposed rules would be greatest for a single aggregated filing and would become progressively less complex for multiple Form 13H filings. Generally, the large trader's organizational structure and business practices, combined with the reproposed requirements of Item 2, Item 5, and the account Schedules, would dictate the complexity of a Form 13H filing. The number of LTIDs that would be assigned varies directly with the number of Form 13H filings. The commenters indicate that some broker-dealers and large traders may prefer to be assigned many LTIDs for supervisory purposes while others may prefer a single LTID for confidentiality reasons. In this respect, the SIA suggested that a broker-dealer be permitted to use its LTID for the confidential numbered accounts of its customers. Similarly, a few commenters, primarily foreign financial services holding companies or universal banks, asserted that the LTID disclosure requirements may cause them to breach ``Chinese Walls'' between investment banking, investment advisory, market making, or brokerage units. The Commission believes that these entities would be able to avoid this result under the reproposed rules by carefully aggregating or disaggregating accounts. The Commission acknowledges that excessive aggregation or disaggregation of commonly owned or controlled accounts may increase the overall costs and burdens on large traders and the Commission. The probability of receiving a request for disaggregation, and the cost thereof, also would vary directly with the extent of aggregation chosen by a large trader. The Commission would remind all market participants to evaluate their business practices and weigh the costs and benefits of aggregation or disaggregation in light of all the considerations outlined above. The Commission believes that perhaps the most important revisions to proposed Form 13H are the reproposed set of General and Special Instructions. 40 These new Instructions provide answers to many of the specific questions raised in the comments. The Instructions provide all of the pertinent definitions, the rules for aggregation, and examples of who would be a large trader and what information must be provided on Form 13H. The reproposed Instructions also provide guidance and cross-references to the reproposed rule, other related instructions, and particular burden reducing features or alternatives of reproposed Form 13H. Accordingly, the Commission would encourage all market participants to carefully review the reproposed General and Special Instructions for Form 13H before completing and filing Form 13H. 40 See infra Appendix A. b. Form 13H Examples. Assume a trustee for a large pension fund is not registered with the Commission and personally manages 75% of the pension's assets. Assume further that the pension trustee delegates full discretionary investment authority over the remaining 25% of the pension's total assets to several investment advisers ( e.g., a growth stock adviser, an index arbitrager, and a portfolio hedging strategist). This pension trustee would be required to complete one of the reproposed Schedules to Item 4 depending on the organizational type of the trustee ( i.e., individual, corporation, or partnership). With respect to the 75% of the pension's total assets that the pension fund trustee personally manages, he would be deemed to own and control the accounts and would know the carrying broker-dealers and account numbers. The pension fund trustee, therefore, would list these accounts on reproposed Schedule 6a. Depending on the nature of the delegations of authority to each of the advisers, the pension trustee may not know the broker-dealers the advisers use to execute trades or maintain accounts. Accordingly, reproposed Schedule 6b has been designed to capture the information that the pension trustee knows ( i.e., the advisers' names, addresses, numbers, and type of delegation), and reproposed Schedules 7a and 7b would capture the information in the possession of the adviser ( i.e., carrying broker-dealer, account number, disclosure of ownership, and other large traders). Assuming that the advisers are large traders and were registered with the Commission, they would list Form BD or ADV in Item 2 of their Form 13Hs, and therefore, would be exempt from the requirements of Item 4. It should be noted that if any of these advisers is not a large trader, then such adviser would not file Form 13H under the reproposed rules. In such cases, the Commission would be able to identify and contact the non-large trader adviser, if necessary, through the information provided by the pension trustee on its Schedule 6b to Form 13H. In addition, assume that the trustee of the pension fund also engages the services of a prime broker, bank, or trust company to act only as the custodian or nominee for omnibus accounts that are owned and controlled by the pension trustee or owned by such trustee and controlled by the different advisers. In this case, the pension fund trustee would list on its Form 13H the omnibus accounts for which he or she is the owner and controller on Schedule 6a and the delegations of investment discretion on Schedule 6b. The advisers that control the pension fund's trading through the omnibus accounts would list such accounts on Schedule 7b of their Form 13Hs.
