FR940505-1-00065 FR940505-1-00012 A bump-up is also important for stationary sources which will be required to meet EPA's Cap Regulations (section III.C.5). Under the 1999 attainment date, these stationary sources would be required to submit compliance plans by 1998 which will demonstrate an additional 20&hyph;45 percent reduction in VOC emissions by 1999. With the additional time allowed by a ``Severe'' area classification, these sources would instead be subject to a declining cap requiring gradual 4&hyph;9 percent per year emissions reductions, which will not be required to begin until 2001. The additional years for compliance would allow a company to investigate control options and take greater advantage of technological developments, and thus avoid production cutbacks or shutdowns to meet emissions reductions levels. EPA believes it is reasonable to anticipate that substantially improved emission reduction alternatives and control technologies will develop for stationary and area sources during the additional time that a higher classification for Sacramento would provide. (3) 2005 attainment option. The FIP measures common to both the 1999 and 2005 proposals for both stationary 27 and mobile sources will have reduced the Sacramento VOC inventory from 236 tons per day in 1990 to 157 tons per day in 1999, and the NO x inventory from 185 to 149 tons per day. Like the 1999 proposal discussed above, these reductions come from the stationary source measures, continued benefits of the current motor vehicle control programs, and a substantial improvement in in-use emissions of light duty vehicles due to an enhanced I/M program. However, by 2005 additional reductions are realized from the new emissions standards affecting medium duty vehicles, heavy duty vehicles, nonroad diesels and locomotives due to engine turnover, and from the enhanced in-use compliance program. 27 The stationary measures include all of the measures discussed in III.C that are identified as applying to Sacramento and those that apply statewide, and the cap regulation which requires a gradual 4 percent per year VOC reduction from 2001 through 2005. With the benefits from the recreational boat measure and ECO program discussed above and in section III.D, total emissions reductions by 2005 will be large enough to provide for attainment. It is important to note that a bump-up of the Sacramento area to ``Severe'' also leads to the following additional Clean Air Act requirements associated with a ``Severe'' area classification, which include: (1) A more stringent major source definition (25 tons per year, down from 50 tons per year); (2) a more stringent offset requirement for new major sources (1.3:1 instead of 1.2:1); (3) TCMs to offset VMT growth; (4) and an employer-based trip reduction rule. The responsibility for meeting these requirements is discussed below. If EPA grants the request of a state to reclassify a nonattainment area to a higher classification under section 181(b)(3), that area must meet all deadline and control requirements applicable to the higher classification, and is not eligible for any adjustment of those deadlines. H.R. Rep. No. 101&hyph;490, Part 1, 101st Cong., 2d Sess., 233 (1990). If reclassification is promulgated by EPA unilaterally in the FIP, the area likewise becomes responsible for meeting all such deadlines and requirements for SIP purposes. The substance of these additional requirements is set forth in section 182(d) of the Act. 28 Because the statutory deadlines for compliance with or submission to EPA of these requirements have already passed, if EPA finalizes in February 1995 its bump-up option for the Sacramento area, the State will be responsible for submitting the actual regulations to comply with the ``Severe'' area requirements at that time. If the State fails to do so, the Sacramento area will be subject to a finding of failure to submit these requirements upon final promulgation of the FIP in 1995. 28 For a more complete description of the requirements and EPA preliminary policies with respect to them, readers should consult the ``General Preamble for Implementation of Title I of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990'' (57 FR 13521). As discussed previously in this NPRM, EPA's current obligation is to design a FIP for the Sacramento area that attains the ozone NAAQS by 1999 or 2005. EPA is not legally required to meet all SIP submittal requirements that appeared for the first time in the 1990 Amendments and for which there are no state failures which EPA must cure. Nevertheless, as a policy matter, and because it has invoked the provisions of the Amendments in initiating a bump-up, EPA is proposing in today's NPRM the ``Severe'' area provisions (section III.F.) in regulatory form. The measures proposed in III.F. were developed to help the State and local agencies meet the additional ``Severe'' area requirements if the Sacramento area is bumped up. For example, the proposed new source review rule discussed in section III.F.4. is based on the actual language of existing rules in the Sacramento area in order to provide a rule that is easy for the local APCDs to adopt and implement. The employee commute options (ECO) rule discussed in section III.F.2. is also adoptable by the local APCDs; alternatively, it may provide an incentive for the local APCDs to develop, adopt and submit ECO programs that are currently being considered. Thus, if bump-up is promulgated, EPA believes that the measures proposed in III.F. will help the State and local agencies meet their mandate in a timely fashion and avoid sanctions. If EPA ultimately chooses its preferred option of bumping up Sacramento, EPA plans, if necessary, to implement the ``Severe'' area measures proposed in section III.F. on their respective effective dates following final promulgation of the FIP in February 1995. Until a submittal of replacement measures is made by the State and approved by EPA, the ``Severe'' area requirements proposed in section III.F. will remain in effect. If EPA finds that there will be a significant time period before the submittal is made and approved, EPA will try to delegate portions or all of the federal program to the State and local agencies. f. Summary of 1999 and 2005 attainment options. The following table summarizes the FIP measures proposed for the alternative 1999 and 2005 attainment demonstrations: Summary of Sacramento FIP Measures for 1999 and 2005 Attainment Options 1␣ 11999 12005 Mobile Measures: Enhanced I/M X X Nonroad stds (nat'l) X X Offroad recreational vehicle stds-w/normal turnover X X Motorcycle stds w/normal turnover X X Parking Cash Out X X Airports/Military Installations declining cap reduction X Accelerated turnover for heavy duty trucks X Nonroad growth cap based on available retrofits X Onroad driving restrictions (no-drive days) X Fees for recreational boats X X Stationary Measures: Applicable FIP Rules X X Cap reduction by 1999 X Declining Cap reduction by 2005 X 2005 Bump-Up Requirements: NSR Rule X ECO Program X
