FR940222-2-00018 FR940222-2-00013 Section 2_Proposal This section will provide the detailed technical explanation of the proposed activities. The activities should be addressed with respect to the preliminary screening standards and technical evaluation criteria listed in Subsection G, Evaluation Criteria. Section 3_Statement of Work A statement of work is to be supplied that discusses the specific tasks to be carried out to achieve the goals stated in Section I. Section 4_Selection Criteria Index An index must be provided showing the pages on which each of the selection criteria are addressed. Appendix A._Key Personnel Résumés should be succinct and clearly illustrate how the individuals technical background and experience are related achieving the proposals objectives. Cost Proposals will have no page limit or page layout requirement. However, the cost proposal must include a summary breakdown of all costs, and give a detailed breakdown of costs on a task-by-task basis for each task appearing in the Statement of Work. In addition, any expectation concerning cost sharing shall be clearly stated. While cost sharing is encouraged, it shall not be consideration in the selection process and shall be considered only at the time the award is negotiated. 2. The determination to return an application based on the above standards will be made in writing by the EM Project Officer. In cases where the Project Officer is also the selection official, approval will be obtained from at least one level higher than that of the Project Officer. C. Qualifications of Reviewers and Selection Official 1. The members of the reviewing group may be a mixture of Federal or non-Federal experts. The review group, when possible, will consist of at least three qualified persons from outside the Office of Integrated Risk Management in addition to the designated Project Officer if the Project Officer serves on the group. When possible, the merit review group will exclude anyone who, on behalf of the Federal Government, performs any of the following functions: a. Providing substantial technical assistance to the applicant. b. Approval/disapproval or having any other decision-making role regarding the application. c. Serving as the project manager or otherwise monitoring, auditing, evaluating the recipient's programmatic performance. d. Exercising line authority over anyone ineligible to serve as reviewers because of the above limitations. 2. Reviewers will be chosen by the Director of the Office of Integrated Risk Management based on their expertise and professional qualifications as related to the proposed work. 3. Reviewers may be Federal employees, including those from EM that are neither the selection official nor those in a direct line of supervision above the Project Office. Non-Federal employees may also be reviewers. 4. Reviewers will not include former employees of the Project Officer's immediate office or any former employee having line authority over that immediate office within the past 1 year. 5. The designated Project Officer will not serve on the review group or be an external reader unless specifically approved by the Responsible Official.
