FR940318-0-00229 FR940318-0-00023 Producer means any person who manufactures, formulates or otherwise creates a substitute in its final form for distribution or use in interstate commerce. Research and development means quantities of a substitute manufactured, imported, or processed or proposed to be manufactured, imported, or processed solely for research and development. Residential use means use by a private individual of a chemical substance or any product containing the chemical substance in or around a permanent or temporary household, during recreation, or for any personal use or enjoyment. Use within a household for commercial or medical applications is not included in this definition, nor is use in automobiles, watercraft, or aircraft. Significant new use means use of a new or existing substitute in a major industrial use sector as a result of the phaseout of ozone-depleting compounds. Small uses means any use of a substitute in a sector other than a major industrial use sector, or production by any producer for use of a substitute in a major industrial sector of 10,000 lbs. or less per year. Substitute or alternative means any chemical, product substitute, or alternative manufacturing process, whether existing or new, intended for use as a replacement for a class I or II compound. Test marketing means the distribution in interstate commerce of a substitute to no more than a limited, defined number of potential customers to explore market viability in a competitive situation. Testing must be restricted to a defined testing period before the broader distribution of that substitute in interstate commerce. Use means any use of a substitute for a Class I or Class II ozone-depleting compound, including but not limited to use in a manufacturing process or product, in consumption by the end-user, or in intermediate uses, such as formulation or packaging for other subsequent uses. Use Restrictions means restrictions on the use of a substitute imposing either conditions on how the substitute can be used across a sector end-use or limits on the end-uses or specific applications where it can be used within a sector. ยง82.174 Prohibitions. (a) No person may introduce a new substitute into interstate commerce before the expiration of 90 days after a notice is initially submitted to EPA under ยง82.176(a). (b) No person may use a substitute which a person knows or has reason to know was manufactured, processed or imported in violation of the regulations in this subpart, or knows or has reason to know was manufactured, processed or imported in violation of any use restriction in the acceptability determination, after the effective date of any rulemaking imposing such restrictions. (c) No person may use a substitute without adhering to any use restrictions set by the acceptability decision, after the effective date of any rulemaking imposing such restrictions. (d) No person may use a substitute after the effective date of any rulemaking adding such substitute to the list of unacceptable substitutes. ยง82.176 Applicability. (a) Any producer of a new substitute must submit a notice of intent to introduce a substitute into interstate commerce 90 days prior to such introduction. Any producer of an existing substitute already in interstate commerce must submit a notice as of July 18, 1994 if such substitute has not already been reviewed and approved by the Agency. (b) With respect to the following substitutes, producers are exempt from notification requirements: (1) Substitutes already listed as acceptable. Producers need not submit notices on substitutes that are already listed as acceptable under SNAP. (2) Small sectors. Persons using substitutes in sectors other than the nine principal sectors reviewed under this program are exempt from the notification requirements. This exemption shall not be construed to nullify an unacceptability determination or to allow use of an otherwise unacceptable substitute. (3) Small volume use within SNAP sectors. Within the nine principal SNAP sectors, persons introducing a substitute whose expected volume of use amounts to less than 10,000 lbs. per year within a SNAP sector are exempt from notification requirements. This exemption shall not be construed to allow use of an otherwise unacceptable substitute in any quantity. Persons taking advantage of this exemption for small uses must maintain documentation for each substitute describing how the substitute meets this small use definition. This documentation must include annual production and sales information by sector. (4) Research and development. Production of substitutes for the sole purpose of research and development is exempt from reporting requirements. (5) Test marketing. Use of substitutes for the sole purpose of test marketing is exempt from SNAP notification requirements until 90 days prior to the introduction of such substitutes for full-scale commercial sale in interstate commerce. Persons taking advantage of this exemption are, however, required to notify the Agency in writing that they are conducting test marketing 30 days prior to the commencement of such marketing. Notification shall include the name of the substitute, the volume used in the test marketing, intended sector end-uses, and expected duration of the test marketing period. (6) Formulation changes. In cases where replacement of class I or II compounds causes formulators to change other components in a product, formulators are exempt from reporting with respect to these auxiliary formulation changes. However, the SNAP submitter is required to notify the Agency if such changes are expected to significantly increase the environmental and human health risk associated with the use of any class I or class II substitute. (7) Substitutes used as feedstocks. Producers of substitutes used as feedstocks which are largely or entirely consumed, transformed or destroyed in the manufacturing or use process are exempt from reporting requirements concerning such substitutes. (c) Use of a substitute in the possession of an end-user as of March 18, 1994 listed as unacceptable or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits may continue until the individual end-users' existing supply, as of that date, of the substitute is exhausted. Use of substitutes purchased after March 18, 1994 is not permitted subsequent to April 18, 1994.
