FR940706-2-00100 FR940706-2-00055 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of the Secretary AGENCY: Department of the Interior, Office of the Secretary. ACTION: Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Public Advisory Group Nomination Solicitation. SUMMARY: The Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council is soliciting nominations for the Public Advisory Group which advises the Trustee Council on decisions related to the planning, evaluation, and conduct of injury assessment and restoration activities using funds obtained for purposes of restoration as part of the civil settlement pursuant to the T/V Exxon Valdez oil spill of 1989. Public Advisory Group members will be selected to serve a two-year term beginning in October 1994. DATES: All nominations should be received on or before August 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Nominations should be sent to the Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Trustee Council, 646 G Street, Anchorage, Alaska 99501. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Douglas Mutter, Designated Federal Officer, Department of the Interior, Office of Environmental Policy and Compliance, 1689 C Street, Suite 119, Anchorage, Alaska, (907) 271&hyph;5011; or L.J. Evans, Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Restoration Office, 645 G Street, Anchorage, Alaska, (907) 278&hyph;8012. A copy of the charter for the Public Advisory Group is available upon request. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Public Advisory Group was created by Paragraph V.A.4 of the Memorandum of Agreement and Consent Decree entered into by the United States of America and the State of Alaska on August 27, 1991, and approved by the United States District Court for the District of Alaska in settlement of United States of America v. State of Alaska, Civil Action No. A91&hyph;081 CV. The Public Advisory Group was created to advise the Trustee Council on matters relating to decisions on injury assessment, restoration activities, or other use of natural resources damage recoveries obtained by the governments. The Trustee Council consists of representatives of the State of Alaska Attorney General; Commissioner of the Alaska Department of Fish and Game; Commissioner of the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation; the Secretary of the Interior; the Secretary of Agriculture; and the Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce. Appointment to the Public Advisory Group will be made by the Secretary of the Interior with unanimous approval of the Trustees. The Public Advisory Group consists of 17 members representing the public at large (5 members) and the following special interests: aquaculture, commercial fishing, commercial tourism, forest products, environmental, conservation, local government, Native landowners, recreation users, sport hunting and fishing, subsistence, and science/academic. Two additional ex officio non-voting members are from the Alaska State House of Representatives and the Alaska State Senate. Nominees need to submit the following information to the Trustee Council: 1. A biographical sketch (education, experience, address, telephone); 2. Information about the nominee's knowledge of the region, peoples, or principal economic and social activities of the area affected by the T/V Exxon Valdez oil spill, or expertise in public lands and resource management; 3. Information about the nominee's relationship/involvement (if any) with the principal interest to be represented; 4. A statement explaining any unique contributions the nominee will make to the Public Advisory Group and why the nominee should be appointed to serve as a member; 5. Any additional relevant information that would assist the Trustee Council in making a recommendation; and 6. A disclosure statement of any potential conflict of interest. Public Advisory Group members and their alternates are chosen to represent a broad range of interests. It is possible that action could be taken by the Public Advisory Group when one or more of the members have a direct personal conflict of interest which would prejudice and call into question the entire public process. To avoid this eventuality and to enable the Trustee Council to choose appropriate individuals as members and/or alternates to members, it is necessary that each nominee provide the following information with their information packet. If the answer to any of these questions is yes, please provide a brief explanation of your answer. A yes will not necessarily preclude any nominee from being appointed to serve on the Public Advisory Group. a. Do you, your spouse, children, any relative with whom you live or your employer have, or are you defending, a claim filed before any court or administrative tribunal based upon damages caused by the T/V Exxon Valdez oil spill? b. Do you, your spouse, children, any relative with whom you live or your employer own any property or interest in property which has been, or is likely to be, proposed for acquisition by the Trustee Council? c. Have you, your spouse, children, any relative with whom you live or your employer submitted, or likely will submit, a proposal for funding by the Trustee Council, or be a direct beneficiary of such a proposal? d. Do you know of any other potential actions of the Trustee Council or the Public Advisory Group to have a direct bearing on the financial condition of yourself, your spouse, children, other relative with whom you live or your employer? Jonathan P. Deason, Director_Office of Environmental Policy and Compliance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16311 Filed 7&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;RG&hyph;M
