FR940511-2-00022 FR940511-2-00014 b. Fire Modeling: Performs research on and develops analytical models for the quantitative prediction of the consequences of fires and the means to assess the accuracy of those models. This includes: Creating advanced, usable models for the calculation of the effluent from building fires; modeling the spread of fire over furniture and building elements such as walls; developing field and zone modeling techniques to predict the movement of fire effluent in buildings and the effectiveness of fire sensors; and developing a protocol for determining the accuracy of both the algorithms used in the fire models as well as the comprehensive models themselves. c. Large Fire Research: Performs research on and develops techniques to measure, predict the behavior of, and mitigate large fire events. This includes: understanding the mechanisms of large fires that control the gas phase combustion, burning rate, thermal and chemical emissions, transport processes; developing techniques for computer simulation; developing field measurement techniques to assess the near and far field impact of large fires and their plumes; performing research on the use of combustion for environmental cleanup; predicting the performance and environmental impact of fire protection measures and fire fighting systems and techniques; developing and operating the Fire Research Program large scale experiment facility. d. Smoke Dynamics Research: Produces scientifically sound principles, metrology, data, and predictive methods for the formation/evolution of smoke components in flames for use in understanding and predicting general fire phenomena. This includes: Research on the effects of within-flame and post-flame fluid mechanics on the formation and emission of smoke, including particulates, aerosols, and combustion gases; understanding the mechanistic pathway for soot from chemical inception to post-flame agglomerates; developing calculation methods for the prediction of the yields of CO (and eventually other toxicant) as a function of fuel type, availability of air, and fire scale. e. Materials Fire Research: Performs research to understand fundamentally the mechanisms that control the ignition, flame spread, and burning rate of materials and the chemical and physical characteristics that affect these aspects of flammability; develops methods of measuring and predicting the response of a material to a fire. This includes: characterizing the burning rates of charring and non-charring polymers and composites; delineating and modeling the enthalpy and mass transfer mechanisms of materials combustion; and developing computational molecular dynamics and other mechanistic approaches to understand the relationships between polymer structure and flammability. f. Fire Sensing and Extinguishment: Develops understanding, metrology, and predictive methods to enable high-performance fire sensing and extinguishment systems; devises new approaches to minimizing the impact of unwanted fires and the suppression process. This includes: research for the identification and in-situ measurements of the symptoms of pending and nascent fires or explosions, and the consequences of suppression; devising or adapting monitors for these variables and creating the intelligence for timely interpretation of the data; determining mechanisms for deflagration and detonation suppression by advanced agents and principles for their optimal use; modeling the extinguishment process; and developing performance measures for the effectiveness of suppression system design. Proposal Review Process All proposals are assigned to the appropriate group leader of the eight programs listed above for review, including external peer review, and recommendations on funding. Both technical value of the proposal and the relationship of the work proposed to the needs of the specific program are taken into consideration in the group leader's recommendation to the Deputy Director. Applicants should allow up to 60 days processing time. Proposals are evaluated for technical merit by at least three professionals from NIST, the Building and Fire Research Laboratory, or technical experts from other interested government agencies and in the case of new proposals, experts from the fire research community at large.
