FR940318-0-00113 FR940318-0-00023 3. Restrict Only Those Substitutes That are Significantly Worse As a corollary to the above point, EPA does not intend to restrict a substitute if it poses only marginally greater risk than another substitute. Drawing fine distinctions concerning the acceptability of substitutes would be extremely difficult given the variability in how each substitute can be used within a specific application and the resulting uncertainties surrounding potential health and environmental effects. The Agency also does not want to intercede in the market's choice of available substitutes, unless a substitute has been proposed or is being used that is clearly more harmful to human health and the environment than other alternatives. 4. Evaluate Risks by Use Section 612 requires that substitutes be evaluated by use. Environmental and human health exposures can vary significantly depending on the particular application of a substitute. Thus, the risk characterizations must be designed to represent differences in the environmental and human health effects associated with diverse uses. This approach cannot, however, imply fundamental tradeoffs with respect to different types of risk to either the environment or to human health. For example, in the Agency's consideration of global warming as a criterion under SNAP, EPA has principally compared different global warming gases among themselves, as opposed to attempting to establish some methodology for comparing directly the effects of global warming and ozone depletion. 5. Provide the Regulated Community With Information as Soon as Possible The Agency recognizes the need to provide the regulated community with information on the acceptability of various substitutes as soon as possible. Given this need, EPA has decided to expedite the review process by conducting initial risk screens for the major substitutes now known to the Agency and to include them in this final rulemaking. Future determinations on the acceptability of new substitutes will be published in quarterly updates to the SNAP lists. 6. Do Not Endorse Products Manufactured by Specific Companies While the goal of the SNAP program is to identify acceptable substitutes, the Agency will not issue company-specific product endorsements. In many cases, the Agency may base its analysis on data received on individual products, but the addition of a substitute to the acceptable list based on that analysis does not represent endorsement of that company's products. Generally, placement on the list merely constitutes an acknowledgement that a particular product made by a company has been found to be acceptable under SNAP. 7. Defer to Other Environmental Regulations When Warranted In some cases, EPA and other federal agencies have developed extensive regulations under other statutes or other parts of the CAA that address any potential cross- or inter-media transfers that may result from the use of alternatives to class I and II substances. For example, ceasing to use an ozone-depleting compound may in some cases entail increased use of chemicals that contribute to tropospheric air pollution. These chemicals, such as volatile organic compounds (VOCs) or hazardous air pollutants (HAPs), are already regulated under other sections of the CAA, and determinations under the SNAP program will take these existing regulations into account. Where necessary, the Office of Air and Radiation will confer with other EPA program offices or federal agencies to ensure that any regulatory overlap is handled efficiently. C. Implementation Strategy Implementation of the SNAP program is directed towards fulfilling the general policy contained in section 612 of identifying substitutes that can serve as replacements for ozone depleting substances, evaluating their effects on human health and the environment, and encouraging the use of those substitutes believed to present lower overall risks relative both to the ozone depleting compounds being replaced and to other substitutes available for the same end-use. Implementation of this policy involves four key activities. The first is to develop, promulgate, and administer a regulatory program for identifying and evaluating substitutes. The second activity is to undertake a review of the existing substitutes based on criteria established for the program and then to publish a list of acceptable and unacceptable substitutes by application. The third activity is to review additional substitutes as they are developed to allow their timely introduction into the marketplace. The fourth is to aggressively disseminate information about those substitutes found to pose lower overall risk through a clearinghouse and outreach program. To expedite implementation of the SNAP program, EPA has not only developed a screening process for examining the alternatives, as discussed in this final rule, but has also completed an analysis of many key substitutes based on the criteria presented here. Section IX summarizes the results of this assessment. More detail on the steps leading up to this final rule and the implementation of the SNAP program is given below. 1. ANPRM and Request for Data On January 16, 1992, EPA published in the Federal Register an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM) and Request for Data (57 FR 1984). The ANPRM described in general terms EPA's plans for developing the SNAP program and solicited public comment on the Agency's planned approach. The ANPRM also included an appendix listing substitutes that the Agency planned to include in its initial substitute determinations. The ANPRM invited industry to submit information on these substitutes and to identify additional alternatives to be considered in the SNAP program. The Agency received approximately one hundred comments from industry, trade groups, and other federal agencies. These comments contained information on potential substitutes for ozone-depleting chemicals, as well as comments on the SNAP program as described in the ANPRM.
