FR940525-2-00159 FR940525-2-00082 [Release No. 34&hyph;34081; File No. SR&hyph;DGOC&hyph;93&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Delta Government Options Corp.; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Time for Exercises of Options and for the Assignments of Exercise Notices May 18, 1994. On December 27, 1993, pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 Delta Government Options Corp. (``DGOC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change that modifies certain procedures for exercises of options. On February 14, 1994, DGOC filed with the Commission an amendment to the proposed rule change. On April 5, 1994, the Commission published notice of the proposed rule change in the Federal Register to solicit comment from interested persons. 2 No comments were received. This order approves the proposal. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33825 (March 25, 1994), 59 FR 15955. I. Description The proposed rule change modifies the time for tender of exercise notices by DGOC participants maintaining long positions; the procedure DGOC uses to assign exercise notices to participants maintaining short positions; and the time by which exercise notices will be assigned. Section 1001 (Exercise Procedures) of DGOC's Procedures establishes the time by which a participant must tender to DGOC's clearing bank an option exercise notice. The cutoff time is revised from 5:00 p.m. to 4 p.m. or such earlier time as may be announced by the Public Securities Association as the recommended closing time for trading in the government securities markets on the business day the participant wishes to exercise an option contract. 3 3 DGOC inquired of all its participants that maintain long positions with DGOC whether they perceived any special burden associated with the one hour reduction in the time available for exercise. If any participant had wished to maintain the 5 p.m. exercise notice tendering time on any outstanding option, DGOC would have deferred implementation of the proposed rule change until one day following the expiration of all such outstanding options subject to the 5 p.m. time. No participant wanted to defer implementation of the proposed rule change. Telephone conversation between Kathryn Natale, Attorney, Morgan, Lewis & Bockius and Christine Sibille, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (May 13, 1994). DGOC's Procedures section 1002 (Assignment of Exercise Notices) described the manner in which exercise notices are assigned to participants. Prior to this amendment, when less than all exercisable options in a class of options ( i.e., all puts and calls covering the same issue of Treasury securities) were exercised, exercise notices were assigned randomly to participants that maintained short positions in that class of options. As amended, exercise notices are assigned to each participant maintaining a short position in the same class of options on a pro rata basis. DGOC determines the number of exercise notices allocated to a participant by dividing the number of options subject to exercise maintained by such participant by the number of all options in the same class. This number is multiplied by the total number of exercise notices received by DGOC for the class of options. Finally, the proposal change the time by which exercise notices will be assigned under DGOC's Procedures section 1002. Previously, exercise notices were assigned at or before 8 a.m. on the business day following the business day that DGOC's clearing bank accepted them. With this amendment, exercise notices are to be assigned at or before 5:00 p.m. on the same business day that DGOC's clearing bank accepts them. II. Discussion Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act provides that the rules of a clearing agency must protect investors and the public interest and must remove impediments to and must perfect the mechanism of a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 4 By requiring that all option exercise notices be tendered prior to 4 p.m., DGOC will have the ability to assign option exercises earlier and give notice of the assignments earlier. By receiving notification of their allocated option exercises earlier, participants can manage more precisely their financial exposure by having the ability to engage in other trading on that business day. This capacity should allow participants to manage their risks more effectively, thus furthering the goal of protecting investors. 4 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1998). In addition, the Commission believes that the new method of allocation of option exercises is consistent with the Act. By assigning option exercises according to a precise formula based on a pro rata allocation instead of a random allocation, participants will be provided some basis for determining the likelihood that they will be assigned a certain number of option exercises. The procedure also will assign the option exercises on a fairer basis. III. Conclusion For the reasons stated above, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 17A of the Act. It is therefore Ordered, Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;DGOC&hyph;93&hyph;03) be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12744 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
