FR940505-1-00503 FR940505-1-00012 (iii) Offsets which are obtained pursuant to paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section and pursuant to permitting actions in a district other than that in which the proposed source is located may be used only if the EPA has reviewed the permit conditions issued by the other district in which the proposed offsets are obtained and certifies that the impacts of using such offsets meet the requirements of all applicable rules and regulations. Emission reduction credits used to offset project emissions in another district shall be implemented through an interdistrict agreement to ensure their enforceability and permanence. (iv) Applicants providing internal offsets for major modifications at major sources of NO X or ROCs must provide them at a 1.3 to 1 offset ratio. (v) Offsets which are achieved from mobile emission reduction credits shall be subject to an offset ratio of 2.0 to 1.0. (4) Emission reductions, shutdowns, and curtailments. Actual emission reductions from a shutdown or curtailment of permitted emission units may be credited for the purposes of banking and offsets pursuant to ยง52.3002, Emissions Reduction Credit Authorization, provided: (i) Application is made for emission reduction credits; and (ii) The crediting and disbursement of emission reductions from source shutdowns and curtailments are in accordance with the most current EPA emissions trading policy and applicable federal regulations; and (iii) Emissions decreases are ensured and documented by enforceable emission limitations contained in the Authority to Construct; or (iv) Emissions decreases are ensured by the permanent surrender or cancellation of the Authority to Construct. (5) Ambient air quality standards. In no case shall emissions from the new or modified stationary source prevent or interfere with the attainment or maintenance of any applicable ambient air quality standard. The EPA may require the use of an air quality model to estimate the effects of a new or modified stationary source. The analysis shall estimate the effects of a new or modified stationary source, and verify that the new or modified stationary source will not prevent or interfere with the attainment or maintenance of any ambient air quality standard. In making this determination, the EPA shall take into account the mitigation of emissions through offsets pursuant to this section and the impacts of transported pollutants on downwind pollutant concentrations. The EPA may impose, based on an air quality analysis, offset ratios greater than the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section. (6) Denial, failure to meet standards. The EPA shall deny any Authority to Construct if the EPA finds that the subject of the application would not comply with the standards set forth in federal rules or regulations. Stationary sources and emission units are required to curtail operations corresponding to the extent that required offsets are not obtained, or are not permanently maintainable. The owner or operator of the stationary source or emissions unit requiring offsets has the ultimate responsibility for ensuring that offsets are real, surplus, permanent, and quantifiable. (7) Alternative siting analysis. By means of an analysis of alternative sites, sizes, production processes, and environmental control techniques for a new or modified stationary source, the owner or operator of the proposed stationary source or modification shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the EPA that the benefits of the proposed source significantly outweigh the environmental and social costs incurred as a result of its location, construction, or modification. Whenever any proposed source or modification is subject to action by a state or federal agency that might necessitate the preparation of an environmental impact statement, which includes an alternative siting analysis, the EPA may accept the alternative sitings analysis prepared pursuant to that action to meet this requirement to the extent appropriate. (d) Administrative requirements. The following administrative requirements shall apply to any activities regulated by this section. (1) Complete application. The EPA shall determine whether the application is complete no later than 30 days after receipt of the application, or after such longer time period that the applicant and the EPA have agreed to in writing. If the EPA determines that the application is not complete, the applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision specifying the information required. Upon receipt of any re-submittal of the application, a new 30-day period to determine completeness shall begin. Completeness of an application or a re-submitted application shall be evaluated on the basis of the information requirements set forth in 40 CFR 70.5(c), Federal Operating Permit Program and the information required by this section. The EPA may, at any time during the processing of the application, request an applicant to clarify, amplify, correct, or otherwise supplement the information submitted in the application. (2) Air quality models. All air quality models used for the purposes of this section shall be consistent with the requirements provided in the most recent edition of the EPA's ``Guidelines on Air Quality Models, OAQPS 1.2&hyph;080,'' unless the EPA finds that such model is inappropriate for use. After making such a finding, the EPA may designate an alternate model only after allowing for public comment. Credit shall not be given for stacks higher than dictated by good engineering practice. All modeling costs associated with the siting of a stationary source shall be borne by the applicant. (3) Preliminary decision. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, following acceptance of an application as complete, the EPA shall perform the evaluations required to determine compliance with all applicable requirements of this section and make a preliminary written decision as to whether an Authority to Construct should be approved, conditionally approved, or denied. The decision shall be supported by a succinct written analysis. (4) Publication, public comment, and requests for public hearings. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, within 10 calendar days following a preliminary decision pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the EPA shall publish, in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the district, a notice stating the preliminary decision of the EPA noting how the pertinent information can be obtained, and inviting written public comment for a 30-day period following the date of publication. The notice shall also provide that any interested person may submit a written request for a public hearing, and that such request must include a statement of the issues proposed to be raised in the hearing. If a written request for a public hearing is received during the public comment period, the EPA shall use the procedures given at 40 CFR 124.12, Public Hearings, applicable to PSD permits, to grant or deny the request and to hold a public hearing.
