FR940324-2-00022 FR940324-2-00012 Department of the Navy Privacy Act of 1974; Amend Record Systems AGENCY: Department of the Navy, DOD. ACTION: Amend record systems. SUMMARY: The Department of the Navy proposes to amend two systems of records to its inventory of record systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: The amendments will be effective on April 25, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Head, PA/FOIA Branch, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations (N09B30), 2000 Navy Pentagon, Washington, DC 20350&hyph;2000. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mrs. Gwendolyn Aitken at (703) 614&hyph;2004 or DSN 224&hyph;2004. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of the Navy record system notices for records systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the address above. The specific changes to the systems of records are set forth below followed by the systems of records notices published in their entirety, as amended. The amendments are not within the purview of subsection (r) of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, which requires the submission of new or altered systems reports. Dated: March 18, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. N04650&hyph;1 System name: Personnel Transportation System (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10744). System location: Delete entry and replace with `Personnel Support Activity Detachments and Navy Passenger Transportation Offices Worldwide and Administrative Support Unit, Bahrain. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices.' Categories of individuals covered by the system: Delete entry and replace with `Navy military personnel (active and retired), civilian employees of the Navy, dependents, Midshipmen, and other individuals authorized through Navy commands to travel at Government expense.' Categories of records in the system: Delete entry and replace with `Applications for travel and, where applicable, for passports and visas; requests for extension of time limit on travel by retired member to home of record; requests for exceptions of policies/procedures involving travel entitlements/eligibilities; supporting documents; correspondence, and approvals/disapprovals relating to the above records; travel arrangements in response to above applications.' Authority for maintenance of the system: Delete entry and replace with `5 U.S.C. 5701 et seq Travel, Transportation and Subsistence; 10 U.S.C. 2631&hyph;2635 and Chapter 7; 37 U.S.C. 404, Travel and Transportation Allowances--General; and E.O. 9397.' Purpose(s): Delete entry and replace with `To provide official travel services; determine eligibility for transportation; to authorize or deny transportation; and otherwise manage the Navy-wide passenger transportation system.' Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Replace first paragraph with `To officials and employees of the Office of Passport Services, Department of State in the processing of no fee passports (official or diplomatic).' Storage: Delete entry and replace with `Automated records may be stored on magnetic tapes/disks. Manual records in file folders or file-card boxes, and microfiche or microfilm.' Retrievability: Delete entry and replace with `Automated records may be retrieved by Social Security Number and/or name. Manual records are normally filed alphabetically by name of applicant, month, and fiscal year; applications for dependents travel are filed under name of sponsor.' Safeguards: Delete entry and replace with `Manual records are maintained in file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is locked outside of official working hours. Computer terminals are located in supervised areas. Computer terminals are controlled by password or other user code system.' Retention and disposal: Delete entry and replace with `Records are retained for three years and then forwarded to the records center for retention for additional four years. After seven years, all records are destroyed.' System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Personnel Support Activity Detachments and Navy Passenger Transportation Offices Worldwide and Administrative Support Unit, Bahrain. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Policy Official: Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel (Pers 332), 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;3320.' * * * * * Record source categories: Delete entry and replace with `Individual; member's service record/civilian personnel file; officials and employees of the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, and State Department; foreign embassies, legations, and consular offices reporting approval/disapproval of visas; and carriers reporting on provision of transportation.' * * * * * N04650&hyph;1 System name: Personnel Transportation System. System location: Personnel Support Activity Detachments and Navy Passenger Transportation Offices Worldwide and Administrative Support Unit, Bahrain. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Navy military personnel (active and retired), civilian employees of the Navy, dependents, Midshipmen, and other individuals authorized through Navy commands to travel at Government expense. Categories of records in the system: Applications for travel and, where applicable, for passports and visas; requests for extension of time limit on travel by retired member to home of record; requests for exceptions of policies/procedures involving travel entitlements/eligibilities; supporting documents; correspondence, and approvals/disapprovals relating to the above records; travel arrangements in response to above applications. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 5701 et seq Travel, Transportation and Subsistence; 10 U.S.C. 2631&hyph;2635 and Chapter 7; 37 U.S.C. 404, Travel and Transportation Allowances--General; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To provide official travel services; determine eligibility for transportation; to authorize or deny transportation; and otherwise manage the Navy-wide passenger transportation system. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: To officials and employees of the Office of Passport Services, Department of State in the processing of no fee passports (official or diplomatic). Foreign embassies, legations, and consular offices--to determine eligibility for visas to respective countries, if visa is required. To Commercial Carriers providing transportation to individuals whose applications are processed through this system of records. When required by Federal statute, by Executive Order, or by treaty, personnel record information will be disclosed to the individual, organization, or governmental agency as necessary. The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Automated records may be stored on magnetic tapes/disks. Manual records in file folders or file-card boxes, and microfiche or microfilm. Retrievability: Automated records may be retrieved by Social Security Number and/or name. Manual records are normally filed alphabetically by name of applicant, month, and fiscal year; applications for dependents travel are filed under name of sponsor. Safeguards: Manual records are maintained in file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is locked outside of official working hours. Computer terminals are located in supervised areas. Computer terminals are controlled by password or other user code system. Retention and disposal: Records are retained for three years and then forwarded to the records center for retention for additional four years. After seven years, all records are destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Personnel Support Activity Detachments and Navy Passenger Transportation Offices Worldwide and Administrative Support Unit, Bahrain. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Policy Official: Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel (Pers 332), 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;3320. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the local activity where the request for transportation was initiated, and/or to intermediate activities (if applicable), or to the Chief of Naval Personnel (ATTN: Privacy Act Coordinator), Navy Department, Washington, DC 20370. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. The letter should contain full name, Social Security Number, address and signature of the requester. The individual may visit the activities and commands listed under LOCATION for assistance with the records maintained at the respective locations. Proof of identification will consist of Military Identification Card for persons having such cards. Others must present other positive personal identification, preferably picture-bearing. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the local activity where the request for transportation was initiated, and/or to intermediate activities (if applicable), or to the Chief of Naval Personnel (ATTN: Privacy Act Coordinator), Navy Department, Washington, DC 20370. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. The letter should contain full name, Social Security Number, address and signature of the requester. The individual may visit the activities and commands listed under LOCATION for assistance with the records maintained at the respective locations. Proof of identification will consist of Military Identification Card for persons having such cards. Others must present other positive personal identification, preferably picture-bearing. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Individual; member's service record/civilian personnel file; officials and employees of the Department of the Navy, Department of Defense, and State Department; foreign embassies, legations, and consular offices reporting approval/disapproval of visas; and carriers reporting on provision of transportation. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. N07401&hyph;1 System name: Bingo Winners (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10808). System location: Delete entry and replace with `Navy and Marine Corps stateside and overseas bases where bingo is authorized and played. A list of Navy system managers is available from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001; and a list of Marine Corps activities is available from the Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001.' Categories of individuals covered by the system: Delete first word `Individual.' Categories of records in the system: At end of entry, add `, and DOT/IRS Forms W2&hyph;G and 5754.' Authority for maintenance of the system: Delete entry and replace with `5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations; Section 6041, Internal Revenue Code; BUPERSINST 1710.13, Operation of Navy Messes Ashore and Package Stores 1988; MCO P&hyph;1745.15 series; NAVSO P&hyph;3520; and E.O. 9397.' Purpose(s): Delete entry and replace with `To notify the Internal Revenue Service of all monies and items of merchandise paid to individual winners of bingo games whose one-time winnings are $1,200 or more. To provide a means of paying, recording, accounting, reporting, and controlling expenditures and merchandise inventories associated with bingo games.' * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `Manual records in file cabinets.' Retrievability: Delete entry and replace with `Name and Social Security Number.' * * * * * Retention and disposal: Delete entry and replace with `Records are maintained on site for three years and then shipped to a Federal Records Center for storage for four additional years. After seven years, records are destroyed.' System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Navy and Marine Corps stateside and overseas bases where bingo is authorized and played. A list of Navy system managers for bingo locations is available from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001; and a list of Marine Corps systems managers is available from the Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001. Policy Officials: Navy - Chief of Naval Personnel (Pers 655C3), Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001 (for naval activities); Marine Corps - Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001 (for Marine Corps activities).' Notification procedure: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals are routinely notified via DOT/IRS Form W&hyph;2G if their one-time bingo winnings are $1,200 or more. However, individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the commanding officer at the location where the bingo game was played or to the Chief of Naval Personnel (for Navy sponsored bingo games) or the Commandant of the Marine Corps (for Marine Corps sponsored bingo games). A list of system managers by activity is available from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001 (for naval activities); and the Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001 (for Marine Corps activities).' Record access procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking access to records about themselves should address written inquiries to the commanding officer at the location where the bingo game was played or to the Chief of Naval Personnel (for Navy sponsored bingo games) or the Commandant of the Marine Corps (for Marine Corps bingo). A list of system managers by activity is available from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001 (for Navy sponsored bingo games); and the Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001 (for Marine Corps activities).' Record source categories: At beginning of entry, add `Individual and'. * * * * * N07401&hyph;1 System name: Bingo Winners. System location: Navy and Marine Corps stateside and overseas bases where bingo is authorized and played. A list of Navy system managers is available from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001; and a list of Marine Corps activities is available from the Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001. Categories of individuals covered by the system: U.S. citizens 18 years of age and older who are paid monies/prizes of $1,200 or more for one-time winnings associated with bingo. Categories of records in the system: Bingo payout control sheet indicating individual name, grade, Social Security Number, duty station, dates and amounts of bingo monies paid, and DOT/IRS Forms W2&hyph;G and 5754. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations; Section 6041, Internal Revenue Code; BUPERSINST 1710.13, Operation of Navy Messes Ashore and Package Stores 1988; MCO P&hyph;1745.15 series; NAVSO P&hyph;3520; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To notify the Internal Revenue Service of all monies and items of merchandise paid to individual winners of bingo games whose one-time winnings are $1,200 or more. To provide a means of paying, recording, accounting, reporting, and controlling expenditures and merchandise inventories associated with bingo games. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Manual records in file cabinets. Retrievability: Name and Social Security Number. Safeguards: Records are kept in occupied rooms which are locked during non-working hours. Retention and disposal: Records are maintained on site for three years and then shipped to a Federal Records Center for storage for four additional years. After seven years, records are destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Navy and Marine Corps stateside and overseas bases where bingo is authorized and played. A list of Navy system managers for bingo locations is available from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001; and a list of Marine Corps systems managers is available from the Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001. Policy Officials: Navy - Chief of Naval Personnel (Pers 655C3), Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001 (for naval activities); Marine Corps - Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001 (for Marine Corps activities). Notification procedure: Individuals are routinely notified via DOT/IRS Form W&hyph;2G if their one-time bingo winnings are $1,200 or more. However, individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the commanding officer at the location where the bingo game was played or to the Chief of Naval Personnel (for Navy sponsored bingo games) or the Commandant of the Marine Corps (for Marine Corps sponsored bingo games). A list of system managers by activity is available from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001 (for naval activities); and the Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001 (for Marine Corps activities). Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves should address written inquiries to the commanding officer at the location where the bingo game was played or to the Chief of Naval Personnel (for Navy sponsored bingo games) or the Commandant of the Marine Corps (for Marine Corps bingo). A list of system managers by activity is available from the Chief of Naval Personnel, Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001 (for Navy sponsored bingo games); and the Commandant of the Marine Corps (MH), Headquarters, United States Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001 (for Marine Corps activities). Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Individual and bingo payout control sheets. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6870 Filed 03&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
