FR941110-0-00184 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: We received many comments stating that the proposed process will precipitate prolonged appeals without civil money penalties ever being assessed. Response: The Act requires that an administrative appeal be provided before civil money penalties are collected. Even a prolonged appeals process does not eliminate the civil money penalty unless the facility prevails at the hearing. For example, if a provider achieves substantial compliance by the time of the appeal, the correction is only relevant from the standpoint of the number of days the penalty applies. The fact that a facility achieves substantial compliance before the hearing does not eliminate the need for the hearing. If the facility does not prevail in the hearing, the civil money penalty is collectible for each day of noncompliance. Comment: Commenters endorsed incorporating a variety of ideas into the final rule to discourage frivolous appeals, including the following: provide for the accrual of interest pending appeal at a rate fixed by the State, stipulate that attorney fees will not be paid and are not an allowable cost if the appeal is unsuccessful, and, as stated in the Institute of Medicine Report, deny payment of provider fees for unsuccessful appeals of survey related costs. Another commenter requested the rule be revised to include that facilities not be allowed to claim on State or Federal income taxes civil money penalties and legal expenses upheld on appeal. Response: We do not support these revisions. It would not be fair practice to assess interest on a civil money penalty before the provider knows the outcome of the hearing on the imposition of that penalty. To charge interest for the time period during which a hearing is pending would be tantamount to punishing the provider for exercising its right to have an administrative hearing, as provided for in sections 1128A(c)(2) and 1919(h)(8) of the Act. Regarding the comments about attorney fees, other provider costs and income taxes, these payment issues are not addressed in the Act and are beyond the scope of this regulation. Section 488.434␣Notice of Penalty Comment: One commenter asked for further clarification of HCFA notice of penalty and State notice of penalty provisions of the regulation. Response: We revised the content of §488.434 to be more specific regarding the notice of intent to impose the penalty. The rule now states that, when HCFA proposes to impose a civil money penalty, it would deliver or send to the provider written notice of its intent to impose the penalty. The notice would include reference to the statutory basis for the penalty; the nature of the noncompliance; the amount of the penalty per day of noncompliance; any factors specified in §488.438(f) that were considered when determining the amount per day of the proposed penalty; the date the penalty starts accruing; when the penalty will stop accruing; when collection of the penalty will be made; and instructions for responding to the notice. These instructions would include a specific statement of the facility's right to a hearing and the implications of waiving a hearing. The rule now states that, when the State imposes a civil money penalty in the case of any non-State operated nursing facility, the State must notify the facility in accordance with State procedures; however, the State's notice must be written and it must include, at a minimum, the information specified in the HCFA notice of penalty as stated above. Comment: A few commenters were concerned about implementation of civil money penalties if HCFA could not issue the notice in a timely manner. Response: Although HCFA and the State will proceed quickly to issue notice of the imposition of the civil money penalty, its imposition does not hinge on specified notification timeframes. The notice of the imposition of the penalty is not required before a civil money penalty can start to accrue, since the Act permits the imposition of civil money penalties for past violations that have been corrected, and the penalty may start accruing as early as the date the facility was first out of compliance. For these reasons, in §488.402, we exclude the civil money penalty remedy in the discussion of the notification requirements when remedies are imposed.
