FR940202-0-00005 FR940202-0-00002 ␣ 1Type of institution 1Number Trade association 7 Federal Reserve Bank 4 Commercial bank 4 Government-sponsored entity 3 Clearing house 2 Financial institution holding company 2 Swaps dealer 3 Federal agency 2 Law firm 1 Financial corporation 1 International agency 1 n,s Total 30 General Comments Virtually all of the commenters supported the objectives of the Act's netting provisions and the Board's proposed regulation. The commenters generally agreed that broadening the Act's definition of ``financial institution'' would enhance efficiency and reduce risk in the financial markets. Only two commenters expressed doubts as to whether broader netting protection would decrease systemic risk. One commenter specifically supported expansion of the definition by rule rather than by case-by-case determinations. Two commenters suggested that the Board should indicate in advance how it intends to use its discretion in case-by-case determinations. The Board, however, has set forth in the regulation the standards it believes should apply for a person to qualify as a financial institution in most circumstances. In case of unanticipated circumstances, the Board has the flexibility to make case-by-case determinations based on standards different from those in the regulation. Qualitative Test Fifteen commenters raised concerns about the qualitative prong of the proposed rule's test. Eleven of these commenters argued that the rule should cover major market participants that are end users, in addition to covering market intermediaries. (Four commenters suggested that the Board eliminate the test altogether, and one commenter suggested that coverage be extended to any entity that enters into a netting contract as defined by the Act.) The commenters stated that the insolvency of a major end user would raise substantial settlement, liquidity, and systemic risks and that such risks arise from the size and nature of an entity's positions, not from the character of its business. The commenters noted that although end users may not be market-makers, their arbitrage strategies may cause them to take positions on both sides of the market. The commenters observed that including end users would provide certainty of enforceability for a broader range of netting contracts. They stated that this broader range of coverage would enhance market liquidity, as dealers could do a larger volume of business with end users without raising credit limits, and would eliminate a competitive disadvantage for end users. The Board has determined to retain the qualitative test, in a modified form. Although the Board recognizes that end users (as well as their counterparties) might benefit by the netting provisions and the failure of certain end users could create systemic risk, the Board believes it would be difficult to justify inclusion of many end users as ``financial institutions.'' The Act defines ``financial institution'' to include traditional financial market intermediaries such as banks, broker-dealers, and futures commission merchants. Expanding the definition to cover end users would include many non-financial corporations and, potentially, even individuals. The Board believes it would be a stretch of the statutory definition of ``financial institution'' to include institutions or individuals that are not market intermediaries and are not in the financial services business. Eleven commenters offered suggestions on how to achieve certainty that a given entity qualifies as a financial institution. The commenters argued that market participants would have no choice but to rely on the representations of their counterparties in many cases. Many commenters suggested that market participants be allowed to rely in good faith on the written representation of a counterparty, signed by an appropriate officer, stating that the tests were met. The commenters argued that this ``safe harbor'' would provide certainty in instances where a participant might otherwise refuse to deal with an institution solely because it cannot verify the institution's qualifications. With regard to the qualitative test, five commenters noted that, as a practical matter, it would be difficult for counterparties to verify that an institution participates ``actively'' in the financial markets and holds itself out as a market intermediary. In addition, one commenter suggested that the rule should cover certain entities that do not enter into transactions for their own account, such as collective investment funds and master trust arrangements that act in a fiduciary capacity. One commenter noted that a statement from an entity that it meets the test could be considered the equivalent of ``holding itself out'' as a market intermediary. Other commenters suggested eliminating the ``participates actively'' clause. The Board agrees that an institution that represents that it is willing to engage in transactions on both sides of the market is, in effect, holding itself out as a market intermediary. Accordingly, the Board has revised the language of the qualitative test to provide that such a representation would suffice to meet the test. The Board has eliminated that part of the proposed rule that would have required a financial institution to participate actively in a financial market for its own account. The Board believes that the revised final rule provides counterparties with greater certainty that an institution meets the qualitative test because counterparties can rely on the institution's representation.
