FR940622-1-00084 FR940622-1-00029 (c)(1) The borrower of a Federal Perkins loan need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period during which the borrower is engaged in service described in §§674.53, 674.54, 674.56, 674.57, 674.58, 674.59, and 674.60. (2) The borrower of a Direct loan need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period during which the borrower is engaged in service described in §§674.53, 674.54, 674.56, 674.57, 674.58, and 674.59. (d) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period not to exceed 3 years during which the borrower is seeking and unable to find full-time employment. (e)(1) The borrower need not repay principal, and interest does not accrue, for any period not to exceed 3 years during which the borrower is suffering an economic hardship. To qualify for this deferment, the borrower must be_ (i) Employed full-time and earning an amount that does not exceed the greater of_ (A) The minimum wage rate described in section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938; or (B) An amount equal to 100 percent of the poverty line for a family of 2 as determined in accordance with section 673(2) of the Community Service Block Grant Act; or (ii) Not receiving monthly disposable income from all sources that is more than four times the amount specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, and the amount of the borrower's payments due each month (or a proportional share if the payments are due less frequently than monthly) on the borrower's nondefaulted education loans that were obtained through a Federal program is collectively equal to or greater than 20 percent of the borrower's monthly disposable income. (2) The institution shall require the borrower to submit at least the following documentation to qualify for a deferment under paragraph (e) of this section: (i) Evidence showing the amount of the borrower's most recent monthly disposable income from all sources. (ii) A copy of the borrower's Federal income tax return if the borrower filed a tax return within eight months prior to the date the deferment is requested. (iii) Evidence showing the most recent monthly amount due on the borrower's nondefaulted education loans that were obtained through Federal programs, or the borrower's defaulted education loans obtained through Federal programs if the holders of the loans provide written statements that the borrower has made satisfactory arrangements to repay the loans. (f) To qualify for a deferment for study as part of a graduate fellowship program pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, a borrower must provide the institution certification that the borrower has been accepted for or is engaged in full-time study in the institution's graduate fellowship program. (g) To qualify for a deferment for study in a rehabilitation training program, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, the borrower must be receiving, or be scheduled to receive, services under a program designed to rehabilitate disabled individuals and must provide the institution with the following documentation: (1) A certification from the rehabilitation agency that the borrower is either receiving or scheduled to receive rehabilitation training services from the agency. (2) A certification from the rehabilitation agency that the rehabilitation program_ (i) Is licensed, approved, certified, or otherwise recognized by one of the following entities as providing rehabilitation training to disabled individuals_ (A) A State agency with responsibility for vocational rehabilitation programs; (B) A State agency with responsibility for drug abuse treatment programs; (C) A State agency with responsibility for mental health services programs; (D) A State agency with responsibility for alcohol abuse treatment programs; or (E) The Department of Veterans Affairs; and (ii) Provides or will provide the borrower with rehabilitation services under a written plan that_ (A) Is individualized to meet the borrower's needs; (B) Specifies the date on which the services to the borrower are expected to end; and (C) Is structured in a way that requires a substantial commitment by the borrower to his or her rehabilitation. The Secretary considers a substantial commitment by the borrower to be a commitment of time and effort that would normally prevent an individual from engaging in full-time employment either because of the number of hours that must be devoted to rehabilitation or because of the nature of the rehabilitation. (h) The institution may not include the deferment periods described in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of this section when determining the 10-year repayment period. (i) The borrower need not pay principal and interest does not accrue until six months after completion of any period during which the borrower is in deferment under paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of this section. (j) For purposes of this section, full-time employment means at least 35 hours of work per week. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087dd) 19. Redesignated §674.35 is amended by revising the heading of the section; by revising paragraph (a); by adding the word ``Federal'' before the words ``Perkins Loan'' in paragraph (b)(2); and by revising paragraph (c)(5)(iii) to read as follows:
