FR940706-2-00033 FR940706-2-00022 2. Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power Western proposes to allocate up to a total of 13.223 MW as Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power (identified in Appendix A), as such Power becomes available due to base closures pursuant to the 1990 Act. D. Types of Contracts 1. Long-Term Contracts Long-Term Contracts may be offered to Preference Entities promoting an economic development project at a Closed Military Installation. The termination date of any such contract shall be no later than December 31, 2004, and such contracts shall be subject to the final NDA Act Procedures and the Final Withdrawal Procedures. 2. Short-Term Contracts Short-Term Contracts may be offered to Preference Entities at a Priority-Three Base or to a Negatively Affected Customer. Western shall have the right to recall all or any part of the NDA Act Power CROD under such Short-Term Contract upon giving 6 months' written notice. The termination date of the contract shall be no later than December 31, 2004, and such contract shall be subject to the final NDA Act Procedures and the Final Withdrawal Procedures. E. General Eligibility Criteria General eligibility criteria apply to applicants seeking an Allocation of NDA Act Power under the final NDA Act Procedures. Criteria 1 through 6 shall apply to applicants who are promoting an economic development project at a Closed Military Installation. Criteria 4 through 7 shall apply to all other applicants seeking an Allocation of NDA Act Power. 1. Applicant must have an economic development project plan that fulfills the following criteria: (i) Promotes the establishment or expansion of industrial, commercial, or governmental facilities at the Closed Military Installation, and (ii) Helps create or retain jobs in the near term and assists in the creation of additional long-term employment opportunities. The economic development project plan must include a specific plan for hiring the unemployed and underemployed persons from the area near the Closed Military Installation, and (iii) Has been approved by the appropriate governing body of the military installation in which it is, or will be, located and has community support, which is demonstrated by appropriate local government agency's written approval of the economic development project plan, and
