FR940617-2-00115 FR940617-2-00072 Indian Health Service List of Recipients of Indian Health Scholarships Under the Indian Health Scholarship Program: Correction agency: Indian Health Service, HHS. action: Notice correction. summary: In Federal Register Notice doc. 94&hyph;9705 beginning on page 19186 in the issue of Friday, April 22, 1994, the following corrections are made: 1. On page 19189 in the second column, the Tribe previously listed for MacGregor, Mike G. was ``Unknown''. This line should be changed to read MacGregor, Mike G., Portland State University, Jamestown Klallam. 2. On page 19190 in the third column, the Tribe previously listed for Wahnee, Kari Kay was ``Unknown''. This line should be changed to read Wahnee, Kari Kay, Central State University, Kiowa. 3. On page 19192 in the second column, the Tribe previously listed for Hunt, Erin Marie was ``Non-Indian''. This line should be changed to read Hunt, Erin Marie, Portland State University, Klamath. 4. Beginning on page 19187, the Tribal names have been misspelled for the following Indian Health Professions Scholarship Recipients. Corrections should read: Adams, Michelle Dette, Pikes Peak Community College, Assinniboine & Sioux Bancroft, Trina Ann, University of Colorado, Ute Mountain Claymore-Lahammer, Vickie M., University of South Dakota, Cheyenne River Sioux Dubray, Kansas Lee, University of Minnesota, Duluth, Cheyenne River Sioux Ducheneaux, Darren Chance, Lake Area Voc., Tech. Inst., Cheyenne River Sioux Ducheneaux, Lorelei D., Cheyenne River Lakota CC, Cheyenne River Sioux Esquiro, Jennifer G. Azure, University of Washington, Thlingit & Haida Gesinger, Ruthie, Cheyenne River Lakota CC, Cheyenne River Sioux Jones, Anna Marie, Mount Marty College, Lower Brule Sioux Halfred, Franklin Darcy, Cheyenne River Lakota CC, Cheyenne River Sioux Lefthandbull, Marvella Nancy, Medcenter One, Cheyenne River Sioux Lesmeister, Katherine P., Cheyenne River Lakota CC, Cheyenne River Sioux Lewis, Lance D., University of Washington, Gila River Pima-Maricopa MacDonald, Deborah Ann, University of PA, Assiniboine & Sioux Mack, Beatrice Marie, Glendale Community College, Gila River Pima-Maricopa Melbourne, Linda A., Salish Kootenai College, Assiniboine & Sioux Moran, Michelle Meredith, Mary College, Cheyenne River Sioux Pond, Leland James, University of Montana, Assiniboine & Sioux Sanders, Jay D., Southwestern State College, Choctaw Simon, Ramona Patricia, University of Mary, Cheyenne River Sioux Smiley, Bennett, Fort Lewis College, Gila River Pima-Maricopa Smith, Margie Ida, University of Washington, Kiowa Smith, Martin Douglas, Washington State University, Assiniboine & Sioux Sockbeson, Dorothy A., University of Maine, Penobscot of Maine Welch, Trudy E., University of North Dakota, Eastern Band/Cherokee of NC Wells, Craig James, South Dakota Sch. of Mines & Tech., Cheyenne River Sioux West, Jess, Bishop Clarkson College, Cheyenne River Sioux West, Sophia, University of North Dakota, Cheyenne River Sioux Westbrook, Sonja, California School of Prof. Psychology, Comanche of Oklahoma 5. Beginning on page 19191, the Tribal names have been misspelled for the following Preparatory Scholarship Recipients Funded Under Section 103. Corrections should read: Brown-Stephens, Heather D., Oklahoma State University, Choctaw Clark, Leroy Allen, South Dakota State University, Cheyenne River Sioux Dolezal-Ducheneaux, Colette Ann, University of South Dakota, Cheyenne River Sioux Doney-Sibley, Doral Lee, Northern Montana College, Assiniboine & Sioux Garza, Daniel, University of Oklahoma, Comanche of Oklahoma Gray, Lisa Irene, Tulsa Junior College, Chickasaw Griggs, Roger Lee, University of Arizona, White Mountain Apache Hall, Wynne Lee, Portland Community College, Klamath Hanley, Nelvin, University of New Mexico, Navajo Hayes, Robert Wayne, University of Oklahoma, Chickasaw LaPlant, Henrietta, Caroll College, Blackfeet Lance, Billy George, University of Science & Arts, Chickasaw LeBeau, Michael Edward, Minot State University, Cheyenne River Sioux Logg, Michael J., University of Texas/San Antonio, Cheyenne River Sioux Merriman, Anna Marie, Oklahoma City Community College, Chickasaw Pablo, Faith Stephanie, Pima Community College, Tohono O'odham Parker, Catherine Joyce, University of Oklahoma, Comanche of Oklahoma Preslopski, Michelle A., University of Pittsburgh, Otoe-Missouri of Oklahoma Redelk, Michael Ray, East Central Oklahoma State University, Comanche of Oklahoma Schindler, Dancia Viola, University of North Dakota, Turtle Mt. Chippewa Vander Velden, Shelly Howlett, University of Montana, Salish & Kootenai Watty, Mandel, Southwestern Community College, Eastern Band/Cherokee of NC Williams, Gypsy Robyn, University of Nevada/Las Vegas, Walker River Paiute Dated: June 13, 1994. Michel R. Lincoln, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14856 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;16&hyph;M
