FR941128-2-00074 FR941128-2-00046 [File No. 941 0116] American Home Products Corp.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis to Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would require, among other other things, a New Jersey-based corporation to divest its tetanus and diphtheria vaccine business to a Commission-approved buyer, to license Cyanamid's rotavirus vaccine research to a Commission-approved licensee, and to discontinue reporting arrangements with licensees that may provide competitively sensitive information. The consent agreement also would prohibit, for ten years, the respondent from acquiring any interest in any entity engaged in the clinical development, or manufacture and sale, of tetanus, diphtheria, or rotavirus vaccines in the United States without prior Commission approval. DATES: Comments must be received on or before January 27, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, Room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Claudia Higgins or Ann Malester, FTC/S&hyph;2224, Washington, DC 20580. (202) 326&hyph;2682 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and ยง2.34 of the Commission's rules of practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to divest, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with ยง4.9(b)(b)(ii) of the Commission's rules of practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). Agreement Containing Consent Order The Federal Trade Commission (``Commission''), having initiated an investigation of the Acquisition of certain stock of American Cyanamid Company (``Cyanamid'') by American Home Products Corporation (``AHP''), and it now appearing that AHP, hereinafter sometimes referred to as ``Proposed Respondent,'' is willing to enter into an Agreement Containing Consent Order (``Agreement'') to (i) divest certain assets, (ii) license certain assets, (iii) contract manufacture certain products, (iv) cease and desist from certain acts, and (v) provide for certain other relief: It is hereby agreed By and between Proposed Respondent, by its duly authorized officers and its attorneys, and counsel for the Commission that: 1. Proposed Respondent AHP is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the state of Delaware, with its principal place of business located at Five Giralda Farms, Madison, New Jersey 07940.
