FR940705-2-00208 FR940705-2-00091 The primary responsibilities of the Biotechnology Research Subcommittee are to: (i) Describe and review current Federal efforts in biotechnology research; (ii) identify and define the priority areas for future Federal biotechnology research, including areas needing greater emphasis, describing the role of each agency in those areas, and delineate where interagency cooperation would enhance progress in the biotechnology sciences, with an emphasis on integrated research efforts, where appropriate; (iii) assess major international efforts in the biotechnology sciences and develop mechanisms for international collaboration. For example, activities of the U.S.-European Community Task Force on Biotechnology have been coordinated through the Biotechnology Research Subcommittee; (iv) identify and review national and international policy issues (such as public education) associated with biotechnology; and (v) provide reviews, analyses, and recommendations to the Chairs of the Committee on Fundamental Science on scientific issues related to regulations and the applications of biotechnology research and biotechnology policies and issues. In 1990, the Biotechnology Research Subcommittee replaced the Biotechnology Sciences Coordinating Committee. Both the Biotechnology Research Subcommittee and the Biotechnology Sciences Coordinating Committee previously functioned under the Federal Coordinating Council on Science, Engineering, and Technology (FCCSET). While regulatory issues became the primary focus of the Biotechnology Sciences Coordinating Committee, the Biotechnology Research Subcommittee focuses on scientific issues, although it will still provide scientific support for regulatory responsibilities. Appendix K. Physical Containment for Large Scale Uses of Organisms Containing Recombinant DNA Molecules Appendix K specifies physical containment guidelines for large scale (greater than 10 liters of culture) research or production involving viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules. It shall apply to large scale research or production activities as specified in Section III-C&hyph;6. It is important to note that this appendix addresses only the biological hazard associated with organisms containing recombinant DNA. Other hazards accompanying the large scale cultivation of such organisms (e.g., toxic properties of products; physical, mechanical, and chemical aspects of downstream processing) are not addressed and shall be considered separately, albeit in conjunction with this appendix. All provisions shall apply to large scale research or production activities with the following modifications: (i) Appendix K shall supersede Appendix G when quantities in excess of 10 liters of culture are involved in research or production. Appendix K-II applies to Good Large Scale Practice; (ii) the institution shall appoint a Biological Safety Officer if it engages in large scale research or production activities involving viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules. The duties of the Biological Safety Officer shall include those specified in Section IV-B&hyph;3; (iii) the institution shall establish and maintain a health surveillance program for personnel engaged in large scale research or production activities involving viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules which require Biosafety Level (BL) 3 containment at the laboratory scale. The program shall include: preassignment and periodic physical and medical examinations; collection, maintenance, and analysis of serum specimens for monitoring serologic changes that may result from the employee's work experience; and provisions for the investigation of any serious, unusual, or extended illnesses of employees to determine possible occupational origin. Appendix K&hyph;I. Selection of Physical Containment Levels The selection of the physical containment level required for recombinant DNA research or production involving more than 10 liters of culture is based on the containment guidelines established in Section III. For purposes of large scale research or production, four physical containment levels are established. The four levels set containment conditions at those appropriate for the degree of hazard to health or the environment posed by the organism, judged by experience with similar organisms unmodified by recombinant DNA techniques and consistent with Good Large Scale Practice. The four biosafety levels of large scale physical containment are referred to as Good Large Scale Practice, BL1&hyph;Large Scale, BL2&hyph;Large Scale, and BL3&hyph;Large Scale. Good Large Scale Practice is recommended for large scale research or production involving viable, non-pathogenic, and non-toxigenic recombinant strains derived from host organisms that have an extended history of safe large scale use. Good Large Scale Practice is recommended for organisms such as those included in Appendix C which have built-in environmental limitations that permit optimum growth in the large scale setting but limited survival without adverse consequences in the environment. BL1&hyph;Large Scale is recommended for large scale research or production of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules that require BL1 containment at the laboratory scale and that do not qualify for Good Large Scale Practice. BL2&hyph;Large Scale is recommended for large scale research or production of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules that require BL2 containment at the laboratory scale. BL3&hyph;Large Scale is recommended for large scale research or production of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules that require BL3 containment at the laboratory scale. No provisions are made for large scale research or production of viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules that require BL4 containment at the laboratory scale. If necessary, these requirements will be established by NIH on an individual basis. Appendix K&hyph;II. Good Large Scale Practice (GLSP) Appendix K&hyph;II&hyph;A. Institutional codes of practice shall be formulated and implemented to assure adequate control of health and safety matters.
