FR941103-2-00114 FR941103-2-00067 Office of Community-Oriented Policing Services FY 1995 Community Policing Discretionary Grants AGENCY: Office of Community-Oriented Policing Services, Department of Justice. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Department of Justice, Office of Community-Oriented Policing Services (``COPS'') announces the availability of grants for the hiring of law enforcement officers under COPS Accelerated Hiring, Education and Deployment (``COPS AHEAD'') and the COPS Funding Accelerated for Smaller Towns Application (``COPS FAST Application''). Eligible applicants under COPS AHEAD are those state, local and other public law enforcement agencies, Indian tribal governments, other public and private entities, and multi-jurisdictional or regional consortia that employ sworn law enforcement officers and that serve a population of 50,000 or more individuals. Eligible agencies under the COPS FAST Application are those agencies serving populations of fewer than 50,000 persons. DATES: Letters of intent to participate in COPS AHEAD must be sent to the COPS Office postmarked no later than November 10, 1994. COPS FAST Applications will be available by November 1, 1994 and completed applications must be received by the COPS Office no later than December 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Letters of intent to participate in COPS AHEAD and completed applications should be addressed to Director, COPS Program, P.O. Box 14440, Washington, DC 20044. Letters of intent may be sent by telecopier to (202) 514&hyph;9272. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Department of Justice Crime Bill Response Center, (202) 307&hyph;1480 or 1&hyph;800&hyph;421&hyph;6770, or David Hayeslip or Craig Uchida, Office of Community-Oriented Policing Services, U.S. Department of Justice, 633 Indiana Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20531, (202) 514&hyph;2058. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Overview The Violent Crime Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;322) authorizes the Department of Justice to make grants for the hiring or rehiring of law enforcement officers to participate in community policing. COPS AHEAD and the COPS FAST Application are approaches developed by the Department of Justice to speed the deployment of new officers devoted to community policing on the streets and rural routes of this nation. COPS AHEAD for Populations of 50,000 and Over The COPS AHEAD program permits eligible agencies serving a population of 50,000 or more individuals to select and train up to a maximum of 3 percent of their actual level of sworn officers as of October 1, 1994, prior to submission and approval of a COPS grant application. Funding will begin once the new officers have been sown and a satisfactory grant application has been submitted and approved. Grants will be made for up to 75 percent of the total salary and benefits of each officer over three years, up to a maximum of $75,000 per officer, with the remainder to be paid by state or local funds. If funding requests exceed the funds available under COPS AHEAD, the maximum amount or starting date of grants may be adjusted to accommodate demand. A law enforcement agency interested in participating in COPS AHEAD must send a letter of intent to the address identified above postmarked no later than November 10, 1994. The COPS Office expects to confirm the eligibility of applicants and proposed funding levels no later than November 21, 1994. Officers proposed to be funded under COPS AHEAD must be hired no later than the agency's first class starting in 1995. At the time that proposed funding levels are confirmed, a formal grant application will be sent which will request information concerning the agency's strategic community policing plan for the use of the officers that have been approved to be hired, budget plans and projections, and other information to enable the COPS Office to confirm compliance with grant conditions. An application or grant award under COPS AHEAD will not affect the consideration of an agency's application for a grant under any other COPS program. An agency that receives funding under COPS Phase I is eligible to receive additional funding under COPS AHEAD if the combined hiring under both programs does not exceed 3 percent of the actual October 1, 1994 force level. COPS FAST Application for Populations Under 50,000 The COPS FAST Application dramatically simplifies the process of applying for a federal grant. The FAST Application is a one-page, fill-in-the-blank form that requests basic identifying information about the agency, the number of police officers currently on the force and the number of new officers requested, basic financial information and an agreement to abide by standard legal requirements. Applications will be available by November 1, 1994, and will be mailed to all eligible agencies. Completed applications will be due to the COPS Office by December 31, 1994. The COPS Office will advise applicants of an authorized hiring level by February 1, 1995. Before funding may begin, jurisdictions designated for funding will be required to submit necessary budget information and a brief description of community policing plans. Technical assistance with the development of policing plans will be provided to jurisdictions in need of such assistance. Funding will begin once the new officers have been sworn. Grants will be made for up to 75 percent of the total salary and benefits of each officer over three years, subject to a maximum of $75,000 per officer. Through the COPS FAST Application, the COPS program will provide up to $165 million in grants this fiscal year to state, local and other public law enforcement agencies. If requests exceed the funds available, the amount or starting date of grants may be adjusted to accommodate demand. An award under COPS FAST will not affect the consideration of an agency's application for a grant under any other COPS program. An agency that receives funding under COPS Phase I is eligible to receive additional funding under COPS FAST. General Comments COPS grant funds may not be used to replace funds that eligible agencies otherwise would have devoted to future office hiring. In other words, any hiring under COPS AHEAD or the COPS FAST Application must be addition to, and not in lieu of, officers that otherwise would have been hired. In hiring new officers, agencies may not reduce the scope of their customer screening and training procedures, and must include community policing principles and methods in their training curricula. In addition, to the extent practicable, COPS grant funds should be used to increase the representation of women and racial and ethnic minorities within the ranks of sworn officers. In light of the expedited nature of these approaches, the time frames responses from interested agencies are relatively short. A complete description of program requirements will be contained in the application kits. Additional COPS grant programs will be announced in the near future. Dated: October 21, 1994. John R. Schmidt, Associate Attorney General. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27201 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
