FR940610-2-00178 FR940610-2-00090 Task 9_Braked Roll Conditions: Review the provisions of ยง25.493 of the FAR and JAR concerning the braked roll condition and finalize a harmonized Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Reports For each task listed, the Loads and Dynamics Harmonization Working Group should develop and present to the ARAC: 1. A recommended work plan for completion of the task, including the rationale supporting such plan, for consideration at the meeting of the ARAC to consider transport airplane and engine issues held following publication of this notice; 2. A detailed conceptual presentation on the proposed recommendation(s), prior to proceeding with the work stated in item 3. below; 3. A draft Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, with supporting economic and other required analyses, and/or any other related guidance material or collateral documents the working group determines to be appropriate; or, if new or revised requirements or compliance methods are not recommended, a draft report stating the rationale for not making such recommendations; and 4. A status report at each meeting of the ARAC held to consider transport airplane and engine issues. Participation in Working Group Task An individual who has expertise in the subject matter and wishes to become a member of the working group should write to the person listed under the caption FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT expressing that desire, describing his or her interest in the task(s), and stating the expertise he or she would bring to the working group. The request will be reviewed with the assistant chairman and working group leader, and the individual will be advised whether or not the request can be accommodated. The Secretary of Transportation has determined that the information and use of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee are necessary in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on the FAA by law. Meetings of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee will be open to the public, except as authorized by section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Meetings of the working group will not be open to the public, except to the extent that individuals with an interest and expertise are selected to participate. No public announcement of working group meetings will be made. Issued in Washington, DC, on June 3, 1994. Chris A. Christie, Executive Director, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14147 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
