FR940128-1-00100 FR940128-1-00006 (s) Shucked shellfish means molluscan shellfish that have one or both shells removed. (t) Tag means a record of harvesting information attached to a container of shellstock by the harvester or processor. §123.5 Current good manufacturing practice (sanitation). (a) The criteria in part 110 of this chapter apply in determining whether the facilities, methods, practices, and controls used to process fish and fishery products are safe, and whether these products have been processed under sanitary conditions. (b) The purpose of subpart A of this part is to set forth requirements specific to the processing of fish and fishery products. §123.6 Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plan. (a) Every processor and importer shall have and implement a written HACCP plan that is specific to: (1) Each location where fish and fishery products are processed by that processor; and (2) Each kind of fish and fishery product processed by the processor. The plan may group kinds of fish and fishery products together if the hazards, critical control points, critical limits, and procedures required to be identified in paragraph (b) of this section are identical for all fish and fishery products so grouped. (b) The HACCP plan shall: (1) Identify the safety hazards that are reasonably likely to occur and that thus must be controlled for each fish and fishery product, including, as appropriate: (i) Natural toxins; (ii) Microbiological contamination; (iii) Chemical contamination; (iv) Pesticides; (v) Drug residues; (vi) Decomposition; (vii) Parasites; (viii) Unapproved direct and indirect food and color additives; and (ix) Physical hazards; (2) Identify the critical control points for each of the identified hazards; (3) Identify the critical limits that must be met at each of the critical control points; (4) Identify the procedures, and frequency thereof, including the use of consumer complaints received by the processor or importer, that will be used to control and monitor each of the critical control points to ensure compliance with the critical limits. Such procedures shall include the calibration of process control instruments and validation of software for computer control systems as appropriate; (5) Provide for a recordkeeping system that will document the monitoring of the critical control points. The records shall contain the actual values obtained during monitoring. The records shall also include consumer complaints that relate to the operation of critical control points or possible critical limit deviations. (c) In addition, the HACCP plan should: (1) Identify other consumer hazards not related to the safety of the product, including, but not necessarily limited to: (i) Decomposition not associated with human illness; and (ii) Economic adulteration. (2) Provide for control of these hazards in the manner described by paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(5) of this section. (d) Failure of a processor or importer to have and implement an HACCP plan that complies with this section or to operate in accordance with the requirements of this part, shall render the products of that processor or importer adulterated under section 402(a)(4) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. §123.7 Corrective actions. (a) Any critical limit deviation shall require: (1) Segregation and holding of the affected product, at least until the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section are met; (2) Immediate review by an individual or individuals who have been trained in accordance with §123.9, to determine the acceptability of the lot in question for distribution, based on a judgment as to whether the deviation may have rendered the product in that lot injurious to health or otherwise adulterated; (3) Corrective action, when necessary, with respect to the affected product and the critical control point at which the deviation occurred; (4) Timely assessment by an individual or individuals who have been trained in accordance with §123.9, to determine whether the process or Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plan needs to be modified to reduce the risk of recurrence of the deviation; and (5) Modification when necessary as it applies to the process or HACCP plan. (b) When a processor or importer receives a consumer complaint that may be related to the performance of a critical control point or that may reflect a critical limit deviation, it shall determine whether corrective action as described by paragraph (a) of this section is appropriate and, if so, it shall take such action. (c) All actions required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be documented in records that are subject to the requirements of §123.8.
