FR940525-2-00205 FR940525-2-00118 Wednesday May 25, 1994 Part VI Department of Education Cooperative Demonstration Program (Manufacturing Technologies); Final Priority and Notice Inviting Applications for New Awards for Fiscal Year 1994; Notices Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 100␣/␣Wednesday, May 25, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Cooperative Demonstration Program (Manufacturing Technologies) AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of final priority for fiscal year 1994. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces an absolute priority for fiscal year (FY) 1994, using funds appropriated in FY 1993, under the Cooperative Demonstration Program, which is authorized by the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act. Under the absolute priority for manufacturing technologies, funds will be reserved for a competition only among applications proposing to develop and demonstrate a national training model to overcome skill shortages in the application of new technologies to the manufacturing process within the American machine tool industry. EFFECTIVE DATE: This priority takes effect either 45 days after publication in the Federal Register or later if the Congress takes certain adjournments. If you want to know the effective date of this priority, call or write the Department of Education contact person. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jackie Friederich, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW., room 4526 Switzer Building, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;7242. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9071. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Dual Party Relay Service at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The application of new technologies to the manufacturing process is key to the restoration of American competitiveness. In a 1989 Memorandum of Understanding, the Department of Education, the Department of Labor, the Department of Defense, and the Department of Commerce agreed that there was a national need to train multi-skilled machine technicians capable of installing, integrating, maintaining, diagnosing, repairing, and modifying technologically advanced equipment systems. However, high-technology manufacturing systems can be implemented only where the skills exist to use them at peak efficiency. At present, this type of skill training is in short supply and the lack of these skills is a major hindrance to increasing industrial automation in the United States. In fiscal year 1993, the House Appropriations Committee Report indicated that the Department should initiate a demonstration program for critical technologies, as authorized by section 215 of the National Defense Authorization Act of 1989, which also provided for this type of demonstration. (H.R. Rep. No. 708, 102nd Cong., 2nd Sess. 160 (1993)). The competition to be conducted under this priority notice is designed to address national skill shortages in advanced skills technologies for manufacturing within the American machine tool industry. The Secretary hopes that this effort will serve to encourage the establishment of partnerships between vocational education institutions and industry, which, in turn, should serve to bring new ideas and concepts from the research laboratory to the manufacturing floor. The Secretary recognizes the importance of assisting manufacturing enterprises to utilize new manufacturing technologies and to define the training and educational components necessary for successful implementation of those new technologies. Models developed under this competition will enable innovative manufacturing enterprises to become more technologically competitive both at home and abroad. Additionally, this program can help further the purposes of the National Education Goals. Specifically, the manufacturing technologies priority announced by this notice directly supports Goal 6, which states that by the year 2000, every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Note: This notice of final priority does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under this competition is published in a separate notice in this issue of the Federal Register .
