FR940304-0-00023 FR940304-0-00008 Contract Specifications Options on 3&hyph;Month Canadian Bankers' Acceptance Futures Underlying Interest One (1) 3-month Canadian Bankers' Acceptance Futures (BAX) contract representing C$1,000,000 principal of 3-month Canadian Bankers' Acceptances. Description A buyer of one option on 3-month Bankers' Acceptance Futures may exercise the option to assume a position in one 3-month Bankers' Acceptance Futures (BAX) contract (long position if the option is a call and short position if the option is a put) of a specified contract month at a specified strike price. The seller of one option on 3-month Bankers' Acceptance Futures has the obligation of assuming, if the option is exercised by the buyer, a position in one 3-month Bankers' Acceptance Futures (BAX) contract (short position if the option is a call and long position if the option is a put) of a specified contract month at a specified strike price. Price Quotation Quoted in points where each .01 of a point (1 basis point) represents C$25. For example, a quote of 0.46 represents a total option premium of C$1,150 (i.e. 46 basis points×C$25). Minimum Price Increment (Tick Size and Value) 0.01 point (also known as one tick)=C$25 per contract (same as for underlying futures). Strike Prices Strike prices are set at maximum 0.50 point intervals. * Two (2) in-the-money and two (2) out-of-the-money strike prices will generally be available (for example, if a specific BAX futures settlement price is 90, option strike prices may be set at 89, 89.50, 90, 90.50, 91). * Strike prices of the nearest contract month may be set at .25 point interval. Contract Months Options available on the four nearest months in the BAX futures quarterly cycle, i.e. March, June, September and December. Trading Hours 8:20 a.m. to 3 p.m. (EST/EDT) Last Trading Day Options trading shall terminate at the same date and time as the underlying futures contract, i.e. at 10:00 a.m. (EST/EDT) on the second London (U.K.) business day prior to the third Wednesday of the contract month. Exercise American style, i.e. buyers of futures options may exercise their options on any business day up to and including the expiration date (prior to the daily cut-off time). The Clearing Corporation assigns exercise notices to sellers of options according to a random selection process. In-the-money options are automatically exercised by the Clearing Corporation at expiry (unless otherwise instructed). The final settlement price of the underlying futures contract will be used as a reference to determine which options may be exercised automatically at expiry. Expiration The last trading day. Minimum Margin Requirements The minimum margin is subject to periodic changes. Buyers of Options •Premium must be paid in full when the option is bought. Uncovered Writers of Options •Market value of the option plus the margin required for the underlying futures contract less half of the amount that the option is out-of-the-money. Minimum: market value of the option plus 50% of the margin required on the underlying futures contract (futures speculator or hedger rate, as the case may be).
