FR940602-1-00039 FR940602-1-00013 (b) Signalpersons shall not be permitted to walk over deck loads from rail to coaming unless there is a safe passage. If it is necessary to stand or walk at the outboard or inboard edge of the deck load having less than 24 inches (.61 cm) of bulwark, rail, coaming, or other protection exists, any signalpersons shall be provided with an equivalent means of protection against falling from the deck load. §1918.34 Other decks. (a) Cargo shall not be worked on decks that were not designed to support the load being worked. (b) Grated decks shall be properly placed, supported, maintained and designed to support workers. §1918.35 Open hatches. Open weather deck hatches around which employees must work, which are not protected to a height of 24 inches (.61 cm) by coamings, shall be guarded by taut lines or barricades at a height of 36 to 42 inches (.92 to 1.07 m) above the deck, except on the side on which cargo is being worked. Any portable stanchions or uprights used shall be so supported or secured as to prevent accidental dislodgement. §1918.36 Weather deck rails. Removable weather deck rails shall be kept in place except when cargo operations require them to be removed, in which case they shall be replaced as soon as such cargo operations are completed. §1918.37 Barges. (a) Walking shall be prohibited along the sides of covered lighters or barges with coamings or cargo more than 5 feet (1.5 m) high unless a 3-foot (.91 m) clear walkway or a grab rail or taut handline is provided. (b) Walking or working shall be prohibited on the decks of barges to be loaded unless the walking or working surfaces have been determined by visual inspection to be sound structurally and maintained properly. If in the course of discharging a barge and an unsound deck surface is discovered, work shall be discontinued and shall not be resumed until means have been taken to ensure a safe work surface. §1918.38 Log rafts. (See also §1918.88.) When an employee is working logs out of the water, walking sticks 2 (safety sticks) shall be provided as follows: 2 A ``walking stick'' is two logs bolted or otherwise secured together with two or three planks firmly attached on top that serves as a floating walking and working surface and that is used in the loading of logs onto vessels from the water. (a) They shall be planked and be no less than 24 inches (60.9 cm) wide; (b) They shall extend along the entire length of all rafts on the offshore side of the vessel, and to the means of access to the log raft(s); and (c) They shall be buoyant enough to keep the walking surface above the waterline when employees are walking on them. Subpart E_Opening and Closing Hatches §1918.41 Coaming clearances. (a) Weather deck. If a deck load (such as lumber or other smooth sided deck cargo) over 5 feet (1.5 m) high is stowed within 3 feet (.91 m) of the hatch coaming and employees handling hatch beams and hatch covers are not protected by a coaming at least 24-inch (.61 m) high, a taut handline shall be provided along the side of the deckload. The requirements of §1918.35 are not intended to apply in this situation. (b) Intermediate deck. (1) There shall be a 3 foot (.91 m) working space between the stowed cargo and the coaming at both sides and at one end of the hatches with athwartship hatch beams, and at both ends of those hatches with fore and aft hatch beams, before intermediate deck hatch covers and hatch beams are removed or replaced by employees. (2) The 3 foot (.91 m) clearance required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not required on the covered portion of a partially open hatch, nor is it required when lower decks have been filled to hatch beam height with cargo of such a nature as to provide a safe surface upon which employees may work. (3) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, fitted gratings which are in good condition shall be considered a part of the decking when properly placed within the 3 foot (.91 m) area. (c) Grab rails or taut handlines shall be provided for the protection of employees handling hatch beams and hatch covers, when bulkheads, lockers, reefer compartments or large spare parts are within 3 feet (.91 m) of the coaming. (d) This section does not apply to hatches which are opened or closed by hydraulic or other mechanical means. However, in all cases in which the 3 foot (.91 m) clearance does not exist, means shall be taken to prevent stowed cargo which is likely to shift from falling into the hold. §1918.42 Hatch beam and pontoon bridles. (a) Hatch beam and pontoon bridles shall be: (1) long enough to easily reach the holes, rings, or other lifting attachments on the hatch beams and pontoons; (2) of adequate strength to safely lift the load; and (3) properly maintained, including covering or blunting of protruding ends in wire rope splices. (b) Bridles for lifting hatch beams shall be equipped with toggles, shackles, or hooks, or other devices of such design that they cannot become accidentally dislodged from the hatch beams with which they are used. Hooks other than those herein described may be used only when they are hooked into the standing part of the bridle. Toggles, when used, shall be at least 1 inch (2.5 cm) longer than twice the longest diameter of the holes into which they are placed. (c) Bridles used for lifting pontoons and plugs shall have the number of legs required by the design of the pontoon or plug, and all legs shall be used. Where any use of a bridle requires fewer than the number of legs provided, idle legs shall be hung on the hook or ring, or otherwise prevented from swinging free.
