FR940926-1-00035 FR940926-1-00011 In MVACS, flammable refrigerants pose risks not found in stationary equipment, including the potential for collisions, the placement of the condenser directly behind the grille, flexible hoses which could be punctured, the hazard to technicians who are expecting to handle flammable fluids, the danger to passengers from evaporator leaks, and the dangers to personnel involved in disposal of old automobiles. Due to the length of SNAP review, certain substitutes have been marketed which EPA believes may pose substantial risk to users. The intent of the 90-day review process was not to allow manufacturers to market risky substitutes, but rather to ensure a thorough review. Because of potential risks to users and service personnel, EPA finds it necessary to find all flammable substitutes unacceptable in retrofitted automotive air conditioning to prevent hazardous substitutes from being marketed prior to a thorough risk assessment. EPA continues to encourage investigation of all substitute refrigerants, including flammable substances. This unacceptable determination only applies to retrofitted MVACS. If a manufacturer wishes an acceptable determination for a flammable substitute in MVACS, this risk assessment must be conducted in a scientifically valid manner. EPA will consider such a risk assessment in any determination on the substitute. B. Solvents 1. Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions a. Electronics Cleaning. (1) HCFC&hyph;225 ca/cb. HCFC&hyph;225 is proposed acceptable subject to use conditions as a substitute for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in electronics cleaning. The HCFC&hyph;225 ca isomer has a company-set exposure limit of 25 ppm. The company set exposure limit of the HCFC&hyph;225 cb isomer is 250 ppm. These limits should be readily achievable since HCFC&hyph;225 is only sold commercially as a (45%/50%) blend of &hyph;ca and &hyph;cb isomers. In addition, the vapor degreasing and cold cleaning equipment where HCFC&hyph;225 is used, typically has very low emissions. b. Precision Cleaning. (1) HCFC&hyph;225 ca/cb. HCFC&hyph;225 is proposed acceptable subject to use conditions as a substitute for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in precision cleaning. The HCFC&hyph;225 ca isomer has a company-set exposure limit of 25 ppm. The company set exposure limit of the HCFC&hyph;225 cb isomer is 250 ppm. These limits should be readily achievable since HCFC&hyph;225 is only sold commercially as a (45%/50%) blend of &hyph;ca and &hyph;cb isomers. In addition, the vapor degreasing and cold cleaning equipment where HCFC&hyph;225 is used, typically has very low emissions. 2. Unacceptable Substitutes a. Metals Cleaning. (1) Dibromomethane. Dibromomethane is proposed as an unacceptable substitute for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in metals cleaning. Dibromomethane has a comparatively high ODP and other alternatives exist which do not pose comparable risk. b. Electronics Cleaning. (2) Dibromomethane. Dibromomethane is proposed as an unacceptable substitute for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in electronics cleaning. Dibromomethane has a comparatively high ODP and other alternatives exist. c. Precision Cleaning. (3) Dibromomethane. Dibromomethane is proposed as an unacceptable substitute for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in precision cleaning. Dibromomethane has a comparatively high ODP and other alternatives exist. C. Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection 1. Proposed Acceptable Subject to Use Conditions a. Total Flooding Agents. (1) C 3 F 8 . C 3 F 8 is proposed acceptable as a Halon 1301 substitute where other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements: (a) Due to their physical or chemical properties or (b) where human exposure to the agents may approach cardiosensitization levels or result in other unacceptable health effects under normal operating conditions. This proposed agent is subject to the same use conditions stipulated for all total flooding agents, that is: •Where egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use this agent in concentrations exceeding its NOAEL. •Where egress takes longer than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use the agent in a concentration greater than its LOAEL. •Agent concentrations greater than the LOAEL are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge. Cup burner tests in heptane indicate that C 3 F 8 can extinguish fires in a total flood application at concentrations of 7.30 per cent and therefore has a design concentration of 8.8 per cent. The cardiotoxicity NOAEL of 30 per cent for this agent is well above its extinguishment concentration and therefore is safe for use in occupied areas. This agent can replace Halon 1301 by a ratio of 2 to 1 by weight.
