FR940516-1-00098 FR940516-1-00006 EPA believes this method of determining annual limits is most appropriate for the small SI engine industry. EPA is proposing the minimum annual limit of two because manufacturers may change production during the model year. If a manufacturer passed an SEA early in a model year, the manufacturer might subsequently implement changes in its production process which could increase engine emissions. With an annual limit of two, EPA would have the flexibility to audit a manufacturer early in the model year, and then return later in the model year if that manufacturer implemented a change in production which could increase engine emissions. As described above, EPA is also proposing that manufacturers with projected annual production of 100,000 small SI engines or more may have an annual limit of more than two. EPA believes it might be necessary to conduct more than two SEAs on larger engine manufacturers when they have a large variety of engine families. When manufacturers have a variety of engine families, an SEA might only check a small portion of the manufacturers' production. Therefore, by dividing the number of engine families certified by larger manufacturers by five, EPA could establish a higher annual limit for those manufacturers with a variety of engine families with different emission characteristics. Manufacturers with lower production should be assured that EPA would not overburden its limited test facilities with SEAs. Annual limits would act as a cap and would not necessarily be the actual number of audits a manufacturer received. EPA would not exceed a manufacturer's annual limit unless the Agency had reason to believe noncompliance was occurring. EPA requests comment on the proposed method for determining annual limits. The SEA program strives to encourage manufacturers to perform self- auditing and promptly remedy the emission noncompliance it discovers. Therefore, EPA would consider reducing the number of audits conducted by the Agency, minimizing audits of engine families which are unusually burdensome to audit, or both options, if the manufacturer provided substantial data to demonstrate conformity of actual production engines with the applicable emission standards. EPA suggests that manufacturers unfamiliar with self-auditing review existing on-highway programs, such as CARB's Quality Audit Program or the manufacturers' Assembly Line Test Data, for guidance in implementing an in-house auditing program. Examples of audit programs are available in the docket for this rulemaking. EPA would review self-audit data and procedures used in acquiring the data to assess the validity and representativeness of each manufacturer's self-audit program. The primary criteria EPA would use in evaluating the in-house programs are sample size, randomness within the family of the audited engine(s), frequency of testing, and the applicable required test procedures. EPA would discount the value of any self-audit data if the Agency received indications of noncompliance or concluded that the data were invalid, incomplete, unrepresentative, or insufficient. In addition, manufacturers with a comprehensive self-audit program would be subject to spot checks with EPA oversight to provide EPA assurance of compliance. EPA requests comment on this issue. Manufacturers would be notified of an SEA by means of a test order. This test order would specify the engine family to be audited. EPA might also specify an engine configuration or range of configurations from a family to be audited. However, EPA would reserve the option to select all configurations within an engine family for an SEA. To minimize the burden on manufacturers, EPA would consider requests by manufacturers to exclude particular engines or engine configurations from a test sample. Justification for such requests could be to avoid a delay in shipment of urgent customer-ordered engines or to minimize test cell set-up time by selecting engines of similar physical configurations. Test orders would include information relevant to the SEA. The test order would indicate any specific procedures, such as the time to begin selecting engines, during the course of the audit. Additionally, the test order would authorize EPA enforcement officers, upon presentation of enforcement credentials, to inspect engine production, test facilities, storage facilities, and records necessary to establish compliance with nonroad regulations. Due to differences between the small SI industry and the on- highway industry, EPA is proposing that some aspects of the on- highway SEA program be modified for small SI engines. Historically, on-highway engine SEAs have been conducted on engine configurations: a specific engine family, an engine code, a rated speed and an emission control system. EPA believes that making an entire small engine family subject to an audit would lead manufacturers to use extra care when grouping engines in a family. Consequently, EPA is proposing that nonroad SEAs be conducted by sampling engines from within an engine family. EPA requests comments on this aspect of the program. SEA engines would typically be selected from a point of final engine assembly or from a storage or shipping facility. Most often, this selection point would be at the end of the engine assembly line, where no further quality control procedures happen or parts would be installed on the engines. Selection of imported engines could occur at a port of entry. SEA engines could not receive any additional inspections or quality control other than that of normal production engines and pre-test safety checks. Engines would be tested in the same order as they were selected. EPA requests comment on the feasibility of selecting equipment, then removing the engine for audit testing. EPA proposes to include ports of entry or storage locations in the United States as locations for EPA selection of foreign- produced small SI engines for SEA emission testing at laboratories in the United States. The location of these selections could be designated by the manufacturer to minimize disruption and shipping costs. The manufacturer would be responsible for ensuring that a test facility in the United States was available for SEA testing.
