FR940817-2-00191 FR940817-2-00094 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC); Engine Harmonization Working Group AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of new task assignments for the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. SUMMARY: Notice is given of new task assignments for the Engine Harmonization Working Group of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC). This notice informs the public of the activities of the ARAC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Michael Borfitz, Assistant Executive Director for Transport Airplane and Engine Issues, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee, FAA Engine & Propeller Directorate, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, Massachusetts 01803; telephone (617) 238&hyph;7110, fax (617) 238&hyph;7199. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On January 22, 1991 (56 FR 2190), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) established the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC). The committee provides advice and recommendations to the FAA Administrator, through the Associate Administrator for Regulation and Certification, on the full range of the FAA's rulemaking activities with respect to aviation-related issues. In order to develop such advice and recommendations, the ARAC may choose to establish working groups to which specific tasks are assigned. Such working groups are comprised of experts from those organizations having an interest in the assigned tasks. A working group member need not be a representative of a member of the full committee. One of the working groups established by the ARAC is the Engine Harmonization Working Group. The FAA announced at the Joint Aviation Authorities (JAA)_Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Harmonization Conference in Toronto, Canada, (June 2&hyph;5, 1992), that it would consolidate within the ARAC structure an ongoing objective to ``harmonize'' the Joint Aviation Requirements (JAR) and the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR). Tasks The Engine Harmonization Working Group new tasks are as follows: Task 1, Fire Pervention_ Review FAR and JAR requirements and create one set of common requirements (FAR 33.17; JAR&hyph;E&hyph;530). Task 2, FAR 35_ Conduct a comparison of FAR Park 35 and JAR&hyph;P requirements and advisory material and identify significant differences. This comparison should clarify and redefine existing requirements to include new standards to reflect recent advancements in design and construction of composite material propellers, propeller control systems (such as dual acting control systems) and electronic controls. Reports For each task listed, the Engine Harmonization Working Group should develop and present to the ARAC: 1. A recommended work plan for completion of the tasks, including the rationale supporting such as a plan, for consideration at the meeting of the ARAC to consider transport airplane and engine issues held following publication of this notice; 2. A detailed conceptual presentation on the proposed recommendation(s), prior to proceeding with the work stated in item 3. below; 3. A draft Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, with supporting economic and other required analyses, and/or any other related guidance material or collateral documents the working group determines to be appropriate; or, if new or revised requirements or compliance methods are not recommended, a draft report stating the rationale for not making such recommendations; and 4. A status report at each meeting of the ARAC held to consider transport airplane and engine issues. Participation in Working Group Task An individual who has expertise in the subject matter and wishes to become a member of the working group should write to the person listed under the caption FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT expressing that desire, describing his or her interest in the task(s), and stating the expertise he or she would bring to the working group. The request will be reviewed with the assistant chair and working group chair, and the individual will be advised whether or not the request can be accommodated. The Secretary of Transportation has determined that the formation and use of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee are necessary in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on the FAA by law. Meetings of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee will be open to the public, except as authorized by section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Meetings of the working group will not be open to the public, except to the extent that individuals with an interest and expertise are selected to participate. No public announcement of working group meetings will be made. Issued in Washington, DC, on August 10, 1994. Chris A. Christie, Executive Director, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20151 Filed 8&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
