FR940110-1-00074 FR940110-1-00006 Section 960.15(d) of the proposed rule provides that each Bank shall require applicants or sponsors to provide such other reports to the Bank, in addition to the reports and documentation required by §960.15 of the proposed rule, as the Bank deems necessary in order to fulfill its monitoring obligations under §960.14 of the proposed rule. K. Corrective and Remedial Actions for Fraud or Non-Compliance With AHP Requirements Section 10(j) of the Act is silent on what specific corrective and remedial actions should be imposed when there is fraud or non-compliance with the requirements of the AHP. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j). Accordingly, the Board has the discretion to determine, as a matter of policy, what those requirements should be. The Board's existing AHP regulation provides that, where funds provided under the AHP will not be or are no longer being used for their approved purposes, the amount of committed but unused subsidy or improperly used subsidy shall be recovered and made available by the Bank for future AHP projects. See 12 CFR 960.8(a). The existing regulation requires the Bank, in recapturing such funds, to take any or all of the following actions, without limitation on other remedies, in its discretion: a. Reprice the advance at the interest rate charged to members on non-subsidized advances of comparable type and maturity at the time of the original advance; b. Call the advance; c. Assess a prepayment fee; or d. Require the member to reimburse the Bank for the amount of the unused or improperly used subsidy on the advance or other assistance. Id. §960.8(b). In addition, some Banks have adopted procedures that require a direct subsidy to be converted to an advance if the project is found to be in non-compliance with the requirements of the AHP regulation. A number of concerns have been raised about this recapture requirement. First, it may not be equitable to require the applicant to reimburse the Bank when it is the sponsor that is in non-compliance with the AHP requirements. Second, requiring recapture of the AHP subsidy could in some situations result in the applicant having to foreclose against a property in order to recover the funds to repay an advance to the Bank, thereby eliminating affordable housing units even when only a few of the units in the project may be out of compliance with AHP requirements. In short, it has become clear through the operation of the AHP that the recapture remedy may not be the appropriate remedial action in all circumstances. Other less severe remedial actions may be more appropriate depending on the nature of the non-compliance that has occurred. In addition, the remedial actions should be directed only at the parties that are in non-compliance. Accordingly, the proposed rule contains provisions that tailor the remedial actions required to the nature of the non-compliance and the party committing the non-compliance, which are discussed further below. 1. Fraud or Willful Non-Compliance Fraud and willful non-compliance are the most extreme examples of non-compliance with the AHP requirements. Accordingly, the proposed rule applies the most severe remedial actions_ exclusion or suspension from future participation in the AHP and recovery of the full amount of the AHP subsidy_to parties that have committed fraud or are in willful non-compliance with respect to the AHP requirements. Specifically, §960.16(a)(1) of the proposed rule provides that in the event of an applicant's, sponsor's or owner's fraud with respect to the AHP requirements, the Bank shall exclude the applicant, sponsor or owner, respectively, on a permanent basis, from future participation in the AHP. In the event of an applicant's, sponsor's or owner's willful non-compliance with the AHP requirements, the Bank shall suspend the applicant, sponsor or owner, respectively, at least on a temporary basis, from future participation in the AHP during the period such willful non-compliance continues, and may exclude such party permanently from future participation in the AHP. The Board specifically requests comments as to whether the Banks should be able to determine whether fraud or willful non-compliance has occurred, or whether such determination should be made by the Board, or by either the Bank or the Board. In addition, §960.16(a)(2) of the proposed rule provides that in the event of an applicant's fraud or willful non-compliance with respect to the AHP requirements, the Bank shall recover from the applicant the full amount of the AHP subsidy provided to the project. Section 960.16(a)(3)(i) of the proposed rule provides that in the event of a sponsor's or owner's fraud or willful non-compliance with respect to the AHP requirements, the full amount of the AHP subsidy shall be recovered from the sponsor or owner by the applicant and returned to the Bank or, if previously agreed to by the Bank, shall be recovered by the Bank from the sponsor or owner. If efforts to recover the AHP subsidy from the sponsor or owner are unsuccessful, the applicant shall not be liable for such funds. In order to be able to implement this recapture requirement, the applicant is required, under proposed §960.16(a)(3)(ii), to have in place either:
