FR940317-2-00117 FR940317-2-00075 (3) To facilitate the creation of a linkage between IFLNN and U.S. institutions of higher learning that will continue to flourish after U.S. Government funding has ceased to be available. Grant Activities To achieve program objectives, the grantee institution/consortium will: (1) Help develop a structure for interdisciplinary training programs in English as a Foreign Language (EFL), business and management practices, and American studies at the IFLNN. (2) Conduct faculty and post-graduate student* exchanges in EFL, business, and American studies. Each exchange of persons must be a minimum of one month; however, longer visits, especially those involving faculty, are encouraged and are an important competitive factor. (*Post-graduate students must be on a faculty track and must not exceed 25% of all participants). (3) Provide for a U.S. faculty member who must be in residence in Nizhniy Novgorod for the duration of the program as program director to ensure everyday oversight of program details. (4) Arrange exchanges of other university personnel, including library and administrative officials. (5) Implement exchanges of library materials. (6) Develop new curricula and teaching materials, emphasizing content-area language instruction and EFL methodology developments. (7) Develop testing methods. (8) Advise IFLNN administrators on management, budget, fundraising skills, and other areas needed to operate in a decentralized environment. (9) Undertake the translation and publication of texts, as well as the distribution of relevant publications. Under Separate Funding, USIA Will Supplement Activities Conducted by the Grantee Institution and IFLNN With (1) An English Foreign Language Fellow (EFLF), assigned by the USIA office in Moscow, who will serve for two years as coordinator of U.S. Government-funded programs at IFLNN, including general oversight and monitoring. The EFLF will serve as the U.S. Information Agency presence at, and liaison between departments within, the IFLNN. University representatives must regularly consult with the EFLF regarding IFLNN activities. (2) Fulbright lecturers, academic specialists, and other support for the IFLNN. (3) The rights to Western texts which could be published locally. (4) Support for a student advising office, to provide interested students with information about admissions, courses of study, and other data regarding possible study in the United States, as well as information about other USG-funded exchanges and training programs. (5) An information center, which the USIA office in Moscow is in the process of establishing. Guidelines Eligibility In the U.S., participation in the program is open to accredited four-year colleges and universities with established American studies and business programs. Consortia of four-year colleges and universities are also eligible. Colleges/universities applying under this program may collaborate with U.S. scholarly, professional, or international educational associations and organizations. Proposals from institutions with experience working in Russia will receive preference. Proposals from a consortium must be submitted by a single member institution with authority to represent the consortium. The Agency encourages proposals from, and consortia including, eligible Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and other institutions in the U.S. with significant minority student enrollment. U.S. institutions are responsible for the submission of proposals and must collaborate with the IFLNN in planning and preparing proposals. U.S. and Russian institutions are encouraged to consult about the proposed project with U.S. Information Service (USIS) offices in Moscow. Institution Representatives Participants representing U.S. institutions and traveling under USIA grant support must be U.S. citizens. Participants representing the IFLNN must be citizens, nationals, or permanent residents of Russia. Projects must comply with J&hyph;1 visa regulations and must refer to this requirement in the proposal narative. Ineligibility A proposal will be deemed technically ineligible if: (1) It does not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet, including budgetary requirements. (2) The U.S. applicant is not an accredited four-year college or university. (3) The project includes profits or fees.
