FR940523-0-00018 FR940523-0-00006 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 98 [Docket No. 93&hyph;032&hyph;2] Importation of Certain Animal Semen AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the regulations to prohibit the importation of animal semen from any country other than the country in which it was collected. This action is intended to prevent the introduction of exotic animal diseases into the United States. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 22, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Roger Perkins, Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Products Staff, VS, APHIS, USDA, room 765B, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;4325. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 98 (referred to below as the regulations) govern the importation of animal germ plasm so as to prevent the introduction of contagious diseases of livestock or poultry into the United States. Subparts A and B of part 98 apply to certain animal embryos and subpart C applies to certain animal semen. On October 25, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 55026&hyph;55027, Docket No. 93&hyph;032&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations to prohibit the importation of animal semen from any country other than the country in which it was collected. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 60-day comment period ending December 27, 1993. During that period, we received three comments, one in support and two opposed. They were from a national veterinary association, a foreign agricultural agency, and a national association of zoological parks and aquariums. The comments opposing the proposal are discussed below. One commenter argues that this action would unreasonably restrict the trade of animal semen from certain European storage banks which stockpile animal semen collected in various other countries for export to the United States and elsewhere. The comment claims that because these banks are located in countries free of rinderpest, foot and mouth disease (FMD), and other diseases, and because all animal semen imported into the United States from these banks would have been collected in countries similarly free of disease, contaminated semen would only be imported into the United States if the semen were misidentified, commingled with contaminated semen, or otherwise contaminated while at the storage bank. Consequently, as an alternative to our proposal, the commenter suggests that we require veterinary guarantees attesting to the storage conditions of animal semen at regional storage banks after its import from the country of collection and before its export to the United States. Though veterinary guarantees concerning storage of animal semen after its arrival at a regional bank would help to prevent importation of contaminated animal semen into the United States, such guarantees still would not provide us with the control over semen collection we believe necessary to ensure that contaminated semen is not introduced into the United States. Under the regulations, in order to import animal semen into the United States from countries free of rinderpest and FMD, an importer must supply the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) with information regarding the health and origin of the donor animal and the location, date, and other details regarding the semen collection. When animal semen is imported into the United States from countries other than the country of its collection, the nature and quality of this required information is often deficient or incomplete, and, obtaining additional information can be difficult. We believe that such problems expose the United States to increased risk of animal disease being introduced inadvertently through the import of contaminated semen. Similarly, the other comment in opposition claims that this action would hinder animal conservation programs which depend on the use of regional storage banks containing animal semen of endangered species, including ruminants, collected in various countries. As an alternative to our proposal, the commenter suggests that we provide for the certification of foreign veterinary services with animal health standards equivalent to our own. After certification, these foreign veterinary services could regulate the export to the United States of animal semen collected in various countries and stored in their countries' regional banks. Allowing for this sort of certification would not provide us with the control over semen collection we believe necessary to ensure that contaminated semen is not introduced into the United States. We also believe that it would be especially difficult to certify foreign veterinary services as having animal health standards equivalent to our own; varying biological and epidemiological factors in different countries and regions compel some veterinary services to test imported and exported animals for diseases and pests that other veterinary services might not. Furthermore, there are and will continue to be available alternative conservation methods for endangered animals involving the importation of animal semen. For example, following the effective date of this action, animal semen still may be imported directly into the United States from the country of collection, even from FMD countries, if collected and transported in accordance with the regulations. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule and in this document, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule without change. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. We anticipate that the provisions of this rule will have little or no economic effect. The prohibition against importing animal semen from a country other than the country in which it was collected will not affect significantly the cost of doing business for importers. This rule only requires importers to import animal semen directly from the country in which it was collected; no countries currently allowed to export animal semen under the various regulations will be excluded as a source of animal semen as a result of this rule.
