FR940607-2-00113 FR940607-2-00069 [Investment Company Act Rel. No. 20327; 812&hyph;8962] Williamsburg Investment Trust, et al.; Application June 1, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). applicants: Williamsburg Investment Trust (the ``Trust''); Lowe, Brockenbrough, Tierney & Tattersall, Inc. (``LBT&T''); Flippin, Bruce & Porter, Inc. (``FBP''); and T. Leavell & Associates, Inc. (``T. Leavell''). relevant act sections: Exemption requested under sections 6(c) and 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1. summary of application: Applicants seek a conditional order permitting series of the Trust to deposit their daily uninvested cash balances into a single joint account to be used to enter into repurchase agreements. Applicants request that the order also apply to all future registered investment companies and series thereof (``Future Funds,'' and collectively with the Trust, the ``Funds'') for which LBT&T, FBP, or T. Leavell (collectively, the ``Advisors''), or any entity controlling, controlled by, or under common control with one or more of the Advisors serves as investment adviser. filing DATE: The application was filed on April 29, 1994. hearing or notification of hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on June 27, 1994 and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o John F. Splain, Esq., MGF Service Corp., 312 Walnut Street, 21st Floor, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 John V. O'Hanlon, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0578, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Trust is a registered open-end investment company that offers ten series: The Jamestown Balanced Fund, The Jamestown Equity Fund, The Jamestown Bond Fund, The Jamestown Short Term Bond Fund, The Jamestown Tax Exempt Virginia Fund, FBP Contrarian Balanced Fund, FBP Contrarian Equity Fund, the Alabama Tax Free Bond Fund, The Government Street Bond Fund, and the Government Street Equity Fund. 2. The Advisors are investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. Each Fund is advised by one of the Advisors. One or more of the Advisors (or a successor entity) will serve as the investment adviser to the Future Funds. 3. Each series of the Trust is authorized, and the Future Funds will be authorized, by their investment policies to invest in repurchase agreements. 4. Each Fund has or may be expected to have uninvested cash balances with its custodian bank which otherwise would not be invested in portfolio securities by its Advisor at the end of each trading day. In the normal course of business, such assets are or would be invested in overnight repurchase agreements with a bank or major brokerage house collateralized by U.S. Government securities in order to earn additional income. Every morning each Advisor, on behalf of the Funds it serves, begins negotiating the interest rate for repurchase agreements for that day and lining up securities required as collateral. Generally, some portion of the assets in the respective account of each Fund is received too late, or is too small, to be invested effectively in a separate transaction. Further, because each Fund must separately pursue, secure, and implement such investments, there is a duplication of effort that results in certain inefficiencies and may limit the return which some or all Funds can achieve.
