FR940607-0-00018 FR940607-0-00007 (2) Representative and specially qualified representative_ (i) Representative. A representative is a person compensated for services rendered in connection with the administrative proceeding, who is authorized to practice before the Internal Revenue Service or the Tax Court. (ii) Specially qualified representative. For purposes of paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a specially qualified representative is a representative (as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section) possessing a distinctive knowledge or a unique and specialized skill that is necessary to adequately represent the taxpayer in the proceeding. Examples of a unique and specialized skill or distinctive knowledge would be an identifiable practice specialty such as patent law or knowledge of a foreign law or language where such specialty or knowledge is necessary to adequately represent the taxpayer in the proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, neither knowledge of tax law nor experience in representing taxpayers before the Internal Revenue Service is considered distinctive knowledge or a unique and specialized skill. An extraordinary level of general representational knowledge and ability that is useful in all proceedings is not considered, in and of itself, distinctive knowledge or a unique and specialized skill. Specially qualified representatives also do not include those who have a distinctive knowledge of the underlying subject matter of the controversy in circumstances where such distinctive knowledge could reasonably be supplied through the use of an expert, or could readily be obtained through literature pertaining to the subject. (3) Limitation on fees for a representative_ (i) In general. Except as otherwise provided in this section, fees described in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section that are recoverable under section 7430 and the regulations thereunder as reasonable administrative costs may not exceed $75 per hour increased by a cost of living adjustment (and if appropriate, a special factor adjustment). (ii) Cost of living adjustment_ (A) In general. The Internal Revenue Service will make a cost of living adjustment to the $75 per hour limit by using the Consumer Price Index of All-Urban Consumers (CPI&hyph;U) published by the Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics and referenced in Internal Revenue Code section 1(f)(5). If the CPI&hyph;U is no longer published, a comparable index will be used, and any reference in this section to the CPI&hyph;U will be considered to refer to such comparable index. (B) Percentage adjustment. For purposes of paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, the base year for determining the cost of living adjustment is the calendar year 1986. The cost of living adjustment for fees incurred in any calendar year subsequent to 1986 is the percentage (if any) by which the yearly average CPI&hyph;U for the calendar year immediately prior to the year in which the fees are incurred exceeds the January CPI&hyph;U for the calendar year 1986. (iii) Special factor adjustment_ (A) In general. If the presence of a special factor is demonstrated by the taxpayer, the amount reimbursable is the amount of reasonable fees paid or incurred by the taxpayer in connection with the proceeding for the services of a representative as defined in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. (B) Special factor. A special factor is a factor, other than an increase in the cost of living, which justifies an increase in the $75 per hour limitation of section 7430(c)(1)(B)(iii). The novelty and difficulty of the issues, the undesirability of the case, the work and the ability of counsel, the results obtained, and customary fees and awards in other cases, are factors applicable to a broad spectrum of litigation and do not constitute special factors for the purpose of increasing the $75 per hour limitation. The limited availability of a specially qualified representative for the proceeding does constitute a special factor justifying an increase in the $75 per hour limitation.
