FR940527-2-00137 FR940527-2-00114 Release No. PA&hyph;18 Privacy Act of 1974: Modification and Deletion of Systems of Records AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission. ACTION: Notification of deletion of Privacy Act Systems of Records and minor changes to descriptions of existing records systems for the Securities and Exchange Commission. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Securities and Exchange Commission is deleting seven records systems that are either obsolete or were replaced by another existing system; and altering the notices of forty-three existing systems of records to reflect revisions to the agency's address, records retention and disposal schedule, notification procedures and record access procedures, updating the names of records systems, and designating new systems managers. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: GayLa D. Sessoms, Privacy Act Officer (202/942&hyph;4320), Office of the Executive Director, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the course of reviewing its Privacy Act Systems of Records notices, the Securities and Exchange Commission identified two systems notices whose records duplicate those covered by SEC&hyph;16 (Complaint Processing System). Another record system is no longer maintained separately as its records have been consolidated in SEC&hyph;102 (Enforcement Files). Three systems notices are being deleted because they are obsolete. SEC&hyph;15 (Comments on Commission and Securities Self-Regulatory Organization Rules Changes) is not retrieved by a name or personal identifier, and therefore not a legitimate Privacy Act System. The Commission also identified forty-three notices that require minor alterations. For the most part, these changes involve updating the Commission's address. The other changes include revising records and disposal procedures, notification procedures and record access procedures, revising the names of systems of records due to the renaming of an office, and designating new systems managers. None of these changes will affect an individual's ability to gain access to his or her records maintained by the Commission. * * * * * The following systems of records are either: (1) obsolete; (2) not retrieved by name or personal identifier and, therefore, not legitimate Privacy Act systems; or (3) no longer maintained by the SEC as independent systems and accordingly, the corresponding notices are deleted from the Federal Register . SEC&hyph;15 System name: Comments on Commission and Securities Self-Regulatory Organization Rules Changes SEC&hyph;20 System name: Defendant Index SEC&hyph;33 System name: General Correspondence Files SEC&hyph;39 System name: Mailing Address Labels (MAL) SEC&hyph;60 System name: Subject File Index SEC&hyph;72 System name: Denver Regional Office Regulation A Control Cards SEC&hyph;78 System name: Fort Worth Regional Office and Houston Branch Office General Indices * * * * * The following systems of records notices are being amended to reflect changes in the following: system names, system locations, retention and disposal schedules, system managers and offices, notification procedures and record access procedures. SEC&hyph;1, SEC&hyph;2, SEC&hyph;6, SEC&hyph;7 and SEC&hyph;8 These systems are amended as follows: 1. System location: The reference to SEC Regional and Branch Offices is removed and replaced by SEC Regional and District Offices. 2. Retention and disposal: This section is revised to read: These records are transferred to the Federal Records Center periodically for storage. They are controlled by file number and disposed of in accordance with the Commission's formal Records Control Schedule outlined at 17 CFR 200.80f. Certain files that have been categorized as permanent are retired to the National Archives and Records Administration, after the designated storage period at the Federal Records Center. 3. System manager(s) and address: This section is revised to read: Records Officer, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549.
