FR940817-2-00088 FR940817-2-00043 In summary, the three areas of uncertainty reflected in the composite UF of 10 used in deriving the manganese RfC estimates are appropriate because they are not adequately addressed by available studies. Ethyl stated that ORD has overlooked evidence from the Canadian exposure studies that indicate personal exposure levels of manganese are likely to be lower than indicated by the PTEAM Riverside Study. The Agency considers Ethyl's exposure assessment based on Canadian data to be deficient in several respects. Given the fundamental differences in the sampling procedures for the Canadian and Riverside studies, as well as other differences in the design and conduct of the studies in question, the Agency continues to judge the PTEAM Riverside data to be far more useful to exposure assessment purposes that the Canadian data. The ``consistency'' in the Canadian data that Ethyl emphasizes is a subjective matter that can be considered from more than one perspective. 68 68 For specific discussion related to these issues the reader is referred to Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, II&hyph;A&hyph;15. Ethyl also disagrees with certain assumptions and features of ORD's draft exposure assessment. In particular, Ethyl claims that ORD's draft ``PTEAM Riverside exposure model'' overestimates manganese exposure levels for selected Canadian cities by a factor of approximately three when used with a factor for projected increases in MMT usage. Ethyl's application of the ``Riverside model'' is incorrect for several reasons, including Ethyl's use of ambient monitoring data to estimate personal exposure levels (ORD used stationary indoor monitoring data collected as part of a personal exposure study). The Agency notes that qualitative differences in meteorology and the degree of automobile usage provide a more likely basis for the differences between Riverside and the Canadian cities cited by Ethyl. Ethyl also states that the manganese emission rate from catalyst vehicles should be a factor of three lower than that for noncatalyzed vehicles, which would lower ORD's projected exposure estimates by almost the same factor. After reevaluating the limited data on manganese emissions from noncatalyst and catalyst vehicles, ORD has concluded that no specific emission rate can be justified by the available data and that, consequently, an assumption of equivalent emission rates for both types of vehicles is reasonable and appropriate. Ethyl cited data pertaining to the amount of iron and manganese in soil and paved road dust (PRD) in Riverside that indicate the percentage of automotive contribution to personal exposure levels of PM 4 manganese should be lower than the value ORD used. ORD agrees that the iron:manganese data for Riverside PRD provide a more geographically specific basis for estimating automotive contributions, and therefore the projection estimates of personal exposure levels of manganese would be slightly lower because of this adjustment. 69 This adjustment in the exposure assessment was incorporated into the final assessment as described above in section VI-C. 69 This and other adjustments in the exposure assessment are incorporate in to the final ORD assessment. For further information regarding this matter, see Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, II&hyph;A&hyph;12. Ethyl states that Riverside is not representative of other U.S. cities, and ORD does not disagree. Nevertheless, ORD believes Riverside is reasonably representative of the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area. Consequently, the PTEAM Riverside exposure assessment can be considered representative for at least 14.5 million people (the population of the greater Los Angeles area). To the extent that other U.S. cities share some degree of resemblance in meteorology, vehicles miles traveled, and possibly other characteristics of relevance to automotive manganese levels, the estimated exposure levels for Riverside may be pertinent to other locales and portions of locales as well. However, ORD can only point to qualitative similarities and is unable to make any quantitative statement on the degree of relevance of the Riverside data to other U.S. cities. In its May 27 submission, 70 Ethyl has noted that a distribution of 24-hour average exposure levels is likely to have higher exposures at the upper portion of the distribution than would a longer term average for the same population. ORD agrees that this is likely, but the lack of adequate exposure data make it impossible to determine what the actual distribution would be. Although Ethyl attempts to correct the distribution of 24-hour average data to represent a longer term average, ORD notes unstated assumptions and possible errors in Ethyl's calculations and prefers alternative approaches to estimating such a correction to the distribution. 71 70 See Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, Category II&hyph;D&hyph;98. 71 For further information regarding this matter, see Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, Category II&hyph;A&hyph;15, page 40. Ethyl commented that ORD's newly released PTEAM exposure modeling shows that no (emphasis in original) portion of the population would experience manganese exposures above the 0.1&hyph;0.3 μg/m 3 range. The Agency believes that Ethyl is mistaken in making this conclusion. Statements and graphical information in ORD's risk assessment indicate that an estimated 5&hyph;10% of the Riverside/Los Angeles population would be projected to experience personal exposure levels of PM 4 manganese at or above 0.1 μg/m 3 . Ethyl's statement regarding EPA's exposure assessment would be correct only if it were to replace ``0.1&hyph;0.3 μg/m 3 range'' with ``0.3 μg/m 3 range''. Ethyl commented that the ``ORD risk assessment projects that the 99th percentile manganese exposure would be about 0.2 m g/m 3 or lower, while the 90th to 95th percentiles would experience manganese exposures below even 0.1 m g/m 3 .'' On the contrary, as shown in the ORD risk assessment, by one estimate, the 98th percentile exposure level would be approximately 0.2 m g/m 3 , and both estimates are above 0.1 m g/m 3 at the 95th percentile. (See Figure 2, Section VI-C of this Decision.) Finally, Ethyl raises issues from comparing ORD's assessment of MMT with ORD's assessment of methyl tertiary butyl ether (MTBE). Ethyl reduces the official EPA RfC for MTBE by inappropriate uncertainty factors, compares the result to both appropriate and inappropriate exposure values for MTBE, finds an overlap of these health and exposure assessments for MTBE, and concludes that, by comparison, MMT was treated too conservatively or erroneously. Basically, because of substantial differences between the databases and characteristics of MTBE (a volatile organic compound that remains in the body for a matter of hours to days) and Mn (a metal that accumulates in the body), Ethyl's direct comparisons are not valid. 72 72 For further discussion regarding this matter, the reader is referred to Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, II&hyph;A&hyph;15, Section IV. Comments from other interested parties regarding potential health concerns related to manganese exposure are addressed in ``ORD's Response to Public Comments'' found in Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26. VII. Fuels and Fuel Additives Registration and Research Needs To more accurately define an RfC for manganese and to more accurately predict the distribution of expected manganese exposures associated with MMT use, additional research will have to be completed. Such research would ultimately lead to a risk assessment which could better define the risk associated with MMT use. Furthermore, regulations under sections 211(a), (b), and (e) of the Act, set forth a procedure under which required health and exposure data must be submitted prior to any new use of a fuel or additive. Given the basis for today's decision and the purpose of the testing requirements imposed by these regulations, the Agency expects that the testing required to resolve the concerns upon which today's decision is based will also be required under these regulations. The following section explains these newly promulgated requirements and how they would apply to the use of MMT in unleaded gasoline.
