FR940719-2-00011 FR940719-2-00003 Washington Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured By (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance of laws of the State of Washington, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects your coverage: Article III_TERMS AND CONDITIONS, Insured Period section, second paragraph ``A'' is amended to read as follows: A. Termination or cancellation of coverage under the MPCI Policy in which event coverage under this Policy shall terminate as dictated by the following rules: In the event that: (a) You fail to pay the premium, We may cancel this Policy with ten (10) days written notice of cancellation to the insured and also to any person shown by the policy to have an interest in any loss which may occur thereunder. (b) You have perpetrated a fraud or material misrepresentation upon Us, We may cancel this Policy with twenty (20) days written notice of cancellation. Article X_WAIVER OR CHANGE OF POLICY PROVISIONS is deleted in its entirety and the following new Article X_WAIVER OR CHANGE OF POLICY PROVISIONS is substituted in lieu thereof: Article X_Waiver or Change of Policy Provisions A waiver or change of any provision must be in writing and approved by Us. Our request for an appraisal or examination will not result in a waiver of any of Our rights or any of Your rights. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and any other endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged. Wisconsin Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured By (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance laws of the State of Wisconsin, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. Notice of Loss You must provide to Us written notice of loss within fifteen (15) days and proof of loss within thirty (30) days, or as soon as is reasonably possible, after such loss. Failure by You to give us such notice does not invalidate or reduce Your claim unless We are prejudiced by Your failure to give Us such notice. Subrogation We shall be entitled to seek subrogation as to any recovery made by You from a third party only to the extent that the total amount recovered by You from such third party together with any indemnity paid to You by Us hereunder exceeds all damages sustained by You. Knowledge of Agent Knowledgeable by Our agent of any fact which breaches a condition of this Policy shall be knowledge by Us if such fact is known to the agent at the time this Policy is issued or an application made or thereafter becomes known to the agent in the course of his dealings as an agent with you. Any fact which breaches a condition of this Policy and is known to the agency shall not void this Policy or defeat a recovery thereon in the event of loss. Misrepresentation and Breach of Warranty No misrepresentation or breach of affirmative warranty made by You or on Your behalf in the negotiation of this Policy affects Our obligation under this Policy unless We rely on it and it is either material or made with intent to deceive, or unless the facts misrepresented or falsely warranted contribute to the loss. No failure of a condition prior to the loss and no breach of a promissory warrant affects Our obligation under this Policy unless it exists at the time of the loss and either increases the risk at the time of loss or contributes to the loss. The provisions of this condition do not apply to failure to tender payment of premium. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and any other endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged. Wyoming Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured By (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance of laws of the State of Wyoming, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects your coverage: Article IV_DUTIES AFTER LOSS, Our Duties section, Paragraph ``C'', is deleted in its entirety and the following new Paragraph ``C'' is substituted in lieu thereof: C. We will pay Your loss within forty-five (45) days after You receive an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment in regard to a loss under the MPCI Policy and the amount of the indemnity under this Policy can be determined. Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is deleted in its entirety and the following new Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is substituted in lieu thereof: Article XIII_Suit Against Us You cannot bring suit against Us unless You have complied with all of the policy provisions. If You do enter suit against Us, You must do so within four (4) years from the date of discovery of the loss. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and all other endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged.
