FR940930-0-00250 FR940930-0-00030 IV. Provisions of the Interim Final Rule The minimum laboratory testing fee was reduced from $17.10 to $8.55. The original minimum fee published on August 9, 1993, was based on current commodity product grading and inspection fees which specify a minimum one-half hour charge. However, some laboratory analyses applying to dairy product grading can be performed within a one-quarter hour and therefore would incur a corresponding $8.55 fee. The laboratory tests with a revised one-quarter hour charge are listed as follows: (1) Titratable acidity, (2) density or specific gravity, (3) scorched particles, (4) net weight per can, and (5) flavor. Analysis time includes the allotted periods for sample tracking, reagent and standard solution preparation, sample preparation and laboratory bench analysis, cleanup, analytical result determination and interpretation with supervisory review, and the time for issuing a test report. The individual laboratory test fee determinations in this rule must necessarily include the length of time spent on tests performed for quality control, quality assurance, and proficiency testing. The schedules of consolidated fees and charges for the single analyte testings were established in the rule published on August 9, 1993, based on the reasoning that there is, in general, comparable complexity of procedures and similar methodology for different commodities and their products. However, some standard methods or tests for the examination of dairy products have a dissimilar process for testing a given analyte, shorter procedures, decreased complexity of reagent and materials preparation, reduced analyst manipulations with samples and their derivatives, fewer measurements, and/or a lower degree of interpretation required. Consequently, these dairy tests are less complex and would justify a reduction of the fee. The laboratory fees for dairy products that were lowered in the interim final rule because the tests are less complex are as follows: (1) Fat (cheese), (2) fat (dairy products except cheese), (3) salt titration, (4) peroxide value, (5) free fatty acid, (6) solubility index, (7) whey protein nitrogen, (8) vitamin A (dry milk products), (9) alkalinity of ash, (10) antibiotic, (11) complete Kohman, (12) direct microscopic clump count, (13) proteolytic count, (14) coliform, and (15) Salmonella Step 1. V. Discussion of Comment Since the issuance of the interim final rule on May 10, 1994, only one response was received from another agency within the Department (the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service). That response persuaded the Agricultural Marketing Service to reconsider its fee for flavor in the fee schedule in Table 3 of the earlier rule (58 FR 42408&hyph;42448) of August 9, 1993. The response stated that the flavor test fee is too high for testing flavors in dairy products and that a reduction of the flavor analysis fee for dairy products from a three-quarter hour charge to a one-quarter hour charge or lower be considered. The flavor test charge of three-quarter hour or $25.65 was not specifically directed to dairy products nor modified with the interim final rule issuance. Our records show that 8,900 flavor tests of dairy products were conducted in the Science Division Midwestern Laboratory during Fiscal Year 1993. There was only a limited number of additional flavor testings of dairy products by the Resident Dairy Graders. The Agency agrees with the respondent's recommendation regarding the dairy flavor test fee. Therefore, the flavor test for dairy products in Table 3 is set at the recommended minimum one-quarter hour charge or corresponding $8.55 fee. Flavor tests for other products will remain at the three-quarter hour charge or $25.65. The one-quarter hour charge is adequate for the dairy flavor test since a battery of other laboratory tests are usually performed in conjunction with this sensory analysis which involve the same preliminary sample preparation steps. VI. Effective Date of Rule It is found that good cause that exists for not postponing the effective date of this rule until 30 days after publication in the Federal Register because: (1) The interim final rule provided a comment period, and the only comment received was from an agency within the Department. (2) That comment persuaded the Science Division to lower the dairy flavor test fee. (3) For the benefit of those using the test, the lower fee should become effective immediately. Lists of Subjects 7 CFR Part 58 Food grades and standards, Dairy products, Food labeling, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 7 CFR Part 91 Administrative practice and procedure, Agricultural commodities, Fees and charges, Laboratories. 7 CFR Part 93 Citrus fruits, Fruit juices, Fruits, Laboratories, Nuts, Vegetable. 7 CFR Part 94 Eggs and egg products, Laboratories, Poultry and poultry products.
