FR940317-1-00128 FR940317-1-00013 (2) Furnish instructions and advice as to the evidence required to substantiate the claim, assist in the completion of claim forms, and help with the procurement of evidence in support of the loss and the amount claimed. (3) Assure that the description of the items and the damage shown on DD Form 1844 are sufficiently detailed to permit verification of the purchase price and replacement price or repair cost of the item claimed. (4) Inform a claimant of the time limits within which a claim must be filed in order to be considered. (5) Inform all claimants that they must file and settle with their private insurance companies before the JA/claims attorney will approve a claim for payment under this chapter. Claimants who state they have no insurance will be asked to certify that fact and the written statement will be included in the claim file. The claimant will be required to submit proof of final action by the insurer. Claims personnel will examine each claim after an insurance settlement and determine if prior settlement by the insurer (including excess valuation coverage) is more advantageous to the claimant. A claims JA/attorney may decide to approve a claim for payment under this subpart without a claimant first settling with his or her insurance in exceptional cases where an insurance company improperly refuses to pay a claim or the JA determines the claimant has good cause (see ยง536.181(a) (2) and (3). (6) Advise a claimant to notify the JA of any offer of settlement or denial of liability by any third party, and to secure the JA's written consent before executing a release or acceptance of any such offer. (7) Take an active and continuing role in publicizing claims information to soldiers and their families. (c) Other actions. The JA will ensure that_ (1) DD Form 1840R is dispatched to the appropriate third party within 75 days of delivery of goods, that a copy of the DD Form 1840 and 1840R is dispatched to the destination transportation office, in appropriate cases, and that a signed and dated copy is maintained and incorporated into any claim filed. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 2&hyph;55.) (2) The servicing transportation office is directed to inspect damaged property in appropriate cases. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 2&hyph;41.) (3) The DD Form 1844 is completed (amount allowed column, remarks column, and where appropriate, either or both columns for exceptions) prior to settling the claim. (4) All documents written in a foreign language are translated into English, either verbatim or in summarized form. (5) Unearned freight charges are deducted for property which carriers lose or irreparably damage. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 3&hyph;27.) (6) A claims office representative will periodically attend local transportation office outbound briefings to ensure that appropriate information is being disseminated to soldiers. (7) Inspections by claims office personnel are conducted in appropriate cases (large claim, reconsideration, fraudulent claim) and incorporated into the file. (d) Financial. The JA will properly manage claims funds. This includes_ (1) On a monthly basis, reconcile recovery accounts with the servicing finance and accounting office (FAO) to ensure moneys are being properly deposited into the correct account; (2) On a monthly basis, reconcile expenditure accounts with the servicing FAO to ensure that FAO expenditures match claims office expenditures; and (3) Ensuring expenditures are from current fiscal year accounts. ยง536.182 Finality of settlement. Except as provided in ยง536.180(b), the settlement of a claim is final and conclusive for all purposes (31 U.S.C. 3721(k)). Recovery From Third Party ยง536.183 Scope. (a) The Army Carrier Recovery Program involves the supervising and pursuing of administrative settlements of all claims in favor of the Government against third parties arising from claims settled under the preceding sections of this chapter. The Program includes making and issuing policies, procedures, and instructions pertaining to recovery action. (b) The term third parties as used in this section, refers to all types of contractors, carriers, and insurers of personal property.
