FR940913-2-00006 FR940913-2-00003 No significant adverse environmental impacts will result from installations, with the exception of minor inconveniences to local residents during construction. Alternatives The measure plan consisted of three alternatives, the no action plan, construction of 4 miles of channels, and the removal of all residents from the flood area. Alternative 2, the construction and modification of the channels, was chosen as the best economical and cost effective solution. Alternative No. 2 has been modified three times to avoid possible endangered species habitat and wetlands at the request of those agencies involved in the comment processes. Consultation_Public Participation Formal agency consultation began with the initiation of the notification of the State Single Point of Contact for Federal Assistance in April 1992. Agencies were again notified when planning was authorized in August 1992. Scoping meetings were conducted with SCS staff and included representatives from U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, South Carolina Wildlife and Marine Resources Department, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, and South Carolina Coastal Council. Meetings were held during April 1992, September 1992, June 1993, and September 1993. Planning involved all agencies identified and included county government and landowners within the project area. Specific consultation was conducted with the state Historic Preservation officer and residents within the watershed as to cultural and historical resources. The measure plan was transmitted to all participating and interested agencies, groups, and individuals for review and comments in January 1994. Public meeting with landowners and sponsors were held throughout the planning process to keep all interested parties informed of the study progress and to obtain public input to the measure plan and environmental evaluation. Agency consultation and public participation to date has shown no unresolved conflicts with the implementation of the selected plan. Conclusion The Environmental Assessment summarized above indicates that this Federal action will not cause significant local, regional, or national impacts on the environment. Therefore based on the above findings, I have determined that an environmental impact statement for the Burgess Community Flood Prevention Measure is not required. Dated: September 1, 1994. Jose J. Acevedo, Deputy State Conservationist. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22537 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;16&hyph;M
