FR941027-2-00017 FR941027-2-00010 f. Administration. g. Equitable distribution of funds to local grantees. h. Ensuring quality and evaluating the efforts of the grantee and local subgrantees. i. The principal leaders who will implement the plan are well qualified for their responsibilities. 5. Evaluation The plan includes an adequate process for evaluating: a. Overall performance (of the grantee and subgrantees). b. Program activities. c. Youth development/educational outcomes. d. Community impact. 6. Sustainability The extent to which the applicant: a. Demonstrates the ability and willingness to collaborate with the State Commission, Alternative Administrative Entity, or Transitional Entity. b. Fosters collaborative efforts among local educational agencies, local government agencies, community-based agencies, businesses, and State agencies. c. Has strong, broad-based partnerships and community support. d. Presents evidence that financial resources will be available to continue the Learn and Serve America effort after the expiration of the grant. 7. Innovation and Replicability The extent to which the plan: a. Advances knowledge about how to do effective and innovative community service and service-learning. b. Enhances the effort within the broader K&hyph;12 field. c. Will assist others in learning from experience and replicating the program concept. 8. Cost-Effectiveness The extent to which the budget: a. Correlates with the program narrative. b. Details costs by providing justification and appropriate calculations for each line item. c. Sufficiently supports project activities. d. Represents reasonable costs, given current rates. B. Performance to Date (40%) The Corporation recommends that consideration of past performance be based on whether the grantee has: 1. Made reasonable progress toward accomplishing project goals and objectives. 2. Adequately addressed issues or problems that occurred or has developed sufficient plans to address them in year two. 3. Met reporting requirements in a timely manner. 4. Conducted adequate planning, capacity-building and training activities. 5. Implemented, operated, and expanded service-learning programs through grants to local partnerships, as stated in the original proposal. 6. Implemented, operated, and expanded school-based programs involving adult volunteers, if applicable. II. Priority Areas for New Grants and Renewals In addition to those objectives and priorities described by the Corporation statute and regulations, the Corporation is recommending that new and existing grantees be requested to address the following priorities in their Learn and Serve America plans. A. State Infrastructure/Capacity Building An effective service-learning state infrastructure includes a statewide network of service-learning practitioners, policy makers and members who advocate the advancement of service-learning methodology. This infrastructure also includes state financial and human resources committed to service-learning efforts, as well as state level support for service-learning. Infrastructure is key to realizing the full potential of service-learning to reform education and rebuild communities. There is a need to build both legislative and financial support at the state level, especially as future federal funding may not be available. Priority will be given to state plans that institutionalize service-learning, as well as those that leverage dollars at the state and local levels. B. Partnerships With Other Education Reform Efforts To help build the infrastructure needed to support service-learning as a methodology for education reform, the Corporation will encourage linkages with other education reform efforts, such as Goals 2000, School-to-Work transition and middle grades restructuring. States will be encouraged to promote such linkages through advocating for the inclusion of service-learning language in state education reform legislation and school board policies. Connections to state and federal education reform efforts help promote institutionalization and sustainability. As states consider school restructuring or the new methodology of education reformers, the Corporation should encourage them to include service-learning in their plans. Priority will be given to programs that utilize dollars from other federal education legislation or promote linkage with state level reform efforts. C. Qualitative/Quantitative Research and Evaluation Up to this point, the service-learning research focus has been mainly on personal development with data collection being mostly anecdotal. To further expand and sustain service-learning as a legitimate pedagogy, the field needs a solid base of research to support it. Once academic improvement is solidly documented, more members of the education community will support service-learning as a legitimate tool for education reform. Priority will be granted to proposals which plan to document service-learning outcomes, especially those focusing on measurement of improved academic achievement and attendance, and reductions in disciplinary actions. This type of solid research will be useful during the reauthorization process. D. Coordinated Streams of Service When all CNCS grantees in a given state work together, it is possible to ``get things done'' more effectively and efficiently. AmeriCorps Members can strengthen Learn and Service programs by serving as service-learning coordinators at the school district or individual school level. Senior Corps members can offer valuable skills and experience to Learn and Serve members through pre-service training and post-service reflection activities. Priority will be granted to proposing linking the various streams of service in the state. III. Renewal Period The Corporation recommends renewing grants for one year only. This will allow Learn and Serve America staff to ensure greater quality in plans and to promote program improvement. IV. Program Components To Be Addressed The Corporation recommends that the following program components be addressed in FY 1995. These components were identified by staff and outside peer reviewers as overall weaknesses in the proposals submitted under Learn and Serve America in 1994. A. Academic Components Connections to the curriculum/education reform Proposals submitted this year demonstrate the need for the Corporation to work with grantees at three levels of the service-learning integration continuum: awareness/basic introduction to service-learning methodology; making clear connections to the academic curriculum; and articulating clear academic outcomes and ways to measure those outcomes. If the Corporation is to fund service- learning programs, then we need to work with grantees to enhance the academic components of their plans. B. Evaluation The Corporation recommends that grantees be encouraged to consider evaluation at three levels: information to be collected for the national evaluation; evaluation of the work at the primary grantee level, such as State Education Agency, State Commission, or national non-profit; and the evaluation of local program (subgrantee) activities. Grantees will be encouraged to define clear, measurable goals and objectives, as well as to develop or select adequate measurement tools. C. Innovation/Replicability The Corporation recommends grantees to seek viable approaches in achieving program replicability and innovation. The Corporation encourages programs to work closely with the Learn and Serve America K&hyph;12 staff to establish a framework to assist in the development of new ideas and the expansion of or building upon proven model programs. D. Sustainability The Corporation encourages grantees to design a clearly defined and detailed plan for program sustainability. Grantees should articulate a comprehensive long-term plan that not only cites specific monetary and in-kind resources, but incorporates state infrastructure and capacity building. E. Coordination With Other Service Streams in the State Programs are encouraged to coordinate their service efforts with the state's service network, including youth, educators, State Commission members, policy makers, parents, representatives from community organizations and national nonprofits. Improving collaboration strengthens state service-learning efforts, presents a stronger, more unified voice for service-learning at the state policy level, promotes sustainability and helps states achieve goals with fewer dollars through resource sharing. F. Indian Tribes and U.S. Territories The Corporation anticipates that its technical assistance and outreach efforts to Indian Tribes and Territories will improve in Year Two. The Corporation encourages Indian Tribes and Territories to identify specific areas of need so the Corporation may better assess less developed program areas and strengthen the overall quality of Indian Tribe proposals for Year Two. V. Guidelines for 1994 Renewals A. Amount of Funding Requested by Applicants for Renewal The Corporation recommends the following guidelines concerning the amount of funding that may be requested by year two grantees. 1. State Educational Agencies The FY 1995 appropriation for SEA allotment grants will increase approximately 25%. The SEAs will be informed of exactly what their formula allotments will be in FY 1995 when renewal materials are sent to them. 2. State Commissions, Grantmaking Entities (School- and Community-Based), and Fund for the Advancement of Service-Learning Grantees Approximate second year funding levels were determined during the year one application process. All applicants in these categories were asked to submit three year plans. 3. Indian Tribes/Territories Most grants are expected to upgrade from planning to operational programs. We plan to limit these requests to an additional 60&hyph;75% increase over the amount of the FY 1994 planning grant.
