FR940207-1-00007 FR940207-1-00001 (C) The name of the principal alien and his or her nationality; (D) The principal alien's immigration status and his or her relationship to the applicant; (E) The date the principal alien's tour of duty in the United States is expected to be completed; (F) Whether the employment request is based on a bilateral agreement or a de facto arrangement and the country with which such agreement or arrangement has been made; (G) Whether the applicant is a full-time, post-secondary student; (H) A certification by the preparer of the letter which states: ``I certify that the above information is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and according to the official records of this command, and I favorably recommend that the application be approved.'' The certification shall also include the name, rank and title of the certifying officer; his or her commercial phone number and command; and the date of certification. A letter for an applicant whose principal alien is assigned to NATO in the Norfolk, Virginia area shall be signed and certified by an authorized legal officer attached to the Supreme Allied Commander Atlantic (SACLANT). SACLANT shall keep copies of each application and letter for three years from the date of the letter's issuance. A letter for applicants whose NATO principal alien is assigned elsewhere in the United States shall be signed and certified by the legal officer at the base or command to which the NATO principal alien is assigned. The legal officer shall send a copy of each application and letter to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, Foreign Military Rights Affairs [(OSD/FMRA), 4D830 Pentagon, Washington, DC 20201] which shall keep copies of each application and letter for three years from the date of the letter's issuance; and, (I) Certain bilateral dependent employment agreements contain a numerical limitation on the number of dependents authorized to work. If this is the case, the certifying officer must consult with the Department of State's Office of Protocol to confirm that this numerical limitation has not been reached prior to transmitting any such dependent employment application to the Service. The countries with such limitations are indicated on the bilateral /de facto dependent employment listing issued by the Department of State's Family Liaison Office. (ii) A dependent applying under the terms of a de facto arrangement must also attach a statement from the prospective employer which includes the dependent's name, a description of the position offered and the duties to be performed, the salary offered, and verification that the dependent possesses the qualifications for the position. (iii) A dependent applying under paragraph (s)(2) (iii) or (iv) of this section must also submit a certified statement from the post-secondary educational institution confirming that he or she is pursuing studies on a full-time basis. (iv) A dependent applying under paragraph (s)(2)(v) of this section must also submit medical certification regarding his or her condition. The certification should identify the dependent and the certifying physician and give the physician's phone number; identify the condition, describe the symptoms and provide a prognosis; and certify that the dependent is unable to maintain a home of his or her own. (v) The Service may require additional supporting documentation, but only after consultation with SACLANT, the Department of Defense, and the Department of State. (6) Period of time for which employment may be authorized. If approved, an application to accept or continue employment under this paragraph shall be granted in increments of not more than three years each. (7) Income tax, Social Security liability; non-enjoyment of immunity. Dependents who are granted employment authorization under this paragraph are responsible for payment of federal, state, and local income taxes, employment and related taxes and Social Security contributions on any remuneration received. Such dependents do not enjoy any criminal, civil, or administrative immunity with respect to matters arising out of their employment (8) No appeal. There shall be no appeal from a denial of permission to accept or continue employment under this paragraph.
