FR940721-1-00033 FR940721-1-00010 Following the completion of the remedial design (RD) in August 1992, the remedial action (RA) commenced. Over the course of the RA, which was completed in June 1993, over 2,400 cubic yards of contaminated soil and debris (i.e., 173 truckloads containing 3,514 tons of material) were removed from the site. No intact drums were encountered during the excavation. Analysis of samples collected from monitoring wells located downgradient of the disposal trench two weeks after backfilling the trench indicated no contaminants had migrated to the wells as a result of excavation activities. Post-RA sampling by NYSDOH, as well as post-RA quarterly sampling by EPA, also indicated no contamination migration to residential wells. Summary of Community Relations Activities Overall, there has been moderate community interest shown with respect to activities at the site. Initially, interest was high due to the unauthorized excavation at the site, reports of neighborhood children playing at the site, the possibility of contaminated wells in the neighborhood, and the potential to pollute Woodman Pond (which, in part, contributed to the Village of Hamilton's decision to install municipal wells instead of continuing to use Woodman Pond for municipal drinking water). Interest in the site declined, however, when the testing and re-testing of local residential wells indicated that no contaminants attributable to the site were present in local wells, visible improvements were made in site security, and on-going contact was maintained with local officials and the community. At a public meeting on February 13, 1991, EPA presented the results of the RI/FS and identified the preferred remedial alternative for the site. The remedy presented for the site was extremely well received since it satisfied the prior requests of local officials and citizens for the complete removal of the chemicals at the site from their community. Summary of Operation and Maintenance and Five-Year Review Requirements There are no operation and maintenance requirements since all remediation activities have been completed. Because the implemented remedy does not result in hazardous substances remaining on-site above health-based levels, the five-year review does not apply. Summary of How the Deletion Criteria Has Been Met Residential well monitoring since 1986 has consistently indicated no contaminant migration to any of the local residential wells from the site. RI and RD sampling results indicated no site-related contaminants in on- or off-site monitoring wells. One year of post-RA quarterly sampling completed by EPA in January 1994 did not show any contaminants from the site in either the on-site monitoring wells or the local residential wells. The primary pathways that threatened public health at the C&J Disposal site were direct exposure and possible ingestion of the chemicals at the site, as well as the possible future contamination of the ground water and local wells and the impact to the local environment from deterioration or disturbance of the contaminated waste. The results of the post-RA monitoring confirm that excavation and removal of the contaminants of concern from the C&J Disposal site renders both current and future pathways incomplete. EPA and the State have determined that the response actions undertaken at the C&J Disposal site are protective of human health and the environment. In accordance with 40 CFR Section 300.425(e), sites may be deleted from the NPL where no further response is appropriate. EPA, in consultation with the State, has determined that all appropriate responses under CERCLA have been implemented and that no further cleanup by responsible parties is appropriate. Having met the deletion criteria, EPA proposes to delete the C&J Disposal site from the NPL. Dated: July 1, 1994. William J. Muzynski, Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17669 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
