FR940810-0-00131 FR940810-0-00021 Paragraph (k) General Industry Standard. Paragraph (l) Construction and Shipyard Employment Standards: Housekeeping practices have been shown to be effective means of reducing employee exposure to asbestos. OSHA is specifying that the now required cleaning of floors and surfaces on which dust containing asbestos can accumulate be performed at least once per shift in primary and secondary manufacturing. In addition to the current requirement that a vacuum containing a HEPA-filter must be used, where feasible, wet methods must also be used for clean-up. Once asbestos dust is entrained, it can accumulate on surfaces leading to potentially substantial levels of exposure. Routine removal of dust can greatly reduce these accumulations and the risks that they pose. There was little over-all objection to this provision from the participants in the rulemaking process. However, the Asbestos Information Association asked that OSHA not revise the current housekeeping requirements which specify that all surfaces be maintained as free as practicable of accumulation of dusts and wastes containing asbestos (Ex. 142, p. 7). They argue that if OSHA requires once per shift vacuuming, it would lead to less effective housekeeping efforts since vacuuming might then occur at a later time in the areas most in need of housekeeping than occurs with current cleanup whenever a fiber accumulation occurs.'' OSHA is unconvinced by this argument. If the employer believes that more frequent cleanup is needed, it should be performed. The standard merely requires that vacuuming be done no less often than once per shift. The employer can determine when during a shift, vacuuming is most useful and perform it then. Flooring Maintenance Requirements There are now a new §§1926.1101 (g)(2)(iv) and 1910.1001(f)(1)(xi), which prohibit the sanding of floor tiles containing asbestos. Further, only low abrasion pads may be used at speeds lower than 300 rpm in ``stripping'' operations, and stripping of unwaxed or unfinished floor tile containing asbestos is prohibited. OSHA believes that without such restrictions this type of mechanized activity may result in the release of significant levels of asbestos fibers into the air. In addition, the new provisions allow asbestos-containing floors to be mechanically buffed without limitation on the speed of the buffing machine, so long as the floor has sufficient finish to preclude contact between the pad and the asbestos-containing material. In most cases, at least 3 layers of wax will provide that margin. If the manufacturer's instructions specify a thicker wax layer, those instructions must be followed. (See testimony of J. Harless of Pioneer Eclipse, ISSA). These requirements are changed in some respects from the July, 1990 proposal, which would have further restricted stripping and burnishing activities. The prohibition concerning ``sanding'' of asbestos-containing floors was supported by ISSA and others, and it unchanged from the proposal. (See Ex. 136D). The changes from the proposal reflect the comments and data submitted to the record. The data show that now permitted activities are not expected to result in the release of significant asbestos contamination. In addition, since OSHA's proposal had used various terms relating to floor care imprecisely, the final provisions conform the language to the common understandings of the floor care industry. Thus, ``stripping'' is defined as a wet process to remove the floor polish or finish using chemical strippers, or abrasive pads. (See Ex. 136D, ISSA's comments). ``Burnishing'' is dry buffing of floor polish by a high-speed rotary disc machine or otherwise. The core requirements of OSHA's new provisions are that no ``sanding'', i.e. the abrading of asbestos-containing material to even out the surface, is allowed: that ``stripping'' of finishes of asbestos-containing flooring must be conducted wet using the least abrasive pad possible; and that burnishing may be performed only on floors which have sufficient finish so that the pad does not contact the unfinished asbestos-containing material. OSHA believes that these three principles of asbestos-containing floor maintenance are sufficiently clear and flexible to apply to all kinds of floor maintenance activities, even if the activity is described using different terminology. OSHA is basing these provisions primarily on the results of studies submitted during the rulemaking. Thus, in the most thorough and detailed study submitted to date on this topic, BCTD furnished a copy of a study by T. Marxhausen and S. Shaffer entitled ``Vinyl Asbestos Tile: A study of airborne asbestos concentrations during routine floor maintenance activities.'' (Ex. 119X) In this study both TEM and PCM measurements were made during several operations. The results are briefly summarized in Table VIII. Table VIII. Asbestos Fiber Levels During Floor Maintenance Activities [Ex. 119K] 1Location 1TEM s/cc 1PCM f/cc Room F1 during low speed with red pad 0.069 0.0215 Room F2 during high speed scrub with white pad .533 .016 Room F2 during stripping with black pad 1.450 .0045 Room F1 during stripping with black pad 1.153 .007 Room F1 during high speed burnishing with white pad (after finish build-up) .069 1 Room F2 during high speed scrub with white pad .533 .016 Room F2 during high speed scrub with white pad (after finish build-up) .111 1 Room F1 during high speed scrub with white pad (after finish build-up) .130 .034 1Not available.
