FR940620-1-00085 FR940620-1-00009 (k) Applicability to subcontractors or suppliers. (1) Whenever any computer software or computer software documentation is to be obtained from a subcontractor or supplier for delivery to the government under this contract, the contractor shall use this same clause in its subcontracts or other contractual instruments, and require its subcontractors or suppliers to do so, without alteration, except to identify the parties. No other clause shall be used to enlarge or diminish the government's, the contractor's, or a higher tier subcontractor's or supplier's rights in a subcontractor's or supplier's computer software or computer software documentation. (2) The contractor and higher-tier subcontractors or suppliers shall not use their power to award contracts as economic leverage to obtain rights in computer software or computer software documentation from their subcontractors or suppliers. (3) The contractor shall ensure that subcontractor or supplier rights are recognized and protected in the identification, assertion, and delivery processes required by paragraph (e) of this clause. (4) In no event shall the contractor use its obligation to recognize and protect subcontractor or supplier rights in computer software or computer software documentation as an excuse for failing to satisfy its contractual obligation to the government. (End of clause) ALTERNATE I (XXX 1994) As prescribed in 227.503&hyph;6(a)(2), add the following paragraph to the basic clause: (1) Publication for sale. (1) This paragraph only applies to computer software or computer software documentation in which the government has obtained unlimited rights or a license to make an unrestricted release of the software or documentation. (2) The government shall not publish a deliverable item or items of computer software or computer software documentation identified in this contract as being subject to paragraph (l) of this clause or authorize others to publish such software or documentation on its behalf if, prior to publication for sale by the government and within twenty-four (24) months following the date specified in this contract for delivery of such software or documentation, or the removal of any national security or export control restrictions, whichever is later, the Contractor publishes that item or items for sale and promptly notifies the contracting officer of such publication(s). Any such publication shall include a notice identifying the number of this contract and the government's rights in the published software or documentation. (3) This limitation on the government's right to publish for sale shall continue as long as the software or documentation are reasonably available to the public for purchase. (END OF ALTERNATE I) 18. Section 252.227&hyph;7015 is added to read as follows: 252.227&hyph;7015 Technical data_commercial items. As prescribed in 227.402&hyph;3, use the following clause: TECHNICAL DATA_COMMERCIAL ITEMS (XXX 1994) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause: (1) Commercial items means items, other than computer software, developed or regularly used for other than governmental purposes that_ (i) Have been sold, leased, or licensed to the public; or, (ii) Have been offered for sale, lease, or license to the public; or, (iii) Have not been offered, sold, leased, or licensed to the public but will be available for commercial sale or license in time to satisfy the delivery requirements of this contract; or, (iv) Satisfy a criterion expressed in (b) (1), (2), or (3) and would require only minor modification to meet the requirements of the procuring agency. (2) Contrator includes the contractor's subcontractors and suppliers at any tier.
