FR940727-0-00160 FR940727-0-00028 (iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (c) Relocation assistance for displaced persons. A displaced person (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA)(42 U.S.C. 4601&hyph;4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. (d) Optional relocation assistance. Under section 105(a)(11) of the Act, the grantee may provide relocation payments and other relocation assistance to persons displaced by a project that is not subject to paragraph (c) of this section. The grantee may also provide relocation assistance to persons receiving assistance under paragraph (c) of this section at levels in excess of those required. For assistance that is not required by State or tribal law, the grantee shall adopt a written policy available to the public that describes the relocation assistance that it has elected to furnish and provides for equal relocation assistance within each class of displaced persons. (e) Acquisition of real property. The acquisition of real property for an assisted activity is subject to 49 CFR part 24, subpart B. Whenever the grantee does not have the authority to acquire the real property through condemnation, it shall: (1) Before discussing the purchase price, inform the owner: (i) Of the amount it believes to be the fair market value of the property. Such amount shall be based upon one or more appraisals prepared by a qualified appraiser. However, this provision does not prevent the grantee from accepting a donation or purchasing the real property at less than its fair market value. (ii) That it will be unable to acquire the property if negotiations fail to result in an amicable agreement. (2) Request HUD approval of the proposed acquisition price before executing a firm commitment to purchase the property. The grantee shall include with its request a copy of the appraisal(s) and, when applicable, a justification for any proposed acquisition payment that exceeds the fair market value of the property. HUD will promptly review the proposal and inform the grantee of it's approval or disapproval. (f) Appeals. A person who disagrees with the grantee's determination concerning whether the person qualifies as a ``displaced person,'' or the amount of relocation assistance for which the person is eligible, may file a written appeal of that determination with the grantee. A person who is dissatisfied with the grantee's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that determination to the HUD Field Office. (g) Responsibility of grantee. (1) The grantee shall certify that it will comply with the URA, the regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and the requirements of this section, ( i.e., provide assurance of compliance as required by 49 CFR part 24). The grantee shall ensure such compliance notwithstanding any third party's contractual obligation to the grantee to comply with these provisions. (2) The cost of required relocation assistance is an eligible project cost in the same manner and to the same extent as other project costs. However, such assistance may also be paid for with funds available to the grantee from any other source. (3) The grantee shall maintain records in sufficient detail to demonstrate compliance with this section. (h) Displaced person. (1) For purposes of this section, the term ``displaced person'' means any person (family, individual, business, nonprofit organization, or farm) that moves from real property, or moves his or her personal property from real property, permanently, as a direct result of rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition for a project assisted under this part. This includes any permanent, involuntary move for an assisted project, including any permanent move from real property that is made: (i) After notice by the grantee or property owner to move permanently from the property, if the move occurs on or after the date of the submission of an application for financial assistance by the grantee to HUD that is later approved for the project. (ii) Before the date of the submission of the application requesting assistance, if either HUD or the grantee determines that the displacement directly resulted from acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the assisted project. (iii) By a tenant-occupant of a dwelling unit, if any one of the following three situations occurs: (A) The tenant moves after execution of the agreement between the grantee and HUD and the move occurs before the tenant is provided written notice offering him or her the opportunity to lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the same building/complex upon completion of the project under reasonable terms and conditions. Such reasonable terms and conditions include a monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs that do not exceed the greater of ( 1 ) the tenant's monthly rent and estimated average monthly utility costs before the agreement; or ( 2 ) 30 percent of gross household income; or (B) The tenant is required to relocate temporarily, does not return to the building/complex, and either ( 1 ) the tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation or ( 2 ) other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or (C) The tenant is required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex but is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move, or other conditions of the move are not reasonable. (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if:
