FR940527-1-00013 FR940527-1-00008 LIBRARY OF CONGRESS 36 CFR PART 705 [Docket No. LOC 94&hyph;1] Salary Offset AGENCY: Library of Congress. ACTION: Proposed Regulation. SUMMARY: The Library of Congress is authorized to collect debts owed by current and former staff members to the Federal Government by making deductions from the current pay account of the individual. The Library of Congress issues this proposed regulation to prescribe the procedures the Library will follow when collecting a debt owed to the Federal Government via deductions from an employee's pay. It also describes the rights of current employees, former employees who owe debts to other agencies, and former employees who are currently employed by other agencies in the collection of debts owed to the Federal Government by them and sets out the procedures for collecting debts through deductions from their pay following due process. DATES: Comments should be received on or before June 27, 1994. ADDRESSEES: Ten copies of written comments should be addressed, if sent by mail to: Library of Congress, Mail Code 1050, Washington, DC 20540. If delivered by hand, copies should be brought to: Office of the General Counsel, James Madison Memorial Building, Room LM&hyph;601, First and Independence Avenue, SE., Washington, DC 20540&hyph;1050, (202) 707&hyph;6316). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Johnnie M. Barksdale, Regulations Officer, Office of the General Counsel, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C. 20540&hyph;1050. Telephone No. (202) 707&hyph;1593. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under section 5514 of title 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR 550.1101, when an agency head or his/her designee determines that an employee is indebted to the Federal Government, he/she will authorize the collection of that indebtedness in monthly installments or at officially established pay intervals, by deduction from the current pay account of the individual. The amount deducted for any period may not exceed 15 percent of disposable pay, except that a greater percentage may be deducted upon the written consent of the individual involved. If the individual retires or resigns, or if his employment otherwise ends, before collection of the amount of the indebtedness is completed, deductions shall be made from subsequent payments of any nature due the individual from the agency concerned. This proposed Regulation sets out the procedures the Library of Congress will follow when collecting debts through deductions from the employee's pay following due process. List of subjects in 36 CFR Part 705 Salary Offset. Proposed Regulation. In consideration of the foregoing the Library of Congress proposes to promulgate a new part 705 of 36 CFR chapter 7, reading as follows:. PART 705_FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION Sec. 705.1␣Salary offset. Authority: 5 U.S.C. and 5 CFR 550.1101. §705.1 Salary Offset (a) Purpose. This part describes the rights of current and former staff members in the collection of debts owed to the Federal Government by them and sets out the procedures for collecting debts through deductions from their pay following due process. (b) Definitions. (1) Debt is an amount owed to the U.S. Government from insured or guaranteed loans, fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interest, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice), and all other similar sources. (2) Disposable pay, for purposes of this part, means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retirement pay, retainer pay, or other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld, such as Federal taxes, retirement, court-ordered payments, and FICA. (3) Staff member refers to current and former employees who owe debts to the Library and/or other Federal Government agencies. (c) Procedures_ (1) Notification of indebtedness. The Director of Human Resources, or designee, shall notify the staff member, in writing, of the individual's indebtedness to the Library and the intention of the Library to collect this debt by deductions from the individual's pay. This notice shall be given not less than 30 days before any deduction is made. This notice shall state, at a minimum: (i) The Library's determination that a debt is owed, including the origin, nature, and amount of the debt; (ii) The Library's intention to collect the debt by means of deduction from the staff member's disposable pay account; (iii) The amount, frequency, proposed beginning date, and duration of the intended deductions; (iv) An explanation of the Library's policy concerning interest, penalties, and administrative costs, including a statement that such assessments must be made unless excused; (v) The staff member's right to inspect and to copy Government records relating to the debt or, if he or she or his or her representative cannot personally inspect the records, to request and receive a copy of such records; (vi) If not previously provided, the opportunity (under terms agreeable to the Library) to establish a schedule for the voluntary repayment of the debt or to enter into a written agreement to establish a schedule for the repayment of the debt in lieu of offset (the agreement must be in writing, signed by both the staff member and the Library, and documented in the Library's files); (vii) The staff member's right to a hearing conducted by an official arranged for or engaged by the Library (an administrative law judge or, alternatively, a hearing official not under the control of the Librarian of Congress) if a petition is filed as prescribed by the Library; (viii) The method and time period for petitioning for a hearing; (ix) That the timely filing of a petition for hearing will stay the commencement of collection proceedings; (x) That a final decision on the hearing, if one is requested, will be issued at the earliest practicable date, but not later than 60 days after the filing of the petition requesting the hearing unless the staff member requests and the hearing official grants a delay in the proceedings; (xi) That any knowingly false or frivolous statements, representations, or evidence may subject the staff member to (A) Disciplinary procedures appropriate under Library of Congress Regulation 2020&hyph;3, or any other applicable regulations or statutes, (B) Penalties under the False Claim Act, section 3729 of Title 31, U.S. Code, or any other applicable statutory authority, or (C) Criminal penalties under sections 286, 287, 1001, and 1002 of Title 18, U.S. Code, or any other applicable statutory authority; (xii) Any other rights and remedies available to the staff member under statutes or regulations governing the program for which the collection is being made;
