FR940628-0-00011 FR940628-0-00009 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Wilmington 93&hyph;005] RIN 2115AA97 Safety Zone; Cape Fear River, Wilmington, NC AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a permanent safety zone on the Cape Fear River in the vicinity of the Battleship USS NORTH CAROLINA Memorial in the waterfront area of downtown Wilmington, North Carolina. The safety zone is needed to protect people, vessels, and property from safety hazards associated with the annual launching of fireworks from Eagle Island during the 4th of July and Riverfest celebrations. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule will become effective on June 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LTJG G. A. Howard, U.S. Coast Guard, Marine Safety Office Wilmington, NC, Phone: (910) 343&hyph;4881. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are LTJG G. A. Howard, project officer for the Captain of the Port, Wilmington, North Carolina, and LT M. L. Lombardi, project attorney, Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Office. Regulatory History On September 27, 1993, the Coast Guard published a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register (58 FR 50303). The Coast Guard received one letter commenting on the proposal. A public hearing was not requested and one was not held. Background and Purpose In years past, the Coast Guard has provided a safety zone on the Cape Fear River in Wilmington, North Carolina, for several annual events. The fireworks are generally launched during the annual 4th of July celebration, and on the first Saturday of October each year during the Riverfest celebration. The launching of commercial fireworks constitutes a potential safety hazard to the people, vessels, and property in the vicinity. This safety zone is needed to protect the public from the potential hazards near the fireworks display and to insure a smooth launching operation. It will consist of an area of water 200 yards wide and 667 yards long. Discussion of Comments Only one comment was received. The Commentor objected to safety zones in general and did not offer alternatives except for not enacting a safety zone or reducing the size. Because of the past experiences with fireworks displays, the zone is needed. Based on those same experiences and the fireworks used in the displays, the size of the zone is the minimum necessary to protect the public and Coast Guard officers patrolling the zone from unacceptable risks. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential cost and benefits under 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Small Entities There were no comments made suggesting any impact to small entities. The Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Environmental Assessment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this rule consistent with section 2.B.2.c of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B (National Environmental Protection Act), and actions to protect the public safety have been determined to be categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. Federalism This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rule will not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Waterways.
