FR940928-0-00068 FR940928-0-00021 In the NPR, the Commission initially concluded that the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act relating to an initial Regulatory Flexibility Act analysis were not applicable to the proceeding and that a regulatory analysis was not necessary because the amendments, if promulgated, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The NPR sought comment, however, on the effects of the proposed amendments on small businesses to assist the Commission in determining whether a final Regulatory Flexibility Act analysis was necessary. 18 The Commission also initially concluded that, although the proposed amendments would expand the Rule's existing recordkeeping and reporting requirements to include manufacturers of products not covered before, the effect would be de minimis because so few companies would be affected and the resulting increase in burden hours would be so small. The Commission decided, therefore, not to ask the Office of Management and Budget to adjust the clearance for the Rule under the Paperwork Reduction Act. To substantiate the accuracy of its reporting burden estimate, however, the Commission requested comment on the extent of the reporting burden associated with these amendments. 19 Parts III and IV, below, discuss the comments on these issues and the Commission's final determinations with respect to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act and the Paperwork Reduction Act, respectively. 18 See 58 FR 7855. 19 Id. II. Discussion of Comments and Disposition of Issues As discussed in more detail in Parts II.A and B, below, the NPR proposed definitions for each of the three product categories that are based on EPCA and/or Part 430 of the Code of Federal Regulations (``CFR''), which is the section of CFR in which DOE's test procedures are codified. In addition, the NPR solicited comment with respect to each category regarding: the feasibility of labeling the product; the appropriateness of the proposed definition; what energy usage descriptor to require on the labels; what sub-categories, if any, to establish for purposes of ranges of comparability; and, what format to require for the labels. 20 20 As is discussed in the sections below on each category, the NPR also solicited comment on some issues that were specific to one category only.
