FR941013-1-00083 FR941013-1-00010 F. Selection of Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements Under CAA section 114(a), the EPA may require any owner or operator of a source subject to a NESHAP to establish and maintain records as well as prepare and submit notifications and reports to the EPA. General recordkeeping and reporting requirements for all NESHAP are specified in the Part 63 general provisions (40 CFR 63.9 and 40 CFR 63.10). All recordkeeping and reporting requirements were selected for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP to be consistent with these Part 63 general provisions requirements. G. Emissions Averaging Emissions averaging is an approach used by the EPA for certain other NESHAP rulemakings when the average level of emissions from individual facilities in the source category remains relatively predictable over extended periods of time. Application of this approach allows a facility owner or operator to obtain emission credits by reducing emissions from specific emission points at the facility to a level less than that required by the rule. These emission credits can then be used to offset emission debits created at those emission points at the facility that are not controlled to the level required by the rule. Under the EPA's emissions averaging policy, a facility owner or operator must demonstrate that the overall emissions average determined for the facility will not result in greater risk or hazard to human health or the environment than would occur by complying with the rule requirements at each individual emission point. During the development of the proposed rule for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category, the EPA considered including an emissions averaging approach. However, the statutory requirements of the CAA do not allow emissions averaging between different sources. As explained in section II.D of this notice, the EPA is proposing the source for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP to be each emission point type (e.g., each tank, container). Thus, using a facility-wide emissions averaging approach (i.e., establishing a single average organic HAP emission level for the entire facility) is not appropriate for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. Furthermore, independent of the definition of source that the EPA selects for this rulemaking, the nature of day-to-day operations at off-site waste and recovery operations facilities complicates and discourages the application of an emissions averaging approach to this NESHAP. At an off-site waste and recovery operations facility, wastes or recoverable materials are often received from many different generators. The quantities of materials received from these generators can vary from very small amounts ( e.g. , a single 55-gallon drum of a particular waste or recoverable material) to very large amounts ( e.g. , multiple truck or railcar loads of a single material type). Consequently, the quantities of waste or recoverable material received as well as the compositions and concentrations of organic HAP in these materials are constantly changing over short periods of time ( i.e. , daily, weekly). On a given day an off-site waste and recovery operations facility can receive wastes or recoverable materials from one group of generators and the next day the facility can receive new wastes or recoverable materials from a completely different group of generators. Because of this operating mode, it is difficult to predict the quantities and organic HAP characteristics of the waste or recoverable materials that will be received at an off-site waste and recovery operations facility over a future period of time. Thus, operating the off-site waste and recovery operations facility so not to exceed a specific overall average organic HAP emissions level would require the owner or operator to rigorously monitor and regulate the flow of wastes and recoverable materials into the facility throughout the entire averaging period used to determine the specified average emissions limit. This would require sampling each load of incoming material, updating the emissions averaging calculations, and possibly restricting quantities of waste or recoverable material with certain organic HAP compositions that enter the facility during the remainder of the averaging period to ensure the facility does not exceed the specific average organic HAP emissions limit. The EPA believes this would be a complex and resource intensive task for off-site waste and recovery operations facility owners and operators to implement and for regulatory agency personnel to monitor and enforce. The EPA decided not to allow emissions averaging in the proposed rule for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category because such an approach is not appropriate for this source category. The EPA requests comments on the feasibility of applying emissions averaging to the off-site waste and recovery operations source category and requests information and data that would be necessary to support development and implementation of an emissions averaging approach.
