FR940318-0-00238 FR940318-0-00023 Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection Total Flooding Agents Substitutes Acceptable Subject To Use Conditions 1End-use 1Substitute 1Decision 1Conditions 1Comments Halon 1301 Total Flooding Agents HBFC&hyph;22B1 Acceptable l Until OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: Where egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use this agent in concentrations exceeding its cardiotoxic NOAEL of 0.3% The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 5.3%, while its cardiotoxic LOAEL is 1%. Thus, it is unlikely that this agent will be used in normally occupied areas. HBFC&hyph;22B1 can be considered only an interim substitute for Halon 1301. HBFC&hyph;22B1 has an ODP of .74; thus, production will be phased out January 1, 1996. ␣ l l Where egress takes longer than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use the agent in a concentration greater than its cardiotoxic LOAEL of 1.0% This agent was submitted to the Agency as a Premanufacture Notice (PMN) and is presently subject to requirements contained in a Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) Consent Order. ␣ l l HBFC&hyph;22B1 concentrations greater than 1.0% are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ HCFC&hyph;22 Acceptable lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 13.9% while its cardiotoxic LOAEL is 5.0%. Thus, it is unlikely that this agent will be used in normally occupied areas. ␣ l l Where egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use this agent in concentrations exceeding its cardiotoxic NOAEL of 2.5% See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ l l Where egress takes longer than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use the agent in a concentration greater than its cardiotoxic LOAEL of 5.0% ␣ l l HCFC&hyph;22 concentrations greater than 5.0% are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge ␣ HCFC&hyph;124 Acceptable lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: lWhere egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use this agent in concentrations exceeding its cardiotoxic NOAEL of 1.0%. The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 8.4% while its cardiotoxic LOAEL is 2.5%. Thus, it is unlikely that this agent will be used in normally occupied areas. See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ l l Where egress takes longer than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use the agent in a concentration greater than its cardiotoxic LOAEL OF 2.5% ␣ l l HCFC&hyph;123 concentrations greater than 2.5% are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge ␣ [HCFC BLEND] A Acceptable lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: lWhere egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use [HCFC Blend] A in concentrations exceeding its cardiotoxic NOAEL of 10.0%. The comparative design concentration based on full-scale testing is approximately 8.6%. The agent should be recovered from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing, and should be recycled for later use or destroyed. See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ l l Where egress takes greater than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use [HCFC Blend] A in a concentration greater than its cardiotoxic LOAEL of 10.0% ␣ l l [HCFC Blend] A concentrations greater than 10 percent are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge ␣ HFC&hyph;23 Acceptable lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: lWhere egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use HFC&hyph;23 in concentrations exceeding 30%. The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 14.4% while data indicates that its cardiotoxicity NOAEL is 30% without added oxygen and 50% with added oxygen. Its LOAEL is likely to exceed 50%. See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ l l lWhere egress takes greater than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use HFC&hyph;23 in a concentration greater than 50.0%. ␣ l l HFC&hyph;23 concentrations greater than 50 percent are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge ␣ l l The design concentration must result in an oxygen level of at least 16% ␣ HFC&hyph;125 Acceptable lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: lWhere egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use this agent in concentrations exceeding its cardiotoxic NOAEL of 7.5%. The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 11.3% while its cardiotoxic LOAEL is 10.0%. Thus, it is unlikely that this agent will be used in normally occupied areas. See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ l l Where egress takes longer than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use the agent in a concentration greater than its cadiotoxic LOAEL of 10.0% ␣ l l HFC&hyph;125 concentrations greater than 10.0% are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge ␣ HFC&hyph;134a Acceptable lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: lWhere egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use this agent in concentrations exceeding its cardiotoxic NOAEL of 4.0%. The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 12.6% while its cardiotoxic LOAEL is 8.0%. Thus, it is unlikely that this agent will be used in normally occupied areas. See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ l l Where egress takes longer than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use the agent in a concentration greater than its cardiotoxic LOAEL of 8.0% ␣ l l HFC&hyph;134a concentrations greater than 8.0% are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge ␣ HFC&hyph;227ea Acceptable Until OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: Where egress from an area cannot be accomplished within one minute, the employer shall not use HFC&hyph;227ea in concentrations exceeding its cardiotoxic NOAEL of 9.0% lWhere egress takes longer than 30 seconds but less than one minute, the employer shall not use the agent in a concentration greater than its cardiotoxic LOAEL of 10.5%. The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 7.0% while data indicate that its cardiotoxicity LOAEL is probably greater than 10.5%. EPA is accepting 10.5% as its LOAEL. This agent was submitted to the Agency as a Premanufacture Notice (PMN) agent and is presently subject to requirements contained in a Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) Significant New Use Rule (SNUR). See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ l l HFC&hyph;227ea concentrations greater than 10.5% are only permitted in areas not normally occupied by employees provided that any employee in the area can escape within 30 seconds. The employer shall assure that no unprotected employees enter the area during agent discharge ␣ C 4 F 10 Acceptable lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: The comparative design concentration based on cup burner values is approximately 6.6%. ␣ l lwhere other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements: For occupied areas from which personnel cannot be evacuated in one minute, use is permitted only up to concentrations not exceeding the cardiotoxicity NOAEL of 40% Users must observe the limitations on PFC acceptability by making reasonable efforts to undertake the following measures: (i) conduct an evaluation of foreseeable conditions of end use; ␣ l la. due to their physical or chemical properties, or Although no LOAEL has been established for this product, standard OSHA requirements apply, i.e., for occupied areas from which personnel can be evacuated or egress can occur between 30 and 60 seconds, use is permitted up to a concentration not exceeding the LOAEL (ii) determine that human exposure to the other alternative extinguishing agents may approach or result in cardiosensitization or other unacceptable toxicity effects under normal operating conditions; and (iii) determine that the physical or chemical properties or other technical constraints of the other available agents preclude their use. ␣ l b. where human exposure to the extinguishing agents may approach cardiosensitization levels or result in other unacceptable health effects under normal operating conditions ␣ l l lAll personnel must be evacuated before concentration of C 4 F 10 exceeds 40%. lDesign concentration must result in oxygen levels of at least 16%. lDocumentation of such measures must be available for review upon request. The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have high GWPs and long atmospheric lifetimes. Actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities of PFCs emitted. ␣ l l l For additional guidance regarding applications in which PFCs may be appropriate, users should consult the description of potential uses which is included in this rulemaking. ␣ l l l See additional comments 1, 2, 3, 4. ␣ [IG&hyph;541] Acceptable lUntil OSHA establishes applicable workplace requirements: The design concentration must result in at least 10% oxygen and no more than 5% CO 2 lIf the oxygen concentration of the atmosphere falls below 10%, personnel must be evacuated and egress must occur within 30 seconds. Studies have shown that healthy, young individuals can remain in a 10% to 12% oxygen atmosphere for 30 to 40 minutes without impairment. However, in a fire emergency, the oxygen level may be reduced below safe levels, and the combustion products formed by the fire are likely to cause harm. Thus, the Agency does not contemplate personnel remaining in the space after system discharge during a fire without Self Contained Breathing Apparatus (SCBA) as required by OSHA. See additional comments 1, 2. Additional Comments: 1_Must conform with OSHA 29 CFR 1910 Subpart L Section 1910.160 of the U.S. Code. 2_Per OSHA requirements, protective gear (SCBA) must be available in the event personnel must reenter the area. 3_Discharge testing should be strictly limited only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements. 4_The agent should be recovered from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing, and recycled for later use or destroyed.
