FR941011-2-00146 FR941011-2-00094 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee; Friction Measurement and Signing Working Group AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of establishment of friction measurement and signing working group. SUMMARY: Notice is given of the establishment of the Friction Measurement and Signing Working Group of the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC). This notice informs the public of the activities of the ARAC on airport certification issues. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert E. David, Assistant Executive Director, Airport Certification Issues, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee, Office of Airport and Safety Standards (AAS&hyph;300), 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591, telephone (202) 267&hyph;3085; fax (202) 267&hyph;5383. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Aviation Administration has established an Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC) (56 FR 219, January 22, 1991; and 58 FR 9230, February 19, 1993). One area of the ARAC deals with airport certification issues. Task Specifically, the working group's tasks are the following: Review Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 14, Chapter I, Part 139 and supporting material, previous studies and surveys, procedures and interpretations for the purpose of determining if it would be appropriate to undertake rulemaking and/or develop policy relative to performing friction measurement to be used in the maintenance of air carrier runway surfaces; and Review CFR Title 14, Chapter I, Part 139 and Advisory Circular 150/5340&hyph;18C, ``Standards for Airport Sign Systems,'' and supporting material for the purpose of developing a notice of proposed rulemaking which would require these distance remaining signs at some or all the airports certificated under part 139. If deemed appropriate, draft for ARAC notices of proposed rulemaking for each task proposing new or revised requirements, supporting economic analyses and other required analyses, advisory and guidance material, and any other collateral documents the working group determines to be needed. Reports A. Recommend time line(s) for completion of the tasks, including rationale, for consideration at the meeting of the ARAC to consider airport certification issues held following publication of this notice. B. Give a detailed conceptual presentation on the proposed recommendation to the ARAC before proceeding any further with the tasks. C. Give a status report on the tasks at each meeting of the ARAC held to consider airport certification issues. The Friction Measurement and Signing Working Group will be comprised of experts from those organizations having an interest in the task assigned. A working group member need not necessarily be a representative of one of the member organizations of ARAC. An individual who has expertise in the subject matter and wishes to become a member of the working group should write the person listed under the caption FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT expressing that desire, describing his or her interest in the task, and the expertise he or she would bring to the working group. The request will be reviewed with the Assistant Chair of the ARAC for airport certification issues and the Chair of the Friction Measurement and Signing Working Group, and the individual will be advised whether or not the request can be accommodated. The Secretary of Transportation has determined that the formation and use of the ARAC are necessary in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on the FAA by law. Meetings of the ARAC to consider airport certification issues will be open to the public except as authorized by section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. Meetings of the Friction Measurement and Signing Working Group will not be open to the public, except to the extent that individuals with an interest and expertise are selected to participate. No public announcement of working group meetings will be made. Issued in Washington, DC, on October 4, 1994. Robert E. David, Assistant Executive Director for Airport Certification Issues, Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24955 Filed 10&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;3&hyph;M
