FR940817-2-00219 FR940817-2-00113 2. Overview of Neurotoxicology 2.1. Scope of the Problem 2.1.1. Introduction Chemicals are an integral part of our lives, with the capacity to both improve as well as endanger our health. The general population is exposed to chemicals with neurotoxic properties in air, water, foods, cosmetics, household products, and drugs used therapeutically or illicitly. Naturally occurring neurotoxins, such as fish and plant toxins, present other hazards. During the daily life of an ordinary person, there is a multitude of exposures, both voluntary and unintentional, to neuroactive substances. Under conditions of multiple exposures, identifying the substance responsible for an adverse response may be difficult. The EPA's inventory of toxic chemicals is greater than 65,000 and increasing yearly. Concerns have been raised about the toxicological data available for many compounds used commercially (NRC, 1984). It is not known how many chemicals are neurotoxic to humans. However, estimates have been made for subsets of substances. A large percentage of the more than 500 registered active pesticide ingredients are neurotoxic to varying degrees. Of 588 chemicals listed by the American Conference of Government and Industrial Hygienists (ACGIH), 167 affected the nervous system or behavior (Anger, 1984; CDC, 1986). Using a generally broad definition of neurotoxicity, Anger (1990a) estimated that of the approximately 200 chemicals to which 1 million or more American workers are exposed, more than one-third may have adverse effects on the nervous system at some level of exposure. Anger (1984) also recognized neurotoxic effects as one of the ten leading workplace disorders. In addition, a number of therapeutic substances, including some anticancer and antiviral agents and abused drugs, can cause adverse or neurotoxicological side effects (OTA, 1990). It has been estimated that there is inadequate toxicological information available for more than three- fourths of the 12,860 chemicals with a production volume of 1 million pounds or more (NRC, 1984). It should be noted, however, that estimates concerning the number of neurotoxicants vary widely. O'Donoghue (1989), for example, reported that of 488 compounds assessed in his chemical evaluation process, only 2.7% had effects on the nervous sytem. 2.1.2. Examples of Neurotoxicity and Incidents of Exposure There is a long-standing history associating certain neurological and psychiatric disorders to exposure to a toxin or chemical of an environmental origin (OTA, 1990) (Table 2&hyph;1). Lead is one of the earliest examples of a neurotoxic chemical with widespread exposure. This metal is widely distributed with major sources of inorganic lead including industrial emissions, lead-based paints, food, beverages, and the burning of leaded gasolines. Organic lead compounds such as tetraethyl lead have been reported to produce a toxic psychosis (Cassells and Dodds, 1946). If exposure occurs at relatively low levels during development, lead can cause a variety of neurobehavioral problems, learning disorders, and altered mental development (Bellinger et al., 1987; Needleman, 1990). Over the years, Federal Government regulations have been developed to decrease human exposure to lead, and as a goal an intervention level of 10 m g/dcl whole blood has been recommended (CDC, 1991). Lead exposure in the United States has decreased significantly during the last several years.
