FR940805-2-00120 FR940805-2-00060 In addition to the above changes, Amendment No. 4 changes how orders in a specialist's book interact with the Chicago Match and limits the maximum size of liquidity fees and credits. As before, the CHX's CQS quotation will automatically be fed into the Chicago Match facility on a real-time basis. These bids and/or offers will be entered as an order in Chicago Match. Rather than limiting interaction with the book to 1/8 spread issues however, the revised rules would enter the CHX CQS quotation into the match in all issues. If entered, these orders will have the highest priority of execution at that liquidity credit level. As stated above, the Chicago Match will limit the maximum size of liquidity fees and liquidity credits. With respect to the limitation of the size of liquidity fees, if a liquidity fee is greater than 1/2 of the spread of the Consolidated Best Bid and Offer at cross time it will be reduced to 1/2 of the spread at cross time. For example, if 1/2 of the spread is 61/4 cents, and an order with a liquidity fee of 10 cents entered, the maximum liquidity fee that order can pay is 61/4 cents. Liquidity credits, on the other hand, will be treated differently than liquidity fees. For liquidity credits, the Chicago Match will not permit liquidity credits to be received in an amount greater than 1/2 of the spread of the Consolidated Best Bid and Offer. For example, if the spread of the Consolidated Best Bid and Offer at cross time was 1/2, the maximum liquidity credit allowed would be 25 cents. 3 If an order was entered with a liquidity credit greater than 25 cents, the user would have an option of either having the liquidity credit reduced to the Consolidated Best Bid and Offer or having the order be excluded from the match. 3 This would be 1/2 of the 1/2 spread or 1/4 which is 25 cents. The final change proposed by this amendment concerns short sales. In order to ensure that any order to sell short can have no market impact and not contribute to a volume weighted average liquidity fee that is less than the middle of the spread, no order to sell short will be permitted to be executed if it includes a liquidity fee. Liquidity credits, however, will be allowed. In addition to the amendments submitted in Amendment No. 4, the Exchange also made changes to the Chicago Match Rules in Amendment Nos. 1, 2 and 3. Amendment No. 1 changed the name of this proposed system from ``Match Market Exchange'' (``MMX'') to ``Chicago Match''. Amendment No. 1 changed the definition of size conditions (in Rule 2(ab)) to be considered for a near match to be a specific number entered by the User instead of the former procedure of designating the size conditions as ``small,'' ``medium,'' and ``large.'' Amendment No. 1 required that liquidity fees and credits be entered in cents and entered relative to the Consolidated Best Bid and Offer at cross time or entered as a computed quantity (in Rule 6(e)(9)). Amendment No. 1 also made technical changes and corrections that do not affect the substance of the proposal and made other substantive changes that subsequently were amended. Amendment No. 2 changed the definition of ``Near Match'' (in Rule 2(w)) to clarify that it means two orders for a particular security in which (i) the number of shares of each order equals or exceeds the minimum size specified by the other order; and (ii) the Liquidity Credit required by one side is greater than the Liquidity Fee offered by the other side. Amendment No. 2 clarified the meaning and intent of proposed Rule 6(e)(8) which permits a user to enter another user's name in order to prevent any matches between those two users, thereby excluding certain users when necessary to comply with ERISA. Amendment No. 2 also clarified the meaning and intent of proposed Rule 6(e)(7) which permits a user to exclude an entire category of contra parties. Amendment No. 2 further clarified that Conditional Orders may not be Displayed Orders and that all confirmations will comply with the requirements of Rule 10b&hyph;10 under the Act; and it noted that non-member users will be required to have $10 million for investment purposes. Amendment No. 3 amended Rule 3 to delete references to the Exchange permitting orders for securities that are not listed or admitted to unlisted trading privileges on the Exchange to be entered into the Chicago Match System. Amendment No. 3 also made substantive changes to proposed Rule 9(b) (which attempted to eliminate any argument that trades executed in the Chicago Match could trade through other market's published quotations) which were subsequently amended in Amendment No. 4. 2. Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and the public interest. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition. The Exchange believes that no burden will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule change. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No comments were solicited or received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 fifth Street, NW., Washington DC 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-referenced self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;19 and should be submitted by August 22, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19157 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
