FR940926-2-00086 FR940926-2-00072 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20562; File No. 812&hyph;8974] Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, et al. September 19, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of Application for an Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``1940 Act'' or ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (``MassMutual''), MML Bay State Life Insurance Company (``MML Bay State''), Massachusetts Mutual Variable Annuity Separate Account 3 (``Separate Account 3''), MML Bay State Variable Annuity Separate Account 1 (``Separate Account 1'') (Separate Account 3 and Separate Account 1, collectively, the ``Separate Accounts''), and MML Investors Services, Inc. (``MMLISI'') (MassMutual, MML Bay State, the Separate Accounts, and MMLISI, collectively, ``Applicants''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act granting exemptions from Section 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) thereof. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an Order to permit the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge and enhanced death benefit expense charge in connection with the offer and sale of certain flexible premium variable annuity contracts to be funded by the Separate Accounts (``Contracts''). FILING DATE: The Application was originally filed on May 6, 1994, and Amendment No. 1 to and Restatement of the Application was filed on June 20, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An Order granting the Application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 14, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: William D. Wilcox, Esq., Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, 1295 State Street, Springfield, MA 01111; and Michael Berenson, Esq., Jorden Burt Berenson & Klingensmith, Suite 400 East, 1025 Thomas Jefferson Street, NW., Washington, DC 20007&hyph;0805. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Thomas Conner, Attorney, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management, at (202) 942&hyph;0670. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the Application. The complete Application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. MassMutual is a mutual life insurance company organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. MML Bay State is a life insurance company organized under the laws of the State of Missouri and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of MassMutual. MMLISI is the principal underwriter of the Contracts and also is a wholly-owned subsidiary of MassMutual. 2. Separate Account 3 was established on January 12, 1994 to fund Contracts issued by MassMutual. Separate Account 1 was established on January 14, 1994 to fund Contracts issued by MML Bay State. Each Separate Account is registered as a unit investment trust under the 1940 Act. 3. The Separate Accounts will be used for the purpose of investing purchase payments received under the Contracts. The Contracts require certain minimum initial payments and permit additional flexible purchase payments. A Contract owner may, after deductions of applicable charges, direct allocation of purchase payments among the various divisions of the Separate Accounts. Additionally, both MassMutual and MML Bay State will make available, in a limited number of states, a flexible account (the ``Fixed Account'') to which purchase payments may be allocated. The Fixed Account will include a market value adjustment feature. Each Separate Account has filed a registration statement on Form N&hyph;4 with the Commission in connection with the Contracts. 4. Each Separate Account is divided into twelve divisions. Each division invests in corresponding shares of either MML Series Investment Trust or Oppenheimer Variable Account Funds (collectively, the ``Trusts''). The Trusts are registered with the SEC as diversified open-end management investment companies. 5. The Contracts provide for certain charges. An administrative charge is assessed annually and upon the surrender or the payment of a death benefit under the Contracts. The administrative charge will be waived if a Contract's accumulated value is at least $50,000 as of the date of assessment. The administrative charge currently is $30 per year and will not be increased above $50 per year. 6. In addition to the $30 annual administrative charge, an annual administrative charge equal to 0.15% of the assets of each Separate Account will be deducted for administrative charges (the $30 annual administrative charge and the 0.15% annual administrative charge, collectively, the ``administrative charges''). The administrative charges are intended to reimburse MassMutual or MML Bay State for expenses related to the maintenance of the Contracts and for operation of the Separate Accounts in connection with the Contracts. Applicants represent that these fees are based on current estimates by MassMutual and MML Bay State of administrative costs for these services over the lifetime of the Contracts. These charges are guaranteed never to be increased beyond stated maximums during the term of a Contract, and such fees are neither designed nor expected to generate a profit. Applicants rely on Rule 26a-1 under the 1940 Act to assess such fees. 7. While no sales charges are deducted when premium payments are received, the Contracts are subject to a schedule of contingent deferred sales charges (``sales charge''). A sales charge may be imposed upon full or partial redemptions, upon maturity of the Contract, and upon certain death benefits. Sales charges are based on the purchase payments made and the time that has passed since receipt of such payment. The part of the sales charge related to a purchase payment is a level percentage of that payment depending on the years that have passed since the purchase payment was received. During the first year since payment, the sales charge is 7 percent. For each successive year, the sales charge decreases 1 percent until it becomes zero in the eighth year. The amount deducted for sales charges at any time, plus any sales charges previously deducted, will not be more than 7% of the total purchase payments made to that time. In addition, during each Contract year, a Contract owner may redeem the following amounts without incurring a sales charge: (1) All unredeemed purchase payments that are at least seven years old, and (2) 10% of the unredeemed purchase payments that are less than seven years old. 8. An annual charge will be assessed against the assets of each Separate Account for mortality and expense risks assumed by MassMutual or MML Bay State. The mortality and expense risk charge currently is 1.15% and will not be increased above 1.25%. Of the current 1.15% mortality and expense risk charge, 0.30% is for the mortality risk assumed and 0.85% is for the expense risk assumed. 9. MassMutual and MML Bay State will assume mortality risks under the Contracts by their contractual obligation to make periodic payments in accordance with annuity rates and other Contract provisions regardless of how long an annuitant might live. This obligation assures each annuitant that neither the annuitant's own longevity nor an improvement in life expectancy generally will have an adverse effect on the payments received under the Contracts. 10. MassMutual and MML Bay State will assume expense risks under the Contracts by their contractual obligation to administer the Contracts even if the administrative charges are insufficient to cover the administrative expenses associated with the Contracts.
