FR940916-0-00056 FR940916-0-00016 Section 298.34␣Construction Fund Paragraph (b) was amended to include disbursements from the construction fund prior to delivery of the AST/MST. Several shipyards have suggested that in the international market place, the shipowner may, at its own risk, contract with the shipyard for construction prior to obtaining the loan or loan Guarantee, and pay for the initial stages of construction with the required 12.5 percent equity (87.5 percent Guarantee) or the 25 percent equity contribution (75 percent Guarantee) at that time. Thereafter, once the Secretary has authorized its commitment, such equity expenditures would be credited as the equity contribution. Thus, it was proposed that section 298.34 should be amended to authorize such interpretation of equity contribution. MARAD Response: The proposed practice is consistent with those that MARAD follows under the regulation as drafted, and no additional amendments in this respect are necessary. Section 298.35␣Reserve Fund and Financial Agreement Several shipyard commenters have stated that there is a need for clarification of the calculation to determine the amount of required deposits into the Reserve Fund because existing regulations do not provide a shipyard with enough facts to make an informed decision with respect to the total cost of Title XI financing. In addition, the Reserve Fund deposit requirements, as written, do not address how net operating revenue will be determined in conjunction with the shipyards' AST/MST assets. MARAD Response: MARAD agrees and has amended Section 298.35 to provide for a simple calculation of net income deposits into the shipyard's Title XI Reserve Fund. Such calculation will be set at 2 percent of net cash flow, as defined by GAAP, and as shown on its audited financial statements. Section 298.36␣Annual Guarantee Fee Several shipyard commenters have suggested that MARAD waive the Guarantee Fee if the interest provided for under Title XI is greater than that provided for overseas under OECD financing in order to meet international competitiveness. MARAD Response: The Secretary has no authority to waive the statutorily-required Guarantee Fee. On the other hand, MARAD has authority to match export credit terms offered by foreign governments if those offered are more favorable than under Title XI. To date, MARAD has not had occasion to exercise that authority. Section 298.39␣Exemptions Several shipyards have suggested that MARAD needs to codify specific guidelines for exemptions from its regulations, and the following standards should be added to allow greater flexibility: MARAD (1) Should waive Guarantee and investigation fees where foreign shipyards do not charge fees, or allow the applicant to include such in its actual costs; (2) extend the life of the Guarantee beyond 25 years; (3) authorize the inclusion of legal and accounting costs in Actual Cost; (4) and finance more than 87.5 percent of the Actual Cost. In addition, it was stated that the phrase ``not required by law'' in the first paragraph of the section is ambiguous since the statute specifically authorizes waiver of statutory requirements, and it should be deleted for this reason. Commenters further suggested that MARAD should have the flexibility to provide for waivers when, in the judgment of MARAD, a waiver (1) Is required to provide effective assistance to U.S. shipyards in competing in the global market; (2) is not inconsistent with law; and (3) will not unduly affect the financial interests of the United States, given the objectives of the program. MARAD Response: MARAD declines to adopt these proposals as unnecessarily diluting the force and effect of the regulation. The exemptions are not intended to address MARAD authority under section 1111(a) of the Act to provide more favorable terms than specified by Title XI in order to be compatible with export credit terms offered by foreign governments. Any exercise of such authority will be on a case-by-case-basis.
