FR940620-0-00034 FR940620-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY 31 CFR Part 10 [TD 8545] RIN 1545&hyph;AQ57 Regulations Governing the Practice of Attorneys, Certified Public Accountants, Enrolled Agents, and Enrolled Actuaries Before the Internal Revenue Service AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Final regulations. SUMMARY: This document contains final regulations under 31 CFR part 10 governing the practice of individuals before the IRS. These regulations affect individuals who are eligible to practice before the IRS. These regulations establish tax return preparation standards and prescribe the circumstances under which a practitioner may be disciplined for violating those standards, limit the use of contingent fees for preparing tax returns, clarify that certain of the existing restrictions governing limited practice before the IRS apply to all individuals who are eligible to engage in limited practice before the IRS, establish expedited proceedings to suspend individuals from practice before the IRS in cases in which certain determinations have been made by independent bodies, and permit attorneys and certified public accountants in good standing to obtain or retain enrolled agent status. EFFECTIVE DATE: These regulations are effective June 20, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David L. Meyer, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel (Income Tax and Accounting), IRS, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20224 (Attention: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R), or by telephone at 202&hyph;622&hyph;6232 (not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On October 8, 1992, the Department of the Treasury published in the Federal Register proposed amendments to the regulations governing practice before the IRS (57 FR 46356). The regulations are in subtitle A, part 10, of title 31 of the Code of Federal Regulations and have been reprinted as Treasury Department Circular No. 230 (Circular 230). A public hearing was held on December 16, 1992. A number of comments were received in response to the proposed amendments. After careful consideration of the comments received, the regulations are adopted as revised by this Treasury decision. Explanation of Changes I. Return Preparation Standards and Related Disciplinary Standard A. Standards of Conduct The proposed regulations included new return preparation standards for attorneys, certified public accountants, enrolled agents and enrolled actuaries (practitioners). These standards would modify Circular 230 to reflect more closely the standards for return preparers under section 6694 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Code) and professional guidelines. Under the proposed regulations, a practitioner may not sign a return as a preparer if the practitioner determines that the return contains a position that does not have a realistic possibility of being sustained on its merits (the realistic possibility standard), unless the position is not frivolous and is adequately disclosed to the IRS. In addition, a practitioner may not advise a client to take a position on a return, or prepare the portion of a return on which a position is taken, unless the practitioner determines that the position satisfies the realistic possibility standard or the position is not frivolous and the practitioner advises the client to adequately disclose the position. One commentator suggested deleting the language in the first sentence of ยง10.34(a)(1) of the proposed regulations, which prohibited a practitioner from signing a return without disclosure if the practitioner determined that the return contained a position that did not satisfy the realistic possibility standard. The commentator asserted that the practitioner should not be subject to discipline under Circular 230 if the return position resulted from reasonable reliance on another preparer. Treasury does not believe it is appropriate to alter the standard of conduct in ยง10.34(a), which generally conforms to the rules of section 6694. In addition, the commentator's concern is addressed by the standard of discipline of ยง10.34(b). Under this standard, only violations of ยง10.34 that are willful, reckless, or grossly incompetent will be subject to discipline. See Standard of Discipline, below. Another commentator stated that a signing preparer should only be required to advise disclosure of (rather than actually disclose) a return position that did not satisfy the realistic possibility standard. This commentator added that Circular 230 should not distinguish between the not frivolous and realistic possibility standards because, in the commentator's view, they are identical.
