FR940405-0-00010 FR940405-0-00002 (3) Cases in which ASCS must adjust, by increasing or decreasing, a payment which is to be paid under a contract in order to properly make other payments due by ASCS; and (4) Any case in which a statute explicitly provides for or prohibits using administrative offset to collect the debt for the type of debt involved. (b) Debts due ASCS or CCC may be collected by administrative offset from amounts payable by ASCS when: (1) The debtor has been provided written notification of the basis and amount of the debt and has been given an opportunity to make payment. Such written notification and opportunity includes notice of the right to pursue an administrative appeal in accordance with part 780 of this chapter or any other applicable appeal procedures, if not previously provided; (2) The debtor has been provided an opportunity to request to inspect and copy the records of ASCS related to the debt; (3) The debtor has been given the opportunity to enter into a written agreement which is acceptable to ASCS for repayment of the debt; (4) The debtor has been notified in writing that the debt will be collected by administrative offset if not paid; and (5) The debt has not been delinquent for more than ten years or legal action to enforce the debt has not been barred by an applicable period of limitation, whichever is later. (c) Administrative offset shall also be effected against amounts payable by ASCS: (1) When requested or approved by the Department of Justice; or (2) When a person is indebted under a judgment in favor of ASCS or the United States. (d) A payment due any person may be offset when there is a breach of a contract or a violation of ASCS program requirements, and offset is considered necessary by ASCS to protect the financial interests of the Government. (e) ASCS may effect administrative offset against a payment to be made to a debtor prior to completion of the procedures required by paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section if: (1) Failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice ASCS' ability to collect the debt; and (2) The time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of those procedures. (f) (1) Judgments in favor of the United States may be offset against any amounts payable by ASCS based on information provided by or obtained from the Department of Justice. Debts due any agency other than ASCS which have not been reduced to judgment shall be offset against amounts payable by ASCS to a debtor when an agency of the U.S. Government has submitted a written request for offset which is mailed or hand-delivered to the appropriate ASCS State office, Kansas City Financial Management Office, Kansas City Management Office, or Kansas City Commodity Office. Such written request must: (i) Bear the signature of an authorized representative of the requesting agency; (ii) Include a certification that all requirements of the law and the regulations for collection of the debt and for requesting offset have been complied with; (iii) State the name, address (including county), and, where legally available, the Social Security number or employer ID number of the debtor, and a brief description of the basis of the debt, including identification of the judgment, if any; (iv) State the amount of the debt separately as to principal, interest, penalties, and administrative costs. Interest, if any, shall be computed on a daily basis to a date shown in the request. The amount to be offset shall not exceed the principal sum owed by the debtor, plus interest computed in accordance with the request, and any late payment interest, penalties and administrative costs that have been assessed; (v) Certify that the debtor has not filed for bankruptcy. If the debtor has filed for bankruptcy, a copy of the order of the bankruptcy court relieving the agency from the automatic stay must be included; and (vi) State the name, address, and telephone number of a contact person within the agency and the address to which payment should be sent. (2) Unless prohibited by law, the head of an agency, or a designee, may defer or subordinate in whole or in part the right of the agency to recover through offset all or part of any indebtedness to such agency, or may withdraw a request for offset. Notice of such action must be sent to the appropriate ASCS office. (g)(1) After ASCS has complied with the provisions of this part, ASCS may request other agencies of the Government to offset amounts payable by them to persons indebted to ASCS. (2) In the case of a request to IRS for a tax refund offset, the provisions at ยง792.19 shall apply.
