FR940207-2-00077 FR940207-2-00029 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;4834&hyph;7] Notification of Request for Research Assistance; Program Development and Evaluation Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program Estuaries_Louisianian and West Indian Provinces Agency: Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Research Laboratory, Gulf Breeze, Florida. Action: Notification of Request for Research Assistance. Summary: The EMAP&hyph;Estuaries (EMAP&hyph;E) research program develops strategies to define its monitoring program, interpret results, and extrapolate the findings of the experimental monitoring systems to different time and spatial scales as well as various pollutant/environmental scenarios. Assistance is requested of cooperating institutions to develop indices of estuarine condition and evaluate effectiveness of the imposed sampling and processing regimes. Each area of cooperation also presents additional research possibilities that extend beyond the basic EMAP concept. Areas of Research: (One cooperative agreement is expected to be awarded for each area.) _Validation of the EMAP Benthic Index and joint development of alternate benthic indices for the Louisianian Province (LP). The goal is to further develop the relationship between abiotic and biotic benthic factors. This research incorporates the collection of biotic and abiotic data on benthic samples (i.e., sediment toxicity, abundance and diversity of organisms, silt/clay content) from each EMAP&hyph;LP site and correlation of the information with other field data collected. _Evaluation of levels of contaminants in sediments and fish tissue to determine nominal and subnominal levels of contamination and identification of which contaminant is most prevalent and of most ecological concern, and adjustments of raw concentration based on environmental condition. The joint development of an index of contaminant stress is strongly desired. This extends to both organismal and system-level assessments. _Joint development of an index of the trophic state of estuarine systems. This includes the selection of parameters to be measured (e.g., nutrient levels, productivity, stable isotope ratios) and the development of protocols for sample collection and analysis. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Cooperative agreements are intended to promote collaborative interaction with EPA researchers. Selectees will be expected to collaborate with EMAP personnel and other EMAP researchers in their areas of research. The ongoing research may require the combination of all analytical results towards the development of new condition indices. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Janis Kurtz, U.S. EPA, ERL/Gulf Breeze, 1 Sabine Island Drive, Gulf Breeze, FL 32561. Proposals should be postmarked by February 28, 1994. Dated: January 31, 1994. Carl Gerber, Acting Assistant Administrator for Research and Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2705 Filed 2&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
