FR940711-0-00044 FR940711-0-00009 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;76&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8966; AD 94&hyph;14&hyph;18] Airworthiness Directives; de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 series airplanes. This action requires repetitive inspections of the hydraulic selector valve to determine the rate of leakage of hydraulic fluid, and replacement of certain valves with serviceable valves, if necessary. This AD also provides an optional terminating action for the repetitive inspections. This amendment is prompted by a report of pilot valve leakage of hydraulic fluid in a landing gear selector valve on a Model DHC&hyph;7 series airplane. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent inadvertent retraction of the landing gear in the event of a low voltage condition at the selector valve down solenoid. DATES: Effective July 26, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of July 26, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before September 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;76&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from de Havilland, Inc., Garratt Boulevard, Downsview, Ontario M3K 1Y5, Canada. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Danko Kramar, Aerospace Engineer, Systems and Equipment Branch, ANE&hyph;173, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York 11581; telephone (516) 791&hyph;6428; fax (516) 791&hyph;9024. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Transport Canada Aviation, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 series airplanes. Transport Canada advises that it has received a report of pilot valve leakage of hydraulic fluid in a landing gear selector valve on a Model DHC&hyph;7 series airplane. The cause of this leakage has been attributed to a faulty seal. Such leakage, if combined with a low voltage condition at the selector valve down solenoid, could result in inadvertent retraction of the landing gear. Since the same selector valve that is used on Model DHC&hyph;7 series airplanes is installed on Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 series airplanes, the FAA finds that the latter airplane model also is subject to the addressed unsafe condition. The FAA may consider issuance of parallel rulemaking action to address this unsafe condition on Model DHC&hyph;7 series airplanes. De Havilland, Inc., has issued Alert Service Bulletin S.B. A8&hyph;32&hyph;117, dated December 11, 1992, that describes procedures for repetitive inspections of the hydraulic selector valve to determine the rate of leakage of hydraulic fluid, and replacement of certain valves with serviceable valves, if necessary. Transport Canada Aviation classified this service bulletin as mandatory and issued Canadian Airworthiness Directive CF&hyph;94&hyph;05, dated March 16, 1994, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada. De Havilland, Inc., also has developed a valve (Modification 8/0530) that incorporates several improvements to minimize pilot valve leakage. This valve is equipped with an improved spring that keeps the valve firmly seated. The improved valve incorporates a reduced rate of opening and further restricts the orifice leading to the landing gear actuators. Replacement of certain valves with these improved valves will minimize the possibility of inadvertent landing gear retraction. This airplane model is manufactured in Canada and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, Transport Canada Aviation has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of Transport Canada Aviation, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, this AD is being issued to prevent inadvertent retraction of the landing gear in the event of a low voltage condition at the selector valve down solenoid. This AD requires repetitive inspections of the hydraulic selector valve to determine the rate of leakage of hydraulic fluid, and replacement of certain valves with serviceable valves, if necessary. This AD also provides an optional terminating action for the repetitive inspections. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletin described previously. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES . All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;76&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter.
