FR941205-2-00035 FR941205-2-00030 Social Security Administration Privacy Act of 1974; Report of Revised System of Records AGENCY: Social Security Administration (SSA), Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). ACTION: Revision to a system of records. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(11)), we are issuing public notice of our intent to revise the description of a system of records entitled ``Earnings Recording and Self-Employment Income System'' (HHS/SSA/OSR, 09&hyph;60&hyph;0059) (last published at 58 FR 48525, September 16, 1993). DATE: The proposed changes will become effective as proposed, without further notice, on January 13, 1995, unless we receive comments on or before that date which would warrant our preventing the changes from taking effect. ADDRESSES: Interested individuals may comment on this publication by writing to the SSA Privacy Officer, Social Security Administration, Room 3&hyph;D&hyph;1 Operations Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235. All comments received will be available for public inspection at that address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Stanley Hanna, Social Insurance Specialist, Confidentiality and Disclosure Branch, Office of Disclosure Policy, Social Security Administration, 3&hyph;D&hyph;1 Operations Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235, telephone 410&hyph;966&hyph;7077. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Discussion of Proposed Revision We are adding information to the description of the system of records to indicate that it includes information about individuals affected by the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992, and that the information is obtained from the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) Combined Benefit Fund. We are also revising two routine use statements. To comply with the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;486, 106 Stat. 2776), we published new routine uses to this system of records on September 16, 1993 (at 58 FR 48525). At that time we did not believe that any further change to the system was necessary. However, as the Social Security Administration (SSA) has gained some experience with developing cases in connection with this law, we have found that we need to revise our description of the records which are included in the system and to make other changes in the system's notice. We therefore propose to add the following phrase to the paragraph entitled ``Categories of individuals covered by the system'': ``any person affected by the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992.'' We propose to add the following phrase to the paragraph entitled ``Categories of records in the system'': ``information about miners and their families needed to administer the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992.'' We propose to add the following to the list of ``Purposes'': ``To make assignments of responsibility for paying premiums and to perform other functions under the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992.'' We propose to expand the explanation of information which may be disclosed to the coal industry assigned operator (in Routine Use # 29) to include: ``work history and other detailed information as to the basis for the assignment of that individual.'' We propose to add the following phrase to the paragraph entitled ``Record source categories'': ``the United Mine Workers of America Combined Benefit Fund.'' We are proposing the changes to Routine Use # 29 in accordance with the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a(a)(7), (b)(3), and (e)(11)) and our disclosure regulation (20 CFR part 401). The Privacy Act permits us to disclose information about individuals without their consents for a routine use, i.e., where the information will be used for a purpose that is compatible with the purpose for which we collected the information. The disclosure of information on individuals obtained from the UMWA Combined Benefit Fund to the coal industry operators to whom they were assigned under 26 U.S.C. 9706, as described in Routine Use # 29, for use by those operators in pursuing their remedies regarding those assignments, is required by statute, 26 U.S.C. 9706(f). Thus, we believe that this disclosure meets the compatibility criterion discussed above because it serves the purposes for which it was collected and because it is required by law. The proposed changes will make it clear that the earnings record system now includes information which SSA has received from the UMWA Combined Benefit Fund regarding miners and their families who are affected by the Coal Industry Retiree Health Benefit Act of 1992, and that this information will be used and disclosed for the purpose of performing those functions assigned to us under that statute. We are also making a minor wording change to Routine Use # 13 so that the language will be consistent with the routine use statements in systems notices of other SSA systems of records which deal with disclosure to the Department of Justice. II. Effect of the Proposed Changes on Individual Rights The proposed changes will: •Add another category of individuals and category of records covered by this system of records, •Clarify the kind of information which SSA maintains and the routine use statement on disclosures of this information, and •Show the sources from which the information is obtained. The proposed changes will have no unwarranted effect on individual's rights. Dated: November 8, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security.
