FR940803-0-00105 FR940803-0-00040 The AMFA also limits the maximum model year increase in a manufacturer's CAFE attributable to dual-fueled automobiles to 1.2 mpg for model years 1993 through 2004 and, if extended by the Secretary of Transportation, to 0.9 mpg for model years 2005 through 2008 for each compliance category of automobiles (i.e. domestic passenger, import passenger, domestic light truck, and import light truck). 15 U.S.C. 2013(g). Furthermore, if the Secretary of Transportation reduces the average fuel economy standard applicable to passenger automobiles to less than 27.5 mpg for any model year, increases above 0.7 mpg in the manufacturer's average fuel economy attributable to dual-fueled passenger automobiles are to be reduced by the amount the standard was lowered, but may not be reduced to yield less than 0.7 mpg. Regarding the second area, fuel economy labeling requirements, the AMFA section 8, 15 U.S.C. 2006(a), requires that specific fuel economy information for dedicated alterative- fueled automobiles and dual-fueled automobiles appear on the fuel economy label and in the Gas Mileage Guide published by the Department of Energy. For dedicated automobiles, the AMFA states that the fuel economy for labeling purposes shall be the fuel economy value calculated for CAFE purposes multiplied by the value, 0.15. 15 U.S.C. 2006(a)(4)(A). For dual-fueled automobiles, the AMFA 15 U.S.C. 2006(a)(4)(B) states that each label must: (i) Indicate the fuel economy of such automobiles when operated on gasoline or diesel fuel; (ii) clearly identify such automobiles as dual-fueled automobiles; (iii) clearly identify the fuels on which such automobiles may be operated; and (iv) contain a statement informing the consumer that the additional information is contained in the booklet published and distributed by the Department of Energy. To administer the provisions of the AMFA described above, the EPA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) in the Federal Register on March 1, 1991. The purpose of the NPRM was to propose to integrate the requirements of the AMFA into EPA's existing fuel economy regulations (40 CFR part 600) and to frame issues of potential interest to commenters. Again, as stated in the ``Summary'' section, today's final rule does not affect automobiles that do not meet the eligibility requirements for favorable CAFE treatment specified in the AMFA. Also, to avoid significant delays, this final rule only covers those fuels contained in the AMFA at the time of proposal, namely alcohols and natural gas, and does not address the other fuels added by the Energy Policy Act of 1992, since this Act was passed well after publication of the NPRM and late in the development of this final rule. EPA will include these other fuels in a future separate rulemaking. The sections that follow describe the final regulations that have been adopted and the consideration of public comment that led to decisions regarding the final regulations. III. Description of the Action Today's final rule sets in place the CAFE credit mechanism and the fuel economy labeling requirements for the 1993 and later model year alternative-fueled vehicles covered by the AMFA, namely alcohol and natural gas automobiles. In addition, since emission standards and emission measurement procedures have already been developed for methanol-fueled automobiles (54 FR 14426), fuel economy measurement procedures for methanol-fueled vehicles are also included in today's rule. The fuel economy calculations for methanol-fueled vehicles are based on the carbon balance technique which relies on the premise that the quantity of carbon contained in the exhaust is equal to the quantity of carbon consumed by the engine as fuel. The proposed equation was based on fixed fuel properties. However, based on comments received in response to the NPRM, EPA decided that measured fuel properties are more appropriate for the calculation of fuel economy and, therefore, today's final rules are based on measured fuel properties. This is further discussed in section V. ``Public Participation''. EPA is currently developing emission standards, emission test procedures, and fuel economy calculation procedures for natural gas-fueled vehicles in a separate rulemaking. The notice of proposed rulemaking, ``Standards for Emissions From Natural Gas-Fueled, and Liquified Petroleum Gas-Fueled Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines, and Certification Procedures for Aftermarket Conversion Hardware'' was published in the Federal Register on November 5, 1992 (57 FR 52912). EPA expects that this rule will be promulgated in advance of the completion of the 1993 model year annual production period, after which CAFE for the 1993 model year is calculated, thereby allowing manufacturers to obtain CAFE credits for 1993 model year and later natural gas-fueled vehicles. In the event that this rulemaking cannot be promulgated in time, EPA expects to promulgate those portions regarding fuel economy test and calculation procedures in order to ensure fuel economy credits are available for 1993 model year natural gas-fueled vehicles.
