FR940713-2-00116 FR940713-2-00064 C. Discussion The Library of Congress and the Copyright Office have reviewed the Audio Home Recording Act and the Tribunal's 1993 decision, and agree with the joint commentators, AFM, AFTRA, RIAA and Mr. Peters, that the independent administrator is to receive the royalties from the two nonfeatured performers subfunds directly from the Copyright Office, and that disputes as to his (or her) distribution of those funds are not subject to the jurisdiction of a CARP panel. Our purpose in sending the May 4 letter to Mr. Curry and Mr. Peters was to facilitate a settlement. The provisions of the Audio Home Recording Act are unique among other provisions governing statutory royalties in that they open up the possibility of a dispute in a royalty fund without offering an administrative remedy. How to handle such a dispute was not a question that was faced by the Tribunal in 1993, because in that year there were no claims filed at all in the nonfeatured performers subfunds. This year, Mr. Curry's claim, and his subsequent notice that he is in controversy, presents the issue foursquare. Recognizing the plain meaning of the statute, we agree that the royalties in the two nonfeatured performers subfunds are to be distributed directly to the independent administrator. We also recognize that claimants to those two subfunds do not file claims with the Copyright Office. They need to contact the independent administrator directly. But we believe there is a function for the Copyright Office to perform. Each year, to the extent that the Copyright Office receives expressions of interest to receive royalties from those two subfunds, we will forward the names to the independent administrator. 7 In addition, the Copyright Office will maintain a public file that will consist of (a) the names of those expressing interest in the subfunds; (b) the notice of the independent administrator; (c) any correspondence concerning the two subfunds; and (d) any notification of the final disposition of any dispute within the subfunds. The notification is not required, but is being requested to complete the public record. It is also noted that we are not asking for a notification of the disposition of all moneys in the subfunds, just those is dispute. We recognize and will continue the Tribunal's policy of not inquiring into the distribution of settled claims. 7 This year, in addition to Mr. Curry, James Cannings filed a claim for the Nonfeatured Musicians Subfund and the Nonfeatured Vocalists Subfund. Mr. Cannings' claims were filed after the February 28, 1994 deadline, and would have been returned as untimely filed if they were claims subject to the Copyright Office's jurisdiction. However, in light of our ruling today, the statutory deadline in 17 U.S.C. 1007(a)(1) does not apply to claims beyond the Copyright Office's jurisdiction. Therefore, his claims are also being forwarded to the independent administrator for resolution. D. Distribution Notice In light of the above discussion, we are ordering a full distribution of the royalties available in the 1992 and 1993 Nonfeatured Musicians and Nonfeatured Vocalists Subfunds to Mr. Edward Peters, the independent administrator, on July 28, 1994. This distribution will constitute the final distribution in those subfunds, except (a) in the event that there are any late payments, a subsequent distribution will be made to the independent administrator that represents those subfunds' share of the late payment; and (b) in the event that any refund is ultimately found to be required, the independent administrator will need to repay the Office the subfunds' share of the refund. Dated: July 7, 1994. Barbara Ringer, Acting Register of Copyrights. Approved by: James H. Billington, The Librarian of Congress. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16963 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 1410&hyph;09&hyph;P
