FR940224-0-00064 FR940224-0-00012 (iii) Secretary's prior approval required. An Agency must obtain the Secretary's prior approval to correct an administrative error or omission, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, if the correction is not made before the close of the calendar year of the error or omission and the correction_ (A) Is a numerical change to the housing credit dollar amount allocated for the building or project; (B) Affects the determination of any component of the State's housing credit ceiling under section 42(h)(3)(C); or (C) Affects the State's unused housing credit carryover that is assigned to the Secretary under section 42(h)(3)(D). (iv) Requesting the Secretary's approval. To obtain the Secretary's approval under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, an Agency must submit a request for the Secretary's approval within a reasonable period after discovering the administrative error or omission, and must agree to any conditions that may be required by the Secretary under paragraph (b)(3)(v) of this section. When requesting the Secretary's approval, the Agency, or the Agency and the affected taxpayer, must file an application that complies with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(3)(iv). For further information on the application procedure see Rev. Proc. 93&hyph;1, 1993&hyph;1 I.R.B. 10 (or any subsequent applicable revenue procedure). (See ยง601.601(d)(2)(ii)( b ) of this chapter.) The application requesting the Secretary's approval must contain the following information_ (A) The name, address, and identification number of each affected taxpayer; (B) The Building Identification Number (B.I.N.) and address of each building or project affected by the administrative error or omission; (C) A statement explaining the administrative error or omission and the intent of the Agency, or of the Agency and the affected taxpayer, when the document was originally completed; (D) Copies of any supporting documentation; (E) A statement explaining the effect, if any, that a correction of the administrative error or omission would have on the housing credit dollar amount allocated for any building or project; and (F) A statement explaining the effect, if any, that a correction of the administrative error or omission would have on the determination of the components of the State's housing credit ceiling under section 42(h)(3)(C) or on the State's unused housing credit carryover that is assigned to the Secretary under section 42(h)(3)(D). (v) Agreement to conditions. To obtain the Secretary's approval under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, an Agency, or the Agency and the affected taxpayer, must agree to the conditions the Secretary considers appropriate. (c) Examples. The following examples illustrate the scope of this section: Example 1. Individual B applied to Agency X for a reservation of a low-income housing credit dollar amount for a building that is part of a low-income housing project. When applying for the low-income housing credit dollar amount, B informed Agency X that B intended to form Partnership Y to finance the project. After receiving the reservation letter and prior to receiving an allocation, B formed Partnership Y and sold partnership interests to a number of limited partners. B contributed the low-income housing project to Partnership Y in exchange for a partnership interest. B and Partnership Y informed Agency X of the ownership change. When actually allocating the housing credit dollar amount, Agency X sent Partnership Y a document listing B, rather than Partnership Y, as the building's owner. Partnership Y promptly notified Agency X of the error. After reviewing related documents, Agency X determined that it had incorrectly listed B as the building's owner on the allocation document. Since the parties originally intended that Partnership Y would receive the allocation as the owner of the building, Agency X may correct the error without obtaining the Secretary's approval, and insert Partnership Y as the building's owner on the allocation document. Example 2. Agency Y allocated a lower low-income housing credit dollar amount for a low-income housing building than Agency Y originally intended. After the close of the calendar year of the allocation, B, the building's owner, discovered the error and promptly notified Agency Y. Agency Y reviewed relevant documents and agreed that an error had occurred. Agency Y and B must apply, as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, for the Secretary's approval before Agency Y may correct the error.
