FR940224-0-00027 FR940224-0-00002 (2) Exception. An extension of credit is not considered made to an insider under paragraph (f)(1) of this section if: (i) The credit is extended on terms that would satisfy the standard set forth in ยง215.4(a) of this part for extensions of credit to insiders; and (ii) The proceeds of the extension of credit are used in a bona fide transaction to acquire property, goods, or services from the insider. ยง215.4 General prohibitions. (a) Terms and creditworthiness. No member bank may extend credit to any insider of the bank or insider of its affiliates unless the extension of credit: (1) Is made on substantially the same terms (including interest rates and collateral) as, and following credit underwriting procedures that are not less stringent than, those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions by the bank with other persons that are not covered by this part and who are not employed by the bank; and (2) Does not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. (b) Prior approval. (1) No member bank may extend credit (which term includes granting a line of credit) to any insider of the bank or insider of its affiliates in an amount that, when aggregated with the amount of all other extensions of credit to that person and to all related interests of that person, exceeds the higher of $25,000 or 5 percent of the member bank's unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus, unless: (i) The extension of credit has been approved in advance by a majority of the entire board of directors of that bank; and (ii) The interested party has abstained from participating directly or indirectly in the voting. (2) In no event may a member bank extend credit to any insider of the bank or insider of its affiliates in an amount that, when aggregated with all other extensions of credit to that person, and all related interests of that person, exceeds $500,000, except by complying with the requirements of this paragraph (b). (3) Approval by the board of directors under paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section is not required for an extension of credit that is made pursuant to a line of credit that was approved under paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 14 months of the date of the extension of credit. The extension of credit must also be in compliance with the requirements of ยง215.4(a) of this part. (4) Participation in the discussion, or any attempt to influence the voting, by the board of directors regarding an extension of credit constitutes indirect participation in the voting by the board of directors on an extension of credit.
