FR941013-1-00085 FR941013-1-00010 Pursuant to the terms of the Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this action will be treated as a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of the Executive Order. As such, this action was submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations are documented in the docket pertaining to the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP rulemaking (Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;16). D. Regulatory Flexibility Act Section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq .) requires Federal agencies to give special consideration to the impacts of regulations on small entities, which are small businesses, small organizations, and small governments. The major purpose of the Regulatory Flexibility Act is to keep paperwork and regulatory requirements from being out of proportion to the scale of the entities being regulated, without compromising the objectives of, in this case, the Clean Air Act. A small business with establishments in Standard Industrial Classification 4953, Refuse Systems, is defined by the Small Business Administration as one receiving less than $6 million per year, averaged over the most recent three fiscal years. A small organization is a not-for-profit enterprise that is independently owned and operated and is not dominant in the waste disposal industry. A small government is one that serves a population of less than 50,000 people. The EPA may use other definitions, but elects to use these. The EPA believes that small organizations and small governments have at most a very minor involvement with the types of off-site waste and recovery operations subject to this rulemaking, and therefore would not be significantly affected by the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. Hence, the EPA has concentrated its attention on small businesses. The Regulatory Flexibility Act specifies that Federal agencies must prepare an initial regulatory flexibility analysis if a proposed regulatory action would have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The data bases available to the EPA reflect the state of the hazardous waste TSDF industry in 1986, and provide limited basis for updating the economic factors. Furthermore, the EPA does not have reliable projections of construction of new facilities with off-site waste and recovery operations that would be subject to the proposed rule. The EPA therefore assumes the proposed rule may have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses, and has conducted a regulatory flexibility analysis. This analysis is part of the economic impact analysis (titled Economic Impact Analysis of Proposed National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations) prepared for the rulemaking and available in the docket (Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;16). Even though many off-site waste and recovery operations facilities are expected to be area sources and would not be subject to the proposed NESHAP, the EPA assumed for the regulatory flexibility analysis that all facilities listed in the data base are colocated at major sources. Also, the analysis did not exclude those off-site waste and recovery operations facilities that would not be subject to the NESHAP under the proposed applicability exemption for facilities at which the total annual organic HAP mass content of all wastes and recoverable materials subject to the rule entering the facility is less than 1 Mg/yr. From its data base, the EPA has identified 110 small businesses that own 112 affected facilities. About 90 of these small businesses would incur compliance costs associated with using air emission control equipment. For about one-third of the 90 businesses, the annual compliance costs would exceed 5 percent of normal production or waste treatment costs. For the median small business, the same costs come to less than 0.4 percent of sales `` compared with about 0.01 percent for the median large business. Excluding the costs of monitoring and recordkeeping costs, the capital costs would exceed the retained earnings breakpoints (the maximum amount of new capital a business can raise without issuing new stock and without changing its existing capital structure) of about 40 percent of the 90 small businesses. Only about 30 percent of large businesses would have capital costs of compliance exceeding their breakpoints. Finally, the EPA evaluated the possibility that the proposed rule might cause a small business to close. Although the rule may cause specific waste treatment processes to be shut down at many off-site waste and recovery operations facilities, only about 10 facilities are projected to close outright. Of these, the EPA can single out only three small businesses, each of which has only one facility. Limiting the analysis, to the extent possible with the information available in the data base, to only those facilities which are major sources and would not qualify for the 1 Mg of HAP applicability exemption does not change this number of potential closures. Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Administrator certifies that this rule may have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
