FR940406-1-00006 FR940406-1-00001 The Department notes that while Congress has found homelessness and migrancy to be conditions predisposing individuals to nutritional risks, and this determination has been recognized by the placement of these individuals in a WIC nutritional risk category, alcoholism and drug abuse, similarly recognized by Congress in section 17(b)(8), have not been accorded similar treatment by the Department. The Department believes the distinction is warranted. Over the past several years, the health and medical communities have come to accept alcoholism or drug addiction, in and of itself, as a nutritionally related medical condition sufficient to warrant placement in one of the first three priorities in 7 CFR 246.7(e)(4). The Department does not believe that the same can be said for homelessness and migrancy. Recognizing that most State agencies classify individuals suffering from alcoholism or drug addiction as a Priority I, based on recent medical research, the Department is considering seeking a technical correction to the WIC legislation to remove alcoholism and drug addiction from the examples of ``predisposing'' nutritional risk conditions. This change would thus recognize these conditions as independent nutritionally related medical conditions in the law, thereby adjusting legislative language to reflect current medical knowledge. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 246 Food assistance programs, Food donations, Grant programs_Social programs, Indians, Infants and children, Maternal and child health, Nutrition, Nutrition education, Public assistance programs, WIC, Women. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR part 246 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 246_SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL FOOD PROGRAM FOR WOMEN, INFANTS AND CHILDREN 1. The authority citation for part 246 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1786. 2. In §246.4, paragraph (a)(11)(i) is revised to read as follows: §246.4 State Plan. (a) *␣*␣* (11) * * * (i) Certification procedures, including a list of specific nutritional risk criteria by priority level which cites conditions and indices to be used to determine a person's nutritional risk, the State agency's income guidelines for Program eligibility, and any adjustments to the participant priority system made pursuant to §246.7(e)(4) to accommodate high-risk postpartum women or the inclusion of previously certified persons who might regress in nutritional status without continued provision of supplemental foods in Priority VII. * * * * * 3. In §246.7, the introductory text of paragraph (e)(4) and paragraph (e)(4)(vii) are revised to read as follows: §246.7 Certification of participants. * * * * * (e) *␣*␣* (4) Nutritional risk priority system. The competent professional authority shall fill vacancies which occur after a local agency has reached its maximum participation level by applying the following participant priority system to persons on the local agency's waiting list. Priorities I through VII shall be utilized in all States. The State agency may, at its discretion, expand Priority VII to include previously certified participants who might regress in nutritional status without continued provision of supplemental foods. The State agency may set income or other sub-priority levels within any of these seven priority levels. The State agency may expand Priority III, IV, or V to include high-risk postpartum women. * * * * * (vii) Priority VII. Pregnant, breastfeeding and postpartum women, infants, and children who are at nutritional risk solely because of homelessness or migrancy and, at State agency option in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, previously certified participants who might regress in nutritional status without continued provision of supplemental foods. * * * * * Dated: March 25, 1994. William E. Ludwig, Administrator, Food and Nutrition Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8117 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;30&hyph;U
