FR941230-1-00003 FR941230-1-00001 Both the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation have recently permitted the banks that they regulate to purchase, in a fiduciary capacity, securities of an investment company advised by an affiliate of the bank if the purchase is specifically authorized by the terms of the instrument creating the fiduciary relationship, by court order, or by local law. 3 Moreover, many states have amended their laws to allow banks to engage in these types of transactions. 4 3 See OCC Trust Interpretations No. 234 (September 21, 1989); 12 CFR 9.12; 12 CFR 337.4(e). See also Letter dated May 4, 1994, from Frank Maguire, Senior Deputy Comptroller for Corporate Activities and Policy Analysis, OCC, to Michael E. Bleier, General Counsel, Mellon Bank, N.A. (regarding Mellon Bank's acquisition of The Dreyfus Corporation). 4 See Mich. Comp. Laws ยง487.485 (1992) (amended in 1992); Md. Code Ann., Est. & Trusts ยง15&hyph;106 (1993) (amended in 1991); Ind. Code Ann. ยง28&hyph;1&hyph;12&hyph;3 (Burns 1993). The Board now proposes to modify its investment advisory interpretive rule to provide that a bank holding company and its bank and nonbank subsidiaries may purchase in their sole discretion in a fiduciary capacity, securities of an investment company advised by the bank holding company if this purchase is specifically authorized by the terms of the instrument creating the fiduciary relationship, by court order, or by the law of the jurisdiction under which the trust is administered. To assure that fiduciary customers are aware of the potential conflicts of interest that may arise, the proposed change would contain a requirement that the bank holding company disclose, in writing at the time that the fiduciary relationship is created, to its fiduciary customer, that it, or an affiliate, serves as investment adviser to the investment company whose shares are purchased in a fiduciary capacity. These purchases would also be governed by fiduciary principles that require the purchase to be made on market terms. The Board seeks comment on the proposed disclosure requirement and whether it is adequate to assure that fiduciary customers are aware of potential conflicts of interest. In particular, the Board seeks comment on whether the required written disclosure should be given to a fiduciary customer immediately prior to each initial investment in an investment company advised by the bank holding company. II. Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 95&hyph;354, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System certifies that the proposed regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities that would be subject to the regulation. This revision will not place additional burdens on any bank holding company. It will clarify the rules as they currently apply to all bank holding companies. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 225 Administrative practice and procedure, Banks, banking, Federal Reserve System, Holding companies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
