FR941006-2-00110 FR941006-2-00083 With regard to ELNs linked to securities issued by non-U.S. companies (including sponsored ADRs) subject to reporting requirements under the Act, the following additional requirements apply: (1) The term of such ELNs shall be limited to between two and three years; (2) either (i) the Exchange must have in place a comprehensive market information sharing agreement 20 with the primary exchange on which the underlying security is primarily traded (in the case of ADRs, with the primary exchange where the security underlying the ADR is primarily traded), or (ii) at least 50% of the market for the underlying security and all related securities 21 for the six months prior to issuance must occur in the U.S. market (as defined below); 22 (3) if linked to an ADR, the ADR must be sponsored; 23 (4) there must be a minimum of 2,000 holders of the linked security; (5) the ELNs issuance may not exceed (i) 2% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 30% of the worldwide trading volume for the security and all related securities for the six months prior to listing occurred in the U.S. market, (ii) 3% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 50% of the worldwide trading volume for the security and all related securities for the six months prior to listing occurred in the U.S. market, or (iii) 5% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 70% of the worldwide trading volume for the security and all related securities for the six months prior to listing occurred in the U.S. market; and (6) no ELN may be listed if the U.S. market for the underlying security and all related securities accounted for less than 30% of the worldwide trading volume for the security and related securities during the prior six months, regardless of whether the relevant comprehensive market information sharing agreement is in place. 24 With the concurrence of the staff of the Commission, the Exchange may determine to list an ELN linked to a security (including a sponsored ADR) issued by a non-U.S. company subject to reporting requirements under the Act that exceeds the above percentages. 25 20 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. A comprehensive market information sharing agreement would provide for the exchange of market trading activity, clearing activity, and the identity of the ultimate purchaser or seller of the securities traded. See, e.g. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33554 (January 31, 1994), 59 FR 5622 (February 7, 1994) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;93&hyph;38) (``ADR Approval Order''). 21 Such related securities include all classes of common stock issued by the foreign issuer and ADRs that overlie any of these classes of common stock. See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4; and ADR Approval Order, supra note 20. 22 The trading volume for any linked security trading on an exchange that is not part of the U.S. market will be included in the determination of world-wide trading volume, but not in the determination of U.S. market trading volume. The Exchange represents that it shall use its best efforts to discover all markets (foreign and U.S.) on which the underlying security and all related securities trade. Id. 23 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 24 Additionally, without a comprehensive market information sharing agreement, an ELN may not be listed linked to a security issued by a non-U.S. company (including a sponsored ADR) if the U.S. market for the security and all related securities for the prior six months was less than 50% of the worldwide market for such securities. Id. 25 See supra note 18. The proposal defines the U.S. market 26 as the U.S. self-regulatory organizations that are members of the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') 27 and whose markets are linked together by the Intermarket Trading System (``ITS''). 28 26 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4; and ADR Approval Order, supra note 20. 27 ISG was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The members of the ISG, (and accordingly, of the U.S. market) are: the Amex; the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; the CBOE; the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc.; the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; the NYSE; the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Because of potential opportunities for trading abuses involving stock index futures, stock options and the underlying stock and the need for greater sharing of surveillance information for these potential intermarket trading abuses, the major stock index futures exchanges ( e.g., the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade) joined the ISG as affiliate members in 1990. 28 ITS is a communications system designed to facilitate trading among competing markets by providing each market with order routing capabilities based on current quotation information. The system links the participant markets and provides facilities and procedures for: (1) The display of composite quotation information at each participant market, so that brokers are able to determine readily the best bid and offer available from any participant for multiple trading securities; (2) efficient routing of orders and sending administrative messages (on the functioning of the system) to all participating markets; (3) participation, under certain conditions, by members of all participating markets in opening transactions in those markets; and (4) routing orders from a participating market to a participating market with a better price.
