FR940810-0-00299 FR940810-0-00021 (D) Any other examinations or tests deemed necessary by the examining physician. (3) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide the following information to the examining physician: (i) A copy of this standard and Appendices D, E, G, and I to this section; (ii) A description of the affected employee's duties as they relate to the employee's exposure; (iii) The employee's representative exposure level or anticipated exposure level; (iv) A description of any personal protective and respiratory equipment used or to be used; and (v) Information from previous medical examinations of the affected employee that is not otherwise available to the examining physician. (4) Physician's written opinion. (i) The employer shall obtain a written opinion from the examining physician. This written opinion shall contain the results of the medical examination and shall include: (A) The physician's opinion as to whether the employee has any detected medical conditions that would place the employee at an increased risk of material health impairment from exposure to asbestos; (B) Any recommended limitations on the employee or on the use of personal protective equipment such as respirators; and (C) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the results of the medical examination and of any medical conditions that may result from asbestos exposure. (D) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the increased risk of lung cancer attributable to the combined effect of smoking and asbestos exposure. (ii) The employer shall instruct the physician not to reveal in the written opinion given to the employer specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure to asbestos. (iii) The employer shall provide a copy of the physician's written opinion to the affected employee within 30 days from its receipt. (n) Recordkeeping_(1) Objective data relied on pursuant to paragraph (f) to this section. (i) Where the employer has relied on objective data that demonstrate that products made from or containing asbestos are not capable of releasing fibers of asbestos in concentrations at or above the permissible exposure limit and/or excursion limit under the expected conditions of processing, use, or handling to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (f), the employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record of objective data reasonably relied upon in support of the exemption. (ii) The record shall include at least the following information: (A) The product qualifying for exemption; (B) The source of the objective data; (C) The testing protocol, results of testing, and/or analysis of the material for the release of asbestos; (D) A description of the operation exempted and how the data support the exemption; and (E) Other data relevant to the operations, materials, processing, or employee exposures covered by the exemption. (iii) The employer shall maintain this record for the duration of the employer's reliance upon such objective data. (2) Exposure measurements. (i) The employer shall keep an accurate record of all measurements taken to monitor employee exposure to asbestos as prescribed in paragraph (f) of this section. NOTE: The employer may utilize the services of competent organizations such as industry trade associations and employee associations to maintain the records required by this section. (ii) This record shall include at least the following information: (A) The date of measurement; (B) The operation involving exposure to asbestos that is being monitored; (C) Sampling and analytical methods used and evidence of their accuracy; (D) Number, duration, and results of samples taken; (E) Type of protective devices worn, if any; and (F) Name, social security number, and exposure of the employees whose exposures are represented. (iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least thirty (30) years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. (3) Medical surveillance. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee subject to medical surveillance by paragraph (m) of this section, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. (ii) The record shall include at least the following information: (A) The name and social security number of the employee; (B) A copy of the employee's medical examination results, including the medical history, questionnaire responses, results of any tests, and physician's recommendations. (C) Physician's written opinions; (D) Any employee medical complaints related to exposure to asbestos; and (E) A copy of the information provided to the physician as required by paragraph (m) of this section. (iii) The employer shall ensure that this record is maintained for the duration of employment plus thirty (30) years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. (4) Training records. The employer shall maintain all employee training records for one 1 year beyond the last date of employment by that employer.
