FR941110-0-00089 FR941110-0-00016 •No one should be a member of a survey team unless he or she has successfully completed a training and testing program, not only on how to conduct a standard survey, but on how to conduct an extended survey as well. Proof of successful completion of this training must be made available to the facility prior to the initiation of a survey; and •Before a citation is given, the surveyor must be able to demonstrate a negative outcome. One commenter said that the HCFA policy that surveyors are not to be consultants is a great disservice; surveyors should adopt a role like the JCAHO surveyors. Another said that HCFA should convene a national group of experts, including State and Federal surveyors with extensive experience, nursing facility providers, and consumers, to identify the knowledge and skills needed by survey teams. Some said that surveyors should pass not only the initial examination, but be tested annually. The passing scores for the tests should be 85 percent or more, commenters said, and the results of the testing and remediation must be made available to the public. One commenter said that, when surveyors are cross- trained, their expertise in the new area is not good enough to survey facilities' performances in that area. For this reason, the commenter suggested that §488.314 be revised ``*␣*␣* to preclude the use of surveyors without demonstrated professional training and experience in the substantive area being surveyed. By professional training and experience,'' the commenter said, ``we do not mean on-the-job or inter- agency in-service training. Rather, we mean graduates of accredited or approved educational institutions.'' One commenter said that there should be no ``grandfathering'' of surveyors. Another asked the following three questions: •What validity and reliability studies were conducted to ensure the test measures the ability of surveyors to perform their functions in a consistent manner? •Has the test been validated to allow States to meet their affirmative action plans? •Are the results of the tests in line with the State's requirements for merit systems and collective bargain contracts? Response: The listing of suggested topics for surveyor training was extensive. Some of the items (for example, correct application of the applicable statutes and regulations, quality of care standards, and proper documentation) are already covered in surveyor training. We believe others are inappropriate to require as part of survey training; they should be provided as part of each team member's initial and continuing training within the context of training for his or her area of professional expertise. We would encourage, but do not require, States to allow surveyors in training to act as observers on actual surveys in the field, and are taking all possible measures to meet the demand for surveyor training. For example, we are planning to use satellite transmissions for training courses. We have already begun to move ahead with one of the other suggestions, interactive video training. As for provider and/or ombudsman input for surveyor training and testing, we have convened a national workgroup which includes provider organization and consumer advocacy group representatives to assess the surveyor training program and make recommendations for changes. Finally, we will listen to all reasonable suggestions from providers and ombudsmen, but do not agree that the regulations need to be revised to require this input.
