FR940304-2-00031 FR940304-2-00025 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;4845&hyph;3] National Environmental Education and Training Foundation, Inc. Announcement of New Appointments to the Board of Directors The National Environmental Education and Training Foundation was created by Public Law 101&hyph;619, the National Environmental Education Act of 1990. It is a private 501(c)(3) non-profit organization established to promote and support education and training as necessary tools to further environmental protection and sustainable, environmentally sound development. It provides the common ground upon which leaders from business and industry, all levels of government, public interest groups, and others can work cooperatively to expand the reach of environmental education and training programs beyond the traditional classroom. The Foundation will develop and support a grant program that promotes innovative environmental education and training programs; it will also develop partnerships with government and other organizations to administer projects that promote the development of an environmentally literate public. The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, as required by the terms of the Act, announces the following five appointments to the National Environmental Education and Training Foundation, Inc. Board of Directors. These appointees will join the seven current Board members, who include: Edward Bass, Chairman and CEO of Fine Line, Inc. and Chairman of Space Biospheres Ventures; Dr. James Crowfoot, Professor of Natural Resources and Urban and Regional Planning at the University of Michigan; Mark De Michele, President and CEO of Arizona Public Service Company; James Donnelley, Vice Chairman of the Board of R.R. Donnelley & Sons; Dr. Bonnie F. Guiton, Dean of the McIntire School of Commerce at the University of Virginia; Rebecca Rimel, Executive Director of the Pew Charitable Trusts; and Francis Pandolfi, President and CEO of Times Mirror Magazines, Inc. and Chairman of the Board of The Sporting News Publishing Company. Great care has been taken to assure that these new appointees not only have the highest degree of expertise and commitment, but also bring to the Board diverse points of view relating to environmental education and training. Terms of office for the new appointees are: Mr. Parks, Mr. Krupp, Mr. Dach and Ms. Muyskens four year terms with possibility of an additional four year reappointment; Ms. Tabankin two years with possibility of an additional four year reappointment. The five new appointees are: R. Ralph Parks_Mr. Parks is currently a General Partner, Investment Banking Division, Goldman Sachs & Company. From 1970 through 1980 he was Managing Director, Investment Banking Division, Merrill Lynch. He has a B.A. in History from Rice University and an M.B.A. from Columbia University School of Business. Fred Krupp_Mr. Krupp is the Executive Director of the Environmental Defense Fund. He is also a member of the President's Council on Sustainable Development, serves on New York Governor Cuomo's Environmental Advisory Board, the Connecticut Fund for the Environment and the National Commission on Superfund. Mr. Krupp is a graduate of Yale University with a law degree from the University of Michigan. Sarah Muyskens_Ms. Muyskens is a Management Consultant specializing in non-profits. She has worked at the Wilderness Society and the Environmental Defense Fund. Ms. Muyskens is on the Board of the Vermont Natural Resources Council and the Governor's Council of Environmental Advisors. Ms. Muyskens has a degree in British History from Yale University. Leslie Dach_Mr. Dach is presently Executive Vice President/General Manager of Edelman Public Relations. He has over 15 years of experience in politics, lobbying, and press. While at Edelman he managed StarKist's announcement of its Dolphin Safe policy and a worldwide environmental communications policy for Johnson Wax. As a lobbyist, he worked for Audubon Society and the Environmental Defense Fund. He has also managed lobbying coalitions for the entire environmental movement on major pollution legislation. Mr. Dach has a B.S. in Biology from Yale and a M.P.A. from Harvard. Margery Tabankin_Currently is the executive director of the Hollywood Women's Political Committee and the Barbara Streisand Foundation. Previously, Ms. Tabankin was an Institute of Politics Fellow at Harvard's John F. Kennedy School of Government and served as the executive director of the Arca Foundation and the director of VISTA. Ms. Tabankin has a B.A. in political science from the University of Wisconsin. Dated: February 22, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4914 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
