FR940817-2-00061 FR940817-2-00043 In the first stage of the waiver process, the sole issue is whether a fuel ``causes or contributes'' to an emission standard failure. The waiver applicant bears the burden of demonstrating that a fuel will neither cause nor contribute to an emission standard failure for any regulated pollutant. Balancing of the emission effects of a fuel for one pollutant against those for other pollutant(s) is not permissible under the statutory language. For example, an applicant would not meet its burden of proof if its testing of a fuel shows that it causes or contributes to an emission standard failure for CO, even though testing shows decreases in emissions of HC and NOx. If an applicant does not meet its burden of demonstrating that the ``cause or contribute'' test is met, the Agency cannot grant a waiver. If an applicant does meet its burden, the Agency may then exercise its discretion to grant or to deny a waiver in the second stage of the process. 11 11 Under the statute, if the Agency does not take action to grant or deny a waiver application within 180 days of submittal, the waiver is deemed granted. The statute provides that the Agency ``may'' grant a waiver application if the ``cause or contribute'' test is met, but does not require such an action. The Agency may therefore choose not to grant a waiver based on other issues (e.g., public health effects) that indicate that it would not be in the public interest to do so. In this second stage of the process, the Agency has a great deal of discretion to determine which issues should be examined and to balance the potential positive and negative impacts of a waiver. Such discretionary authority is grounded not only in Congress' use of the term ``may'' rather than the term ``shall'' in section 211(f)(4), but also in the goals and purposes of section 211 when read as a whole. The Agency does not believe that Congress intended to require EPA to grant a waiver under section 211(f)(4) when available information indicates that the fuel would be potentially subject to regulatory control under section 211(c)(1) immediately upon issuance of the waiver. Similarly, EPA believes that Congress did not intend to preclude a determination of whether issuance of a waiver is consistent with other important goals of the Act once it has been demonstrated that the mandatory ``cause or contribute'' test has been met. This does not mean that the Administrator has unfettered discretion to deny a waiver application for any reason. The grounds for any denial must not be arbitrary or capricious or constitute an abuse of discretion. Thus, in using discretion to deny an application, the Administrator must identify and explain the factors on which a discretionary denial decision is based and must assure that the policy adopted is consistent for all similarly situated waiver applicants. C. Consideration of Potential Health Effects Although the basis for a discretionary denial must be rational and non-arbitrary, nothing in the statute limits the type of factors which the Administrator may consider in deciding whether to deny an application. Section 101(b)(1) states that one of the purposes of the Act is to ``protect and enhance the quality of the Nation's air resources so as to promote the public health and welfare and the productive capacity of its population.'' Given this general goal of the Act, certainly the potential effects on public health of vehicle emissions would be a factor which the Administrator may reasonably consider when utilizing the discretion which section 211(f)(4) authorizes. Furthermore, under sections 211(b)(2) and 211(e), the Administrator must require the manufacturer of a fuel or additive to produce data concerning potential health effects as a condition of, or a prerequisite to, registration of the fuel or additive. 12 Under section 211(c)(1), the Administrator may, based on data collected under sections 211(b) and 211(e) or otherwise available, issue regulations controlling manufacture or sale of any fuel or fuel additive which the Administrator finds ``may reasonably be anticipated to endanger the public health or welfare.'' These provisions indicate that Congress intended that the Administrator be concerned about the potential health effects of fuels and fuel additives. 12 Sections 211(a) and 211(b)(1) require the registration of fuels and additives designated by the Administrator as a precondition to introduction into commerce. The fact that the Administrator may control fuels or fuel additives which pose potential health effects under section 211(c)(1) does not mean that the Administrator may not consider health effects as a factor in deciding whether to grant a waiver under section 211(f)(4). Such a construction of the statute would lead to absurd results, precluding the Administrator from denying a waiver application and leading to potential introduction of a fuel or additive into commerce, even in the specific circumstances where the Administrator has concluded that there are grounds for issuance of a proposed regulation prohibiting the fuel or additive under section 211(c). However, although this reasoning indicates that Congress could not have reasonably intended to completely preclude the consideration of health effects under section 211(f)(4), this does not mean that section 211(c) limits the circumstances in which the Administrator may consider potential health effects as part of a waiver decision. Clearly, it was the intention of Congress to treat fuels and fuel additives already registered and being sold for a particular purpose differently than those which have not already been introduced into commerce.
