FR940822-2-00125 FR940822-2-00061 If the support or cooperation of agencies, funding bodies, organizations, or courts other than the applicant, would be needed in order for the consultant to perform the required tasks, written assurances of such support or cooperation must accompany the application letter. Support letters also may be submitted under separate cover; however, to ensure that there is sufficient time to bring them to the attention of the Board's Technical Assistance Committee, letters sent under separate cover must be received not less than two weeks prior to the Board meeting at which the technical assistance requests will be considered (i.e., by November 4, 1994; February 17, 1995; April 28, 1995; and July 14, 1995). iii. Likelihood of implementation. What steps have been/will be taken to facilitate implementation of the consultant's recommendations upon completion of the technical assistance? For example, if the support or cooperation of other agencies, funding bodies, organizations, or a court other than the applicant will be needed to adopt the changes recommended by the consultant and approved by the court, how will they be involved in the review of the recommendations and development of the implementation plan? iv. Budget and matching State contribution. A completed Form E, ``Preliminary Budget'' (see Appendix IV to the Grant Guideline), must be included with the applicant's letter requesting technical assistance. Please note that the estimated cost of the technical assistance services should be broken down into the categories listed on the budget form rather than aggregated under the Consultant/Contractual category. In addition, the budget should provide for submission of three copies of the consultant's final report to the Institute. v. Support for the project from the State supreme court or its designated agency or council. Written concurrence on the need for the technical assistance must be submitted. This concurrence may be a copy of SJI Form B (see Appendix V.) signed by the Chief Justice of the State Supreme Court or the Chief Justice's designee, or a letter from the State Chief Justice or designee. The concurrence may be submitted with the applicant's letter or under separate cover prior to consideration of the application. The concurrence also must specify whether the State Supreme Court would receive, administer, and account for the grant funds, if awarded, or would designate the local court or a specified agency or council to receive the funds directly. Letters of application may be submitted at any time; however, all of the letters received during a calendar quarter will be considered at one time. Applicants submitting letters between October 1, 1994, and January 15, 1995, will be notified of the Board's decision by March 31, 1995; those submitting letters between January 16, and March 15, 1995, will be notified by May 31, 1995. Notification of the Board's decisions concerning letters received between March 16 and June 15, 1995, will be made by August 31, 1995; and applicants submitting letters between June 16 and September 29, 1995, will be notified by November 30, 1995. The Board has delegated its authority to approve these grants to its Technical Assistance Committee. The Technical Assistance grant program described in this section should not be confused with the Judicial Education Technical Assistance projects described in Section II.B.2.b.iii.
