FR940617-1-00097 FR940617-1-00012 (i) Determine the in vitro antimicrobial spectrum of the active ingredient, the vehicle, and the final formulation using both standard cultures and recently isolated strains of each species. A series of recently isolated mesophilic strains, including members of the normal flora and cutaneous pathogens (50 isolates of each species, half of which must be fresh clinical isolates), are to be selected. (ii) Determine the minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) using methodology established by the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards and entitled ``Methods for Dilution Antimicrobial Susceptibility Test for Bacteria that Grow Aerobically,'' Document M7&hyph;A2, 2d ed., 10:8, 1990, which is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from the National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards, 771 East Lancaster Ave., Villanova, PA 19085, or may be examined at the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, 7520 Standish Pl., suite 201, Rockville, MD, or the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol St. NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. Twenty-five fresh clinical isolates and 25 laboratory strains of the organisms listed in this section are to be included. All in vitro tests must include the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC) reference strains (available from American Type Culture Collection, 12301 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20852) specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) and (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section. The agency requires that these organisms be used in testing unless data can be presented to the agency that other organisms are equally representative of organisms associated with nosocomial infection. There must be no claims, either direct or by implication, that a product has any activity against an organism or that it reduces the number of organisms for which it has not been tested. The following organisms are to be included (note: special media and environmental conditions may be required): (A) Gram negative organisms: Acinetobacter species; Bacteroides fragilis ; Haemophilus influenza ; Enterobacter species; Escherichia coli (ATCC Nos. 11229 and 25922); Klebsiella species, including Klebsiella pneumonia ; Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC Nos. 15442 and 27853); Proteus mirabilis ; and Serratia marcescens (ATCC No. 14756). (B) Gram positive organisms : Staphylococci: Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC Nos. 6538 and 29213); Coagulase-negative Staphylococci: Staphylococcus epidermidis (ATCC No. 12228), Staphylococcus hominis , Staphylococcus haemolyticus , and Staphylococcus saprophyticus ; Micrococcus luteus (ATCC No. 7468); and Streptococci: Streptococcus pyogenes , Enterococcus faecalis (ATCC No. 29212), Enterococcus faecium , and Streptococcus pneumoniae . (C) Yeast : Candida species and Candida albicans . (iii) Determine the possible development of resistance to the chemical. Two approaches to determining the emergence of resistance to a particular antimicrobial are to be used. The first approach involves a determination of the evolution of a point mutation by the sequential passage of an organism through increasing concentrations of the antimicrobial included in the culture medium. The second approach is a thorough survey of the published literature to determine whether resistance has been reported for the antimicrobial ingredient. The survey is to include information on the microbial contamination of marketed products containing the antimicrobial ingredient in question irrespective of drug concentration. The survey is to cover all countries in which products containing the active ingredient are marketed. Any information submitted in a foreign language should include a translation. Alternate approaches to determining the development of resistance can be submitted as a petition in accord with ยง10.30 of this chapter. The petition is to contain sufficient data to show that the alternate approach provides a reliable indication of the development of resistance to a particular antimicrobial ingredient. (iv) Time-kill studies. (A) The assessment of the in vitro spectrum of the antimicrobial provides information on the types of genera and species that may be considered susceptible under the conditions of the test procedure described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. However, information is also required that allows an assessment of how rapidly the antimicrobial product produces its effect. Such information may be derived from in vitro time-kill curve studies using a selected battery of organisms and a specified drug concentration.
