FR940822-0-00064 FR940822-0-00019 The Final Rules In consideration of the foregoing, part 217, title 49, Code of Federal Regulations is amended to read as follows: PART 217_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for Part 217 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. 20103, 20107, 20111, 20112, 21301, 21304, 21311 (1994) (formerly codified at 45 U.S.C. 431, 437, 438); Pub. L. 103&hyph;272 (1994); and 49 CFR 1.49(m). 2. Section 217.4 is added to read as follows: §217.4 Definitions. As used in this part_ Class I , Class II , and Class III have the meaning assigned by regulations of the Interstate Commerce Commission (49 CFR part 1201; General Instructions 1&hyph;1), as those regulations may be revised and applied by order of the Commission (including modifications in class thresholds based revenue deflator adjustments). Division headquarters means the location designated by the railroad where a high-level operating manager ( e.g. , a superintendent, division manager, or equivalent), who has jurisdiction over a portion of the railroad, has an office. System headquarters means the location designated by the railroad as the general office for the railroad system. 3. Section 217.7 is revised to read as follows: §217.7 Operating rules; filing and recordkeeping. (a) On or before December 21, 1994, each Class I railroad, Class II railroad, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, and each railroad providing commuter service in a metropolitan or suburban area that is in operation on November 21, 1994, shall file with the Federal Railroad Administrator, Washington, DC 20590, one copy of its code of operating rules, timetables, and timetable special instructions which were in effect on November 21, 1994. Each Class I railroad, each Class II railroad, and each railroad providing commuter service in a metropolitan or suburban area that commences operations after November 21, 1994, shall file with the Administrator one copy of its code of operating rules, timetables, and timetable special instructions before it commences operations. (b) After November 21, 1994, each Class I railroad, each Class II railroad, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, and each railroad providing commuter service in a metropolitan or suburban area shall file each new amendment to its code of operating rules, each new timetable, and each new timetable special instruction with the Federal Railroad Administrator within 30 days after it is issued. (c) On or after November 21, 1994, each Class III railroad and any other railroad subject to this part but not subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall keep one copy of its current code of operating rules, timetables, and timetable special instructions and one copy of each subsequent amendment to its code of operating rules, each new timetable, and each new timetable special instruction, at its system headquarters, and shall make such records available to representatives of the Federal Railroad Administration for inspection and copying during normal business hours. 4. Section 217.9 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b) introductory text, (b)(5), (c) and (d), and adding paragraph (e) to read as follows: §217.9 Program of operational tests and inspections; recordkeeping; annual summary on operational tests and inspections; electronic recordkeeping. (a) Requirement to conduct operational tests and inspections. Each railroad to which this part applies shall periodically conduct operational tests and inspections to determine the extent of compliance with its code of operating rules, timetables, and timetable special instructions in accordance with a written program retained at its system headquarters and at the division headquarters for each division where the tests are conducted. (b) Written program of operational tests and inspections. On or after November 21, 1994, or 30 days before commencing operations, whichever is later, each railroad to which this part applies shall retain one copy of its current program for periodic performance of the operational tests and inspections required by paragraph (a) of this section and one copy of each subsequent amendment to such program. These records shall be retained at the system headquarters of the railroad and at the division headquarters for each division where the tests are conducted, for three calendar years after the end of the calendar year to which they relate. These records shall be made available to representatives of the Federal Railroad Administration for inspection and copying during normal business hours. The program shall_*␣*␣* (5) Begin within 30 days after November 21, 1994, or the date of commencing operations, whichever is later; and * * * * * (c) Records of individual tests and inspections. Each railroad to which this part applies shall keep a record of the date, time, place, and result of each operational test and inspection that was performed in accordance with its program. Each record shall specify the officer administering the test and inspection and each employee tested. These records shall be retained at the system headquarters of the railroad and at the division headquarters for each division where the tests are conducted for one calendar year after the end of the calendar year to which they relate. These records shall be made available to representatives of the Federal Railroad Administration for inspection and copying during normal business hours. (d) Annual summary on operational tests and inspections. Before March 1 of each calendar year, each railroad to which this part applies, except for a railroad with less than 400,000 total manhours, shall retain, at each of its division headquarters and at the system headquarters of the railroad, one copy of a written summary of the following with respect to its previous year's activities: The number, type, and result of each operational test and inspection, stated according to operating divisions where applicable, that was conducted as required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. These records shall be retained for three calendar years after the end of the calendar year to which they relate and shall be made available to representatives of the Federal Railroad Administration for inspection and copying during normal business hours. (e) Electronic recordkeeping. Each railroad to which this part applies is authorized to retain by electronic recordkeeping the information prescribed in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, provided that all of the following conditions are met: (1) The railroad adequately limits and controls accessibility to such information retained in its electronic database system and identifies those individuals who have such access;
