FR940128-1-00034 FR940128-1-00006 9. Recordkeeping As explained above, a HACCP system will not work unless records are generated during the operation of the HACCP plan, and these records are maintained and are available for review (see section IV.A.6. of this document). Thus, FDA is requiring in proposed §123.6(b)(5) that the HACCP plan provide for a recordkeeping system that will document the processor's or importer's monitoring of the critical control points. Proposed §123.6(b)(5) also requires that HACCP records contain the actual values obtained during monitoring, such as the actual temperatures and times. FDA has tentatively concluded that it is not possible for the processor to derive the full benefits of its HACCP system, nor is it possible for FDA to verify the operation of the system, without actual values. Notations that refrigeration temperatures are satisfactory or unsatisfactory, without recording the actual temperatures, are vague and subject to varying interpretation and thus will not ensure that preventive controls are working. Also, it is not possible to discern trends without actual values. In addition, proposed §123.6(b)(5) requires that HACCP records include the actual consumer complaints that may have been received by the processor or importer relating to the operation of critical control points or possible critical limit deviations. FDA has tentatively concluded that it may be necessary on occasion for it to review these complaints in order to be able to validate whether the firm is taking necessary steps to review controls and correct deviations as necessary in response to consumer complaints. It is not FDA's intent to gain unlimited access to industry's consumer complaint files through this proposal or to engage in ``fishing expeditions'' through consumer complaint files. Only those consumer complaints relating to the operation of the HACCP critical control points need be included as HACCP records. FDA's interest is solely in verifying that the HACCP system is working as it should. The agency understands the sensitivities associated with consumer complaint records and invites comments on this aspect of the proposal. 10. Nonsafety Hazards Proposed §123.6(c) encourages, but does not require, processors and importers to include in their plans controls for hazards other than hazards to health. Examples listed in §123.6(c)(1)(i) and (ii) are decomposition not associated with human illness and economic adulteration. FDA is not requiring processors and importers to include nonsafety hazards in their HACCP plans for reasons stated previously. However, the agency is encouraging processors and importers to apply HACCP principles to these nonsafety hazards, and to control them in the same manner that processors and importers control safety hazards (see proposed §123.6(c)(2)), because they are common problems in the seafood industry. FDA has included a guideline on economic adulteration with these proposed regulations (see Appendix D). Despite the fact that these proposed regulations do not require HACCP controls for nonsafety hazards, such hazards as economic adulteration, decomposition not normally associated with human illness, general unfitness for food, and misbranding, constitute violations of the act and are subject to regulatory action by FDA (see sections 402(a)(3) and 403 of the act (21 U.S.C. 343). Inspections by FDA investigators will continue to consider and enforce these provisions of the act.
