FR940114-1-00088 FR940114-1-00018 Section 682.410␣Fiscal, Administrative, and Enforcement Requirements The administrative wage garnishment requirements are taken directly from the HEA. The proposed regulations provide an alternative to the prescribed collection requirements in §682.410(b) if a guaranty agency uses collection agencies and administrative wage garnishment. Through these regulations, the Secretary expects to maximize default collections by the Department of Education, guaranty agencies, and the Internal Revenue Service. The proposed regulations implement the national wage garnishment provision in section 488A of the HEA, under which guaranty agencies or the Secretary may garnish up to 10 percent of the wages of a borrower who has defaulted on an FFEL Program loan or who is not making required payments under a repayment agreement. Under the proposed regulations, at least 30 days before garnishment proceedings are initiated the borrower must be given written notice informing him or her of the nature and amount of the loan obligation to be collected, the intention of the guaranty agency to initiate proceedings to collect the debt through deductions from pay, and an explanation of the borrower's rights regarding the proposed action. The proposed regulations provide the borrower with an opportunity to inspect and copy records related to the debt, establish a new repayment agreement, and receive a hearing concerning the existence or amount of the debt and the terms of a repayment schedule. In addition, no withholding of a debtor's wages may occur in the case of an individual who has been involuntarily separated from employment until that individual has been reemployed continuously for at least 12 months. These proposed regulations would replace current regulatory provisions that authorize wage garnishment by guaranty agencies in certain circumstances. Section 488A of the HEA protects borrowers by prohibiting employers from taking disciplinary action against an individual based on the fact that the individual's wages are subject to garnishment. The statute permits a borrower to sue an employer who takes such an action, and authorizes the court to award attorneys' fees, punitive damages, back pay, reinstatement, or other remedies the court believes reasonably necessary. Section 488A(a) of the HEA preempts state laws that might prohibit garnishment to collect student loan debts. The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether there are other state laws that might frustrate the purpose of section 488A and should be preempted. The Secretary asks commenters to provide specific information on those laws. Section 682.411␣Due Diligence by Lenders in the Collection of Guaranty Agency Loans The proposed regulations implement the requirements of the HEA by requiring lenders to warn borrowers and endorsers about the possibility that their wages may be garnished by the guaranty agency if they default on their repayment obligations.
