FR940111-0-00027 FR940111-0-00006 (3) General requirements. *␣*␣* * * * * * (c) Extensions of stay . (1) Filing on Form I&hyph;129. An employer seeking the services of an E&hyph;1, E&hyph;2, H&hyph;1A, H&hyph;1B, H&hyph;2A, H&hyph;2B, H&hyph;3, L&hyph;1, O&hyph;1, O&hyph;2, P&hyph;1, P&hyph;2, P&hyph;3, Q, R&hyph;1, or TC nonimmigrant beyond the period previously granted, must petition for an extension of stay on Form I&hyph;129. The petition must be filed with the fee required in §103.7 of this chapter, and the initial evidence specified in §214.2, and on the petition form. Dependents holding derivative status may be included in the petition if it is for only one worker and the form version specifically provides for their inclusion. In all other cases dependents of the worker should file on Form I&hyph;539. (2) Filing on Form I&hyph;539 . Any other nonimmigrant alien, except an alien in F or J status who has been granted duration of status, who seeks to extend his or her stay beyond the currently authorized period of admission, must apply for an extension of stay on Form I&hyph;539 with the fee required in §103.7 of this chapter together with any initial evidence specified in the applicable provisions of §214.2, and on the application form. More than one person may be included in an application where the co-applicants are all members of a single family group and either all hold the same nonimmigrant status or one holds a nonimmigrant status and the other co-applicants are his or her spouse and/or children who hold derivative nonimmigrant status based on his or her status. Extensions granted to members of a family group must be for the same period of time. The shortest period granted to any member of the family shall be granted to all members of the family. (3) Ineligible for extension of stay . A nonimmigrant in any of the following classes is ineligible for an extension of stay: (i) B&hyph;1 or B&hyph;2 where admission was pursuant to the Visa Waiver Pilot Program; (ii) C&hyph;1, C&hyph;2, C&hyph;3; (iii) D&hyph;1, D&hyph;2; (iv) K&hyph;1, K&hyph;2; or (v) Any nonimmigrant admitted for duration of status, other than as provided in §214.2(f)(7). (4) Timely filing and maintenance of status. An extension of stay may not be approved for an applicant who failed to maintain the previously accorded status or where such status expired before the application or petition was filed, except that failure to file before the period of previously authorized status expired may be excused in the discretion of the Service and without separate application, with any extension granted from the date the previously authorized stay expired, where it is demonstrated at the time of filing that: (i) The delay was due to extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner, and the Service finds the delay commensurate with the circumstances; (ii) The alien has not otherwise violated his or her nonimmigrant status; (iii) The alien remains a bona fide nonimmigrant; and (iv) The alien is not the subject of deportation proceedings under 8 CFR part 242. (5) Decision in Form I&hyph;129 or I&hyph;539 extension proceedings. Where an applicant or petitioner demonstrates eligibility for a requested extension, it may be granted at the discretion of the Service. There is no appeal from the denial of an application for extension of stay filed on Form I&hyph;129 or I&hyph;539. (d) Termination of status. Within the period of initial admission or extension of stay, the nonimmigrant status of an alien shall be terminated by the revocation of a waiver authorized on his or her behalf under section 212(d) (3) or (4) of the Act; by the introduction of a private bill to confer permanent resident status on such alien; or, pursuant to notification in the Federal Register , on the basis of national security, diplomatic, or public safety reasons. * * * * * 8.&hyph;9. Part 223 is revised to read as follows: PART 223_REENTRY PERMITS, REFUGEE TRAVEL DOCUMENTS, AND ADVANCE PAROLE DOCUMENTS Sec. 223.1␣Purpose of documents. 223.2␣Processing. 223.3␣Validity and effect on admissibility. Authority: 8 U.S.C. 1103, 1181, 1182, 1186a, 1203, 1225, 1226, 1227, 1251; Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, November 1, 1968, 19 U.S.T. 6223 (TIAS 6577). §223.1 Purpose of documents. (a) Reentry permit. A reentry permit allows a permanent resident to apply for admission to the United States upon return from abroad during the period of the permit's validity without the necessity of obtaining a returning resident visa. (b) Refugee travel document . A refugee travel document is issued pursuant to this part and article 28 of the United Nations Convention of July 28, 1951, for the purpose of travel. A person who holds refugee status pursuant to section 207 of the Act, or asylee status pursuant to section 208 of the Act, must have a refugee travel document to return to the United States after temporary travel abroad unless he or she is in possession of a valid advance parole document. §223.2 Processing. (a) General . An application for a reentry permit, refugee travel document, or advance parole document must be filed on Form I&hyph;131, with the fee required in §103.7 of this chapter and with the initial evidence required on the application form. (b) Eligibility. (1) Reentry permit . Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application may be approved if filed by a person who is in the United States at the time of application and is a lawful permanent resident or conditional permanent resident. (2) Refugee travel document. Except as otherwise provided in this section, an application may be approved if filed by a person who is in the United States at the time of application, and either holds valid refugee status under section 207 of the Act, valid asylee status under section 208 of the Act, or is a permanent resident and received such status as a direct result of his or her asylee or refugee status. (c) Ineligibility. (1) Prior document still valid . An application for a reentry permit or refugee travel document shall be denied if the applicant was previously issued a reentry permit or refugee travel document which is still valid, unless it was returned to the Service or it is demonstrated that it was lost. (2) Extended absences . A reentry permit issued to a person who, since becoming a permanent resident, or during the last 5 years, whichever is less, has been outside the United States for more than 4 years in the aggregate, shall be limited to a validity of one year, except that a permit with a validity of two years may be issued to: (i) A permanent resident as defined in 8 CFR 211.1(b)(1)(ii) or 211.1(b)(4); (ii) A permanent resident employed by a public international organization of which the United States is a member by treaty or statute, and his or her permanent resident spouse and children; or (iii) A permanent resident who is a professional athlete who regularly competes in the United States and worldwide. (3) Permanent resident entitled to nonimmigrant diplomatic or treaty status. A permanent resident entitled to nonimmigrant status under section 101(a)(15) (A), (E), or (G) of the Act because of occupational status may only be issued a reentry permit if the applicant executes and submits with the application, or has previously executed and submitted, a written waiver on Form I&hyph;508 required by section 247(b) of the Act and part 247 of this chapter and, if applicable, Form I&hyph;508F (election as to tax exemption under the Convention between the United States and the French Republic) required by part 247 of this chapter. (d) Effect of travel before a decision is made. Departure from the United States before a decision is made on an application for a reentry permit or refugee travel document shall not affect the application. (e) Processing . Approval of an application is solely at the discretion of the Service. If the application is approved, the requested document shall be issued as provided in this part. (f) Issuance . A reentry permit or refugee travel document may be sent in care of a United States Consulate or an overseas office of the Service if the applicant so requests at the time of filing. Issuance of a reentry permit or refugee travel document to a person in exclusion or deportation proceedings shall not affect those proceedings. (g) Appeal . Denial of an application for a reentry permit or refugee travel document may be appealed to the Service's Administrative Appeals Unit. §223.3 Validity and effect on admissibility.
