FR941202-2-00062 FR941202-2-00042 The upper Klamath River area, from rim to rim, would be designated an area of critical environmental concern to maintain, protect, and/or restore historic, cultural, scenic, fisheries, and wildlife populations and habitat. The area would not be available for planned timber harvest. Off-highway vehicle use would be limited to designated roads. Grazing would continue at or near current levels. Mineral leasing would be subject to no surface occupancy. The area would not be available for hydroelectric development. The area would be managed for semi-primitive motorized recreation opportunities. The Yainax Butte area would be designated an area of critical environmental concern to maintain, protect, and/or restore natural process and systems. The area would not be available for planned timber harvest. The area would be open to livestock grazing, but could be fenced if necessary to protect plant communities. Off-highway vehicle use would be limited to existing roads. Mineral leasing would be subject to no surface occupancy. The area would be managed for semi-primitive motorized recreation opportunities. The Old Baldy area would be designated an area of critical environmental concern/research natural area to preserve, protect, and/or restore natural processes or systems. The area would not be available for timber harvest, firewood, or salvage sales. The area would be closed to off-highway vehicle use. The area would remain free of cattle use. Mineral leasing would be subject to no surface occupancy and closed to mineral entry. The area would be managed for semi-primitive motorized recreation opportunities. There were five potential areas of critical environmental concern identified that met the Bureau area of critical environmental concern criteria of relevance and importance that are not included in the proposed final resource management plan for various reasons. They include: Surveyor Forest Area, 150 acres; Tunnel Creek, 280 acres; Spencer Creek, 320 acres; The Bumpheads, 50 acres; and Pacific Crest Trail, 620 acres. One river segment covering 11.0 miles was found suitable for designation under the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, and 23.2 miles of rivers that were found eligible for designation and studied by the BLM were found not suitable for designation in the proposed final resource management plan. After the proposed resource management plan went to press, the Secretary of the Interior designated the 11.0 miles of the upper Klamath River as scenic under section 2(a)(ii) of the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act. This designation was signed by the Secretary of the Interior on September 22, 1994. Designation of the upper Klamath River is not protestable in the RMP protest period as the Oregon State Director of the BLM does not have the authority to overturn a decision made by the Secretary of the Interior. Public participation has occurred throughout the planning process. A Notice of Intent was filed in the Federal Register , in September 1992. Since that time, several public meetings, mailings, and briefings were conducted to solicit comments and ideas. The comments provided throughout the process have been considered. This Notice meets the requirements of 43 CFR 1610.7&hyph;2 for designation of areas of critical environmental concern and the requirements of the final revised Department of the Interior_Department of Agriculture Guidelines for Eligibility, Classification, and Management of Rivers (FR Vol. 47, No. 173, pg. 39454). Dated: November 11, 1994. Terry H. Sodorff, Acting District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29623 Filed 12&hyph;01&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;84&hyph;P
