FR940318-0-00085 FR940318-0-00015 The final regulations adopt the proposed regulations with several changes to respond to comments. The changes, as well as certain comments that were not adopted in the final regulations, are discussed below. A. Treatment of Certain Indebtedness As Continuously Owned by the Same Owner The proposed regulations include a de minimis rule that allows a loss corporation to treat indebtedness as always having been owned by the beneficial owner of the indebtedness immediately before the ownership change if the beneficial owner is not, immediately after the ownership change, either a 5-percent shareholder or an entity through which a 5-percent shareholder owns an indirect ownership interest in the loss corporation (a 5-percent entity). The de minimis rule does not apply to indebtedness owned by a person whose participation in formulating a plan of reorganization makes evident to the loss corporation that the person has not owned the indebtedness for the requisite period. This exception applies regardless of whether the participant exchanges the indebtedness for stock pursuant to the plan or transfers the indebtedness to other persons prior to the effective date of the plan. One commentator recommended that the exception to the de minimis rule be deleted because it is unclear and unlikely to work well in practice. The commentator suggested that the speculative investors who are the target of the rule are likely to sell their debt prior to the effective date of the plan. Unless the loss corporation could identify the purchasers of the debt, it would have difficulty applying the exception. The final regulations retain the exception to the de minimis rule. The loss corporation should not be able to disregard the fact that a creditor has not held its debt for the period required by section 382(l)(5)(E) if that fact is made evident by the creditor's participation in the formulation of the plan of reorganization. The need for the requirement that the loss corporation take these facts into account outweighs any potential difficulty the loss corporation may have in applying the requirement if the creditor that participates in formulating the plan transfers its debt prior to the effective date of the plan. B. Tacking Rules The proposed regulations allow the tacking of the ownership periods of a transferee and transferor of debt in certain circumstances for the purpose of determining whether the debt meets the continuous ownership requirement of section 382(l)(5)(E). The proposed regulations include a rule which permits tacking for a transfer pursuant to a subrogation in which a bank or insurance company acquires a claim against a loss corporation by reason of a payment to the claimant under a letter of credit or insurance policy. Commentators recommended that the rule be expanded to cover transfers pursuant to security arrangements regardless of whether the transferee is a bank or the arrangement is evidenced by a letter of credit. The final regulations adopt this recommendation. Commentators also recommended that a tacking rule be added to cover factoring transactions. Corporations in certain industries customarily sell (or ``factor'') their accounts receivable as a means of financing their operations. In response to this recommendation, an additional tacking rule has been added to the final regulations. This rule applies to a transfer of an account receivable in a customary commercial factoring transaction made within 30 days after the account arose to a transferee that regularly engages in such transactions.
