FR940906-2-00125 FR940906-2-00083 Appendix B_Definitions Advisory Team for Environment, Food, and Health _An interagency team, consisting of representatives from EPA, HHS, USDA, and representatives from other Federal agencies as necessary, that provide advice to the LFA and States, as requested on matters associated with environment, food, and health issues during a radiological emergency. Agreement State _A State that has entered into an Agreement under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, in which NRC has relinquished to such States the majority of its regulatory authority over source, byproduct, and special nuclear material in quantities not sufficient to form a critical mass. Assessment _The evaluation and interpretation of radiological measurements and other information to provide a basis for decision-making. Assessment can include projections of offsite radiological impact. Coordinate _To advance systematically an exchange of information among principals who have or may have a need to know certain information in order to carry out their role in a response. Disaster Field Office (DFO) _A center established in or near the designated area from which the Senior FEMA Official (SFO) and representatives of Federal response agencies will interact with State and local government representatives to coordinate non-technical resource support. Emergency _Any natural or man-caused situation that results in or may result in substantial injury or harm to the population or substantial damage to or loss of property. Emergency Response Team (ERT) _A team of Federal interagency personnel headed by FEMA deployed to the site of an emergency to serve as the SFO's key staff and assist with accomplishing FEMA responsibilities at the DFO. Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO) _The senior Federal official appointed in accordance with the provisions of Pub. L. 93&hyph;288, as amended, to coordinate the overall response and recovery activities. The FCO represents the President as provided by sec. 303 of Pub. L. 93&hyph;288, as amended, for the purpose of coordinating the administration of Federal relief activities in the designated area. Additionally, the FCO is delegated responsibilities and performs those for the FEMA Director as outlined in E.O. 12148, as amended, and those responsibilities delegated to the FEMA Regional Director in 44 CFR Part 206. Federal Radiological Monitoring and Assessment Center (FRMAC) _An operations center usually established near the scene of a radiological emergency from which the Federal field monitoring and assessment assistance is directed and coordinated. Federal Radiological Preparedness Coordinating Committee (FRPCC) _An interagency committee, created by 44 CFR Part 351, to coordinate Federal radiological planning and training.
