FR940516-2-00138 FR940516-2-00094 (3) Private Enforcement Initiative (i) Eligible applicants . Organizations that are eligible to receive FY 1994 funding assistance under the Private Enforcement Initiative are: (A) Qualified fair housing enforcement organizations. (B) Fair housing enforcement organizations with at least 1 year of experience in complaint intake, complaint investigation, testing for fair housing violations and enforcement of meritorious claims. (ii) Eligible activities. Applications are solicited for one- and two-year project proposals as described in 24 CFR 125.403 and in this NOFA. Applications may designate up to 10% of requested funds to promote awareness of the services provided by the project, but such promotion must be necessary for the successful implementation of the project. Project applications may involve: (A) Building the capacity to investigate, through testing and other investigative methods, housing discrimination complaints based upon mental and/or physical disabilities; (C) Discovering and providing remedies for discrimination in the public and private real estate markets and real estate-related transactions, including, but not limited to, the making or purchasing of loans, the provision of other financial assistance for sales and rentals of housing, including insurance redlining and appraisal practices, and housing advertising; (D) Conducting investigations of systemic housing discrimination for further enforcement processing by State or local agencies, or for referral to private attorneys or to HUD and the Department of Justice; (E) Professionally conducting testing or other investigative support for administrative and judicial enforcement; (F) Linking fair housing organizations regionally in enforcement activities designed to combat broader housing market discriminatory practices; (G) Establishing effective means of meeting legal expenses in support of litigation of fair housing cases; (H) Testing and other investigative activities, including building the capacity for housing investigative activities in unserved or underserved areas; (I) Carrying out special projects, including the development of prototypes to respond to new or sophisticated forms of discrimination against persons protected under title VIII, such as in the areas of independent living and architectural barriers; (J) Providing funds for the costs and expenses of litigation, including expert witness fees. (iii) Additional requirements. (A) Testers in testing activities funded with Private Enforcement Initiative funds must not have prior felony convictions or convictions of crimes involving fraud or perjury, and they must receive training or be experienced in testing procedures and techniques. (B) One-year projects may be for up to eighteen months in duration. Two-year projects must be twenty-four months in duration, and funding for the second year of a project is subject to a performance review of the first year's activities and available annual appropriations. (C) Projects that appear to be aimed solely or primarily at research or data-gathering unrelated to existing or planned fair housing enforcement programs will not be approved. Data-gathering activities will require OMB approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act before commencement of the activity. (D) In accordance with 24 CFR 125.404, no recipient of assistance under the Private Enforcement Initiative may use any funds provided by the Department for the payment of expenses in connection with litigation against the United States. (E) Recipients of funds under the Private Enforcement Initiative shall be required to record, in a case tracking log (or Fair Housing Enforcement Log) to be supplied by HUD, information appropriate to the funded project relating to the number of complaints of discrimination received; the basis of these complaints; the type and number of tests utilized in the investigation of each allegation; the time for case processing, including administrative or judicial proceedings; the cost of testing activities and case processing; and case outcome or relief provided. The recipient must agree to make this log available to HUD.
