FR940916-1-00147 FR940916-1-00016 (B) Upon receiving the signal to apply brakes for test, make a 20-psi brake pipe service reduction; and (C) With the brake valve lapped and the pressure maintaining feature cut out (if so equipped) and after waiting 45&hyph;60 seconds, note the brake pipe leakage as indicated by the brake-pipe gauge in the locomotive. (ii) When locomotives are equipped with a 26&hyph;L brake valve or equivalent, a railroad may use the Air Flow Method Test as an alternate to the brake pipe leakage test. Perform the Air Flow Method (AFM) Test as follows: (A) Charge the air brake system to within 15 psi of the setting of the feed-regulating valve, but to not less than 75 psi, as indicated by an accurate gauge or device at rear end of train; and (B) Measure air flow as indicated by a calibrated air flow indicator. (iii) The air flow indicator shall be calibrated for accuracy at periodic intervals not to exceed 92 days. The air flow indicator calibration test orifices shall be calibrated at temperatures of not more than 20 degrees Fahrenheit. Air flow indicators shall be accurate to within # 3 standard cubic feet per minute (cfm). (2) The inspector shall position himself/herself, taking positions on each side of the car if necessary, so as to be able to examine and observe the functioning of all moving parts of the brake system on each car. (3) Angle cocks shall be properly positioned. (4) The brakes shall apply and remain applied until a release of the air brakes has been initiated. (5) Piston travel shall be within 7 to 9 inches for 81/2-inch and 10-inch diameter brake cylinders or within the piston travel stencilled or marked on car or badge plate for other types. (6) Brake rigging shall not bind or foul so as to impede the force delivered to the brake shoes. (7) All parts of the brake equipment shall be properly secured. On freight cars where the bottom rod passes through the truck bolster or is secured with cotter keys equipped with a locking device to prevent their accidental removal, bottom rod safety supports are not required. (8) Brake shoes/pads shall be aligned with the tread of the wheel or the disc-brake bearing surface. (9) Brake shoes/pads shall have adequate wear material to complete the intended trip in accordance with ยง32.15(m). (10) Wheels shall be free of cracks as defined in ยง232.5. (11) When release signal is given, the brake on each car shall be inspected to verify that it did release. Train speed shall not exceed 10 MPH if a ``roll-by'' inspection of the brake release is performed. (12) The empty/load device shall respond as intended. (13) If the train is equipped with an end-of-train device, the device shall respond as intended. (14) If the train is equipped with an end-of-train device, a comparison check shall be made to ensure that the head-end pressure reading is within # 3 psi of the rear-end pressure reading. The rear unit of the end-of-train device shall be installed on the rear of the train when this check is performed. (b) Prior to departure of a train, a railroad shall determine that the locomotive brakes and train brake control devices operate as intended. (c) Prior to departure of a train, a railroad shall determine that oil and water have been drained from the air brake system. (d) Class 1 tests of new brake system technology shall be conducted in accordance with the Class 1 test procedures developed in accordance with the process given in Subpart J of this part for that technology. (e) A train equipped with a two-way end-of-train device or its equivalent shall not depart from a point of origin unless: (1) The device is capable of initiating a power brake application from the rear of the train, and (2) The batteries of the device are charged to at least 75 percent of watt-hour capacity.
