FR940930-2-00003 FR940930-2-00002 Intergovernmental Advisory Committee to the Regional Interagency Executive Committee AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to establish a Federal Advisory Committee. SUMMARY: In response to the need of the Secretaries of Agriculture and Interior for advice on coordination and implementation of the Record of Decision of April 13, 1994 for management of habitat for late-successional and old-growth forest related species within the range of the Northern Spotted Owl, the Secretaries have agreed to establish an advisory committee. The Intergovernmental Advisory Committee will provide advice and recommendations to the Regional Interagency Executive Committee to facilitate better integration of forest management activities among Federal and non-Federal governmental entities to ensure that such activities are complementary. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan Yonts-Shepard, Staff Assistant for National Forest System Operations, Forest Service USDA, (202) 205&hyph;1519. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), notice is hereby given that the Secretary of Agriculture after consultation with the Secretary of the Interior intends to establish the Intergovernmental Advisory Committee (Advisory Committee) to the Regional Interagency Executive Committee (RIEC). The purpose of the RIEC, consisting of the Pacific Northwest Federal agency heads of the Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, Fish and Wildlife Service, National Marine Fisheries Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs, National Park Service, and Environmental Protection Agency, is to facilitate the coordinated implementation of the Record of Decision (ROD) of April 13, 1994. The Advisory Committee to the RIEC will provide advice and recommendations to provide better integration of forest management activities among Federal and non-Federal governmental entities, to ensure that such activities are complementary. The Advisory Committee will also promote an exchange of views on ecosystem management among the land management agencies of the Federal, State, local, and tribal governments in the range of the northern spotted owl. The Secretaries have determined that the work of the Advisory Committee is necessary and in the public interest and relevant to the duties of the Department of Agriculture and Department of the Interior. The duties of the Advisory Committee will be to provide advice and recommendations to the RIEC regarding the coordinated implementation of the ROD. No other advisory committee or agency of the Department of Agriculture or Department of the Interior can perform the tasks that will be assigned to the Advisory Committee. The Chairperson of the Advisory Committee will alternate between the Regional Forester of the Pacific Northwest Region, Forest Service and the Oregon State Director, Bureau of Land Management. The Executive Director of the Regional Ecosystem Office will serve as the Executive Secretary and as the designated Federal official under sections 10 (e) and (f) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.). Appointments to the Advisory Committee will be made by the Secretary of Agriculture after consultation with the Secretary of the Interior. The action of establishing the Advisory Committee does not require amendment of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Forest Service planning documents because the statements referring to interagency coordination in the ROD (Attachment A, E&hyph;15 to E&hyph;17) are not standards and guidelines or land allocations, which would require an amendment process to change. The BLM and Forest Service will provide further notices, as needed, for any additional actions or adjustments when implementing interagency coordination, public involvement, and other aspects of the ROD. Equal opportunity practices will be followed in all appointments to the Advisory Committee. To ensure that the recommendations of the Advisory Committee have taken into account the needs of the diverse groups served by the Departments, membership should include individuals with demonstrated ability to represent minorities, women, and persons with disabilities. Dated: September 8, 1994. Wardell C. Townsend, Jr., Assistant Secretary for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24173 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
