FR940826-2-00135 FR940826-2-00069 [Release No. 34&hyph;34552; International Series Release No. 703; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;19] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 to the Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Listing and Trading Options on the CBOE Emerging Markets Index August 19, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on June 30, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the CBOE. On August 18, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 3 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). 3 In Amendment No. 1, the Exchange proposes to treat the CBOE Emerging Markets Index as a narrow-based index for purposes of margin and position limit treatment. Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.4A, the position limits for the CBOE Emerging Markets Index would initially be set at 10,500 contracts. See Letter from Eileen Smith, Director, Product Development, Research Department, CBOE, to Brad Ritter, Attorney, Office of Market Supervision, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated August 18, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change As provided in Exchange Rule 24.2, ``Designation of the Index,'' 4 the CBOE proposes to list for trading options on the CBOE Emerging Markets Index (``Emerging Markets Index'' or ``Index''). The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE, and at the Commission. 4 Exchange Rule 24.2 provides, in part, that the Commission must approve a particular index upon which options are traded. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CBOE has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to permit the Exchange to list and trade cash-settled European-style 5 index options on the Emerging Markets Index. The Index will initially consist of 25 closed-end funds which invest in the stocks of firms in the emerging Asian and Latin American economies. According to the Exchange, no proxy for the performance of these emerging economies is currently available in the U.S. derivatives markets. The Exchange believes, therefore, that options on the Index will provide investors with a low-cost means of participating in the performance of these markets and/or hedging against the risk of investing in the Asian and Latin American emerging markets. 5 European-style options can only be exercised during a specified period before the options expire. Index Design The Emerging Markets Index will initially consist of 25 closed-end funds. 6 All of the closed-end fund components of the Index currently trade on the New York Stock Exchange. 6 The components of the Index are the: Asia Pacific Fund; Asia Tigers Fund Inc.; China Fund Inc.; Greater China Fund Inc.; Jardine Fleming China Region Fund Inc.; Morgan Stanley India Fund; Indonesia Fund Inc.; Jakarta Growth Fund Inc.; Korea Fund Inc.; Korea Equity Fund Inc.; Malaysia Fund Inc.; First Philippine Fund Inc.; Singapore Fund Inc.; ROC Taiwan Fund; Taiwan Fund Inc.; Thai Fund Inc.; Latin American Discovery Fund Inc.; Latin American Equity Fund Inc.; Latin America Investment Fund Inc.; Argentina Fund Inc.; Brazilian Equity Fund Inc.; Brazil Fund Inc.; Chile Fund Inc.; Mexico Equity and Income Fund Inc.; and Mexico Fund Inc. As of June 15, 1994, the closed-end funds comprising the Index ranged in market capitalization from a low of $49.4 million to a high of $1.146 billion. The average capitalization as of that date was $146 million. The closed-end fund accounting for the largest percentage of the total weighting of the Index on that date was the Chile Fund Inc. (9.07%), while the smallest was the Korea Equity Fund Inc. (1.98%). Calculation The Index is price-weighted and reflects changes in the prices of the components relative to the base date of December 31, 1991. The Index value is calculated by summing the prices of the component securities and then dividing by a divisor that yielded an index value of 100.00 as of that date. The value of the Index at the close on June 15, 1994, was 151.69. The Index will be calculated by CBOE or its designee on a real-time basis using last-sale prices and will be disseminated every 15 seconds by the Exchange. If a component closed-end fund is not currently being traded, the most recent price at which the closed-end fund traded will be used in the Index calculation. Maintenance The Index will be maintained by the Exchange. To maintain continuity in the Index following an adjustment to a component security, the divisor will be adjusted. Changes which may result in divisor changes include, but are not limited to, certain rights issuances. The Exchange states that the Index will be reviewed on approximately a monthly basis by the CBOE staff. The Exchange may change the composition of the Index at any time or from time to time to reflect the changes affecting the components of the Index or the emerging Asian and Latin American markets generally. If it becomes necessary to remove a component from the Index, every effort will be made to add a closed-end fund that preserves the character of the Index. In such circumstances, the CBOE will take into account the capitalization, liquidity, volatility, and name recognition of the proposed replacement closed-end fund. The Exchange will most likely maintain 25 closed-end funds in the Index at all times. Long-Term Index Options In addition to Index options on the full-value of the Index, the Exchange also proposes to list long-term Index option series (``LEAPS'') as provided in CBOE Rule 24.9, and reduced-value Index LEAPS for which the underlying value would be computed at one-tenth (1/10) of the value of the Index. The current and closing Index value of any such reduced-value Index LEAPS will, after such initial computation, be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth. Other than the reduced value, all other specifications and calculations for the reduced-value Index LEAPS will remain the same. Exercise and Settlement Index options will have European-style exercise and will be ``A.M.-settled index options'' within the meaning of the rules in Chapter XXIV of the Exchange's rules. 7 The CBOE proposes to amend Rule 24.9 to refer specifically to Emerging Markets Index options. The Exchange states that the proposed Index options would expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month. Thus, the last day for trading in an expiring series will be the second business day (ordinarily a Thursday) preceding the expiration date. 7 Under CBOE Rule 24.9, A.M.-settled index options are settled based on an index value derived from opening prices on the last day of trading prior to expiration.
