FR940114-2-00175 FR940114-2-00102 The effluent limitation for total recoverable arsenic is not quantifiable using the EPA approved analytical method, EPA method 206.2. Thus, EPA has set forth reporting thresholds to measure the highest acceptable quantification level for this parameter. This reporting threshold does not authorize the discharge of this parameter in excess of the effluent limitation. For more information, see special conditions in Part IX. of this permit. e. Settleable Solids Monitoring. Settleable solids samples shall be representative of the discharge and shall be taken at a point prior to entering the receiving stream. Monitoring shall be conducted in accordance with accepted analytical procedures (Standard Methods, 16th Edition, 1985). The Permittee shall report the sample results on the Annual DMR. See attachment 3 for sampling and analysis protocol. f. Flow Monitoring. Effluent flow shall be measured at the discharge prior to entering the receiving water. Effluent flow shall be measured at least once per day, for continuous discharges, or once during each discharge event if discharges are intermittent. The flow shall be measured in gallons per minute (gpm). The flow measurements, the number of discharge events, and the duration of each discharge event shall be reported in the Annual DMR for each day of the mining season. 2. Suction Dredges. a. Suction Dredge operations shall visually monitor for turbidity as described in Part II.C. once per day of operation. The Permittee shall maintain records of all information resulting from any visual inspections. b. The Permittee will report the period of suction dredging on the DMR. Visual violation occurrences will also be reported on the DMR along with the measures taken to comply with the provisions of Permit Part II.C.3. III. Management Practices A. Mechanical Operations and Hydraulic Removal of Overburden 1. The flow of surface waters (i.e., creek, river, or stream) into the plant site shall be interrupted and these waters diverted around and away to prevent incursion into the plant site. 2. Berms, including any pond walls, dikes, low dams, and similar water retention structures shall be constructed in a manner such that they are reasonably expected to reject the passage of water. 3. Measures shall be taken to assure that pollutant materials removed from the process water and wastewater streams will be retained in storage areas and not discharged or released to the waters of the United States. 4. The amount of new water allowed to enter the plant site for use in material processing shall be limited to the minimum amount required as makeup water for processing operations. 5. All water control devices such as diversion structures and berms and all solids retention structures such as berms, dikes, pond structures, and dams shall be maintained to continue their effectiveness and to protect from failure. 6. The operator shall take whatever reasonable steps are appropriate to assure that, after the mining season, all mine areas, including ponds, are in a condition which will not cause additional degradation to the receiving waters over those resulting from natural causes. B. Suction Dredges 1. Dredging in waters of the United States is permitted only within the active stream channel. 2. Wherever practicable, the dredge shall be set to discharge into a quiet pool, where settling of dredge spoils can occur more rapidly. 3. Care shall be taken by the operator during refueling of the dredge to prevent spillage into public waters or to groundwater. 4. Dredging is not permitted during the periods that fish eggs could be in the gravel at the dredge site and harassment of fish in the stream is prohibited. ``The Atlas to the Catalog of Waters Important for Spawning, Rearing or Migration of Anadromous Fish'' lists the streams in the State which require a Habitat permit from the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. C. Other Requirements_Mechanical Operations and Hydraulic Removal of Overburden The operator shall maintain fuel handling and storage facilities in a manner which will prevent the discharge of fuel oil into the receiving waters or on the adjoining shoreline. A Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Plan (SPCC Plan) shall be prepared and updated as necessary in accordance with provisions of 40 CFR part 112 for facilities storing 660 gallons in a single container above ground, 1,320 gallons in the aggregate above ground, or 42,000 gallons below ground. The permittee shall indicate on the DMR if an SPCC Plan is necessary and in place at the site and if changes were made to the Plan over the previous year.
