FR941103-2-00053 FR941103-2-00031 kWh: Kilowatthour; the common unit of electric energy, equal to one kW taken for a period of 1 hour. Load: The amount of capacity or energy delivered or required at any specified point or points on a system. Load originates primarily with a customer's energy-consuming equipment. M&I: Municipal and industrial. Mill: Unit of monetary value equal to .001 of a U.S. dollar; i.e., 1/10th of a cent. Used to express wholesale energy and composite electric rates. Mills/kWh: Mills per kilowatthour. MW: Megawatt; 1,000 kW; 1,000,000 watts. NEPA: National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. OMB: Office of Management and Budget. O&M: Operation and maintenance. Pinch-Point: The FY in which the level of the rate is set as dictated by a revenue requirement in some future year to meet relatively large annual costs or to repay investments which come due. PMA: Power marketing administration. PRS: Power repayment study. Reclamation: Bureau of Reclamation, U.S. Department of the Interior. Regional Office: Bureau of Reclamation's Regional Office. RGP: Rio Grande Project. SLCA: Salt Lake City Area. SLCAO: Salt Lake City Area Office. Upper Basin States: Colorado, New Mexico, Utah, and Wyoming. UCRC: Upper Colorado River Commission. Watt: The electrical unit of power or rate of doing work. It is analogous to horsepower or foot-pounds per minute of mechanical power. One horsepower is equivalent to approximately 746 watts. Western: Western Area Power Administration, U.S. Department of Energy. WSCC: Western Systems Coordinating Council. Effective Date The new rates will become effective on an interim basis on the first day of the first full billing period beginning on or after December 1, 1994, and will be in effect pending FERC's approval of them or substitute rates on a final basis through November 30, 1999, or until superseded. Public Notice and Comment The Procedures for Public Participation in Power and Transmission Rate Adjustments and Extensions, 10 CFR Part 903, have been followed by Western in the development of this firm power rate. The provisional firm power rate represents an increase of more than 1 percent in total Integrated Projects revenues; therefore, it is a major rate adjustment as defined at 10 CFR §§ 903.2(e) and 903.2(f)(1). The distinction between a minor and a major rate adjustment is used only to determine the public procedures for the rate adjustment. The following summarizes the steps Western took to ensure involvement of interested parties in the rate process: 1. A preliminary Federal Register notice (FRN), published July 1, 1993 (58 FR 35449), invited interested parties to participate in the determination of whether an Integrated Projects' firm power rate increase was necessary. Western also invited participation in deciding the issues that should be addressed in the process.
