FR940428-2-00126 FR940428-2-00058 The common stock of 19 of the 22 component companies is listed on the Exchange. The common stock of the other three component companies is traded through NASDAQ. At the outset, the common stock of each of the companies represented in the Health Care Portfolio will have equal representation. That is, the common stock of each company included in the portfolio shall be assigned a multiplier on the pricing date such that all component companies represent an equal percentage of the value of the entire portfolio on such date. The multiplier indicates the number of shares of common stock (or fraction of one share) included in the calculation of the portfolio. Thus, each of the 22 companies represented shall represent 4.545% of the total portfolio on the pricing date. The multipliers assigned to the component companies will be adjusted for certain events such as stock splits, reverse stock splits, or stock dividends, and the value of the component securities will also be adjusted for certain events including a liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency, merger, or consolidation involving the issuer of the underlying shares. For example, if the issuer of the shares underlying a component company has been subject to a merger or a consolidation and is not the surviving entity, then a value for such common stock will be determined at the time such issuer is merged or consolidated and will equal the last available market price for such common stock and that value will be constant for the remaining term of the Health Care Portfolio MITTS. 9 9 Merrill Lynch will not attempt to find a replacement stock or to compensate for the extinction of a security due to bankruptcy or a similar event. Based upon the reported prices of the common stock, a Merrill Lynch affiliate or an independent third party will calculate the value of the Health Care Portfolio on at least a daily basis and make those values available to investors. The Issuer The Exchange has determined that the issuer of the Health Care Portfolio MITTS, Merrill Lynch, meets the listing criteria set forth in Section 703.19 of the Manual. The Exchange states that Merrill Lynch is an Exchange-listed company in good standing and has sufficient assets to justify the issuance of MITTS offerings of the size contemplated by the proposed rule change. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and with section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NYSE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;14 and should be submitted by May 19, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 10 10 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10086 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
