FR940804-2-00044 FR940804-2-00019 14. S&D agrees to pay to the Commission a civil penalty in the amount of ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($175,000). Payment of the civil penalty shall settle fully all claims by the United States Gvernment arising out of the staff's allegations set forth in paragraphs 5 through 11. 15. The Commission does not make any determination that S&D violated the FHSA. The Commission and S&D agree that this Settlement Agreement is entered into for the purposes of settlement only. 16. Upon final acceptance of this Settlement Agreement by the Commission and issuance of the Final Order, S&D knowingly, voluntarily and completely, waives any rights it may have in this matter (1) to an administrative or judicial hearing, (2) to judicial review or other challenge or contest of the validity of the Commission's actions, (3) to a determination by the Commission as to whether S&D failed to comply with the FHSA as alleged, and (4) to a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law. 17. For purposes of section 6(b) of the CPSA, 15 U.S.C. 2055(b), this matter shall be treated as if a compliant had issued; and, the Commission may publicize the terms of the Settlement Agreement and Order. 18. Upon provisional acceptance of this Settlement Agreement and Order by the Commission, this Settlement Agreement and Order shall be placed on the public record and shall be published in the Federal Register in accordance with the procedures set forth in 16 CFR 118.20(e)&hyph;(h). If the Commission does not receive any written request not to accept the Settlement Agreement and Order within 15 days, the Settlement Agreement and Order will be deemed finally accepted on the 16th day after the date it is published in the Federal Register . 19. The parties further agree that the Commission shall issue the attached Order incorporated herein by reference; and that a violation of the Order shall subject S&D to appropriate legal action. 20. No agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in this Settlement Agreement and Order may be used to vary or to contradict its terms. 21. The provisions of the Settlement Agreement and Order shall apply to S&D and each of its successors and assigns. 22. By their signatures set forth below, Raffoler, Ltd., a corporation, and Jerry Williams and Stephen Brown, individually, agree to serve as guarantors of payment to the Commission of the civil penalty specified in paragraph 14 of this Settlement Agreement. Respondent S&D Importing Co. By: GEM Fulfillment Corp. General Partner Dated: June 14, 1994. David Weldler, President. Guarantors of Payment of Civil Penalty Dated: June 9, 1994. Jerry Williams, Individually, and as an officer of Raffoler, Ltd. Dated: June 9, 1994. Stephen Brown, Individually, and as an officer of Raffoler, Ltd. Commission Staff David Schmeltzer, Assistant Executive Director Office of Compliance and Enforcement. Eric L. Stone, Acting Director, Division of Administrative Litigation Office of Compliance and Enforcement. Leonard H. Goldstein, Trial Attorney, Division of Administrative Litigation, Office of Compliance and Enforcement.
