FR941216-1-00083 FR941216-1-00012 (iv) Transport vehicles will be heavily damaged, probably to the extent of total loss. (v) Direct propagation of explosion between two explosives locations is unlikely when barricades between them intercept high-velocity, low-angle fragments (see ยง184.43(a)). (vi) Improperly designed barricades or structures increase the hazard from flying debris; further, their probable collapse threatens personnel and equipment. (vii) Exposed structures housing personnel or containing equipment that is monetarily valuable or critically important to the mission, may require hardening. (4) At blast overpressure of 3.5 psi (0.24 bars) occurring at scaled distance of 18W 1/3 (see Appendix B to Subpart F of this part): (i) Direct propagation of explosion is not expected. (ii) Delayed communication of explosion from fires, or equipment failure at the exposed site (ES), is possible. (iii) Unstrengthened buildings will sustain serious damage, approximating 50 percent of the total replacement cost. (iv) Personnel will be critically injured or killed by fragments, debris, firebrands, and so forth. (v) There is a 1 percent chance of eardrum damage to personnel. (vi) Aircraft will be severely damaged from blast, fragments, and debris. (vii) Transport vehicles' body panels will be dished and shatter-resistant window glass will crack. Though extensive, this damage will not prevent the vehicles from operating. (viii) Overpressure control by suppressive construction at the PES, or by protective construction at the ES, is recommended if it is more economical than distance alone, or if distance cannot suffice. (5) At blast overpressure of 2.3 psi (0.16 bars) occurring at scaled distance of 24W 1/3 (for quantities up to 100,000 pounds, see column 8, Appendix A to Subpart F of this part). (i) Unstrengthened buildings will sustain damage approximating 20 percent of their replacement cost. (ii) Occupants of exposed structures may suffer temporary hearing loss or be injured by such blast effects as building debris and being bodily thrown about. (iii) Personnel in the open should not be seriously injured by the blast itself. Fragments and debris could, however, cause injuries, depending on the PES structure and the fragmentation characteristics and amount of ammunition within. (iv) Vehicles on the road should not be damaged unless hit by fragments or the operator loses control during the blast wave. (v) Aircraft appendages and sheet metal skin could be damaged by blast and possibly fragment penetrations, but should be operational after minor repairs. (vi) Barricading at the PES reduces injury and damage from fragments from limited quantities of explosives. Suppressive construction at the PES or protective construction at the ES are practical ways of controlling blast over-pressure. (6) At blast overpressure of between 2.3 psi (0.16 bars) and 1.7 psi (0.1 bars) effects and controls are intermediate between those described in paragraphs (c)(5) and (c)(7) of this section (for quantities between 100,000 and 250,000 pounds, see column 8, Appendix A to Subpart F of this part). (7) At blast overpressure of 1.7 psi (0.1 bars) occurring at scaled distance of 30W 1/3 (for quantities over 250,000 pounds, see column 8, Appendix A to Subpart F of this part): (i) Unstrengthened buildings will sustain damage approximating 10 percent of their replacement cost. (ii) Occupants of exposed unstrengthened structures may suffer injury from secondary effects, such as building debris. (iii) Aircraft landing and taking off could lose control and crash. (iv) Parked military and commercial aircraft, with minor damage due to blast, should remain airworthy. (v) Personnel in the open should not be seriously injured by the blast itself. Depending largely upon the PES structure and the fragmentation characteristics and amount of ammunition within, however, fragments and debris could cause injuries. (vi) Barricading at the PES or application of minimum fragment distance requirements may reduce injury or damage due to fragments from limited quantities of explosives. (8) At blast overpressure of 1.2&hyph;0.90 psi (0.08&hyph;0.06 bars) occurring at scaled distance of 40W 1/3 &hyph;50W 1/3 (see column 5, Appendix A to Subpart F of this part): (i) Unstrengthened buildings will sustain damage approximating 5 percent of their replacement cost. (ii) Personnel injuries are principally caused by glass breakage and building debris. (iii) Personnel in the open should not be seriously injured by the blast itself. Depending largely upon the PES structure and the fragmentation characteristics and amount of ammunition within, however, fragments and debris could cause injuries. (iv) Both orientation and limiting the surface area of exposed glass panels can reduce breakage and structural damage. ยง184.43 Permissible exposures to blast overpressure. (a) At sites exposed to potential blast overpressure of 12 psi (0.7 bars) occurring at 9W 1/3 (see column 3, Appendix B to Subpart F and Appendix C to Subpart F of this part), barricade required unless otherwise indicated (see ยง184.42(c)(3)(vii)), the following facilities or operations are permitted: (1) Buildings housing successive steps of a single production, renovation, or maintenance operation. (2) Breakrooms and change houses, if part of an operating line and used exclusively by personnel employed in operations of the line. (3) Temporary holding areas for trucks or railcars containing explosives to service production or maintenance facilities. (4) Field operations in magazine areas, when performing minor maintenance, preservation, packaging, or surveillance inspection.
