FR940127-1-00057 FR940127-1-00016 Proposals That the Service Does Not Plan To Submit EIA submitted a recommendation with no accompanying information to transfer all birds listed in Appendix III to Appendix II. The Service first notes that the basis for a country adding a species to Appendix III is different from the criteria for including a species in Appendix II. Moreover, while trade ultimately may became detrimental to the survival of any Appendix III species if not carefully regulated, insufficient information was presented by EIA to justify proposals for individual species at this time. ICCAT Watch submitted a proposal to list the western Atlantic population of the bluefin tuna, Thunnus thynnus , in Appendix I. In a subsequent letter, after the November 1993 meeting of the Parties to the International Convention for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas (ICCAT), ICCAT Watch withdrew their request for the Service to consider proposing this bluefin tuna population in Appendix I. Based on the actions taken by ICCAT (as presented later in this notice under the consideration of an Appendix II listing for bluefin tuna), the Service does not believe that listing the western population of bluefin tuna in Appendix I is appropriate. The blue shark, Prionace glauca , was proposed for possible listing in Appendix II or III, by the National Audubon Society in 1991. The Service has reconsidered the recommendation in preparation for COP9. The National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) Fishery Management Plan for Sharks of the Atlantic Oceans placed these sharks in the pelagic species group. In the preparation for development of the management plan, a peer review effort by NMFS and non-NMFS experts evaluated the available information and determined that there was no evidence available to indicate that the pelagic species group of sharks was overfished in the Northwest Atlantic. In comparison with other sharks, blue sharks have a relatively high reproductive rate and rapid growth rate, and are widely distributed. Hence, they may be more resilient and more robust with respect to fishing pressure than many other shark species. Therefore, the Service does not intend to propose this species for listing in Appendix II, or to list it unilaterally in Appendix III. Proposals That the Service May Submit The following proposals are being considered for submission as proposed amendments to the CITES appendices. The Service seeks additional comments and information to assist it in making decisions whether to submit these proposed amendments. 1. Narwhal (Monodon monoceros) EIA proposed that the narwhal be transferred from Appendix II to Appendix I. The Small Cetacean Subcommittee of the Scientific Committee of the International Whaling Commission has had difficulty in carrying out stock assessments for this species due to the amount of available data, and has expressed concern about catch levels and loss rates for some narwhal populations. The degree to which trade, as opposed to hunting for food, determines the level of narwhal catches is unclear. Therefore, the Service seeks information about population levels, stock structure, catches, and trade of this species, but without additional information on the threat to the species, the Service is unlikely to propose the transfer of this species to Appendix I. 2. Musk Deer (Moschus spp.) The Service received a draft proposal from EIA to transfer the Appendix II populations of musk deer ( Moschus spp.) to Appendix I of CITES. The musk deer, represented by at least four valid species, have a wide distribution in eastern Russia, Mongolia, Korea, China (including the Tibet Autonomous Region), the Himalayas (from northern Afghanistan eastwards to Nepal and Bhutan), and marginally into northern Vietnam. They range from comparatively low elevations (coniferous forests) to the highest growth of dwarf rhododendron and willow thickets (about 12,500 feet or 3,800 meters). Musk deer are the most primitive of all living deer. Antlers are lacking in both sexes, and males have long upper canine teeth that extend far below the upper lip. A musk gland in the abdomen of the male secretes a brownish wax-like substance, which is used extensively in the manufacture of perfumes and soaps. About 28 to 30 grams (a little over an ounce) of the secretion can be obtained from a single male. Due to their secretive nature and inaccessible habitat, little is known about the population numbers of musk deer. At the Fourth Meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP4) to CITES held in Botswana in 1983, the Parties voted to transfer the Himalayan populations (Afghanistan, Bhutan, Burma, India, Nepal, and Pakistan) from Appendix II to Appendix I. Although there are widespread reports of rampant poaching, the trade in musk is poorly documented. The CITES Animals Committee working on significantly traded species, has identified this taxon as one for which possible problems exist and has recommended: (1) That China and Russia suspend exports of specimens of musk deer, excluding derivatives; and (2) that all Parties increase their enforcement efforts to ensure that all specimens of Moschus spp. in international trade, including derivatives, have been legally exported. Therefore, the Service is considering proposing the transfer of the Appendix II populations of musk deer to Appendix I. However, trade in musk from captive stock is reported, and the CITES Animals Committee has requested a report on production from captive stocks and information on the source of musk used for medicine manufacture and details of measures taken to control trade in manufactured products. The Service seeks information on the effect of trade on these species, especially any data on the volume of musk entering trade.
