FR941128-2-00137 FR941128-2-00078 [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;80; Exemption Application No. D&hyph;9178 and D&hyph;9179, et al.] Grant of Individual Exemptions; Banque Paribas (the Bank) and Paribas Asset Management, Inc., et al. AGENCY: Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, Labor. ACTION: Grant of Individual Exemptions. SUMMARY: This document contains exemptions issued by the Department of Labor (the Department) from certain of the prohibited transaction restrictions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (the Act) and/or the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Code). Notices were published in the Federal Register of the pendency before the Department of proposals to grant such exemptions. The notices set forth a summary of facts and representations contained in each application for exemption and referred interested persons to the respective applications for a complete statement of the facts and representations. The applications have been available for public inspection at the Department in Washington, D.C. The notices also invited interested persons to submit comments on the requested exemptions to the Department. In addition the notices stated that any interested person might submit a written request that a public hearing be held (where appropriate). The applicants have represented that they have complied with the requirements of the notification to interested persons. No public comments and no requests for a hearing, unless otherwise stated, were received by the Department. The notices of proposed exemption were issued and the exemptions are being granted solely by the Department because, effective December 31, 1978, section 102 of Reorganization Plan No. 4 of 1978 (43 FR 47713, October 17, 1978) transferred the authority of the Secretary of the Treasury to issue exemptions of the type proposed to the Secretary of Labor. Statutory Findings In accordance with section 408(a) of the Act and/or section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and the procedures set forth in 29 CFR Part 2570, Subpart B (55 FR 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990) and based upon the entire record, the Department makes the following findings: (a) The exemptions are administratively feasible; (b) They are in the interests of the plans and their participants and beneficiaries; and (c) They are protective of the rights of the participants and beneficiaries of the plans. Banque Paribas (the Bank) and Paribas Asset Management, Inc. (the Manager; collectively, the Applicants) Located, respectively, in Paris, France and New York, New York [Prohibited Transaction Exemption 94&hyph;80; Application Nos. D&hyph;9178 and D&hyph;9179] Exemption The restrictions of sections 406(a) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (D) of the Code shall not apply to the guarantee by the Bank to an employee benefit plan (the Plan) that retains the Manager as investment manager for such plan of the value of the Plan's principal investment with the Manager, provided that each of the following conditions is satisfied: (1) The fiduciaries of the Plan who are responsible for the selection and retention of the Manager as investment manager for the Plan, and for the selection of the guarantee from the Bank, are independent of the Manager, the Bank, and their affiliates; (2) no separate fee or remuneration is payable by the Plan or any other person to the Manager, the Bank, or any of their affiliates for the guarantee; (3) the Plan is entitled to cancel the investment management agreement with the Manager, and/or the guarantee provided by the Bank, at any time upon reasonable notice; (4) the agreement between each Plan and the Manager and the Bank will be amended to provide that, for purposes of enforcing the Bank's guarantee, the determination of the value of a Plan's assets under the Manager's investment management at any relevant time shall be made pursuant to objective standards determined jointly by the Manager and the Plan's custodian, which is the bank or other entity holding the assets of the Plan or other Plan fiduciary responsible for causing the Plan to enter into the agreement; (5) however, if the Manager and the Plan's custodian are unable to agree as to the value of the Plan's account, they will jointly select a qualified appraiser to make this determination; if they are unable to agree on an appraiser, the Manager and the Plan's custodian will each select a qualified appraiser and the value will be determined by mutual agreement of such appraisers or, if they cannot agree, by a third qualified appraiser designated by the two appraisers, and all such appraisers will be independent of the Manager; and (6) the investment management agreement between each Plan and the Manager and the Bank will provide: (a) that income from any lending from a Plan's account will be credited to the Plan's account and not to the Manager's account, and (b) that no lending of this type will occur under circumstances where the borrower is a party in interest or disqualified person with respect to the Plan, unless the conditions of Prohibited Transaction Exemptions 81&hyph;6 (52 FR 18754, May 19, 1987) and 82&hyph;63 (47 FR 14084, April 6, 1982, as corrected by 47 FR 16437, April 16, 1982)] are satisfied.
