FR940106-2-00014 FR940106-2-00007 We calculated CV in accordance with section 773(e)(1) of the Act. The monthly CV includes materials, fabrication, general expenses, profit and packing. We made all adjustments described in the COP section (except for the inclusion of ICMS and IPI taxes in material costs) in calculating the CV. We used the following as the basis for calculating CV: (1) CBCC's actual general expenses because they exceed the statutory ten percent minimum of materials and fabrication, in accordance with section 773(e)(1)(B)(i) of the Act; (2) the statutory minimum profit of eight percent, in accordance with section 773(e)(1)(B)(ii) of the Act, as CBCC's profit was less than eight percent of the sum of general expenses and the cost of manufacture; and (3) we calculated an offset to interest expense to avoid double counting the portion of such expense attributable to the imputed credit and inventory carrying costs which were already included in the selling, general and administrative expenses. We made circumstance-of-sale adjustments for differences in credit expenses, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(a). Finally, we added U.S. packing expenses to CV. For price-to-price comparisons, we based FMV on ex-factory prices, inclusive of packing, to unrelated customers. We deducted foreign inland freight from FMV. We made circumstance-of-sale adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in credit expenses, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(a). Because the home market credit figure reported by CBCC is actually interest revenue, we imputed credit expense and then applied the interest revenue as an offset against the imputed expense. We also used the actual paydates found at verification in our credit expense calculation. For those sales which we did not examine at verification, we added the average difference between the paydate reported and the actual paydate from the verified sales. For FeSi sales packed in bags, we deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs. Because CBCC did not report packing for bulk sales, we used information on bulk packing costs from the public version of Minasligas' response for these sales. We included in the FMV the amount of taxes collected in the home market. We also calculated the amount of the tax that was due solely to the inclusion of price deductions in the original tax base (i.e., the sum of any amounts that were deducted from the tax base). This amount was deducted from the FMV after all other additions and deductions had been made. By making the additional tax adjustments, we avoid a distortion that would create a dumping margin even when pre-tax dumping is zero. B. Minasligas In order to determine whether home market sales were above the COP, we calculated the monthly COPs on the basis of Minasligas' cost of materials, fabrication, general expenses, and packing. We relied on the COP data submitted by Minasligas except in the following instances where the costs were not appropriately quantified or valued. Specifically, we: 1. Revised G&A expenses by calculating them on an annual basis as a percentage of cost of goods sold as reported in Minasligas' 1992 financial statements (see Comment 4); 2. Revised interest expenses to include finance expenses of Delp (Minasligas' parent company), and disallowed a portion of the claimed interest income offset (see Comment 3); 3. Included IPI and ICMS taxes as part of reported material costs in COP (see Comment 5); 4. Revised the labor and overhead allocation methodology to reflect production quantity (see Comment 14); 5. Adjusted the inventory holding gains and losses to account for revisions in the reported costs (see Comment 10); 6. Disallowed the claimed differences in cost between high purity and standard grade FeSi and used the ``all kinds'' reported costs; 7. Added packing expenses in COP for the home market and United States, respectively.
