FR940105-2-00112 FR940105-2-00053 [Release No. 34&hyph;33379; File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;93&hyph;10] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Securities Trust Company; Notice of Filing of a Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Limitation or Elimination of Directors' Liability December 23, 1993. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on August 27, 1993, the Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared substantially by MSTC. MSTC amended the filing on October 6, 1993. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Letter from David T. Rusoff, Foley & Lardner, to Richard Strasser (Attorney), Division of Market Regulation, Commission (October 5, 1993). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change MSTC proposes to amend Article Ten of its Articles of Incorporation and Article VI, Section 1 of its By-Laws to limit or eliminate the potential monetary liability of its directors to the extent permitted by the Illinois Business Corporation Act except where such liability is the result of a violation of the federal securities laws. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, MSTC included statements concerning the purpose of and statutory basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposal. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MSTC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The proposal will limit or eliminate the potential monetary liability of MSTC directors under certain circumstances. The proposed change is based on Section 2.10(b)(3) of the Illinois Business Corporation Act, under which MSTC is organized, which allows corporations to adopt provisions in their articles of incorporation that limit or eliminate the potential monetary liability of directors under certain circumstances. General corporate law imposes a fiduciary duty of care upon each corporate director. This duty of care requires a director to exercise informed business judgment in good faith and to act with an honest believe that the action taken is in the best interest of the corporation. The proposal will not eliminate an MSTC's director's duty of care but will limit the personal liability of an MSTC director to MSTC or its shareholders should the director fail through negligence or gross negligence to satisfy his or her duty of care. 3 Under Illinois law, such limitations of personal liability do not apply in certain situations. 3 MSTC's proposal will limit a director's liability even if that director had been grossly negligent provided that the director exercised informed business judgment in good faith and acted with an honest belief that the action taken was in the best interest of the corporation. Because there has been no judicial interpretation on the scope of the applicable Illinois legislation, it is possible that an Illinois court may find as a matter of law that a director cannot act in a manner that is both grossly negligent and in good faith. The proposal will prohibit limitation of a director's liability in instances where liability arises directly or indirectly as a result of a violation of federal securities laws. The proposal will not eliminate equitable remedies such as rescission or injunctive actions. Moreover, it will not eliminate the liability of an officer of MSTC for actions taken in that capacity even if the officer is also a director. Finally, the proposal will not affect the liability of a director for acts or omissions that occurred prior to approval of the proposal. Limiting or eliminating directors' liability will help to ensure that MSTC will be able to recruit and retain competent directors. Due to the increased number and magnitude of lawsuits against directors, many other corporations from various states already have adopted provisions similar to those in MSTC's proposal. The proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act because it will remove an impediment to attracting competent directors and thus will help assure the fair representation of shareholders and participants in the selection of directors and in the administration of MSTC's affairs.
