FR941230-0-00088 FR941230-0-00017 Delayed Reopening of the 1995 Commercial Season for Red Snapper Comment: One comment from a seafood association suggested an alternative season where half of the quota would be available for harvest starting on January 1, and the remainder would be available on September 11 to the end of each year, starting in 1995. Response: The suggestion of a split commercial season was previously considered and rejected by the Council, because of concerns with quota monitoring and enforceability. Also, the bulk of the public testimony did not support the split season measure without a relaxation of the commercial quota. NMFS supports the Council's decision for a February 24 starting date. Changes From the Proposed Rule As discussed above, the zero bag limit for red snapper for charter vessel and headboat operators and crew has been removed from ยง641.24(b)(1), making the five fish bag limit applicable. Classification This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. NMFS determined that the proposed rule, if adopted, could have an effect exceeding 5 percent of gross for-hire commercial revenues and an initial RFA was prepared. No comments were received on the initial RFA. NMFS prepared a final RFA that addresses disapproval of the zero bag limit measure. The final determination of significance under the RFA was not changed by the partial disapproval of the proposed rule. The intended effects of this final rule include constraining the recreational harvest of red snapper to its 1995 allocation starting January 1 and ensuring that the commercial red snapper fishery is open when there is increased demand for seafood. These intended effects will be seriously degraded if the effective date of this final rule is delayed beyond the currently scheduled opening of the red snapper fishery on January 1, 1995. Accordingly, under the provisions of section 553(d)(3) of the Administrative Procedure Act, the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA, finds for good cause that it is contrary to the public interest to delay for 30 days the effective date of this rule. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 641 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: December 23, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service.
