FR940921-2-00088 FR940921-2-00071 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Scoping FTA and the MTA invite interested individuals, organizations, and federal, state, and local agencies to participate in defining the alternatives to be evaluated in the EIS and identifying any significant social, economic, or environmental issues related to the alternatives. Scoping comments may be made at the public scoping meeting or in writing. See DATES and ADDRESSES sections above for locations and times. During scoping, comments should focus on identifying specific social, economic, or environmental impacts to be evaluated and suggesting alternatives which are more cost effective or have less environmental impact while achieving similar transit objectives. Scoping materials will be available at the meeting or in advance of the meeting by contacting Lisa Colletti or Diane Melia at the MTA as indicated above. II. Description of Study Area and Project Need The study area and corridor is wholly within Montgomery County. It is approximately 41/2 miles long and connects the CBDs of Bethesda and Silver Spring. The corridor also connects two heavily used Metro stations and two major employment centers. Existing transit service in the study area is provided by Ride-On and Metrobus. Existing traffic is primarily carried by East-West Highway (MD 410) with high traffic volumes and poor level-of-service at many of the signalized intersections. The proposed transitway is intended to provide a high quality connection between the two branches of the Metro Red Line; to support economic viability of the Bethesda and Silver Spring CBDs through greater transit accessibility; contribute to higher transit modal splits for work trips to the CBDs and employment centers; improve cross-county movement by public transportation to help achieve regional clean air goals; and improve travel time in the Bethesda-Silver Spring corridor including improved access to the Bethesda and Silver Spring Metrorail stations. III. Alternatives The alternatives proposed for evaluation include: No-Build which involves no change to transportation services or facilities in the corridor beyond those improvements currently programmed; the TSM alternative which focuses on operational and low-cost capital improvements to transit routes and services in the corridor; the light rail transit (LRT) alternative which consists of providing light rail service along the 4.4 mile right-of-way, primarily using single-track with double-track passing sections, with a parallel hiker/biker trail; and the busway alternative which consists of providing bus service along the 4.4 mile right-of-way with a parallel hiker/biker trail. Five stations are proposed for both the light rail transit and busway alternatives: Bethesda, Connecticut Avenue, Lyttonsville, Spring Street, and Silver Spring, with future stations to be studied for operational feasibility. IV. Probable Effects FTA and MTA plan to evaluate in the EIS all significant social, economic, and environmental impacts of the alternatives. Among the primary issues are the expected increase in transit ridership, the expected increase in mobility for the corridor's transit dependent, the support of the region's air quality goals, the capital outlays needed to construct the project, the cost of operating and maintaining the facilities created by the project, and the financial impacts on the funding agencies. Environmental and social impacts proposed for analysis include land use and neighborhood impacts, traffic and parking impacts near stations, health and safety impacts, impacts on wetland and parkland areas, and noise and vibration impacts. Impacts on natural areas, rare and endangered species, and air and water quality, will also be covered. The impacts will be evaluated both for the construction period and for the long term period of operations. Measures to mitigate adverse impacts will be identified. V. FTA Procedures In accordance with federal transportation planning regulations (23 CFR Part 450), the draft EIS will be prepared in conjunction with a major transportation investment study and document the results of that study, including an evaluation of the social, economic, and environmental impacts of the alternatives. Upon completion of the MIS/DEIS, and on the basis of the comments received, the MTA Administrator in concert with the Secretary of the Maryland Department of Transportation (MDOT) and in consultation with Montgomery County, MWCOG, and other affected agencies, will select a locally preferred alternative. Then MTA, as lead agency, will seek to continue with further preliminary engineering and preparation of the Final EIS. Issued on: September 15, 1994. Sheldon A. Kinbar, Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23299 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;57&hyph;P
