FR940223-2-00237 FR940223-2-00104 Any service organization submitting a proposal for a DOT program must show evidence that the proposal has been reviewed and approved by the community service commission for the state(s) in which the project will be performed. In addition, DOT requests that each proposal include a preliminary evaluation by the state on national and community service for the state in which the project is to be performed (the ``state commission''). An evaluation form to be completed by the state commission is included as ``Attachment 6'' to the attached application form. The evaluation by the state commissions are not mandatory and are not binding on DOT. However, DOT believes that any information from the state commissions would be extremely helpful in our review and, therefore, we strongly encourage all applicants to obtain an evaluation from the state commission. 4. Selection Criteria 4.1␣General Criteria The following criteria and weights will be used by DOT to select national and community service proposals: 1. Need (10%). DOT will take into consideration the extent to which both the overall program and its particular projects will address needs important to the community and be conducted in areas of need as defined in the National and Community Service Trust Act. These areas of need are: a. Communities designated by the Federal government or states as empowerment zones or redevelopment areas, targeted for special economic incentives, or otherwise identifiable as having high concentrations of low-income people. b. Areas that are environmentally distressed. c. Areas adversely affected by Federal actions related to the management of Federal lands that result in significant regional job losses and economic dislocation. d. Areas adversely affected by reduction in Defense spending or the closure or realignment of military installations. e. Areas that have unemployment rates greater than the national average unemployment for the most recent 12 months for which satisfactory data are available. 2. Program Design (40%). DOT will consider the quality of the program based on: the potential impact of using proposed national service participants to meet the community needs being addressed; inclusion of a clear and compelling mission statement; identification of specific objectives and indicators of success; development of an effective recruitment, selection, and training plan for staff and participants, including recruitment of participants and staff from the community to be served; ability to provide appropriate supervision, counseling, service-learning and other education opportunities, and outplacement to participants; the involvement of participants and community residents in the design, operation, and leadership of the program; development of a sound plan for continually improving the program based on self-assessment and monitoring of community and participant satisfaction with work performed; inclusion of an appropriate organization and staffing plan; and the program's cost-effectiveness in achieving identified outcomes, including per participant cost. 3. Organizational Capacity (30%). DOT will consider organizational capacity based on: the quality of the leadership of the national service program; the past performance of the organization or program; the organization's connection to the community; the extent to which the program builds on existing programs; evidence of strong and broad-based community support for the program; and availability of additional funding sources for the program. An application proposing the replication of an existing program will also be evaluated based on the success of the program in its original site, including the results of any evaluation undertaken; the program's analysis of the strengths and weaknesses of the original program; reasons for selecting the replication site and discussion of adjustments needed for adaptation to a new site; and the qualification of the leaders of the program at the new site. 4. Sustainability (10%). DOT will consider the ability of the program to sustain itself beyond the period of support from DOT or from the National Service Corporation as evidenced by strong and broad-based community support; presence of multiple or private funding sources; and cost-effectiveness. Additional consideration will be given to programs that significantly exceed the regional match with non-Federal funds. 5. Innovation and Replication (10%). DOT will consider the degree to which needs coincide to program design, the innovative aspects of the program, and the appropriateness of replicating the program in the future. 4.2␣Priority Consideration In addition to the criteria on which individual applications will be rated, DOT may give priority consideration to all or some of the following issues: 1. Early Start Date. DOT is interested in programs that will be able to start up quickly after completing an appropriate planning phase (ideally by September of 1994). 2. Participant Diversity. DOT seeks a broadly diverse participant pool that includes a large representation of young adults; a mixture of individuals who have not attended college and those with college-education experience; approximately equal numbers of men and women; individuals of all races and ethnicities; and individuals with physical and cognitive disabilities. 3. Location.
