FR940706-0-00076 FR940706-0-00015 Research and development means all research activities, both basic and applied, and all development activities that are supported at universities, colleges, and other non-profit institutions. ``Research'' is defined as a systematic study directed toward fuller scientific knowledge or understanding of the subject studied. ``Development'' is the systematic use of knowledge and understanding gained from research directed toward the production of useful materials, devices, systems, or methods, including design and development of prototypes and processes. The term ``research'' also includes activities involving the training of individuals in research techniques where these activities utilize the same facilities as other pesearch and development activities and where these activities are not included in the instruction function. Small awards means a grant or cooperative agreement not exceeding the small purchase threshold fixed at 41 U.S.C. 403(11) (currently $25,000). Subaward means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under an award by a recipient to an eligible subrecipient or by a subrecipient to a lower tier subrecipient. The term includes financial assistance when provided by any legal agreement, even if the agreement is called a contract, but does not include procurement of goods and services nor does it include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of ``award'' as defined in this section. Subrecipient means the legal entity to which a subaward is made and which is accountable to the recipient for the use of the funds provided. The term may include foreign or international organizations (such as agencies of the United Nations) at the discretion of the Secretary. Supplies means all personal property excluding equipment, intangible property, and debt instruments as defined in this section, and inventions of a contractor conceived or first actually reduced to practice in the performance of work under a funding agreement (``subject inventions''), as defined in 37 CFR Part 401_Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements. Suspension means an action by the Secretary that temporarily withdraws Federal sponsorship under an award, pending corrective action by the recipient or pending a decision to terminate the award by the Secretary. Suspension of an award is a separate action from suspension under 34 CFR Part 85 (Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants). Termination means the cancellation of Federal sponsorship, in whole or in part, under an agreement at any time prior to the date of completion. Third party in-kind contributions means the value of non-cash contributions provided by non-Federal third parties. Third party in-kind contributions may be in the form of real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, and the value of goods and services directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to the project or program. Unliquidated obligations, for financial reports prepared on a cash basis, means the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient that have not been paid. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, they represent the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient for which an outlay has not been recorded. Unobligated balance means the portion of the funds authorized by the Secretary that has not been obligated by the recipient and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized. Unrecovered indirect cost means the difference between the amount awarded and the amount which could have been awarded under the recipient's approved negotiated indirect cost rate. Working capital advance means a procedure whereby funds are advanced to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for a given initial period. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) ยง74.3 Effect on other issuances. For awards subject to this part, all administrative requirements of codified program regulations, program manuals, handbooks, and other nonregulatory materials which are inconsistent with the requirements of this part are superseded, except to the extent they are required by statute, or authorized in accordance with the deviations provision in ยง74.4. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) ยง74.4 Deviations. The Secretary, after consultation with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), may grant exceptions for classes of grants or recipients subject to the requirements of this part when exceptions are not prohibited by statute. However, in the interest of maximum uniformity, exceptions from the requirements of this part are permitted only in unusual circumstances. The Secretary may apply more restrictive requirements to a class of recipients when approved by OMB. The Secretary may apply less restrictive requirements when awarding small awards, except for those requirements which are statutory. Exceptions on a case-by-case basis may also be made by the Secretary. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) ยง74.5 Subawards. Unless sections of this part specifically exclude subrecipients from coverage, the provisions of this part shall be applied to subrecipients performing work under awards if the subrecipients are institutions of higher education, hospitals, or other non-profit organizations. State and local government subrecipients are subject to the provisions of 34 CFR Part 80_Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110)
