FR940208-1-00042 FR940208-1-00011 1. Reduce the volume of, or eliminate emissions of, HAP's through process changes, substitution of materials, or other modifications; 2. Enclose systems or processes to eliminate emissions; 3. Collect, capture, or treat these pollutants when released from a process, stack, storage, or fugitive emissions point; 4. Are design, equipment, work practice, or operational standards (including requirements for operator training or certification) as provided in Section 112(h); or 5. Are a combination of the above [Section 112(d)(2)]. C. Regulatory Development Process for the NESHAP During development of a NESHAP, the Agency collects information about the industry, including information on emission source characteristics, control technologies, data from HAP emission tests at well-controlled facilities, and information on the cost, energy, and other environmental impacts of emission control techniques. The Agency uses this information in the development of possible regulatory approaches. If the source category contains major sources, then a MACT standard is required. The level of control corresponding to the MACT ``floor'' needs to be determined as a boundary for developing the regulatory alternatives. (Procedures for determining MACT floors are discussed in part D of this section.) Once the floor has been determined for new and existing sources for a category or subcategory, the Administrator must set MACT standards that are no less stringent than the floor level. Such standards must then be met by all sources within the category or subcategory. However, in establishing standards, the Administrator may distinguish among classes, types, and sizes of sources within a category or subcategory [Clean Air Act Section 112(d)(1)]. Thus, for example, the Administrator could establish two classes of sources within a category or subcategory based on size and establish a different emission standard for each class. In addition, the Act provides the Administrator further flexibility in regulating area sources. Section 112(d)(5) provides that, in lieu of establishing MACT standards under Section 112(d), the Administrator may promulgate standards that provide for the use of ``generally available control technologies or management practices'' (GACT standards). Area source standards promulgated under this authority are not subject to the MACT ``floors'' described in part D of this section. The next step in establishing a MACT or GACT standard is the development and analysis of regulatory alternatives. First, information about the industry is analyzed to develop model plant parameters and populations for the purpose of projecting national impacts, including HAP emission reduction levels, costs, and energy and secondary environmental impacts. Several regulatory alternative levels (which may be different levels of emission control, different applicability cutoffs, or both) are then evaluated to determine the most appropriate regulatory alternative to reflect the MACT or GACT level. In addition, although the NESHAP are normally structured in terms of numerical emission limits, alternative approaches are sometimes necessary (e.g., source testing may be impossible or at least impractical due to technological and economic limitations). In these cases, work practice or equipment standards may be considered. In the Agency's decision-making process, the regulatory alternatives considered for new versus existing sources may be different and each alternative must be technically achievable. In selecting a regulatory alternative to represent MACT or GACT, the Agency considers the achievable reduction in HAP emissions; the cost of control; and economic, energy, and other environmental impacts. The selected regulatory alternative is then translated into a proposed regulation. The regulation implementing the MACT or GACT decision typically includes Sections addressing applicability, standards, test methods and compliance demonstration, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping. The preamble to the proposed regulation, published in the Federal Register , provides an explanation of the rationale for the decision. The public is invited to comment on the proposed regulation during the public comment period. Following an evaluation of these comments, the Agency reaches a decision and promulgates the final standards. D. Determining Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) ``Floors'' Once the Agency has identified the specific source categories or subcategories of major sources and area sources that it intends to regulate under section 112, MACT standards are set at a level at least as stringent as the ``floor'', unless the decision has been made to regulate area sources under section 112(d)(5). Congress has provided certain very specific directives to guide the Agency in the process of determining the regulatory floor. Congress specified that the Agency must establish standards which require ``the maximum degree of reduction in emissions of the hazardous air pollutants *␣*␣* that the Administrator *␣*␣* determines is achievable *␣*␣*'' [Clean Air Act Section 112(d)(2)]. In addition, Congress limited the Agency's discretion by defining the minimum baseline (floor) at which standards may be set, as follows: (1) For new sources, the standards for a source category or subcategory
