FR940705-2-00193 FR940705-2-00091 The Laboratory Safety Monograph (see Appendix G-III-O) and Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories (see Appendix G-III-B) describe practices, equipment, and facilities in detail. Appendix G-II. Physical Containment Levels The objective of physical containment is to confine organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules and to reduce the potential for exposure of the laboratory worker, persons outside of the laboratory, and the environment to organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules. Physical containment is achieved through the use of laboratory practices, containment equipment, and special laboratory design. Emphasis is placed on primary means of physical containment which are provided by laboratory practices and containment equipment. Special laboratory design provides a secondary means of protection against the accidental release of organisms outside the laboratory or to the environment. Special laboratory design is used primarily in facilities in which experiments of moderate to high potential hazard are performed. Combinations of laboratory practices, containment equipment, and special laboratory design can be made to achieve different levels of physical containment. Four levels of physical containment, which are designated as BL1, BL2, BL3, and BL4 are described. It should be emphasized that the descriptions and assignments of physical containment detailed below are based on existing approaches to containment of pathogenic organisms (see Appendix G-III-B). The National Cancer Institute describes three levels for research on oncogenic viruses which roughly correspond to our BL2, BL3, and BL4 levels (see Appendix G-III-C). It is recognized that several different combinations of laboratory practices, containment equipment, and special laboratory design may be appropriate for containment of specific research activities. The NIH Guidelines, therefore, allow alternative selections of primary containment equipment within facilities that have been designed to provide BL3 and BL4 levels of physical containment. The selection of alternative methods of primary containment is dependent, however, on the level of biological containment provided by the host-vector system used in the experiment. Consideration will be given by the NIH Director, with the advice of the RAC to other combinations which achieve an equivalent level of containment (see Section IV-C&hyph;1-b-(2)-(c)). Appendix G-II-A. Biosafety Level 1 (BL1) (see Appendix G-III-M) Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1. Standard Microbiological Practices (BL1). Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1-a. Access to the laboratory is limited or restricted at the discretion of the Principal Investigator when experiments are in progress. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1-b. Work surfaces are decontaminated once a day and after any spill of viable material. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1-c. All contaminated liquid or solid wastes are decontaminated before disposal. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1-d. Mechanical pipetting devices are used; mouth pipetting is prohibited. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1-e. Eating, drinking, smoking, and applying cosmetics are not permitted in the work area. Food may be stored in cabinets or refrigerators designated and used for this purpose only. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1-f. Persons wash their hands: (i) After they handle materials involving organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules and animals, and (ii) before exiting the laboratory. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1-g. All procedures are performed carefully to minimize the creation of aerosols. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;1-h. In the interest of good personal hygiene, facilities (e.g., hand washing sink, shower, changing room) and protective clothing (e.g., uniforms, laboratory coats) shall be provided that are appropriate for the risk of exposure to viable organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;2. Special Practices (BL1). Appendix G-II-A&hyph;2-a. Contaminated materials that are to be decontaminated at a site away from the laboratory are placed in a durable leak-proof container which is closed before being removed from the laboratory. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;2-b. An insect and rodent control program is in effect. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;3. Containment Equipment (BL1). Appendix G-II-A&hyph;3-a. Special containment equipment is generally not required for manipulations of agents assigned to BL1. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;4. Laboratory Facilities (BL1). Appendix G-II-A&hyph;4-a. The laboratory is designed so that it can be easily cleaned. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;4-b. Bench tops are impervious to water and resistant to acids, alkalis, organic solvents, and moderate heat.
