FR940111-1-00033 FR940111-1-00010 (a) The U.S.G.S. map used to show the boundaries of the proposed area (the Seiad Valley Quadrangle 7.5 minute series map) uses the name ``Seiad Valley'' to describe the area immediately surrounding Seiad Creek, corresponding to the portion of the proposed area which is north of the Klamath River. The map also shows the town of Seiad Valley within this area. The map shows no separate designation for the portion of the proposed area south of the Klamath River, which is drained by Grider Creek. (b) The petitioner provided excerpts from the 1957 issue of Siskiyou Pioneer, an annual publication of the Siskiyou County Historical Society, which discuss the history of the name Seiad Valley, and local understanding of the extent of the area known as Seiad, or Seiad Valley. ``Sciad,'' by Betty Livingston and Hazel Davis, states the name Seiad was originally spelled Sciad, and the creek and valley were called that by the trappers ``before the prospectors came in 1850.'' Sometime after 1871, the spelling of the name changed to Seiad. In ``Gold Mining from Scott Bar to Happy Camp,'' by J.B. Grider, the following description appears: Seiad is a small valley two miles long and one mile wide *␣*␣* There are two large creeks in Seiad, Grider Creek and Seiad Creek. Grider Creek flows north into the Klamath from the Marble Mountain territory. Seiad creek flows south into the Klamath from the Siskiyous and Red Mountain.'' (c) The petitioner also provided a copy of a claim document dated August 26, 1942, which states the Grider Creek mining claim is ``situate in the Seiad Mining District.'' Evidence of Boundaries The petitioner has defined the proposed area primarily by its elevation, using the 1600 and 1800 foot contour lines. As evidence that the proposed boundaries for the area are as specified in the petition, the petitioner states that the vegetation within and outside the area provides a dramatic contrast. Within the proposed area, cottonwood, oak and willow trees and wild blackberries and grapes grow in addition to the cultivated crops. Outside the proposed area, on the higher slopes of the surrounding mountains, conifers such as cedar, Douglas fir and Ponderossa pine predominate in the thin, eroded soils with scant summer moisture. Geographical Features The proposed viticultural area consists of the valleys drained by Seiad Creek and Grider Creek, which both flow into the Klamath River in northwestern California. According to the petitioner, these valleys and an expanse of land along the Klamath River which connects them share characteristics of topography, soil composition and climate which distinguish the proposed viticultural area from the surrounding areas. The petitioner provided the following evidence to support his claims: Topography The U.S.G.S. topographic map submitted by the petitioner shows the proposed area is a relatively flat area varying in elevation from 1,400 to 1,600 feet, with a small portion as high as 1,800 feet, surrounded by steeply rising terrain. Outside the area, the elevation ranges from 2,000 to 2,800 feet, with peaks exceeding 3,000 feet on all sides, and some peaks as high as 3,900 feet. The petitioner explains that snow melt, runoff, and erosion from these higher areas into the valley create a contrast in both the quality of soils and the availability of water within and outside the proposed area. The lower elevation within the proposed area also contributes to more moderate temperatures there. Soil The petitioner states that the valley floor ``is composed of deep fertile soil mixtures of loam, sand, clay and rocks eroded from the surrounding mountain slopes.'' According to a draft environmental impact report prepared in 1975 by the California Department of Transportation, the valley floor is ``mostly alluvium deposits which were widely dredged and hydraulically mined for gold. Chromite was also mined within the Seiad Valley area.'' Dredging left ``tailings,'' or piles of rounded rocks, wherever the dredge operated. The petitioner states that these granite-dominated rock tailings store heat during the day and provide protection against frost in spring and fall. Climate The petitioner provided the following material related to the climate in the area: (a) An article in the Pioneer Press of September 16, 1992, titled ``Rock-pile grapevines surprising all experts,'' contrasted Siskiyou County growing conditions with those in Seiad Valley vineyard: ``What's stopped the area from becoming a wine-producing area are the erratic late spring freezes in the zone where elevations are low enough to even make it possible. And in some of the county's lowest elevation areas, the precipitation levels are too high.'' The article stated the rock tailings in his vineyard ``may give Helsaple just the edge he needs to be the county's first successful longterm wine grape grower.'' (b) The Sunset New Western Garden Book, 1979 edition, climate map of northern California and western Nevada showed Seiad Valley as Zone 7, and characterizes a Zone 7 climate as having hot summers and mild but pronounced winters, favorable for deciduous fruit that requires a marked seasonal pattern. Proposed Boundary The boundary of the proposed Seiad Valley viticultural area may be found on one United States Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.) map with a scale of 1:24000. The boundary is described in §9.148. Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this proposed regulation is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. Accordingly, this proposal is not subject to the analysis required by this Executive Order.
