FR940603-1-00170 FR940603-1-00009 Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement (Line Extensions) XXXX , certifies that he is the XXXX (title or designation), of XXXX (name of contractor), the Contractor, in a contract dated XXXX 19 XXXX entered into between the Contractor and XXXX (name of REA Borrower) XXXX , the Owner, for the construction of a rural electric Project (hereinafter referred to as Project), which bears the Project Designation XXXX 19 XXXX Line Extensions, and that he is authorized to and does make this Certificate and Indemnity Agreement on behalf of said Contractor in order to induce the Owner to make payment to the Contractor, in accordance with the provisions of the said contract. Undersigned further says that all persons who have furnished labor in connection with the Section of the Project represented by the Final Inventory dated XXXX , in the amount of $ XXXX , have been paid in full; that all manufacturers, materialmen and subcontractors which furnished any materials or services, or both, for the said Section of the Project have been paid in full; that no lien has been filed against the Project and no person has any right to claim any lien against the Project. Undersigned further says that if the Owner pays the Contractor the contract price for the said Section of the Project the Contractor will indemnify and hold harmless and does hereby undertake and agree to indemnity and hold harmless the Owner from any claim or lien arising out of the negligence or other fault of the Contractor in respect of the performance of the contract which may have been or may be filed against the Owner. XXXX Signature of Contractor (President, Vice-President, Partner or Owner, or, if signed by other than one of foregoing, Power of Attorney signed by one of the foregoing should be attached. Indicate applicable designation.) [End of clause] §1726.346 Supplemental contract for additional project, REA Form 792c. The form in this section shall be used when required by REA Form 201, 790, or 792. Supplemental Contract for Additional Project Date XXXX TO: XXXX Contractor Pursuant to Article I, Section 2 of the Contractor's Proposal dated XXXX , for the rural electric Project XXXX , we request that you construct Additional Project No. XXXX , consisting of approximately the following system improvement and line extension work: XXXX . The Additional Project is to be constructed in accordance with all of the provisions of the Contractor's Proposal, except: 1. The time for completion of the Additional Project shall be XXXX . 2. The prices for Construction Units for the Additional Project are attached. Please indicate your acceptance of the foregoing by signing below, return two signed copies and retain one copy. Sincerely, XXXX Owner By XXXX President, Vice President (strike out inapplicable designation.) ACCEPTANCE: XXXX Contractor By XXXX President, Vice President, Partner (strike out inapplicable designation.) Date XXXX [End of clause] §§1726.347_1726.349 [Reserved]. §1726.350 Construction contract amendment for payment, REA Form 800. The amendment form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Construction Contract Amendment for Payment DATE: XXXX XXXX (Owner) XXXX (Address) Project: XXXX
