FR940128-1-00079 FR940128-1-00006 Description: The information requirements in this proposed rule are essentially monitoring and recordkeeping requirements encompassing critical control points in the production and inspection of fish and fishery products as established in the HACCP plans of processors and importers. The specific information collected and the frequency of collection will depend on such factors as the species and the processing conditions. It will include observations of processing parameters such as the time and temperature of processing and storage; the condition of raw materials; the results of chemical and microbiological tests; the sanitation conditions in a processing facility; the corrective actions taken in response to processing deviations, etc. Records identifying production lot codes and date of manufacture will also be maintained. Records will be maintained by the processing facility or at an importer's place of business for 1 year after the date of preparation in the case of refrigerated products and at least 2 years for frozen products. This information will be used by FDA investigators during regularly scheduled inspections of processing plants, or at the time of entry of imports, to determine whether products were processed under sanitary conditions and processed, packaged, stored, and distributed using HACCP control techniques to avoid hazards that might cause the products to be adulterated. The information will also be used when necessary to trace and remove potentially hazardous products from the marketplace. Records of processing conditions will also provide a means for processors to monitor the quality of their products and to alert them when a deviation from the critical limits established in the HACCP plan has occurred that may create a potential public health hazard in the final product. The figures provided below reflect an FDA estimate of the annual hours of monitoring and recordkeeping based upon currently available data and assumptions about the effects of the requirements in proposed part 123. The estimate is based on data used to develop cost estimates for the economic impact analysis required by Executive Order 12866 and thus is subject to the same types of uncertainties described elsewhere in this preamble. For example, the agency has anecdotal evidence that the burden on firms that are operating under a mandatory HACCP system established by the State of Alaska is more nominal. Consequently, FDA acknowledges the possibility that the estimates provided here are conservatively high, indicating recordkeeping burdens that are higher than would customarily be the case. FDA specifically invites comments on this point.
