FR940511-2-00011 FR940511-2-00009 Minority Business Development Agency Business Development Center Applications: Riverside, CA AGENCY: Minority Business Development Agency. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In accordance with Executive Order 11625 and 15 U.S.C. 1512, the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) is soliciting competitive applications under its Minority Business Development Center (MBDC) Program. The total cost of performance for the first budget period (12 months) from October 1, 1994 to September 30, 1995, is estimated at $333,125. The application must include a minimum cost-share of 15% of the total project cost through non-Federal contributions. Cost-sharing contributions may be in the form of cash contributions, clients fees, in-kind contributions or combinations thereof. The MBDC will operate in the Riverside, California Geographic Service Area. The funding instrument for this project will be a cooperative agreement. Competition is open to individuals, non-profit and for-profit organizations, state and local governments, American Indian tribes and educational institutions. The MBDC program provides business development services to the minority business community to help establish and maintain viable minority businesses. To this end, MBDA funds organizations to identify and coordinate public and private sector resources on behalf of minority individuals and firms; to offer a full range of management and technical assistance to minority entrepreneurs; and to serve as a conduit of information and assistance regarding minority business. Applications will be evaluated on the following criteria: The experience and capabilities of the firm and its staff in addressing the needs of the business community in general and, specifically, the special needs of minority businesses, individuals and organizations (50 points); the resources available to the firm in providing business development services (10 points); the firm's approach (techniques and methodologies) to preforming the work requirements included in the application (20 points); and the firm's estimated cost for providing such assistance (20 points). An application must receive at least 70% of the points assigned to each evaluation criteria category to be considered programmatically acceptable and responsive. Those applications determined to be acceptable and responsive will then be evaluated by the Director of MBDA. Final award selections shall be based on the number of points received, the demonstrated responsibility of the applicant, and the determination of those most likely to further the purpose of the MBDA program. Negative audit findings and recommendations and unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for award. The applicant with the highest point score will not necessarily receive the award. MBDCs shall be required to contribute at least 15% of the total project cost through non-Federal contributions. To assist in this effort, the MBDCs may charge client fees for management and technical assistance (M&TA) rendered. Based on a standard rate of $50 per hour, the MBDC will charge client fees at 20% of the total cost for firms with gross sales of $500,000 or less, and 35% of the total cost for firms with gross sales of over $500,000. Quarterly reviews culminating in year-to-date evaluations will be conducted to determine if funding for the project should continue. Continued funding will be at the total discretion of MBDA based on such factors as an MBDC's performance, the availability of funds and Agency priorities. DATES: The closing date for applications is June 21, 1994. Applications must be postmarked on or before June 21, 1994. The mailing address for submission is: San Francisco Regional Office, Minority Business Development Agency, U.S. Department of Commerce, 221 Main Street, Room 1280, San Francisco, California 94105, 415/744&hyph;3001. A pre-application conference to assist all interested applicants will be held at the following address and time: San Francisco Regional Office, Minority Business Development Agency, U.S. Department of Commerce, 221 Main Street, Room 1280, San Francisco, California 94105; June 1, 1994 at 10 a.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Melda Cabrera, Regional Director San Francisco Regional Office at 415/744&hyph;3001. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Anticipated processing time of this award is 120 days. Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' is not applicable to this program. The collection of information requirements for this project have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0640&hyph;0006. Questions concerning the preceding information can be answered by the contact person indicated above, and copies of application kits and applicable regulations can be obtained at the above address. Pre-Award Costs _Applicants are hereby notified that if they incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that an applicant may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award costs.
