FR940812-0-00091 FR940812-0-00019 Subpart F_Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) ยง2542.500 Purpose. (a) The purpose of this subpart is to carry out the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (41 U.S.C. 701 et seq.) by requiring that_ (1) A grantee, other than an individual, shall certify to the agency that it will provide a drug-free workplace; (2) A grantee who is an individual shall certify to the agency that, as a condition of the grant, he or she will not engage in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession or use of a controlled substance in conducting any activity with the grant. (b) Requirements implementing the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 for contractors with the agency are found at 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, part 23, subpart 23.5, and part 52, subpart 52.2. ยง2542.510 Definitions. (a) Except as amended in this section, the definitions of ยง2542.20 apply to this subpart. (b) For purposes of this subpart_ (1) Controlled substance. The term controlled substance means a controlled substance in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812), and as further defined by regulation at 21 CFR 1308.11 through 1308.15; (2) Conviction. The term conviction means a finding of guilt (including a plea of nolo contendere) or imposition of sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with the responsibility to determine violations of the Federal or State criminal drug statutes; (3) Criminal drug statute. The term criminal drug statute means a Federal or non-Federal criminal statute involving the manufacture, distribution, dispensing, use, or possession of any controlled substance; (4) Drug-free workplace. The term drug-free workplace means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific grant at which employees of the grantee are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensing, possession, or use of a controlled substance; (5) Employee. (i) The term employee means the employee of a grantee directly engaged in the performance of work under the grant, including: (A) All direct charge employees; (B) All indirect charge employees, unless their impact or involvement is insignificant to the performance of the grant; and (C) Temporary personnel and consultants who are directly engaged in the performance of work under the grant and who are on the grantee's payroll. (ii) This definition does not include workers not on the payroll of the grantee (e.g., volunteers, even if used to meet a matching requirement; consultants or independent contractors not on the payroll; or employees of subrecipients or subcontractors in covered workplaces); (6) Federal agency (or agency). The term federal agency (or agency) means any United States executive department, military department, government corporation, government controlled corporation, any other establishment in the executive branch (including the Executive Office of the President), or any independent regulatory agency; (7) Grant. The term grant means an award of financial assistance, including a cooperative agreement, in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, by a Federal agency directly to a grantee. The term grant includes block grant and entitlement grant programs, whether or not exempted from coverage under the grants management government-wide common rule on uniform administrative requirements for grants and cooperative agreements. The term does not include technical assistance that provides services instead of money, or other assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, insurance, or direct appropriations; or any veterans' benefits to individuals, i.e., any benefit to veterans, their families, or survivors by virtue of the service of a veteran in the Armed Forces of the United States; (8) Grantee. The term grantee means a person who applies for or receives a grant directly from a Federal agency (except another Federal agency); (9) Individual. The term individual means a natural person; (10) State. The term State means any of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency of a State, exclusive of institutions of higher education, hospitals, and units of local government. A State instrumentality will be considered part of the State government if it has a written determination from a State government that such State considers the instrumentality to be an agency of the State government.
