FR940128-2-00186 FR940128-2-00118 3. A full and comprehensive description of the proposed demonstration project, methodology and design, and a summary of personnel to be employed in carrying out the project. 4. As applicable, include information on the targeted group(s), location of sites, numbers to be served, timelines, and expected outcomes and goals to be achieved. 5. A description of key staff and the names and telephone numbers of persons to be contacted for further information. D. Rating Criteria for Award Prospective offeror(s) are advised that the selection of grantee(s) for award is to be made after careful evaluation of proposals by a panel of specialists. Each panelists will evaluate the proposals for acceptability with emphasis on the various factors enumerated below. Evaluations will be made not only on the basis of what the proposed offeror intends to do during the 12-month grant, but also on the usefulness of the demonstration after the end of the grant period, including possible extensions of the grant. The panel results are advisory in nature and not binding on the Grant Officer. (1) Knowledge and Understanding of Program Population Clear evidence of the offeror's knowledge and understanding of migrant and seasonal farmworkers_inclusive of the socio-economic conditions and geographic area of the demonstration project; familiarity with the Department's Section 402 program of the JTPA; and employment and training programs in the proposed geographic area. This factor rates the offeror's analysis of the needs of migrant and seasonal farmworkers, including socio-economic conditions and the prevailing ethnic culture and mores. Applicant must demonstrate a knowledge of the service area by providing a clear and concise description of the proposed geographic area and the characteristics of the clientele population. (20 points) 2. Capability of Applicant Documentation of the offeror's capacity to develop a technical approach to accomplish the objectives as enumerated in this SGA in support of the demonstration model selected; furthermore, the proposal should include staffing charts which lists names, qualifications and experiences of key staff and the concomitant amount of time for each to be spent on the project (if those identified are to be less than fulltime). (20 points) 3. Project Design Documentation of program design; which, if the applicant selects one of the models suggested under Part II, Statement of Work, or proposes a model other than those suggested, should (a) clearly identify the goals to be achieved through the proposed model, along with benchmarks by which the success of the model could be measured; (b) demonstrate a thorough knowledge of the proposed methodology and delineate the manner in which this methodology will be applied; (c) provide rationale and justification for the model as it relates to the geographic location where it will be implemented; and finally (d) provide a rationale that would support the replication of the proposed model in parts of the country (other than where the model is to be implemented), to serve the targeted population. (40 points) 4. Applicant's Experience A description of the offeror's qualifications in terms of relevant previous experience, facilities and other resources. The offeror should provide descriptions of one or more prior activities and expertise which are relevant to the proposed demonstration model. The offeror must provide the name and telephone number of any relevant reference. (20 points) Applicants are advised that discussions may be necessary in order to clarify any inconsistencies in their applications. Applications may be rejected where the information required is not provided in sufficient detail to permit adequate assessment of the proposal. The final decision on the award will be based on what is most advantageous to the Federal Government as determined by the ETA Grant Officer. Evaluations by reviewers are advisory only to the Grant Officer. Part IV. Reporting Requirements The Grant Recipient shall submit the following reports, at the time and in the number of copies specified to the project officer designated by the grant. 1. Quarterly reports (3 copies). The first such report will be due 90 days after the grant beginning date and subsequent reports will be due quarterly thereafter. 2. Quarterly financial reports as required by the grant award documents. (Standard Form 269., Financial Status Report form). 3. Final report (3 copies). The Grant Recipient shall provide the project officer with a final report summarizing the activities performed under this grant within 30 days of the close of the grant. Should the Government exercise its option for a second one year period, the Grant Recipient is still required to submit the final report (for the first year's effort) thirty (30) days following the renewal of the grant. Signed at Washington, DC, this 19th day of January, 1994. James C. DeLuca, Grant Officer. BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;10&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN28JA94.000 E:GRAPHICSEN28JA94.001 E:GRAPHICSEN28JA94.002 [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1600 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;10&hyph;C
