FR940825-2-00113 FR940825-2-00073 (2) Johnson and Bayer are each enjoined and restrained from entering into any exclusive license between them for any active ingredient, the patent rights to which are beneficially owned by Bayer, that the U.S. Department of Justice disapproves in writing. To ensure the Department of Justice has adequate notice of such agreements, Johnson and Bayer each must provide the Department at least 90 days' written notice of their intent to enter into such an exclusive license agreements, and if requested by the Department of Justice within 30 days after its receipt of such notice, Johnson and Bayer must supply within 30 days of such request, all information in their possession reasonably necessary to enable the Department of Justice to determine the competitive effect of such license agreement. (3) Johnson and Bayer are each enjoined and restrained from entering into, carrying out, or operating under any exclusive license to make, use or sell Cyfluthrin in the United States. Bayer must offer to any person who requests, a license to use or sell Cyfluthrin in the United States, upon reasonable and mutually agreeable terms and conditions, but no minimum royalty payment shall be required under such license; and (4) No more than 180 days nor less than 90 days before entering into any exclusive license with any person other than Bayer, for any active ingredient other than Cyfluthrin, Johnson must provide the Department of Justice written notice of such license and, if requested by the Department of Justice within 30 days after its receipt of such notice, Johnson must supply within 30 days after such request, all information in its possession reasonably necessary to determine the competitive effect of such license agreement. B. Effect on Competition The proposed Final Judgment will ensure that Johnson's competitors will have access to Cyfluthrin and thus likely promote competition in the household insecticide market. Nonexclusive licenses will be made available to Johnson's competitors on reasonable terms and conditions that are at least as favorable as the terms and conditions Bayer accorded Johnson, except that there will be no minimum royalty payments under such licenses. In addition, by prohibiting any market allocation agreements between the defendants, the Final Judgment ensures that the defendants will not be able to restrict potential competition in the U.S. household insecticides market. In addition, the proposed Final Judgment ensures that any exclusive or co-exclusive license agreement between Johnson, which is dominant in the household insecticides market, and Bayer for new active ingredients will not restrict competition in the household insecticides market. The proposed relief also ensures that the United States receives prior notice of any exclusive or co-exclusive license agreement between Johnson and any active ingredient manufacturer other than Bayer, and thus an opportunity to challenge any such agreement that the United States believes may substantially lessen competition in the household insecticides market. At the same time, Department of Justice review of any exclusive or co-exclusive license agreement for active ingredients contemplated by Johnson should not unreasonably restrict Johnson's ability to obtain the necessary active ingredients to formulate its household insecticide products and remain competitive in the household insecticides market. IV Remedies Available To Private Litigants Section 4 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. §15, provides that any person who has been injured as a result of conduct prohibited by the antitrust laws may bring suit in federal court to recover three times the damages suffered, as well as costs and reasonable attorney's fees. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment will neither impair nor assist the bringing of such actions. Under the provisions of Section 5(a) of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. §16(a), the Judgment has no prima facie effect in any subsequent lawsuits that may be brought against Johnson and Bayer in this matter. V Procedures Available For Modification Of The Proposed Final Judgment As provided by the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, any person believing that the proposed Final Judgment should be modified may submit written comments to Gail Kursh, Chief, Professions and Intellectual Property Section, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, 555 4th Street, NW., Room 9903, Washington, DC 20001, within the 60-day period set forth in the Act. These comments, and the Department's responses, will be filed with the Court and published in the Federal Register . All comments will be given due consideration by the Department of Justice, which remains free, pursuant to a stipulation signed by the United States and Bayer and Johnson, to withdraw its consent to the Judgment at any time prior to entry. Section IX of the Judgment provides that the Court retains jurisdiction over this action, and the parties may apply to the Court for any order necessary or appropriate for modification, interpretation, or enforcement of the Judgment. VI Determinative Materials/Documents Materials or documents of the type described in Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. §16(b), were considered in formulating the proposed Final Judgment. VII Alternative To The Proposed Final Judgment The alternative to the proposed Judgment is a full trial on the merits. While the Department is confident of its ability to succeed in such a trial, the litigation involves difficult issues of law and fact. A favorable outcome is not a certainty. The Final Judgment agreed to by the parties provides all the relief that the United States sought in its complaint. Dated: August 3, 1994. ␣␣␣Respectfully submitted, Anthony E. Harris, Bar No. 01133713. Kurt Shaffert Attorneys, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 555 4th Street, NW., Room 9901, Washington, DC 20001, 202/307&hyph;0951.
