FR940621-2-00024 FR940621-2-00016 The Department is seeking public comment on the appropriateness of these standards as well as others. Long-term Storage Alternatives The Department proposes to evaluate alternatives for long-term storage of plutonium, HEU and other weapons-usable fissile materials: (1) In the current interim storage facilities (the no-action alternative); (2) in facilities upgraded as necessary to comply with current ES&H and design requirements; or (3) in a new consolidated storage facility. Five candidate sites for a new consolidated long-term storage were selected from those evaluated during the Reconfiguration Program in preparation for development of the Reconfiguration PEIS, addressing the nuclear weapons complex for the post-Cold War era. They are the Idaho National Engineering Laboratory, the Savannah River Site, the Oak Ridge Reservation, the Pantex Plant, and the Nevada Test Site. In addition, ongoing evaluation of interim storage sites may result in other sites being considered reasonable alternatives for consolidated long-term storage. Surplus Plutonium Disposition Alternatives (Including Other Surplus Nuclear Materials Except HEU) Controlled, interim storage will be required until the materials are either placed into long-term storage or dispositioned into a more proliferation resistant form. As mentioned previously, the alternatives for disposition of plutonium and certain other surplus nuclear materials were evaluated by the Academy. In general, the Academy identified several broad alternatives for meeting the ``spent fuel standard.'' • Mixed Oxide fuel alternative, in which the surplus plutonium would be used as fuel in existing, modified, or new nuclear reactors, that would consume a fraction of the plutonium and embed the rest in highly radioactive spent fuel similar to that now produced by commercial power reactors, and which would be stored and ultimately disposed of in a geologic repository; • Immobilization alternative, in which the surplus plutonium would be vitrified or embedded in a ceramic or other material, either alone or mixed with radioactive high-level wastes, to form glass or ceramic logs for ultimate disposal in a geologic repository; and • Geologic disposition alternative, in which plutonium in some other acceptable form would be placed directly in suitable canisters and buried in deep boreholes drilled into the earth, or in a mined geologic repository. Beyond the Spent Fuel Standard Because plutonium disposition alternatives meeting the ``spent fuel standard'' result in a form that still entails a risk of use in weapons, and because the barriers to use diminish with time as the radioactivity decays, it will be prudent to consider further steps to reduce long-term proliferation risks. Thus, the alternatives that result in the plutonium becoming essentially inaccessible or destroyed include: • Accelerator based conversion , in which a large fraction of plutonium would be fissioned in a sub-critical reactor aided by neutrons produced by an accelerator; and • ``Deep Burn'' Reactors , in which the plutonium is fissioned so completely in reactors, without spent fuel reprocessing and recycling, that only a small amount of plutonium would remain in the spent nuclear fuel. There may be other alternatives that are reasonable for disposition of surplus plutonium (and other surplus weapons-usable fissile materials) into a form which is substantially and inherently proliferation resistant. The PEIS will include consideration of any other reasonable alternatives identified in the scoping process. The purpose of the PEIS is to develop information to support decision making concerning long-term storage of all plutonium, HEU, and other weapons-usable material and disposition of the surplus plutonium and other weapons-usable fissile materials so that the risk of proliferation is minimized. Some of the alternatives to accomplish disposition may require substantial research and development, and could entail subsequent NEPA analysis prior to any decision concerning implementation. The Academy study also considered plutonium disposition alternatives that the Academy judged to be unreasonable. These alternatives were: sub-seabed disposal; ocean dilution; underground detonation; and disposal in space. Comments regarding these, and any other alternatives, are encouraged to aid DOE in establishing the reasonable PEIS alternatives for disposition of surplus plutonium (and other weapons-usable fissile materials). The NEPA Process This PEIS is being prepared pursuant to section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508). The reason for this PEIS is that there might be significant environmental impacts from implementing decisions on the long-term storage and disposition of weapons-usable fissile materials. Such decisions would be a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of NEPA and, therefore, requiring the preparation of an environmental impact statement (EIS).
