FR940825-1-00054 FR940825-1-00008 (2) For noncitizens who are 62 years of age or older or who will be 62 years of age or older and receiving assistance under a covered program on [insert the effect date of the final rule], the evidence consists of: (i) A signed declaration of eligible immigration status; and (ii) Proof of age document. (3) For all other noncitizens, the evidence consists of: (i) A signed declaration of eligible immigration status; (ii) The INS documents listed in ยง200.184; and (iii) A signed verification form. (c) Declaration. (1) For each family member, the family must submit to the project owner a written declaration, signed under penalty of perjury, by which the family member declares whether he or she is a U.S. citizen or a noncitizen with eligible immigration status. (i) For each adult, the declaration must be signed by the adult. (ii) For each child, the declaration must be signed by an adult residing in the assisted dwelling unit who is responsible for the child. (2) The written declaration may be incorporated as part of the application for housing assistance or may constitute a separate document. (d) Verification consent form _(1) Who signs. Each noncitizen who declares eligible immigration status must sign a verification consent form as follows. (i) For each adult, the form must be signed by the adult. (ii) For each child, the form must be signed by an adult residing in the assisted dwelling unit who is responsible for the child. (2) Notice of release of evidence by project owner. The verification consent form shall provide that evidence of eligible immigration status may be released by the project owner without responsibility for the further use or transmission of the evidence by the entity receiving it, to: (i) HUD, as required by HUD; (ii) The INS; and, if applicable; (iii) Another Federal agency, or a State or local government agency in accordance with Federal, State or local law that requires the release of the evidence to that agency. (3) Notice of release of evidence by HUD. The verification consent form also shall notify the individual of the possible release of evidence of eligible immigration status by HUD. Evidence of eligible immigration status shall only be released to the INS for purposes of establishing eligibility for financial assistance and not for any other purpose. HUD is not responsible for the further use or transmission of the evidence or other information by the INS. (e) Individuals who do not contend that they have eligible status. If one or more members of a family elect not to contend that they have eligible immigration status, and other members of the family establish their citizenship or eligible immigration status, the family may be eligible for prorated assistance under ยง200.188, despite the fact that no declaration or documentation of eligible status is submitted for one or more members of the family. The family must, however, identify to the project owner, the family member (or members) who will elect not to contend that he or she has eligible immigration status. (f) Notification of requirements of section 214 _(1) When notice is to be issued. Notification of the requirement to submit evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status, as required by this section, or to elect not to contend that one has eligible status, as provided by paragraph (e) of this section, shall be given by the project owner as follows: (i) Applicant's notice. Notification of the requirement to submit evidence of eligible status shall be given to each applicant at the time of application for assistance. Applicants whose applications are pending on [insert the effective date of the final rule] shall be notified of the requirement to submit evidence of eligible status as soon as possible after [insert the effective date of the final rule]. (ii) Tenant's notice. Notification of the requirement to submit evidence of eligible status shall be given to each tenant at the time of, and together with, the project owner's notice of regular reexamination of tenant income, but not later than one year following [insert the effective date of the final rule]. (iii) Timing of mortgagor's notice. A mortgagor receiving section 235 assistance must be notified of the requirement to submit evidence of eligible status in accordance with ยง235.13(b)(2). (2) Form and content of notice. The notice shall: (i) State that financial assistance is contingent upon the submission and verification, as appropriate, of evidence of citizenship or eligible immigration status as required by paragraph (a) of this section; (ii) Describe the type of evidence that must be submitted, and state the time period in which that evidence must be submitted (see paragraph (g) of this section concerning when evidence must be submitted); and
