FR940207-2-00004 FR940207-2-00001 Chalender District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. North Kaibab District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Tusayan District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Williams District: Arizona Daily Sun, published daily Monday-Sunday, in Flagstaff, Coconino County, Arizona. Prescott National Forest Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Prescott Courier, published daily in Prescott, Yavapai County, Arizona. Notice by District Ranger of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Bradshaw District: Prescott Courier, published daily in Prescott, Yavapai County, Arizona. Chino Valley District: Prescott Courier, published daily in Prescott, Yavapai County, Arizona. Verde District: Prescott Courier, published daily in Prescott, Yavapai County, Arizona. Tonto National Forest Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Mesa Tribune, published daily in Mesa, Maricopa County, Arizona. Newspapers providing additional notice by Tonto Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Foothills Sentinel, published weekly on Wednesday in Cave Creek, Maricopa County, Arizona. Arizona Silver Belt, published weekly on Thursday in Globe, Gila County, Arizona. Payson Roundup, published weekly on Friday in Payson, Gila County, Arizona. Notice by District Ranger of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Cave Creek District: Foothills Sentinel, published weekly on Wednesday in Cave Creek, Maricopa County, Arizona. Globe District: Arizona Silver Belt, published weekly on Thursday in Globe, Gila County, Arizona. Mesa District: Mesa Tribune, published daily in Mesa, Maricopa County, Arizona. Payson District: Payson Roundup, published weekly on Friday in Payson, Gila County, Arizona. Pleasant Valley District: Payson Roundup, published weekly on Friday in Payson, Gila County, Arizona. Tonto Basin District: Payson Roundup, published weekly on Friday in Payson, Gila County, Arizona. New Mexico National Forests Carson National Forest Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Taos News, published weekly on Thursday in Taos, Taos County, New Mexico. Notice by District Ranger of Availability for Comment and Decisions: Canjilon District: Rio Grande Sun, published Wednesday in Espanola, Rio Arriba County, New Mexico. El Rito District: Rio Grande Sun, published Wednesday in Espanola, Rio Arriba County, New Mexico. Jicarilla District: Farmington Daily Times, published daily in Farmington, San Juan County, New Mexico. Camino Real District: Taos News, published weekly on Thursday in Taos, Taos County, New Mexico. Tres Piedras District: Taos News, published weekly on Thursday in Taos, Taos County, New Mexico. Questa District: Taos News, published weekly on Thursday in Taos, Taos County, New Mexico. Cibola National Forest Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions affecting lands in New Mexico, except the Kiowa National Grasslands: Albuquerque Journal, published daily in Albuquerque, Bernalillo County, New Mexico. Notice by Forest Supervisor of Availability for Comment and Decisions affecting National Grasslands in New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.
