FR941110-0-00036 FR941110-0-00016 •When the State identifies violations of Federal requirements after notifying the provider of the deficiencies and impending remedy; and •Except for civil money penalties, during the pendency of any hearing that the provider may request. At §488.180(e)(2), we proposed that appeal procedures under 42 CFR part 498 (Appeals Procedures for Determinations that Affect Participation in the Medicare Program) apply when the provider requests a hearing on HCFA's denial of participation, termination of provider agreement, or the Secretary's certification of noncompliance leading to an enforcement remedy, except State monitoring, against all State-operated facilities, as a result of a HCFA validation survey or HCFA's review of the State's survey findings and for non-State operated SNFs and dually participating facilities. The State must impose the same remedy, which is also subject to these appeal procedures. At §488.180(e)(3) of our proposed rule, we proposed that the appeal procedures under 42 CFR part 431 (State Organization and General Administration) apply in cases when the provider requests a hearing on the State's denial of participation, termination of provider agreement, or certification of noncompliance leading to an alternative remedy against a non-State operated Medicaid NF. D. Prospective Providers At §488.180(f), we proposed that prospective providers applying to participate in the Medicare or Medicaid (or both) programs meet all participation requirements as a precondition of their participation. As we explained in the preamble of the proposed rule, we based this on various provisions of the Act and the legislative history and on the overall structure of the Act which differs significantly from the one previously in effect. E. Substandard Care In §488.151 (Definitions), we proposed defining substandard care as care furnished in a facility that has one or more deficiencies in any area with a severity level of 3 or 4, regardless of scope; or a level 2 in severity with a level 3 or 4 in scope in quality of care requirements, as defined in §483.25 (Quality of care). We described the levels for severity and scope in detail under the section of the preamble entitled, ``Enforcement Options.'' That discussion is summarized in section J.11 of this background statement. F. Surveys Sections 1819(g) (2) and (3) and 1919(g) (2) and (3) of the Act, as added by sections 4202 and 4212 of OBRA '87, specify the requirements for types and periodicity of surveys that are to be conducted for each facility; including standard, special, partial extended, extended, and validation surveys. These provisions include specific contents and procedures, frequency, consistency, and team composition, and are intended to protect residents' rights, health and safety and not unduly burden the facilities or the survey agencies. We proposed to set forth implementing regulations as follows: Standard Surveys At §488.155, we proposed that, for each SNF and NF, the State survey agency must conduct standard surveys and stated what they must include. At §488.158, we proposed to require each SNF and NF to be subject to a standard survey not later than 15 months after the last day of the previous standard survey and that the statewide average intervals between standard surveys must not exceed 12 months. We also specified when and how the average intervals would be computed. Special Surveys Sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(iii) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(iii) of the Act, as added by OBRA '87, specify that a standard survey or an abbreviated standard survey may be conducted within 2 months of any change of ownership, administration, management of a facility, or director of nursing to determine whether the change has resulted in any decline in the quality of care furnished by the facility. A survey conducted for the purpose of investigating a complaint against a facility is also considered a special survey. An abbreviated standard survey is a partial survey that focuses on a specific participation requirement or requirements. At paragraph (e) of §488.158, we proposed that the decision of whether to conduct a standard or an abbreviated standard survey under these circumstances be at a State survey agency's or the Secretary's discretion, based on the individuals and facilities involved and the State's concern that the quality of care may have declined.
