FR940426-2-00080 FR940426-2-00055 Advisory Committee on Medical Uses of Isotopes: Meeting Notice agency: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. action: Notice of meeting. summary: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission will convene its next regular meeting of the Advisory Committee on Medical Uses of Isotopes (ACMUI) on May 19 and 20, 1994. Topics of discussion will include: A discussion of the possible need for the inclusion of Quality Assurance requirements in 10 CFR 35.400, use of sources for brachytherapy; a presentation by the National Academy of Science; a discussion of the NRC NUREG: ``Management of Radioactive Material Programs at Medical Facilities;'' a discussion of inadvertent administration to the wrong patient; and the discussion of American Osteopathic Board of Radiology Certification as acceptable training for radiopharmaceutical therapy. The committee will draft ACMUI Bylaws and will prepare for the Commission Briefing scheduled for June 22, 1994. In addition, the NRC staff will provide status reports on proposed rulemaking, including: ``Proposed Amendments to 10 CFR 35.75, Release of patients containing radiopharmaceuticals or permanent implants''; ``Proposed Amendments on Preparation, Transfer, and Use of Byproduct Material for Medical Use''; and ``Administration of Byproduct Material or Radiation from Byproduct Material to Patients Who May Be Pregnant or Nursing.'' The NRC staff will also provide a status report on issues regarding the Abnormal Occurrence (AO) report to Congress. dates: The meeting will begin at 8 a.m., on May 19 and 20, 1994. addresses: The Holiday Inn, Bethesda, 8120 Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland 20814. for further information contact: Larry W. Camper, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, MS 6&hyph;H&hyph;3, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Telephone 301&hyph;504&hyph;3417. supplementary information: The following information is provided concerning the topics to be discussed at the meeting: Efficacy of Quality Assurance Requirements for Brachytherapy: The NRC staff will provide a discussion of the possible need for QA requirements to be included in 10 CFR 35.400, use of sources for brachytherapy, similar to those included in 10 CFR 35.600 for teletherapy. National Academy of Science Presentation: The National Academy of Science will brief the ACMUI on the progress of the contract to perform an independent review of the NRC's medical use regulatory program. NUREG: ``Management of Radioactive Material Programs at Medical Facilities.'': The NRC staff will discuss the progress on the Draft NUREG since the last ACMUI meeting. Included will be the comments received during the recent peer review, and plans for publication. Inadvertent administration to the wrong patient: The staff will seek comments regarding reporting of the inadvertent administration of byproduct material to the wrong patient or individual when the dose does not meet the criteria for a misadministration. American Osteopathic Board of Radiology Certification (AOBR): The staff will provide the AOBR certification requirements for ACMUI review to determine ACMUI's recommendation as to whether AOBR certified individuals meet the criteria specified in 10 CFR 35.930. Status reports on proposed rulemaking: Proposed Amendments to 10 CFR 35.75, Release of patients containing radiopharmaceuticals or permanent implants: The staff will provide a status report regarding proposed rulemaking in response to three petitions for rulemaking, one from Carol Marcus, M.D. (February 6, 1991); and two from the American College of Nuclear Medicine (January 14, 1992, and April 21, 1992), regarding criteria for the release of patients administered byproduct material. Proposed Amendments on Preparation, Transfer, and Use of Byproduct Material for Medical Use: In June 1989, the American College of Nuclear Physicians and Society of Nuclear Medicine (ACNP/SNM) filed a petition with NRC addressing five issues relating to the preparation and use of radiopharmaceuticals. A proposed rule was published for public comment (58 FR 33396; June 17, 1993). The staff has considered comments on the proposed rule and expects to submit the final rule to the Commission for approval by June 1994. Administration of Byproduct Material or Radiation from Byproduct Material to Patients Who May Be Pregnant or Nursing; Pregnancy and Breast-feeding: The staff will provide a status report on issues and recommendations concerning unintended radiation doses or dosages to an embryo, fetus, or nursing infant, resulting from administration of radiopharmaceuticals or radiation to pregnant or breast-feeding patients. Abnormal Occurrence Criteria: The staff will provide a status report regarding the proposed revision of criteria for reporting medical misadministrations as abnormal occurrences. Conduct of the Meeting Barry Siegel, M.D., will chair the meeting. Dr. Siegel will conduct the meeting in a manner that will facilitate the orderly conduct of business. The following procedures apply to public participation in the meeting:
