FR940127-1-00025 FR940127-1-00010 40 CFR Part 52 [OH&hyph;16&hyph;1&hyph;5320; FRL&hyph;4830&hyph;4] Approval and Promulgation of Air Quality Implementation Plans for Air Quality Planning Purposes; Ohio AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) proposes to conditionally approve revisions to the emission limitations, compliance methodologies, and compliance time schedules in Ohio's State Implementation Plan for sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ) as it applies to sources in Hamilton County. These revisions are being proposed in response to modeling analyses which have predicted violations of the SO 2 National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) due to emissions from sources in Hamilton County. DATES: Comments on this requested revision and on the proposed EPA action must be received by February 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to: William MacDowell, Chief, Regulatory Development Section, Air EnforcementBranch (AE&hyph;17J), United States Environmental Protection Agency, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Randy Robinson, Air Enforcement Branch (AE&hyph;17J), United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 353&hyph;6713. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: EPA's analysis is discussed in the following manner: I. Background; II. Attainment Demonstration; III. Compliance; and IV. Proposed Action. I. Background The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved portions of the Ohio SO 2 State Implementation Plan (SIP) for Hamilton County on January 27, 1981 (46 FR 8481), and April 20, 1982 (47 FR 16784), and the remaining portion on May 13, 1982 (47 FR 20586). The portion of Hamilton County which was originally designated a nonattainment area for SO 2 was redesignated to attainment on March 19, 1982 (47 FR 11870). Hamilton County was divided into two separate attainment areas on May 13, 1982 (47 FR 20586). However, since the time of those rulemakings, three modeling analyses have been submitted to EPA which predicted violations of the SO 2 National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) due to SO 2 emissions from existing sources that are located in Hamilton County, Ohio. Based on the predicted violations, EPA notified the Governor of Ohio on December 22, 1988, under section 110(a)(2)(H) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2)(H), that the SIP for SO 2 is substantially inadequate to attain and maintain the SO 2 NAAQS in Hamilton County. The notification provided the State with 60 days to submit a commitment and schedule for the development of an approvable SIP and up to 18 months from the date of notification to submit a fully State adopted SO 2 plan for Hamilton County, which assures the attainment and maintenance of the SO 2 NAAQS both in Hamilton County and the surrounding area. On June 28, 1991, Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator, EPA, sent a letter to Donald R. Schregardus, Director, OEPA formalizing an agreement between EPA and OEPA regarding action toward SO 2 attainment status for Hamilton County, Ohio. On September 9, 1991, OEPA sent EPA a proposed revision to the Hamilton County SO 2 SIP. The signed State adopted rules were received by EPA on October 18, 1991. The rules package submitted for approval consisted of revisions to Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) 3745&hyph;18&hyph;03 Attainment Dates and Compliance Time Schedules , (OAC) 3745&hyph;18&hyph;04 Measurement Methods and Procedures , and OAC 3745&hyph;18&hyph;37 Hamilton County Emission Limits , as well as a modeling analysis intended to demonstrate that the limits in these regulations are sufficient to assure attainment of the NAAQS for SO 2 in Hamilton County. A completeness review was performed and, on November 8, 1991, EPA determined that the package was complete. On May 7, 1992, William L. MacDowell, Chief, Regulation Development Section-Region 5, EPA, sent a letter to Robert Hodanbosi, of the OEPA, detailing issues EPA had identified in the State's September 9, 1991 submittal. On March 19, 1993, the State responded with a subsequent submittal which addressed the above mentioned issues, and included a Director's Finding and Order governing the operation of selected boilers at Cincinnati Gas and Electric's Miami Fort facility. Additional technical information supporting the March 19th submittal was received from OEPA by EPA on May 18, 1993. A major issue in the development of the revised submittal involved the incorporation of the Rough Terrain Diffusion Model (RTDM). The RTDM is one of many computer models available used to simulate the dispersion of air pollutants. A ``Model Evaluation and Comparison Study'' was conducted by the Greater Cincinnati Chamber of Commerce, in cooperation with the OEPA and EPA Region 5, in order to determine which model, or combination of models, (Industrial Source Complex (ISC) Short-term model or the RTDM) was most accurate in predicting SO 2 concentrations in Hamilton County. This study was conducted in accordance with a protocol that EPA agreed to on October 31, 1990, and in accordance with EPA document entitled ``Interim Procedures for Evaluating Air Quality Models (Revised),'' 1984. Based on the results of the study, EPA approved the RTDM model for use in modeling sulfur dioxide sources in Hamilton County in a June 9, 1992, letter from David Kee, Director, Air and Radiation Division, to Robert Hodanbosi, Chief, Division of Air Pollution Control. The model/monitor comparison study is discussed more completely in the Technical Support Document associated with this document. II. Attainment Demonstration The principal requirement for the Ohio SO 2 SIP under section 110, as identified in the SIP deficiency notice, is that the plan provides sufficient enforceable measures to assure attainment of the NAAQS for SO 2 . As noted above, the State provided enforceable limits in the form of State regulations, supplemented by an administrative order for one source, along with an air dispersion modeling analysis which demonstrates that these limits assure attainment in the Hamilton County area. The modeling techniques used in the demonstration supporting this revision were based on procedures in the ``Guideline on Air Quality Models (Revised),'' July 1986, including ``Supplement A,'' July 1987. The modeling methodology is discussed more fully in the Technical Support Document. The attainment demonstration incorporated three different air dispersion models: Industrial Source Complex Short-Term (ISCST), COMPLEX I (Valley Screen Mode for analyzing intermediate terrain), and the Rough Terrain Diffusion Model (RTDM). Some basic components of the modeling methodology are: Meteorological Data&hyph;The ISCST modeling used the most recent five years of meteorological data while RTDM used one year of meteorological data collected in Hamilton County. Rural/Urban Classification&hyph;Western Hamilton County sources were modeled in the Rural mode while sources in the east were modeled using Urban mode 3. Emission Inventory&hyph;The emission sources used in the modeling represent maximum short-term operating rates and stack parameters. Actual operating factors were gathered and used to evaluate annual SO 2 predicted concentrations. Background Concentrations&hyph;The 3-hour, 24-hour, and annual averaging background concentrations were determined for both the eastern and western grids. The background values were based on monitoring data and are considered representative of SO 2 concentrations being contributed from unmodeled sources in the Hamilton County area. Good Engineering Practice (GEP) stack heights or actual stack heights, where appropriate, were used in Ohio's modeling in accordance with EPA guidance. However, a January 22, 1988, remand in a U.S. D.C. Court of Appeals case involving EPA stack height regulations remains unresolved 1 . It is possible that future resolution of this case will result in the State being required to revise the emission limitations for the CG&E Miami Fort facility. 1 Certain provisions of the July 8, 1985, stack height regulations were remanded to USEPA in NRDC v. Thomas (D.C. Cir. No. 85&hyph;1488 et. al. (January 22, 1988)). These are grandfathering stack height credits for sources who raise their stacks prior to October 2, 1983, up to the height permitted by GEP formula height (40 CFR 51.100(KK)(2)), dispersion credit for sources originally designed and constructed with merged or multi-flue stacks (40 CFR 51.100(hh)(2)(ii)(A)), and grandfathering credit for refined (H+1.5L) formula height for sources unable to show reliance on the original (2.5H) formula (40 CFR 51.100(ii)(2)). In the modeling for the attainment demonstration for Hamilton County, the State did not use the most recent version of the Industrial Source Complex model, known as ISC2. The ISC2 version of the Industrial Source Complex model was released after the State submitted its SIP to EPA, and well after the completion of the ISCST modeling used to determine appropriate SIP limits. Consequently, EPA proposes to accept analysis under the older model for the purpose of this SIP review. However, acceptance of the ISCST analysis for this reason should not apply to any other analysis of this area to support any future regulatory action. Although the majority of the attainment demonstration was comprised of output from ISCST, several areas of Hamilton County were modeled using RTDM. The RTDM modeling was performed in accordance with the EPA approved ``Model Evaluation and Comparison Study'' described earlier. The modeling demonstration accompanying the SIP revision submittal incorporated dispersion modeling output from the ISCST model in combination with RTDM. The issues identified in the May 7, 1992, letter from William L. MacDowell, Chief, Regulation Development Section-Region 5, EPA to Robert Hodanbosi, of the OEPA, regarding the September 9, 1991 submittal, needed to be resolved before EPA could approve the SIP revisions. One of those issues involved modeled SO 2 violations near the Joseph E. Seagram and Sons, Inc. (Seagram's) facility in Dearborn County, Indiana. These modeled violations were primarily due to emissions from the Seagrams facility in Indiana. However, CG&E, located in Hamilton County, Ohio, contributed to the critical concentration in that area. In response to the modeled violation, a commitment has been obtained from Seagram's, formalized in a letter from Seagrams to both the OEPA and the Indiana Department of Environmental Management, dated September 1, 1992, agreeing to not operate its two boilers simultaneously on sulfur-bearing fuels without written permission from both State Agencies. Utilizing this commitment, the OEPA submitted supplementary modeling which demonstrated that areas near Seagrams, in Indiana, did not exceed the sulfur dioxide NAAQS. However, in order for the Seagrams limit to be federally enforceable, it must be incorporated into the Indiana sulfur dioxide SIP. Therefore, the Hamilton County SO 2 SIP revision will be approved if the Seagrams commitment, described above, is adopted into the Indiana SO 2 SIP within one year from the date of publication of the Hamilton County SO 2 SIP revision final rulemaking. This issue and other issues addressed by Ohio's submittals of March 19, 1993, and May 18, 1993, are discussed in detail in the Technical Support Document. Based on the foregoing, EPA concludes that the results from Ohio's modeling demonstration, utilizing the ISCST and RTDM air dispersion models, show that when the applicable emission limits and other restrictions are imposed, attainment of the NAAQS for SO 2 will be demonstrated in and around Hamilton County. III. Compliance The general compliance determination method denoted in OAC 3745&hyph;18&hyph;04(D)(7), which applies specifically to Hamilton County, utilizes stack gas sampling using Methods 1 through 4 and 6, 6A, 6B, or 6C, as specified in 40 CFR 60.46, for any fuel burning equipment. Additional compliance monitoring is required under OAC 3745&hyph;18&hyph;04(D)(8), which, on a source-specific basis, requires either daily or weekly coal sampling. EPA has determined, based on guidance contained in the ``General preamble for future proposed rulemakings,'' published in the Federal Register on April 16, 1992 (57 FR 13498), that compliance methods 1 through 4, 6, 6A, 6B, and 6C, in conjunction with regular fuel sampling, provide for continuous SO 2 compliance monitoring. Additionally, documentation criteria listed in OAC 3745&hyph;18&hyph;04(I) requires sources subject to the Hamilton County emission limits to document and retain information needed to demonstrate compliance with applicable emission limits, emission tracking requirements, and/or operating limits. IV. Proposed Action Section 110(a)(2) of the Clean Air Act contains general requirements for implementation plans submitted by a State. These are requirements which apply to all SIPs submitted by a State including attainment area plans, such as the plan for Hamilton County. A fundamental requirement of this section is that each plan must include enforceable emission limitations and other techniques necessary to meet the applicable requirements of the Clean Air Act. EPA has determined that the emission limits and control measures listed in the SO 2 SIP revision for Hamilton County, when fully implemented, will be enforceable, and, will provide for attainment of the NAAQS for SO 2 , and thus satisfy the applicable requirements. As stated above, this determination is contingent upon the Seagrams limits being incorporated into the Indiana SO 2 SIP and, as a result, made federally enforceable. Therefore, EPA is proposing to conditionally approve revisions to Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) rules 3745&hyph;18&hyph;03, 3745&hyph;18&hyph;04, and 3745&hyph;18&hyph;37. The OAC rules 3745&hyph;18&hyph;03 Attainment Dates and Compliance Time Schedules provide specific time schedules for sources receiving revised emission limits to implement necessary changes and demonstrate compliance. The OAC rules 3745&hyph;18&hyph;04 Measurement Methods and Procedures specify the compliance determination methodologies for sources receiving revised emission limits. The OAC rules 3745&hyph;18&hyph;37 Hamilton County Emission Limits amend the sulfur dioxide emission limits for Hamilton County. EPA is also proposing to approve the Director's Findings and Order containing a fuel quality limit for select sources at Cincinnati Gas and Electric's Miami Fort facility. Under section 110(k)(4), pertaining to conditional approval, the SIP elements regarding the Seagrams limits must be adopted by the State of Indiana, by a date not later than one year after the date of approval of the Hamilton County, Ohio SIP revision. In addition, the adopting State must submit these rules to EPA within a reasonable time after such adoption. In this case, if the State of Indiana fails to adopt or submit the necessary rules to EPA within the required time frame (one year from the date of final approval of the Hamilton County, Ohio SO 2 SIP revision), this approval would become a disapproval upon USEPA notification of Ohio by letter. The EPA subsequently would publish a notice announcing this action in the Federal Register . If the State of Indiana adopts and submits the rule within the above timeframe, the conditionally approved rules would remain a part of the SIP pending final action on the new submittal. Public comments are solicited on the requested SIP revision and on EPA's proposal to conditionally approve. Public comments received by February 28, 1994 will be considered in the development of EPA's final rulemaking action. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. EPA shall consider each request for revision to the SIP in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225). On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) waived Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions (54 FR 2222) from the requirements of section 3 of Executive Order 12866 for a period of 2 years. EPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions. OMB has agreed to continue the waiver until such time as it rules on EPA's request. This request continues in effect under Executive Order 12866 which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. (5 U.S.C. 603 and 604.) Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. Conditional SIP approvals under section 110 and subchapter I, part D of the Clean Air Act do not create any new requirements, but simply approve requirements that the State is already imposing. If the conditional approval is converted to a disapproval under section 110(k), based on a State's failure to meet the commitment, it will not affect any existing state requirements applicable to small entities. Federal disapproval of the state submittal does not affect its state-enforceability. Moreover, EPA's disapproval of the submittal does not impose a new Federal requirement. Therefore, EPA certifies that this disapproval action does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities because itdoes not remove existing state requirements nor does it substitute a new Federal requirement. Therefore, because the Federal SIP approval does not impose any new requirements, I certify that it does not have a significant impact on any small entities affected. Moreover, due to the nature of the Federal-State relationship under the Act, preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of state action. The Act forbids EPA to base its actions concerning SIPS on such grounds. Union Electric Co. v. EPA , 427 U.S. 246, (1976); 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Incorporation by reference, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Sulfur oxides. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: December 29, 1993. Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1737 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
