FR940721-0-00011 FR940721-0-00004 (6) Computer matching purposes. Records from a Postal Service system of records may be disclosed to another agency for the purpose of conducting a computer matching program or other matching activity as defined in paragraphs (c) and (d) of §262.5, but only after a determination by the Data Integrity Board that the procedural requirements of the Privacy Act, the guidelines issued by the Office of Management and Budget, and these regulations as may be applicable are met. These requirements include: (i) Routine use. Disclosure is made only when permitted as a routine use of the system of records. The USPS Records Officer determines the applicability of a particular routine use and the necessity for adoption of a new routine use. (ii) Notice. Publication of new or revised matching programs in the Federal Register and advance notice to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget must be made pursuant to paragraph (f) of §266.5. (iii) Computer matching agreement. The participants in a computer matching program must enter into a written agreement specifying the terms under which the matching program is to be conducted (see §266.10). The Records Officer may require that other matching activities be conducted in accordance with a written agreement. (iv) Data Integrity Board approval. No record from a Postal Service system of records may be disclosed for use in a computer matching program unless the matching agreement has received approval by the Postal Service Data Integrity Board (see §266.10). Other matching activities may, at the discretion of the Records Officer, be submitted for Board approval. * * * * * 7. Paragraph (f) is added to §266.5 as follows: §266.5 Notification. * * * * * (f) Notification of computer matching program. The Postal Service publishes in the Federal Register and forwards to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget advance notice of its intent to establish, substantially revise, or renew a matching program, unless such notice is published by another participant agency. In those instances in which the Postal Service is the ``recipient'' agency, as defined in the Act, but another participant agency sponsors and derives the principal benefit from the matching program, the other agency is expected to publish the notice. The notice must be sent to Congress and OMB 40 days, and published at least thirty (30) days, prior to (1) initiation of any matching activity under a new or substantially revised program, or (2) expiration of the existing matching agreement in the case of a renewal of a continuing program. 8. Paragraph (e) is added to §266.8 as follows: §266.8 Schedule of fees. * * * * * (e) The Postal Service may, at its discretion, require reimbursement of its costs as a condition of participation in a computer matching program or activity with another agency. The agency to be charged is notified in writing of the approximate costs before they are incurred. Costs are calculated in accordance with the schedule of fees at §265.9. 9. Section 266.10 is added as follows: §266.10 Computer matching.
