FR941121-0-00129 FR941121-0-00013 Comment : The Maine Scallopers Association was concerned about the cost of VTS and thought that it should not be required while vessels are fishing in state waters. Response : Vessels will not be required to purchase VTS because of the gear exemption program. Only vessels that will be required to use VTS in the Federal limited access scallop fishery must use it while participating in the state waters fishery. Classification This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA), finds there is good cause to waive prior notice and opportunity for comment under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B). The provision of advance notice as described in this rule and public meetings held by the Council to discuss the management measures implemented by this rule provided adequate prior notice and opportunity for public comment to be considered. Thus, additional opportunity for public comment is unnecessary. Because no proposed rule was required, this action is exempt from the procedures of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. The AA also finds that under section 553(d)(1) of the Administrative Procedure Act, because immediate implementation of this rule relieves a restriction that would require vessels fishing in state waters to fish under the Federal gear requirements, there is no need to delay for 30 days the effectiveness of this regulation. This rule contains collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. These requirements have been approved by OMB under Control Number 0648&hyph;0202. The reporting burden is estimated at 2 minutes per response. This time includes reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection-of-information requirement, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to NMFS and OMB (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 650 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: November 16, 1994. Gary Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service.
