FR940406-0-00050 FR940406-0-00002 ยง268.709 Compliance procedures. (a) Applicability. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, this section, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, rather than subpart B and ยง268.305 of this part, shall apply to all allegations of discrimination on the basis of a disability in programs or activities conducted by the Board. (b) Employment complaints. The Board shall process complaints alleging discrimination in employment on the basis of a disability in accordance with subpart B and ยง268.305 of this part. (c) Responsible official. The EEO Programs Director shall be responsible for coordinating implementation of this section. (d) Filing the complaint_ (1) Who may file. Any person who believes that he or she has been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this subpart G may, personally or by his or her authorized representative, file a complaint of discrimination with the EEO Programs Director. (2) Confidentiality. The EEO Programs Director shall not reveal the identity of any person submitting a complaint, except when authorized to do so in writing by the complainant, and except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this subpart G, including the conduct of any investigation, hearing, or proceeding under this subpart G. (3) When to file. Complaints shall be filed within 180 days of the alleged act of discrimination. The EEO Programs Director may extend this time limit for good cause shown. For the purpose of determining when a complaint is timely filed under this paragraph (d), a complaint mailed to the Board shall be deemed filed on the date it is postmarked. Any other complaint shall be deemed filed on the date it is received by the Board. (4) How to file. Complaints may be delivered or mailed to the Administrative Governor, the Staff Director for Management, the EEO Programs Director, the Federal Women's Program Manager, the Hispanic Program Coordinator, or the Disabled Persons Program Coordinator. Complaints should be sent to the EEO Programs Director, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th and C Street NW., Washington, DC 20551. If any Board official other than the EEO Programs Director receives a complaint, he or she shall forward the complaint to the EEO Programs Director. (e) Acceptance of complaint . (1) The EEO Programs Director shall accept a complete complaint that is filed in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and over which the Board has jurisdiction. The EEO Programs Director shall notify the complainant of receipt and acceptance of the complaint. (2) If the EEO Programs Director receives a complaint that is not complete, he or she shall notify the complainant, within 30 days of receipt of the incomplete complaint, that additional information is needed. If the complainant fails to complete the complaint within 30 days of receipt of this notice, the EEO Programs Director shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice. (3) If the EEO Programs Director receives a complaint over which the Board does not have jurisdiction, the EEO Programs Director shall notify the complainant and shall make reasonable efforts to refer the complaint to the appropriate government entity. (f) lnvestigation/conciliation. (1) Within 180 days of the receipt of a complete complaint, the EEO Programs Director shall complete the investigation of the complaint, attempt informal resolution of the complaint, and if no informal resolution is achieved, the EEO Programs Director shall forward the investigative report to the Staff Director for Management. (2) The EEO Programs Director may request Board employees to cooperate in the investigation and attempted resolution of complaints. Employees who are requested by the EEO Programs Director to participate in any investigation under this section shall do so as part of their official duties and during the course of regular duty hours. (3) The EEO Programs Director shall furnish the complainant with a copy of the investigative report promptly after completion of the investigation and provide the complainant with an opportunity for informal resolution of the complaint.
