FR940825-0-00104 FR940825-0-00016 §74.36 Intangible property. (a) The recipient may copyright any work that is subject to copyright and was developed, or for which ownership was purchased, under an award. The HHS awarding agency reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for Federal purposes, and to authorize others to do so. (b) Recipients are subject to applicable regulations governing patents and inventions, including government-wide regulations issued by the Department of Commerce at 37 CFR part 401, ``Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements.'' (c) The Federal Government has the right to: (1) Obtain, reproduce, publish or otherwise use the data first produced under an award; and (2) Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such data for Federal purposes. (d) Title to intangible property and debt instruments purchased or otherwise acquired under an award or subaward vests upon acquisition in the recipient. The recipient shall use that property for the originally_authorized purpose, and the recipient shall not encumber the property without approval of the HHS awarding agency. When no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, disposition of the intangible property shall occur in accordance with the provisions of §74.34 (g) and (h). §74.37 Property trust relationship. Real property, equipment, intangible property and debt instruments that are acquired or improved with Federal funds shall be held in trust by the recipients as trustee for the beneficiaries of the project or program under which the property was acquired or improved, and shall not be encumbered without the approval of the HHS awarding agency. Recipients shall record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that real property has been acquired or constructed or, where applicable, improved with Federal funds, and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property. Procurement Standards §74.40 Purpose of procurement standards. Sections 74.41 through 74.48 set forth standards for use by recipients in establishing procedures for the procurement of supplies and other expendable property, equipment, real property and other services with Federal funds. These standards are established to ensure that such materials and services are obtained in an effective manner and in compliance with the provisions of applicable Federal statutes and executive orders. The standards apply where the cost of the procurement is treated as a direct cost of an award. §74.41 Recipient responsibilities. The standards contained in this section do not relieve the recipients of the contractual responsibilities arising under its contract(s). The recipient is the responsible authority, without recourse to the HHS awarding agency, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in support of an award or other agreement. This includes disputes, claims, protests of award, source evaluation or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of statute are to be referred to such Federal, State or local authority as may have proper jurisdiction. §74.42 Codes of conduct. The recipient shall maintain written standards of conduct governing the performance of its employees engaged in the award and administration of contracts. No employee, officer, or agent shall participate in the selection, award, or administration of a contract supported by Federal funds if a real or apparent conflict of interest would be involved. Such a conflict would arise when the employee, officer, or agent, or any member of his or her immediate family, his or her partner, or an organization which employs or is about to employ any of the parties indicated herein, has a financial or other interest in the firm selected for an award. The officers, employees, and agents of the recipient shall neither solicit nor accept gratuities, favors, or anything of monetary value from contractors, or parties to subagreements. However, recipients may set standards for situations in which the financial interest is not substantial or the gift is an unsolicited item of nominal value. The standards of conduct shall provide for disciplinary actions to be applied for violations of such standards by officers, employers, or agents of the recipients.
