FR941222-2-00023 FR941222-2-00020 Recognition of Accrediting Agencies, State Agencies for Approval of Public Postsecondary Vocational Education, and State Agencies for Approval of Nurse Education AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Request for Comments on Agencies applying to the Secretary for Initial Recognition or Renewal of Recognition. DATES: Commentors should submit their written comments by February 6, 1995 to the address below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Carl S. Person, Chief, Accrediting Agency Evaluation Branch, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, SW., Room 3036 ROB&hyph;3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5171, telephone: (202) 708&hyph;7417. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 7 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUBMISSION OF THIRD-PARTY COMMENTS: The Secretary of Education recognizes, as reliable authorities as to the quality of education offered by institutions or programs within their scope, accrediting agencies and State approval agencies for public postsecondary vocational education and nurse education that meet certain criteria for recognition. The purpose of this notice is to invite interested third parties to present written comments on the agencies listed in this notice that have applied for initial or continued recognition. The National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity (the ``Advisory Committee'') advises the Secretary of Education on the recognition of accrediting agencies and State approval agencies. The Advisory Committee is scheduled to meet May 24&hyph;26, 1995 in Washington, DC. All written comments received regarding the agencies listed in this Notice will be considered by both the Advisory Committee and the Secretary. The following agencies will be reviewed during the May 1995 meeting of the Advisory Committee: Nationally Recognized Accrediting Agencies and Associations Petitions for Initial Recognition 1. American Academy for Liberal Education (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of institutions and programs in the liberal arts) 2. Montessori Accreditation Council for Teacher Education (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of institutions and programs for Montessori teacher education) Petitions for Renewal of Recognition 1. American Academy of Microbiology, Committee on Postdoctoral Educational Programs (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of postdoctoral programs in medical and public health laboratory microbiology) 2. American Association for Marriage and Family Therapy, Commission on Accreditation for Marriage and Family Therapy Education (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of graduate degree programs and clinical training programs in marriage and family therapy education) 3. Accrediting Commission on Education for Health Services Administration (requested scope of recognition: the accreditation of graduate programs in health services administration) 4. American Osteopathic Association, Bureau of Professional Education (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of programs leading to the D.O. degree) 5. American Podiatric Medical Association, Council on Podiatric Medical Education (requested scope of recognition: For the accreditation of colleges of podiatric medicine, including first professional and graduate degree programs) 6. Association of Theological Schools in the United States and Canada, Commission on Accrediting (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of freestanding schools, as well as schools affiliated with larger institutions offering graduate professional education for ministry and graduate study of theology) 7. Council on Naturopathic Medical Education, Commission on Accreditation (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of programs leading to the N.D. or N.M.D. degree) 8. Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology (formerly recognized in cooperation with the Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation of the American Medical Association but now requesting recognition on its own) (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of programs for the radiographer and the radiation therapy technologist) 9. National Accreditation Commission for Schools and Colleges of Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of first professional master's degree and professional master's level certificate and diploma programs in acupuncture and oriental medicine) 10. National Accrediting Commission on Cosmetology Arts and Sciences (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of postsecondary schools and departments of cosmetology arts and sciences) 11. National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of baccalaureate and graduate programs for the preparation of teachers and other professional personnel for elementary and secondary schools) 12. National League for Nursing, Inc. (requested scope of recognition: The accreditation of programs in practical nursing, and diploma, associate, baccalaureate and higher degree nurse education programs) 13. New York State Board of Regents (requested scope of recognition: The registration (accreditation) of collegiate degree-granting programs or curricula offered by institutions of higher education and of credit-bearing certificate and diploma programs offered by degree-granting institutions of higher education)
