FR941021-0-00148 FR941021-0-00022 EFFECTIVE DATE: November 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20554. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Fern Jarmulnek, International Bureau, (202) 634&hyph;1682; Kathleen Campbell, International Bureau, (202) 634&hyph;1952. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction 1. By this Report and Order, the Commission takes the next step in the process of licensing the world's first commercial low-Earth orbit (LEO) satellites capable of providing both voice and data mobile satellite services (MSS) on a global basis. The satellites are to operate in the 1610&hyph;1626.5/2483.5&hyph;2500 MHz bands that were recently allocated both internationally and domestically to MSS. 1 This new mobile satellite service_the ``MSS Above 1 GHz'' or ``Big LEO'' satellite service_has the potential to provide not only a variety of new services to users in the United States, but to provide integrated communication services to all parts of the world, including those that are now grossly underserved. In a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking ( Notice ), adopted in January 1994, 2 the Commission proposed rules and policies to govern the service. Thirty-three parties filed comments in response to the Notice and 18 parties filed reply comments. 3 Since the pleading cycle closed, four of the applicants filed a Joint Proposal and Supplemental Comments (Joint Proposal). 4 A fifth applicant sent a letter to the Chairman (FCC) on September 14, 1994 regarding the Joint Proposal. 5 In this Report and Order, we adopt many of the proposals in the Notice, adopt others with modification, and defer action on several issues where a decision is premature. We also adopt many, but not all, of the terms of the Joint Proposal. We believe our decision will promote participation by the greatest number of applicants in an expeditious time frame. 6 It will create a new industry providing enormous economic benefit to the United States, and any other country that chooses to participate in the service. 1 International Telecommunication Union, Final Acts of the World Administrative Radio Conference (WARC&hyph;92), Malaga-Torremolinos (1992); Report and Order, ET Docket No. 92&hyph;28, 9 FCC Rcd 536 (1994) ( Allocation Order ). 2 Amendment of the Commission's Rules to Establish Rules and Policies Pertaining to a Mobile Satellite Service in the 1610&hyph;1626.5/2483.5&hyph;2500 MHz Frequency Bands, 9 FCC 2d 1094 (1994). 3 A list of commenters is attached as Appendix A. 4 See Note 23, infra. 5 See Note 23, infra. 6 See S.R. 103&hyph;309 (July 14, 1994). 2. All six applicants who filed applications by the cut-off date, as detailed below, will be provided with an opportunity to file amended applications that conform with the rules adopted today. Given the importance of proceeding quickly with licensing systems in this revolutionary service, amended applications must be filed by November 16, 1994 in order to receive continued consideration. As is our usual practice in the satellite area, each applicant must request construction, launch and operating authority to retain its status in this processing group. All amendments must be accompanied by the appropriate fee for applications for launch and operating authority for LEO satellite systems, if that fee has not yet been submitted. Applicants will be provided until January 31, 1996, at their option, in which to make a complete financial showing. 7 7 See para. 40, Infra. 3. As described in the Notice, the Big LEO service can offer an almost limitless number of services, including ubiquitous voice and date mobile services position location services, search and rescue communications, disaster management communications, environmental monitoring, paging services, facsimile transmission services, cargo tracking, and industrial monitoring and control. 8 Domestically, this service will help meet the demand for a seamless, nationwide and eventually global communications system that is available to all and that can offer a wide range of voice and data telecommunication services. In addition to enhancing the competitive market for mobile telecommunication services in areas served by terrestrial mobile services, this new mobile satellite service will offer Americans in rural areas that are not otherwise linked to the communications infrastructure immediate access to a feature-rich communications network. Moreover, Big LEO systems can extend these benefits throughout the world, and can provide those countries that have not been able to develop a nationwide communication service an ``instant'' global and national telecommunication infrastructure. 9 This network can be used to provide both basic and emergency communications to their entire populations. Big LEO systems may prove to be critical component in the development of the global information highway. 8 See paras. 196&hyph;202, infra, regarding the use of Big LEO systems of emergency communications. 9 It is estimated that some of these services will cost as little as 22 cents per minute. 4. The Big LEO service also has the potential to stimulate significant economic growth both in the United States and abroad. A potential multi-billion dollar industry will be created, generating opportunities for economic growth in a variety of markets. First, the estimated costs to construct the applicants' space segments range from $97 million to over $2 billion each. The manufacturing costs for the ground segment, which include both user units and gateway stations, are expected to be hundreds of millions of dollars more. Thus, manufacturing these systems may lead to a substantial investment in the United States economy and create a significant number of high paying jobs in the areas of research and development, production, marketing and service administration. As the services become available, additional growth opportunities will be created. One of the applicants, for example, expects that by 2001 the demand for user transceivers will be 1.3 million in the United States and 4.7 million worldwide. 10 If so, this will create a major global industry whose function will be to provide users with mobile units and services. As demand grows and as markets develop, additional employment opportunities will be created. Customer purchases of transceivers and user service charges will generate additional investment in the economies of the host countries. Finally, the enhanced communications services offered by this industry will, of themselves, create a broad secondary economic growth. Immediate access to an advanced global communications infrastructure can increase the efficiency of existing businesses and create new ones. 10 Application of Motorola Satellite Communications, Inc. at 11. 5. The United States has led the world in developing and implementing satellite technology. We expect many of the economic, cultural and other gains we have seen in the fixed-satellite industry to be reflected in the new mobile satellite industry. The Big LEO proposal before us represent an opportunity for the United States to continue its leadership role in promoting global development through enhanced communication infrastructures and services. We intend to license these systems as quickly as possible so that this opportunity is not lost.
