FR941006-1-00151 FR941006-1-00016 An additional cost of this regulation may be an increase in iron deficiency anemia if susceptible adults react inappropriately to a warning label targeted for children. According to NHANES II, approximately 7.2 percent of females age 15 to 19 and 6.3 percent of females age 20 to 44 are iron-deficient but less than one-fourth of these women had anemia associated with the deficiency. In addition, males had a prevalence of less than 1 percent. FDA requests comments on this issue. b. Benefits. Warning statements will only prevent pediatric iron poisonings to the extent that they lead to changes in the behavior of the adult controlling the use of the product (presumably the parent). Whether the warning messages prescribed in this proposed rule will cause a change in behavior will depend on a number of factors, including the degree to which the statement is noticed, read, and understood. There is some evidence that warning statements can change behavior. For example, research indicates that rate of increase of sales of diet soft drinks declined after saccharin warnings were put on the labels of these products (Ref. 38). FDA is unable to predict exactly how many cases of pediatric iron poisoning will be prevented as a result of warning statements. To the extent that warning statements will cause adults to take proper care in handling iron-containing products, and to the extent that such care is not taken in the absence of warning statements, some cases of pediatric iron poisoning will be prevented. If the agency requires unit-dose packaging, and this measure is 100 percent effective in preventing both fatal and nonfatal cases, then there are no benefits from warning labels on these products. However, for those products still packaged in bottles, warning labels may have an impact. If each nonfatal case of iron poisoning is valued at $20,000 and the one-time cost of warning statements is $675,000, then benefits of requiring warning statements will exceed costs if warning statements prevent at least three nonfatal cases every year for the next 20 years (discounted at 7 percent). 3. Product Reformulation_Appearance Two petitions recommended product reformulation as a preventive measure. The petitions suggested that some adult formulations of iron-containing products look and taste like candy and thus are more appealing to children. The petitions stated that if the product were less appealing to children, the incidence of accidental ingestion would be reduced. The petition from NDMA urged FDA to reject reformulation for several reasons, including a lack of knowledge about what a pill looks like to a very young child, and about why the child is motivated to consume the product. The agency does not have information to determine either the costs or the benefits of reformulating the appearance of iron-containing products. Because reformulation costs are highly dependent on the individual decisions of firms, they are very difficult to estimate. Also, because there are currently no objective measures of the candy-like appearance of iron-containing products, the benefits are also difficult to determine. 4. Product Reformulation_Taste Another possibility is to add a bitter substance to products containing iron which would discourage multiple ingestions. Such substances have been used in the past on products which discourage thumbsucking and nailbiting. It is highly likely that such a substance will not add significantly to the cost of producing iron-containing products. FDA requests information on a policy option that would require altering the taste of iron-containing products. Such information would include the potential substances that would make the pills bitter and data on their safety and whether this approach would be effective in preventing acute overdose of iron-containing products by children. FDA notes, however, that such an option may have the unintended side effect of causing persons who need iron supplementation to avoid the product. FDA requests information on both the costs and benefits of this option.
