FR941117-2-00161 FR941117-2-00108 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY The Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program; Request for Proposals ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Office of Academic Programs, Academic Exchanges Division, European Branch of the United States Information Agency's Bureau of Education and Cultural Affairs announces opportunities for regionally and professionally accredited U.S. institutions offering degree and executive education programs at the master's level in business administration, economics, law, or public administration, to host graduate students from Armenia, Azerbaijan* (see program overview below), Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan for one- or two-year, degree, certificate, or professional development programs under the auspices of the 1995 Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program. Priority will be given to institutions which can provide academic guidance and professional development support to Fellows and which have experience working with international students. Institutions which are approved to host 1995 Edmund S. Muskie Fellows will automatically be eligible to host 1995 Freedom Support Act (FSA) Graduate Fellows in the same disciplines. Current Host Campuses U.S. institutions currently hosting 1993 and/or 1994 Muskie Fellows in degree, certificate, or professional development programs that wish to receive Fellows again in 1995 in the same fields of study will not be required to complete the institutional application providing the 1995 academic program, support services, and cost-sharing level remain consistent with these 1994 programs. Current host institutions must demonstrate intent to receive 1995 Muskie Fellows in the same field(s) through a separate renewal process outlined below. Institutions which were approved to host Edmund S. Muskie Fellows through the 1993 or 1994 competitions but which actually hosted only Freedom Support Act (FSA) Graduate Fellows may submit renewal requests as detailed below. Current host institutions that wish to host Fellows in a different academic field must submit a full application to be eligible to receive students in that discipline. Institutions which hosted only Freedom Support Act (FSA) Graduate Fellows and which were not approved during either the 1993 or 1994 competitions for Muskie host institutions are also required to submit a complete application. Any institutions that are unsure which application materials to submit should contact the appropriate contract organization (ACTR/ACCELS, IREX, Soros, or IIE).
