FR940505-1-00417 FR940505-1-00012 Coating applicator is an apparatus used to apply a surface coating. Melamine treater means a paper treater that applies a melamine resin to the paper substrate. Oven is a chamber within which heat is used for one or more of the following purposes: Dry, bake, cure, or polymerize a surface coating or ink. Paper treating is a coating line process in which a uniform layer of phenolic or melamine resin is applied by dipping a continuous moving paper substrate into the resin and then using rollers to squeeze the excess resin from the paper. Paper treating operations is the operation or process of paper treating, together with associated equipment including a coating applicator and oven. Phenolic treater means a paper treater that applies a phenolic resin to the paper substrate. Pounds of VOC per gallon of coating less water and less exempt compounds means the weight of VOC per combined volume of VOC and coating solids and is calculated by the following equation: G voc =(W s ^W w ^W es )/(V m ^V w ^V es ) where: G voc =Pounds VOC per gallon coating less water and exempt compounds; W s =Weight of volatile compounds in pounds; W w =Weight of water in pounds; W es =Weight of exempt compounds in pounds; V m =Volume of material in gallons; V w =Volume of water in gallons; V es =Volume of exempt compounds in gallons. Reasonably Available Control Technology or RACT, for the purposes of paragraph (p) of this section, means the lowest emission limitation that a particular coating line is capable of meeting by using measures that are reasonably available in terms of technological and economic feasibility. Such measures may include either control system(s) or coating reformulation(s) or both. (3) Standards. (i) Limits. VOC emissions from paper treating operations as defined in paragraph (p)(2) of this section must meet the emission limit of 1.13 pounds of VOC per gallon of coating applied in phenolic treater operations and 0.002 pounds of VOC per gallon of coating applied in melamine treater operations, less water and less exempt compounds, as defined in paragraph (p)(2) of this section. (ii) Emission Control System. Alternatively, a facility may comply with the provisions of paragraph (p)(3)(i) of this section by using an emission control system, provided that the overall efficiency of the system (capture efficiency multiplied by destruction efficiency) shall not be less than 85% by weight in reducing organic compounds. The emission control system, as well as the operation and maintenance plan necessary to ensure compliance on an ongoing basis, shall be approved in writing by the Executive Officer. (iii) Compliance Schedule. Limits as defined in paragraphs (p)(3)(i) or (p)(3)(ii) of this section shall be achieved upon publication of the final rule. Implementation Plan (FIP), whichever occurs first. (4) Test Methods. (i) Determination of VOC content of coatings. The VOC content of coatings subject to the provisions of paragraph (p) of this section, excluding exempt compounds, shall be analyzed as prescribed by U.S. EPA Reference Method 24 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (ii) Determination of exempt compounds. Measurement of exempt compounds shall be conducted and reported in accordance with ASTM D 4457&hyph;85. For exempt compounds where no reference test method is available, a facility requesting the exemption shall provide appropriate test methods approved by the Administrator. (iii) Determination of destruction efficiency. Destruction efficiency as specified in paragraph (p)(3)(ii) of this section shall be determined by U.S. EPA Reference Methods 25 and 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (iv) Determination of capture efficiency. Measurement of capture efficiency of the emission control system as specified in paragraph (p)(3)(ii) of this section shall be conducted and reported in accordance with the U.S. EPA protocols, 35 or other capture efficiency methods approved by the Administrator. 35 40 CFR 52.741(a)(4)(iii). (5) Administrative Requirements. (i) Coating and Solvent Records. (A) The facility shall maintain a current list of coatings and solvents in use which include the following information: (1) Name and manufacturer information; (2) Mixing instructions; (3) VOC content of coatings as applied; (4) Weight percent water; and (5) Weight percent exempt solvent. (B) The facility shall maintain records of the amounts of coatings and VOCs used according to the following schedule: (1) Monthly records showing the types and amounts of coatings used that meet the coating standards in paragraph (p)(3)(i) of this section; and (2) Daily records showing the types and amounts of coatings used when such usage was in conjunction with emission control equipment. (ii) Emission Control Equipment Records. Any facility complying with the provisions of paragraph (p)(3)(ii) of this section by using air pollution control equipment shall maintain daily records of key system operating parameters, such as temperatures, pressures, and/or flow rates, for the emission control equipment.
