FR941213-1-00015 FR941213-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD08&hyph;94&hyph;032] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulation; Lafourche Bayou, LA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: At the request of the Greater Lafourche Port Commission, the Coast Guard is considering a change to the regulation governing the operation of the following two drawbridges across Lafourche Bayou, in Lafourche Parish, Louisiana: The State Route 1 (Galliano-Tarpon) vertical lift span bridge, mile 30.6 at Cutoff, Louisiana; and The State Route 1 (Cote Blanche) pontoon bridge, mile 33.9 at Cutoff, Louisiana. The proposed regulation would require that the bridges open on signal; except that from 2 to 3 p.m. and from 4:30 to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, other than Federal holidays, the bridges would be permitted to remain closed to navigation for the uninterrupted crossing of peak vehicular and school bus traffic. Presently, the draws of the bridges are required to open on signal at all times. This action would relieve traffic congestion on the bridges during these periods and permit the timely return of school children to their homes while still providing for the reasonable needs of navigation. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 13, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Commander (ob), Eighth Coast Guard District, 501 Magazine Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 70130&hyph;3396, or may be delivered to Room 1313 at the same address between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (504) 589&hyph;2965. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. John Wachter, Bridge Administration Branch, at the address given above, telephone (504) 589&hyph;2965. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments Interested parties are invited to participate in the proposed rulemaking by submitting written views, comments, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify the bridge and give reasons for concurrence with or any recommended change in this proposal. Persons desiring acknowledgment that their comments have been received should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Eighth Coast Guard District at the address under ADDRESSES. The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . The Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District, will evaluate all communications received and determine a course of final action on this proposal. The proposed regulation may be changed in the light of comments received. Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are Mr. John Wachter, project officer, and LT Elisa Holland, project attorney. Background and Purpose The Greater Lafourche Port Commission has requested the regulation because vehicular traffic crossing the bridges during the proposed closure periods has increased dramatically during recent years and school children are delayed from returning home from their classes in a timely manner. The new proposed regulation would allow for the free flow of vehicular traffic, while still serving the reasonable needs of navigational interest. Discussion of Proposed Rules The Galliano ``Tarpon'' bridge is a vertical lift span structure. Navigational clearances provided by the bridge are 3.0 feet vertical above mean high water in the closed to navigation position and 73 feet above mean high water in the open to navigation position. Horizontal clearance is 80.0 feet. Navigation on the waterway consists of tugs with tows, fishing vessels, occasional small oil field work boats and recreational craft. Data provided by the Greater Lafourche Port Commission show that from August 1993 through August 1994, the number of vessels that passed the bridge totaled 1141 for the year. This breaks down to about 95 vessels per month or 3.1 vessels per 24-hour period. Vehicular traffic that passes over the bridge during the proposed closure period from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. averages about 750 vehicles including 4 school busses. An additional 4 school busses cross the bridge between 3 p.m. and 3:15 p.m. and these busses will be able to adjust their schedule to arrange to cross the bridge during the 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. closure. Vehicular traffic that crosses the bridge during the proposed closure period of 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. averages approximately 780. The Cote Blanche bridge is a pontoon bridge. There is no vertical clearance in the closed to navigation position and unlimited clearance in the open to navigation position. The same type of navigation that passes the Galliano ``Tarpon'' bridge, also passes the Cote Blanche bridge. The average vessel passage per 24 hour period is 3.1. Vehicular traffic that passes over the Cote Blanche Bridge during the proposed closure period from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. average about 380, including 3 school busses. An additional 10 school busses cross the bridge between 3 p.m. and 3:15 p.m. and these busses will be able to adjust their schedule to cross during the 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. closure. Vehicular traffic that crosses the bridge during the proposed closure period of 4:30 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. averages approximately 485.
