FR940817-2-00092 FR940817-2-00043 IX. Decision As previously discussed, the Agency interprets section 211(f)(4) of the Act as establishing a two-stage process for evaluating waiver applications. The first stage requires that EPA determine whether an applicant has met its burden of demonstrating that a fuel does not cause or contribute to a failure to meet regulated emission standards. Unless EPA finds that the waiver applicant has met this burden, a waiver may not be granted. The second stage of the process reflects the discretionary nature of the waiver authority provided to the EPA Administrator by the statute. In this second stage, the Administrator may consider other factors in determining whether granting a waiver is in the public interest and consistent with the objectives of the Clean Air Act. In this stage, the Administrator has broad discretion in selecting the issues to be examined and in balancing the potential positive and negative impacts of a waiver. For purposes of the pending waiver application, as remanded to EPA by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals and resubmitted by Ethyl, I determined on November 30, 1993 that use of Ethyl's product HiTEC 3000 in unleaded gasoline at the specified concentration will not cause or contribute to a failure to achieve compliance with vehicle emission standards. The data and analysis upon which this determination was based are described in Section IV above. The data submitted by Ethyl in connection with this waiver application satisfy all of the quantitative criteria for determining whether an additive will ``cause or contribute'' to a failure to meet emission standards previously utilized by EPA. As noted above, EPA has serious reservations concerning the present suitability of these criteria. In light of the intractability of the nation's air pollution problems, EPA is considering adoption of new criteria which would be utilized in assessing future waiver applications. However, for purposes of Ethyl's present application, EPA concluded that it would not be appropriate to make the required determination concerning emission effects by utilizing a new methodology or new criteria concerning which Ethyl was not afforded any prior notice. My decision that Ethyl has met the requisite statutory burden for purposes of the present waiver application is also based on the Agency's assessment of the newest data provided by Ethyl on newer-technology vehicles which do not, when evaluated separately, indicate any statistically significant increase in regulated vehicle emissions. The Agency remains concerned about the possible effects of fuels containing MMT on the functioning of onboard diagnostics (OBD) equipment. At the time that EPA completed the assessment of emissions issues underlying my finding concerning emissions on November 30, 1993, the evidence to support the assertions by automakers that MMT would prevent the oxygen sensors in OBD systems from operating properly was quite limited and these assertions had not at that time been tested in any actual vehicles utilizing OBD systems. I expressed concern about the effect of MMT on OBD systems at that time, and indicated that if EPA ultimately concluded that MMT could prevent proper functioning of OBD systems, the Agency would consider appropriate action under Clean Air Act section 211(c). Since that time, the Ford Motor Company has submitted further research involving use of fuel containing MMT in an actual vehicle equipped with an OBD system, which Ford contends demonstrates that manganese oxides resulting from MMT use prevent the oxygen sensors in its OBD systems from functioning properly. EPA intends to fully investigate the significance of these findings. If further investigation supports the concerns expressed by Ford and other automakers, EPA intends to initiate an appropriate rulemaking under section 211(c). Since I determined that Ethyl had met its burden regarding the ``cause or contribute'' finding required by the statute, the Agency has been reviewing other issues bearing on the exercise of my discretionary authority to grant or deny Ethyl the requested waiver for use in unleaded gasoline, focusing in particular on the potential effects of manganese emissions resulting from use of MMT on public health and welfare. The Agency remains concerned regarding the issue of manganese emissions from vehicles utilizing fuels containing MMT. From a hazard identification perspective, manganese can clearly be toxic to the central nervous system, the respiratory system, and the male reproductive system. The level of manganese which may safely be breathed over a lifetime is not known with precision. EPA has assessed potential health risks associated with potential exposures utilizing a Reference Concentration (RfC), which is defined as an estimate (with uncertainty spanning perhaps an order of magnitude) of a continuous inhalation exposure level for the human population (including sensitive subpopulations) that is likely to be without appreciable risk of deleterious noncancer effects during a lifetime of exposure. Beginning with existing data on the effects of manganese exposures, the Agency utilized its standard procedure to develop a verified Reference Concentration (RfC) of 0.05 μg/m3. In response to comments and criticisms by Ethyl and others, the Agency then utilized a variety of additional techniques to consider potential alternative RfC's based on additional data from the occupational exposure study on which the current RfC is based (discussed in detail in Section VI&hyph;B&hyph;4 above). The techniques judged by EPA scientists to be most appropriate produced alternative candidate RfC's ranging from 0.09 to 0.2 μg/m3. Since any formal revision of the present verified RfC of 0.05 μg/m3 based on the ORD reassessment will occur in the future and could not be completed prior to the deadline for this decision, I have evaluated the potential health effects associated with use of MMT in unleaded gasoline based on all of the likely values, focusing in particular on a potential alternative RfC of 0.1 μg/m3 and the present RfC of 0.05 μg/m3. Utilizing the newest and most accurate data available on personal exposures to particulate emissions of manganese from vehicular sources, Agency scientists also prepared an exposure analysis in which they attempted to predict the range of increases in personal exposure to particulate manganese that would occur in Riverside, California urban areas if MMT were to be used in all unleaded gasoline. If MMT were utilized in unleaded gasoline at the specified concentration in urban areas similar to Riverside, California, the Agency's exposure assessment predicts that the exposures of forty to fifty percent of the population in such areas to airborne manganese levels would exceed the present verified RfC of 0.05 μg/m3, and the exposures of five to ten percent would exceed manganese levels exceeding a potential alternative RfC of 0.1 μg/m3. Although it is impossible to state whether a health risk would definitely exist at the projected exposure levels, neither can the possibility of such a risk be ruled out.
