FR940406-2-00120 FR940406-2-00072 [Release No. 34&hyph;33842; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;16] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Arbitration Surcharge on Members March 31, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on March 22, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''), and amended on March 31, 1994 1 the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The NASD has designated this proposal as one establishing or changing a fee under section 19(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act, which renders the rule effective upon the Commission's receipt of this filing. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change, as amended, from interested persons. 1 See Letter from Suzanne E. Rothwell, Associate General Counsel, NASD, to Ethan Corey, Staff Attorney, Over-the-Counter Branch, SEC, dated March 31, 1994. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to amend section 45 of the Code of Arbitration Procedure to clarify that the member surcharge of $200 is not subject to reimbursement under Subsections 43(c) and 44(c) of the Code. Below is the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is italicized. PART III. UNIFORM CODE OF ARBITRATION * * * * * Member Surcharge Sec. 45. (a) Each member who is named as a party to an arbitration proceeding, whether in a Claim, Counterclaim, Crossclaim or Third-Party claim, shall be assessed a $200 non-refundable surcharge when the Arbitration Department perfects service of the claim naming the member on any party to the proceeding. For each associated person who is named, the surcharge shall be assessed against the member or members which employed the associated person at the time of the events which gave rise to the dispute, claim or controversy. No member shall be assessed more than a single surcharge in any arbitration proceeding. The surcharge shall not be subject to reimbursement under Subsections 43(c) or 44(c) of the Code. (b) For the purposes of this Section, service is perfected when the Director of Arbitration properly serves the Respondents to such proceeding under Subsection 25(a) of the Code. * * * * * II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change On February 25, 1994, the NASD filed SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;11 adopting section 45 to the Code of Arbitration Procedure (``Code'') to impose a $200 non-refundable surcharge on any member named as a party to an arbitration proceeding. The last line of section 45(a) stated that the surcharge would not be subject to reimbursement under Subsection 43(c) of the Code, which references customer disputes. 3 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33731 (March 8, 1994), 59 FR 11817 (March 14, 1994). Subsequently, the NASD determined that it had inadvertently omitted reference in the last sentence of new section 45(a) to Subsection 44(c), which provision relates to industry and clearing controversies. The NASD is, therefore, proposing to amend Subsection 45(a) to the Code of Arbitration Procedure to clarify that the member surcharge is not subject to reimbursement under Subsections 43(c) and 44(c) of the Code. Thus, the provision of Subsection 45(a) that the member surcharge is not subject to reimbursement shall apply in cases involving customer disputes as well as industry and clearing controversies. The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of section 15A(b)(5) of the Act, 4 which require that the rules of the Association provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees and other charges among members in that the proposed rule clarifies that the member surcharge will be assessed equitably on each member who is named and for whom service is perfected in an arbitration proceeding. 4 15 U.S.C. 78o&hyph;3. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD does not believe that the proposed rule change will result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, as amended. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective upon filing pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder in that it constitutes a due, fee or other charge. At any time within 60 days of the filing of a rule change pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act, the Commission may summarily abrogate the rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by April 27, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8192 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
