FR940513-2-00075 FR940513-2-00039 Because housing and supportive services are vital and integral components of home and community based long term care services, this priority area seeks to establish a National Long Term Care Policy and Resource Center for Housing and Supportive Services. The Center's mission is to provide a focal point for the development of long term care home and community based services specializing in elderly housing and supportive services. In particular, applicants must demonstrate an awareness of the special housing needs of older women, minorities and elderly residents of public housing. Applicants must propose a strategy for addressing these issues and incorporating specific activities into their applications. In September of 1993, the Administration on Aging, pursuant to Section 407 of the Older Americans Act Amendments of 1992, funded four applications to establish and operate National Resource Centers for Long Term Care. The Centers are responsible for conducting research, disseminating information, and providing training and technical assistance aimed at improving national, state, and local programs for the provision of home and community based long term care. The proposed National Long Term Care Policy and Resource Center for Housing and Supportive Services will complement and coordinate its efforts with the four current Centers, together constituting a broad, multifaceted source of knowledge, information, training, and technical assistance to national, state, and local organizations and agencies working to build a comprehensive, accessible, and effective long term care system. The Center will support State and Area Agencies on Aging as they promote the development of community based systems of services for older persons throughout their State. The Center will also assist AoA to develop successful strategies and approaches for coordinating program efforts with those programs administered by the Department of Housing and Urban Development that affect housing for the elderly and disabled. The Center will focus its efforts on analyzing and synthesizing available knowledge; putting it in a format which is useful to planners, practitioners, and others; conducting training based upon it; and promoting the dissemination and utilization of this knowledge in efforts to expand housing options and supportive services for older persons. Special emphasis is to be placed upon those activities which support improved and close coordination between Older Americans Act programs and programs under the jurisdiction of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. This special emphasis should aid State and Area Agencies in gaining timely information about new legislative and policy issues related to federal housing programs. In addition, the following activities should be undertaken on a national scope: 1. Training and technical assistance to help agencies in the Aging Network and other organizations and agencies working in the field of long term care on policy and practice issues through such means as telephone consultation, written products and materials, teleconferencing, workshops, and conference presentations. 2. Public education and information dissemination that will result in effective sharing of the latest thinking, methods and findings with State Agencies on Aging, Area Agencies on Aging, legislative officials, service providers, researchers, educators, and the public. Applicants are encouraged to develop innovative media and marketing approaches to reaching elderly consumers and to targeting special audiences and key decision makers. 3. Knowledge building and policy analysis oriented toward results and products which have practical application and immediate use to those working on housing and supportive services, e.g., the development and/or modeling of a useful instrument or tool; preparation of educational, practice, and technical assistance materials; an analysis of key issues of concern relative to a particular subject. Applicants should have the capacity to meet the need for short-term policy analysis on topics relating to housing, supportive services, and long term care. Based on a high level of knowledge and information synthesis, applicants should propose possible subjects for policy analysis but also demonstrate that they possess the capacity to respond flexibly and quickly to such needs. Any public or nonprofit agency, organization, or institution is eligible to apply under this priority area. However, to merit serious consideration, an applicant must demonstrate that it has (1) extensive knowledge and experience in the area of housing and supportive services, (2) a record of relevant achievement in this area, and (3) the requisite organizational capability to carry out the activities of a Resource Center on a nationwide scale. AoA and the organization/institution selected to serve as the National Long Term Care Policy and Resource Center for Housing and Supportive Services will work cooperatively in the development of its scope of work and agenda of major events and activities. (However, applicants are expected to propose an agenda for the first and subsequent years based on their assessment of salient issues). The National Long Term Care Policy and Resource Center for Housing and Supportive Services shall have a Director with an appropriate background and qualifications in aging and policy studies who shall devote a minimum of 50% of her/his time to this position. AoA expects to fund the National Long Term Care Policy and Resource Center for Housing and Supportive Services through a cooperative agreement award for a period of three years. The federal share of Center project costs will be $300,000 for year one and $400,000 per year for years two and three. The deadline date for submitting applications under this priority is July 12, 1994. 1.6␣Eldercare Locator In this fast-paced era where most women work outside the home and adult children of aging parents frequently live far from their aging relatives, it has become more and more imperative that older people and their caregivers have access to information about where to get services necessary to assist older persons in meeting their needs within their own communities. As the number of agencies and organizations providing home and community based services to older persons proliferates, there is a need to assist people in finding the right kind of service for their particular need. Especially useful would be information and assistance for frail elderly and their families on accessing home and community based services. Frequently, people seeking service for their aged loved ones are not aware of where to get information about services that may be available nor are they aware of the existence of the network of aging services at the local level.
