FR940204-2-00095 FR940204-2-00067 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service Endangered and Threatened Wildlife; Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement To Allow Incidental Take of the Threatened Desert Tortoise (Gopherus agassizii) Under Section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act and Notice of Public Meetings AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior. ACTION: Notice of public meeting and intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife (Service) intends to prepare an draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) for incidental take of desert tortoises pursuant to section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). A habitat conservation plan (HCP) will be prepared by the applicants. The applicants are Clark County and the cities of Las Vegas, North Las Vegas, Henderson, Mesquite, and Boulder City, Nevada. The Service is initiating the scoping process for preparing the DEIS. Major concerns include the direct, indirect, and cumulative effects that issuance of the proposed permit would have on the desert tortoise and other fish and wildlife resources. This notice is being provided as required by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended (NEPA) (40 CFR 1501.7). DATES: A public meeting on the proposed action will be held in the Commissioner's Meeting Room, 5th Floor, McCarran International Airport, Las Vegas, Nevada, at 5 p.m. on February 14, 1994. Written comments on the scoping process and issues must be received on or before March 7, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service (See ADDRESSES below). ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to Mr. David L. Harlow, Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Nevada Field Office, 4600 Kietzke Lane, Building C&hyph;125, Reno, Nevada 80502&hyph;5093. The permit application is available for public inspection, and the comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above Reno, Nevada, address or by contacting Ms. Terry Murphy, Office of the County Manager, Clark County, 225 Bridger Avenue, 6th Floor, Las Vegas, Nevada 89155 [telephone: (702) 455&hyph;3530]. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Sherry Barrett at the above Reno, Nevada, address [telephone: (702) 784&hyph;5227]. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Service issued a section 10(a)(1)(B) permit to allow incidental take of no more than 3,710 desert tortoises from approximately 22,350 acres in the Las Vegas Valley on August 24, 1994. The permit and HCP are short-term, and will be in effect through July 31, 1994, unless the permit is reissued under a long-term HCP. The Service proposes to prepare a DEIS to evaluate the impacts from issuing a permit under section 10(a)(1)(B) for incidental take of desert tortoises due to development of the area addressed by the long-term Clark County Desert Tortoise HCP. The term ``take'' is herein used as defined in the Act and its implementing regulations as: To harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect a listed species of fish or wildlife, or attempt to engage in any such conduct. ``Harm'' is further defined to include significant habitat modification or degradation that results in death or injury to listed species by significantly impairing behavioral patterns such as breeding, feeding, or sheltering (50 CFR 17.3). ``Harass'' is defined as actions that create the likelihood of injury to listed species to such an extent as to significantly disrupt normal behavior patterns which include, but are not limited to, breeding, feeding, or sheltering (50 CFR 17.3). Urban development in areas occupied by desert tortoises has created conflict situations in the Las Vegas Valley. Much of the private land which would be covered by the long-term HCP cannot be developed due to the prohibitions of section 9 of the Act. In order for many planned development projects to proceed in compliance with the Act, a permit for incidental take must be obtained. The decision by the Service to issue the incidental take permit is a Federal agency action that must be considered in an environmental document pursuant to the NEPA. The Service has determined that an EIS should be prepared because the proposed action may be a major Federal action and may have potential effects on the human environment.
