FR941104-1-00031 FR941104-1-00006 Evidence of Boundaries According to the petition, there have never been precise historic boundaries for the St. Helena viticultural district. However, the petitioner states that history does provide an imprecise ``St. Helena District'' within the geographic structure of State winegrowing established by the first Board of State Viticultural Commissioners in the 1880s. According to the petition, the State was divided into districts, one being Napa, which included Napa, Solano, and Contra Costa Counties. Charles Krug was the first commissioner for the district in 1880. Napa County was then divided into administrative districts: Napa (City), Yountville, St. Helena, and Calistoga. According to the petition, these were not considered viticultural districts at the time. The St. Helena District included the vineyards of Howell Mountain, most of Rutherford, and Larkmead. This is discussed in E.C. Priber's report to the Board in 1893. Even Chiles and Conn Valleys were included in the St. Helena District, although Priber gave separate statistics for these areas. Although the wineries and vineyardists in the Priber report are listed in administrative districts, Priber's man in the field, A. Warren Robinson, asked each where his or her operation was located, and the answer was given as a place, not necessarily a post office. Bernard Ehlers said he lived at Lodi Station. Mrs. Lillie Coit listed Larkmead. According to the petitioner, such data make it possible to make an attempt to draw historically accurate lines. The petitioner states that a more accurate listing of viticultural districts was given by Charles Krug in his report of 1887. In it he traces the development of each district in Napa County since 1881, by acreage, production, and type of grape vines. Krug listed Yountville, Oakville, Rutherford, St. Helena, Spring Mountain, Howell Mountain, Calistoga and five others. Although he did not include a map, the precision of his statistics indicates that he and others had the limits of these districts in mind. From the information discussed above, the petitioner has tried to plot the northern and southern boundaries of the St. Helena viticultural area. From a historical point of view, the petitioner states that any one of three landmarks could be used as the northern boundary of the St. Helena viticultural area. These landmarks include Ritchie Creek, Bale Lane, and Big Tree Road. However, the petitioner feels that from a practical, as well as historical point of view, Bale Lane is the best choice. The petitioner states that the southern boundary of the St. Helena viticultural area was discussed at length during the December 9, 1992, ATF public hearing held in Napa, California, concerning the northern boundary of the Rutherford viticultural area. From the information submitted at that hearing, it was determined that Zinfandel Avenue, known locally as Zinfandel Lane, was the best northern boundary for the Rutherford viticultural area. Consequently, the petitioner states that Zinfandel Avenue (Zinfandel Lane) should also be used as the southern boundary of the adjacent St. Helena viticultural area. The petitioner states that the southeast boundary of the St. Helena appellation should include the Spring Valley area since this area was included in the St. Helena area on the 1895 ``Official Map of the County of Napa.'' On this map, the properties of George Mee and Antonio Rossi (Spring Valley) were listed as being in the St. Helena district whereas Charles Scheggia, just to the south, listed himself as being in Rutherford.
