FR940912-0-00069 FR940912-0-00013 (2) Where necessary to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of a person's privacy, identifying details should be deleted from a record which is required to be indexed and made available for public inspection and copying under this paragraph. In every such case, the justification for the deletion must be fully stated in writing in a manner which avoids creating inferences that could be injurious to the person whose privacy is involved. Usual reasons for deletion of identifying details include protection of privacy in a person's business affairs, medical matters, or private family matters; humanitarian considerations; and avoidance of embarrassment to a person. (d) Publication of indexes_ (1) Form of indexes. Each index should be arranged topically or by descriptive words, so that members of the public may be able to locate the pertinent documents by subject, rather than by case name or by a numbering system. (2) Time of publication. Each component having cognizance of records required under this paragraph to be indexed shall compile and maintain an index of such records on a continually current basis. Each such index was required to initially be published by July 1, 1975. An updated version of each such index, or a current supplement thereto, shall be published by an authorized method at least annually thereafter. (3) Methods of publication. The methods authorized for publication of the indexes contemplated in this paragraph are: (i) Publication in the Federal Register ; (ii) Commercial publication, provided that such commercial publication is readily available to members of the public, or will be made available upon request and payment of costs (if this method is utilized, information on the cost of copies and the address from which they may be obtained shall be published in the Federal Register ); or (iii) Furnishing internally reproduced copies upon request, at cost not to exceed the direct cost of duplication in accordance with subpart D of this part, provided that it is determined, by an order published in the Federal Register , that the publication of the index by methods ยง701.65(d)(3) (i) or (ii) would be unnecessary or impracticable. Such order shall state the cost of copies and the address from which they may be obtained. The Chief of Naval Operations (N09B30) is authorized to issue such an order in a proper case. (4) Public inspection of indexes. In addition to publication by one of the foregoing methods, each index will be made available for public inspection and copying in accordance with ยง701.65(e) at the locations where Department of the Navy records are available for public inspection. e. Where records may be inspected. Locations and times at which Department of the Navy records, and indexes thereof, are available for public inspection and copying are shown in ยง701.32.
