FR941121-0-00042 FR941121-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;210&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9068; AD 94&hyph;23&hyph;06] Airworthiness Directives; Airbus Model A320&hyph;111, &hyph;211, and &hyph;231 Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Airbus Model A320&hyph;111, &hyph;211, and &hyph;231 airplanes, that requires modification of the currently installed one-stage shock absorbers on the main landing gear to two-stage shock absorbers. This amendment is prompted by the results of an evaluation of the air-to-ground sensing logic relative to the operation of other airplane systems during landing in adverse weather conditions. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent a delay in sensing by the air-to-ground logic system that the airplane is on the ground, which could prevent the airplane from achieving the landing distances specified in the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM). DATES: Effective December 21, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of December 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Airbus Industrie, 1 Rond Point Maurice Bellonte, 31707 Blagnac Cedex, France. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen Slotte, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2797; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Airbus Model A320&hyph;111, &hyph;211, and &hyph;231 airplanes was published in the Federal Register on December 29, 1993 (58 FR 68786). That action proposed to require modification of the currently installed one-stage shock absorbers on the main landing gear (MLG) to two-stage shock absorbers. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposed rule. One commenter opposes the proposed requirement to modify the currently installed one-stage shock absorber on the MLG to two-stage shock absorbers. This commenter states that the requirement is unnecessary due to the fact that the one-stage absorbers currently installed on Model A320 series airplanes, when operated within the certification standards of the airplane, do not adversely affect the airworthiness of these airplanes. This commenter contends that the purpose of the two-stage shock absorber is solely to improve passenger comfort. The FAA does not concur that this rulemaking action is unnecessary. The FAA has determined that the installation of the two-stage shock absorber will improve the airplane's ability to achieve the landing distances specified in the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM). Earlier activation of supplemental braking devices, which would be available by installing two-stage shock absorbers, will enhance deceleration of the airplane when necessary to meet the required landing distances. The FAA has re-evaluated the air-to-ground sensing logic, has reviewed all other available data, and has determined that an unsafe condition exists with regard to the airplane failing to achieve the landing distances specified in the FAA-approved AFM. Further, the FAA has determined that this AD action is necessary for airplanes of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. One commenter asserts that the FAA is taking action contrary to the normal course of action by proposing to issue the AD, when the French Direction Générale de l'Aviation Civile (DGAC), which is the airworthiness authority for France, has not issued a parallel AD. From this comment, the FAA infers that the commenter is requesting that the rule be withdrawn or delayed until the DGAC issues a similar mandatory action. The FAA does not concur. While the United States and France observe the provisions of the bilateral airworthiness agreement, it remains the responsibility of the FAA to monitor and maintain the continuing airworthiness of U.S.-type certificated and registered airplanes. The bilateral airworthiness agreements do not restrict the FAA from issuing AD's based upon its own finding of an unsafe condition, regardless of the decision made by another airworthiness authority relative to the same subject. In that the FAA has determined that an unsafe condition exists, and that action is necessary to correct that condition in the fleet, the issuance of this AD is not only appropriate, but warranted. One commenter suggests that the issuance of this rule be delayed until such time that a lower cost alternative can be developed by the manufacturer. In the interim, this commenter suggests that the proposal be revised to require a periodic inspection to be performed at 15-month intervals. The FAA does not concur. To delay this action would be inappropriate, since the FAA has determined that an unsafe condition exists, a corrective modification is currently available, and the modification must be accomplished to ensure continued safety. However, paragraph (b) of the final rule does provide affected operators the opportunity to obtain approval from the FAA for alternative methods of compliance by presenting justification for those alternatives.
