FR940317-1-00093 FR940317-1-00013 (a) General. Unless inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, the procedures for the investigation and processing of claims set forth in subpart B will be followed. (b) Claims arising out of tortious conduct by ARNG personnel defined in §536.71(b)(1)(iii). (1) Notification and investigation. The procedures in §§ 536.97 and 536.98 will be followed in NG claims arising under the FTCA. (2) Claims against the U.S. Government received by agencies of the State. These claims will be expeditiously forwarded through the State adjutant general to the appropriate U.S. Army area claims office in whose geographic area the incident occurred. (c) Statute of limitations. (1) To be settled under this chapter, a claim against the United States must be presented in writing to the appropriate Federal agency within 2 years of its accrual. (2) For statute of limitations purposes, a claim will be deemed to have been presented when the appropriate Federal agency (as defined in the glossary) receives from a claimant or his or her duly authorized agent or legal representative, an executed SF 95 or written notification of an incident, together with a claim for money damages, in a sum certain, for damage to or loss of property or personal injury or death. For Federal tort claims arising out of activities of the NG, receipt of a written claim by any full time officer or employee of the NG will be considered proper receipt. (3) A claim received by an official of the DOD will be transmitted without delay to the nearest Army claims processing office or area claims office. Inquiries concerning applicability of the statute of limitations to claims filed with the wrong Federal Agency will be referred to USARCS for resolution. (d) Claims within settlement authority of USARCS or the Attorney General. (1) A copy of each of the type of claims described below will be forwarded immediately to the Commander, USARCS. (Subsequent documents should be forwarded or added in accordance with §536.22(b)(2)). (i) Claims that appear to be of a type that must be brought to the attention of the Attorney General in accordance with his or her regulations (28 CFR 14.6). (ii) A claim in which the demand exceeds $25,000 or the total amount of all claims, actual or potential, from a single incident exceeds $25,000 $50,000. (2) USARCS is responsible for the monitoring and settlement of such claims and will be kept informed of the status of the investigation and processing thereof. Direct liaison and correspondence between USARCS and the field claims authority or investigator is authorized on all claims matters and assistance will be furnished as required. (e) Non-Army claims. Claims based on acts or omissions of employees of the United States, other than military and civilian personnel of the DA, civilian personnel of the DOD, and employees of nonappropriated fund activities of the DA will be transmitted forthwith to the nearest official of the employing agency; the claimant will be advised of the referral. (See §536.18 (c) and (d) for further guidance when more than one Federal agency is involved.) (f) Acknowledgment of claim. (1) The claimant and his or her attorney will be kept informed by personal contact, telephonic contact, or mail of the receipt of his or her claim and the status of the claim. Formal acknowledgment of the claim in writing is required only where the claim is likely to result in litigation or is presented in an amount exceeding $15,000. In this event, the letter of acknowledgment will state the date of receipt of the claim by the first agency of the Army receiving the claim. (2) If it is reasonably clear to the office acknowledging receipt that a claim filed under the FTCA is not cognizable thereunder; for example, it is a maritime claim under chapter 8, or it falls under subparts C or F, the acknowledgment will contain a statement advising the claimant of the statute under which his or her claim will be processed. If it is not clear which subpart applies, a statement to that effect will be made and the claimant will be promptly advised when a decision is made. However all potential maritime claims will be handled in accordance with §536.21(b)(5). (3) When a claim has been amended as set forth in §536.20(f)(4), the amendment will be acknowledged in all cases. Also, the claimant will be informed that the amendment constitutes a new claim insofar as concerns the 6 months in which the DA is granted the authority to make a final disposition under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a) and the claimant's option thereunder will not accrue until 6 months after the filing of the amendment. (4) When a claim is improperly presented, is incomplete, or otherwise does not meet the requirements set forth in §536.20(d), the claimant or his or her representative will be promptly informed in writing of the deficiencies and advised that a proper claim must be filed within the 2 year statute of limitations. (g) Investigation. Claims cognizable under this regulation will be investigated and processed on a priority basis in order that settlement if indicated may be accomplished within the 6 months prescribed by statute. (h) Advice to claimant. (1) A full explanation of claims procedures and of the rights of the claimant will be made to the extent necessitated by the amount and nature of the claim.
