FR941206-1-00095 FR941206-1-00008 The EPA requests comment on the appropriate timing of the shipbuilding and ship repair facility's applicability determination, and on whether all facilities, regardless of their past emissions or HAP usage, should be eligible to qualify as area sources under the HAP usage limits. The Agency also seeks comment on whether a facility that is initially determined to be subject to the rule should be able subsequently to escape applicability, and if so, under what circumstances. 2. Affected Sources For purposes of this rulemaking, the affected source would be considered the aggregate of all operations at a shipbuilding facility. A new operation at a shipbuilding facility would not be considered a new source. Instead, it may qualify as a modification of the existing source. The proposed standards would limit VOHAP emissions from indoor and outdoor coating operations. The VOHAP emissions result largely from solvent evaporation from the coatings. These emissions occur during application and drying/curing. Due to the size of ships and their components, most coatings are applied outdoors. The proposed standards would also reduce VOHAP emissions from handling, transfer, use, and storage of VOHAP-containing materials through work practice measures. These emissions also occur as a result of solvent evaporation. B. Standards The proposed standards would be the same for new and existing facilities. (See section VII.B. for discussion on the basis for the standards.) The proposed standards would impose limits on the VOHAP content of 23 types of coatings used at shipbuilding facilities. (See section VII.C. for a list of the proposed limits.) The limits would be stated in terms of mass of VOHAP per volume of coating less water and less negligibly photochemically reactive (exempt) compounds. Compliance with the VOHAP limits must be demonstrated on a monthly basis. The proposed standards would allow for an alternative means of compliance other than using compliant coatings, if approved by the Administrator. The proposed standards would also require that all handling and transfer of VOHAP containing materials to and from containers, tanks, vats, vessels, and piping systems be conducted in a manner that minimizes spills and other factors leading to emissions. In addition, containers of thinning solvent or waste that hold any VOHAP must be normally closed (to minimize evaporation) unless materials are being added to or removed from them. C. Compliance Dates The proposed rule would require compliance for existing affected sources within 1 year after the effective date of the rule. An existing unaffected area source that increases its HAP emissions (or potential to emit) such that it becomes a major source would be required to comply within 1 year after becoming a major source. Any new or reconstructed sources would be required to adhere to the compliance schedule in the General Provisions ยง63.6(b) of subpart A without any modification. For new or reconstructed affected sources whose startup date is before the effective date of the rule, the compliance date is the effective date of the rule. For new or reconstructed affected sources whose startup date is after the effective date of the rule, the compliance date is the startup date. A new unaffected area source that increases its emissions (or potential to emit) such that it becomes a major source would be required to comply immediately upon becoming a major source. D. Compliance Procedures The proposed rule would allow affected sources to choose among five options for demonstrating compliance with the VOHAP standards. Their choice will be influenced by the perceived need to add ``thinning'' solvent (thinner) to alter the viscosity of the coating in order to spray effectively. (For the purposes of this proposed regulation, thinner is defined as any liquid material added to a coating.) Regardless of the option(s) chosen, affected sources would first be required to determine the coating category (e.g., general use, air flask, antenna, etc.), the applicable VOHAP limit, and the VOC content for each batch of coating received from the manufacturer.
