FR941017-2-00069 FR941017-2-00048 [ Note: See introduction for further information on e-mail records, including transmission and receipt data.] Item 15. Item 15 was GRS 23, item 4. There are no changes in the text which reads: Item 15. Electronic Spreadsheets. Spreadsheets that are recorded on electronic media such as hard disks or floppy diskettes: a. When used to produce hard copy that is maintained in organized files. Delete when no longer needed to update or produce hard copy. b. When maintained only in electronic form. Delete after the expiration of the retention period authorized for the hard copy by the GRS or a NARA-approved SF 115. If the electronic version replaces hard copy records with differing retention periods and agency software does not readily permit selective deletion, delete after the longest retention period has expired. As noted above, General Records Schedule 23, Records Common to Most Offices Within Agencies, has been modified by removal of items covering records created in electronic form which have been incorporated into GRS 20. GRS 23 will now read as follows: General Records Schedule 23 Records Common to Most Offices Within Agencies This schedule provides for the disposal of certain records common to most offices in Federal agencies. It covers administrative subject files; facilitative records such as suspense files, tracking and control records, calendars, and indexes; and transitory documents. This schedule does not apply to any materials that the agency has determined to be nonrecord or to materials such as calendars or work schedules claimed as personal. Office Administrative Files described under item 1 are records retained by an originating office as its record of initiation of an action, request, or response to requests for information. This item may be applied only to separate administrative files containing such records as copies of documents submitted to other offices for action including budget feeder documents, purchase orders, training requests. Item 1 may not be applied to files that also contain program records, and it may not be applied by an office that receives and takes action on documents submitted by other offices. Several items covering electronic records produced on stand-alone or networked personal computers (such as word processing files, administrative databases, and spreadsheets) that were previously in this schedule have been moved to General Records Schedule 20, Electronic Records. To preserve the previous numbering of the items in GRS 23, the item numbers that have been moved have been reserved. The disposition of records described in this schedule that are created in electronic form is governed by GRS 20, items 3, 13, 14, and 15. Item 1. Office Administrative Files. Records accumulated by individual offices that relate to the internal administration or housekeeping activities of the office rather than the functions for which the office exists. In general, these records relate to the office organization, staffing, procedures, and communications; the expenditure of funds, including budget records; day-to-day administration of office personnel including training and travel; supplies and office services and equipment requests and receipts; and the use of office space and utilities. They may also include copies of internal activity and workload reports (including work progress, statistical, and narrative reports prepared in the office and forwarded to higher levels) and other materials that do not serve as unique documentation of the programs of the office. Destroy when 2 years old, or when no longer needed, whichever is sooner. [ Note: This schedule is not applicable to the record copies of organizational charts, functional statements, and related records that document the essential organization, staffing, and procedures of the office, which must be scheduled prior to disposition by submitting an SF 115 to NARA.] Items 2&hyph;4. Reserved. Item 5. Schedules of Daily Activities. Calendars, appointment books, schedules, logs, diaries, and other records documenting meetings, appointments, telephone calls, trips, visits, and other activities by Federal employees while serving in an official capacity, EXCLUDING materials determined to be personal. a. Records containing substantive information relating to official activities, the substance of which has not been incorporated into official files, EXCLUDING records relating to the official activities of high government officials (see note). Destroy or delete when 2 years old. [ Note: High level officials include the heads of departments and independent agencies; their deputies and assistants; the heads of program offices and staff offices including assistant secretaries, administrators, and commissioners; directors of offices, bureaus, or equivalent; principal regional officials; staff assistants to those aforementioned officials, such as special assistants, confidential assistants, and administrative assistants; and career Federal employees, political appointees, and officers of the Armed Forces serving in equivalent or comparable positions. Unique substantive records relating to the activities of these individuals must be scheduled by submission of an SF 115 to NARA. b. Records documenting routine activities containing no substantive information and records containing substantive information, the substance of which has been incorporated into organized files. Destroy or delete when no longer needed. [ Note: GRS 20, item 3, authorizes deletion of electronic records described by subitems a and b of this item.] Item 6. Suspense Files. Documents arranged in chronological order as a reminder that an action is required on a given date or that a reply to action is expected and, if not received, should be traced on a given date. a. A note or other reminder to take action. Destroy after action is taken. b. The file copy or an extra copy of an outgoing communication, filed by the date on which a reply is expected. Withdraw documents when reply is received. (1) If suspense copy is an extra copy, destroy immediately. (2) If suspense copy is the file copy, incorporate it into the official files. Item 7. Transitory Files. Documents of short-term interest which have no documentary or evidential value and normally need not be kept more than 90 days. Examples of transitory correspondence are shown below. a. Routine requests for information or publications and copies of replies which require no administrative action, no policy decision, and no special compilation or research for reply. b. Originating office copies of letters of transmittal that do not add any information to that contained in the transmitted material, and receiving office copy if filed separately from transmitted material. c. Quasi-official notices including memoranda and other records that do not serve as the basis of official actions, such as notices of holidays or charity and welfare fund appeals, bond campaigns, and similar records. Destroy when 3 months old, or when no longer needed, whichever is sooner. Item 8. Tracking and Control Records. Logs, registers, and other records used to control or document the status of correspondence, reports, or other records that are authorized for destruction by the GRS or a NARA-approved SF 115. Destroy or delete when no longer needed. Item 9. Finding Aids (or Indexes). Indexes, lists, registers, and other finding aids used only to provide access to records authorized for destruction by the GRS or a NARA-approved SF 115, EXCLUDING records containing abstracts or other information that can be used as an information source apart from the related records. Destroy or delete with the related records or sooner if no longer needed. Dated: October 6, 1994. Trudy Huskcamp Peterson, Acting Archivist of the United States. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25560 Filed 10&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7515&hyph;01&hyph;P
