FR940825-1-00090 FR940825-1-00008 (G) Hearing to be recorded. The applicant shall be entitled to have the hearing recorded by audiotape (a transcript of the hearing may, but is not required to, be provided by the IHA); and (H) Hearing decision. The IHA shall provide the applicant with a written final decision, based solely on the facts presented at the hearing within 14 days of the date of the informal hearing. The decision shall state basis for the decision. (p) Judicial relief. A decision against a family member under the INS appeal process or the IHA informal hearing process does not preclude the family from exercising the right, that may otherwise be available, to seek redress directly through judicial procedures. (q) Retention of documents. The IHA shall retain for a minimum of 5 years the following documents that may have been submitted to the IHA by the family or provided to the IHA as part of the INS appeal or the IHA informal hearing process: (1) The application for financial assistance; (2) The form completed by the family for income re-examination; (3) Photocopies of any original documents (front and back), including original INS documents; (4) The signed verification consent form; (5) The INS verification results; (6) The request for an INS appeal; (7) The final INS determination; (8) The request for an IHA informal hearing; and (9) The final hearing decision. (r) Preservation of mixed families and other families. (1) Assistance available for mixed families. (i) Assistance available for tenant mixed families. For a mixed family assisted under a section 214 covered program on [ insert the effective date of the final rule ], one of the following three types of assistance may be available to the family: (A) Continued assistance (see paragraph (r)(2) of this section); (B) Prorated assistance (see paragraph (s) of this section); or (C) Temporary deferral of termination of assistance (see paragraph (r)(3) of this section). (ii) Assistance available for applicant mixed families. Prorated assistance is also available for mixed families applying for assistance, as provided in paragraph (s) of this section. (iii) Assistance available to other families in occupancy. For families receiving assistance under a Section 214 covered program on the [ insert the effective date of the final rule ] and who have no members with eligible immigration status, the IHA may grant the family temporary deferral of termination of assistance. (2) Continued assistance. A mixed family may receive continued housing assistance if all of the following conditions are met: (i) The family was receiving assistance under a section 214 covered program on [ insert the effective date of the final rule ]; (ii) The family's head of household or spouse has eligible immigration status as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section; and (iii) The family does not include any person (who does not have eligible immigration status) other than the head of household, any spouse of the head of household, any parents of the head of household, any parents of the spouse, or any children of the head of household or spouse. (3) Temporary deferral of termination of assistance. (i) Eligibility for this type of assistance. If a mixed family qualifies for prorated assistance (and does not qualify for continued assistance), but decides not to accept prorated assistance, or if a family has no members with eligible immigration status, the family may be eligible for temporary deferral of termination of assistance if necessary to permit the family additional time for the orderly transition of those family members with ineligible status, and any other family members involved, to other affordable housing. Other affordable housing is used in the context of transition of an ineligible family from a rent level that reflects HUD assistance to a rent level that is unassisted; the term refers to housing that is not substandard, that is of appropriate size for the family and that can be rented for an amount not exceeding the amount that the family pays for rent, including utilities, plus 25 percent. (ii) Time limit on deferral period. If temporary deferral of termination of assistance is granted, the deferral period shall be for an initial period not to exceed six months. The initial period may be renewed for additional periods of six months, but the aggregate deferral period shall not exceed a period of three years. (iii) Notification requirements for beginning of each deferral period. At the beginning of each deferral period, the IHA must inform the family of its ineligibility for financial assistance and offer the family information concerning, and referrals to assist in finding, other affordable housing. (iv) Determination of availability of affordable housing at end of each deferral period. Before the end of each deferral period, the IHA must: (A) Make a determination of the availability of affordable housing of appropriate size based on evidence of conditions which when taken together will demonstrate an inadequate supply of affordable housing for the area in which the project is located, the CHAS (if applicable; CHAS refers to the Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy described in 24 CFR part 91), the IHA's own knowledge of the availability of affordable housing, and on evidence of the tenant family's efforts to locate such housing; and
