FR940907-2-00095 FR940907-2-00069 Pursuant to 10 CFR 73.55, the Commission may authorize a licensee to provide alternative measures for protection against radiological sabotage provided the licensee demonstrates that the alternative measures have ``the same high assurance objective'' and meet ``the general performance requirements'' of the regulation, and ``the overall level of system performance provides protection against radiological sabotage equivalent'' to that which would be provided by the regulation. Currently, unescorted access into protected areas of the Palo Verde units is controlled through the use of a photograph on a badge/keycard (hereafter, referred to as badge). The security officers at each entrance station use the photograph on the badge to visually identify the individual requesting access. The individual is then given the badge to allow access. The badges for both licensee employees and contractor personnel who have been granted unescorted access are issued upon entrance at each entrance/exist location and are returned upon exit. The badges are stored and are retrievable at each entrance/exist location. In accordance with 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5), contractor individuals are not allowed to take badges offsite. In accordance with the plants' physical security plans, neither licensee employees nor contractors are allowed to take badges offsite. Under the proposed system, each individual who is authorized for unescorted entry into protected areas would have the physical characteristics of his/her hand (hand geometry) registered with his/her badge number in the access control computer. Access is then controlled by the individual requesting access placing his/her badge into the card reader and his/her hand on a measuring surface, the computer then compares the hand geometry to the registered badge number. If the characteristics of the hand geometry stored in the computer match the badge number, access is granted. If the characteristics do not match, access is denied. This provides a nontransferable means of identifying that the individual possessing the badge is the individual who was granted unescorted access. It also provides a positive means of assuring that a stolen or lost badge could not be used to gain access, thus eliminating the need to issue and retrieve the badges while maintaining the same high level of assurance that access is granted to only authorized individuals. All other access processes, including search function capability, would remain the same. The system will not be used for persons requiring escorted access (i.e., visitors). The access process will continue to be under the observation of security personnel located within a hardened cubicle who have final control over the release of the entrance station turnstiles. A numbered picture badge identification system will continue to be used for all individuals who are authorized access to the protected area with escorts. Badges will continue to be displayed by all individuals while inside the protected area. The licensee will use the hand geometry equipment which will meet the detection probability of 90 percent with a 95 percent confidence level. Testing evaluated by Sandia National Laboratory (Sandia report entitled ``A Performance Evaluation of Biometric Identification Devices,'' SAND91&hyph;0276 UC&hyph;906 Unlimited Release, Printed June 1991), demonstrated that the proposed hand geometry system is capable of meeting the proposed detection probability and confidence level. Based upon the results of the Sandia report and on its experience with the current photo-identification system, the proposed system will have a false acceptance rate less than the current system. The Physical Security Plans for the site will be revised to include implementation and testing of the hand geometry access control system and to allow licensee employees and contractors to take their badges offsite. IV For the foregoing reasons, pursuant to 10 CFR 73.55, the NRC staff has determined that the proposed alternative measures for protection against radiological sabotage meet ``the same high assurance objective,'' and ``the general performance requirements'' of the regulation and that ``the overall level of system performance provides protection against radiological sabotage equivalent'' to that which would be provided by the regulation. Accordingly, the Commission has determined that, pursuant to 10 CFR 73.5, an exemption is authorized by law, will not endanger life or property or common defense and security, and is otherwise in the public interest. Therefore, the Commission hereby grants Arizona Public Service Company an exemption from those requirements of 10 CFR 73.55(d)(5) relating to the returning of picture badges upon exit from the protected area such that individuals not employed by the licensee, i.e., contractors, who are authorized unescorted access into the protected area, can take their badges offsite. Pursuant to 10 CFR 51.32, the Commission has determined that the granting of this exemption will not result in any significant adverse environmental impact (59 FR 41519). This exemption is effective upon issuance. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Dated at Rockville, MD, this 31st day of August 1994. Jack W. Roe, Director, Division of Reactor Projects III/IV, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21969 Filed 9&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
