FR940627-0-00227 FR940627-0-00019 (D) Periodically submit to management and the study director written status reports on each study, noting any problems and the corrective actions taken. (E) Determine that no deviations from approved protocols or standard operating procedures were made without proper authorization and documentation. (F) Review the final study report to assure that such report accurately describes the methods and standard operating procedures, and that the reported results accurately reflect the raw data of the study. (G) Prepare and sign a statement to be included with the final study report which shall specify the dates inspections were made and findings reported to management and to the study director. (ii) The responsibilities and procedures applicable to the quality assurance unit, the records maintained by the quality assurance unit, and the method of indexing such records shall be in writing and shall be maintained. These items including inspection dates, the study inspected, the phase or segment of the study inspected, and the name of the individual performing the inspection shall be made available for inspection to authorized employees or duly designated representatives of EPA. (iii) An authorized employee or a duly designated representative of EPA shall have access to the written procedures established for the inspection and may request test facility management to certify that inspections are being implemented, performed, documented, and followed up in accordance with this paragraph. (c) Facilities _(1) General. Each testing facility shall be of suitable size and construction to facilitate the proper conduct of studies. Testing facilities which are not completely located within an indoor controlled environment shall be of suitable location/proximity to facilitate the proper conduct of studies. Testing facilities shall be designed so that there is a degree of separation that will prevent any function or activity from having an adverse effect on the study. (2) Test system care facilities. (i) A testing facility shall have a sufficient number of animal rooms or other test system areas, as needed, to ensure proper separation of species or test systems, quarantine or isolation of animals or other test systems, and routine or specialized housing of animals or other test systems. (ii) A testing facility shall have a number of animal rooms or other test system areas separate from those described in paragraph (a) of this section to ensure isolation of studies being done with test systems or test, control, and reference substances known to be biohazardous, including volatile atmospheres and aerosols, radioactive materials, and infectious agents. The animal handling facility must operate under the supervision of a veterinarian. (iii) Separate areas shall be provided, as appropriate, for the diagnosis, treatment, and control of laboratory test system diseases. These areas shall provide effective isolation for the housing of test systems either known or suspected of being diseased, or of being carriers of disease, from other test systems. (iv) Facilities shall have proper provisions for collection and disposal of contaminated air, water, or other spent materials. When animals are housed, facilities shall exist for the collection and disposal of all animal waste and refuse or for safe sanitary storage of waste before removal from the testing facility. Disposal facilities shall be so provided and operated as to minimize vermin infestation, odors, disease hazards, and environmental contamination. (v) Facilities shall have provisions to regulate environmental conditions (e.g., temperature, humidity, day length, etc.) as specified in the protocol. (3) Test system supply/operation areas. (i) There shall be storage areas, as needed, for feed, bedding, supplies, and equipment. Storage areas for feed and bedding shall be separated from areas where the test systems are located and shall be protected against infestation or contamination. Perishable supplies shall be preserved by appropriate means. (ii) Separate laboratory space and other space shall be provided, as needed, for the performance of the routine and specialized procedures required by studies. (4) Facilities for handling test fuels and fuel/additive mixtures and reference substances. (i) As necessary to prevent contamination or mixups, there shall be separate areas for: (A) Receipt and storage of the test fuels and fuel/additive mixtures and reference substances; (B) Mixing of the test fuels, fuel/additive mixtures, and reference substances with a carrier, i.e. , liquid hydrocarbon; and (C) Storage of the test fuels, fuel/additive mixtures, and reference substance/carrier mixtures. (ii) Storage areas for test fuels and fuel/additive mixtures and reference substances and for reference mixtures shall be separate from areas housing the test systems and shall be adequate to preserve the identity, strength, purity, and stability of the substances and mixtures.
