FR941110-0-00037 FR941110-0-00016 Extended and Partial Extended Surveys In accordance with Sections 1819(g)(2)(B) and 1919 (g)(2)(B) of the Act, we proposed to require that, during an extended survey, the survey team must review and identify the policies and procedures for those provisions of the regulations that produced the substandard quality of care and must determine whether a facility complies with all requirements of participation. The extended survey must also include an expansion of the size of the sample of residents' assessments reviewed, a review of the staffing levels and staff inservice training, and, if appropriate, an examination of contracts with consultants. These provisions were incorporated in the proposed rule at §488.160 (Extended survey). Validation Surveys We proposed that the validation surveys must be conducted within 2 months of the date of the State's surveys and must be of sufficient number to allow inferences about the adequacy of the State's surveys. In addition, the Act requires us to conduct validation surveys in at least 5 percent of the SNFs and NFs surveyed by each State during the year but in no case less than 5 facilities in each State. The same protocol used for the standard or extended survey must be used for the validation survey. We proposed to incorporate these requirements in paragraph (a) of §488.166 (Validation surveys). In the proposed rule, we dealt with four other survey-related issues: Composition of Survey Teams At §488.164, we proposed that_ _Surveys must be conducted by a multidisciplinary team of professionals, which must include a registered nurse. _A surveyor is disqualified for surveying a particular facility if he or she currently serves or, within the previous 2 years has served as a member of the staff of, or as a consultant to that facility, or if a member of his or her immediate family has any financial interest or any direct or indirect ownership interest in that facility. Surveyors must receive comprehensive training, including the application and interpretation of regulations for SNFs and NFs, techniques and survey procedures for conducting standard and extended surveys; and techniques and survey procedures for auditing resident assessments and plans of care. Consistency of Surveys The proposed regulations at §488.162 specify that the State must conduct ongoing studies and analyses, and/or implement new programs to measure and improve consistency in survey results, such as validation of surveyor findings, and the application of enforcement remedies. The proposed regulations also specified that HCFA will perform the same tasks. Unannounced Surveys While sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(i) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(i) of the Act specifically require unannounced standard surveys, we proposed that all surveys, whether abbreviated, extended, follow-up, validation or otherwise, be unannounced and incorporated this provision in the proposed regulations at §488.157. When a survey agency is found to have notified a SNF or NF through its scheduling or procedural policies, we are authorized to apply appropriate sanctions for inadequate survey performance specified at the proposed §488.170 and described immediately below under the section entitled, ``Inadequate Survey Performance.'' Inadequate Survey Performance If we find, as a result of the validation surveys, that the State has failed to perform the standard and extended surveys properly or that the State's performance is otherwise inadequate, we are authorized to apply an appropriate sanction for inadequate survey performance. Section 1819(g)(3)(C) of the Act requires the Secretary to provide an appropriate remedy (which may include training) when the State has failed to perform surveys required under the Act or when the Secretary has decided survey performance is not otherwise adequate. At §488.170, we proposed the following remedies to be applied as appropriate: •For Medicaid facilities HCFA will_ +␣Reduce FFP and if appropriate, +␣Provide for training of survey teams. •For Medicare facilities HCFA will_ +␣Specify the inadequacy to the survey agency; +␣Require a plan of correction; +␣Provide for training of survey teams; +␣Provide technical assistance on scheduling and procedural policies; +␣Provide HCFA-directed scheduling; or +␣Initiate action to terminate the agreement between the Secretary and the State under section 1864 of the Act, either in whole or in part. G. Investigations of Allegations of Resident Neglect and Abuse and Misappropriation of Resident Property
