FR941222-0-00040 FR941222-0-00003 Response. Chapters 11 or 13 of Regulatory Guides 3.62 and 3.61, respectively, provide guidance on acceptable quality assurance programs. These chapters state that a QA program meeting the requirements of Appendix B of 10 CFR Part 50 or Subpart G of 10 CFR Part 72 will be accepted by NRC. Both Parts 50 and 72 require an audit program. An NRC Branch Technical Position titled ``Quality Assurance Programs for an Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation (ISFSI) 10 CFR 72,'' implements the NRC review of quality assurance programs submitted by applicants. NRC inspection reports are routinely placed in the PDR except for reports containing sensitive information. Inspection reports of NUHOMS fabrication are available in the PDR. O.3. Comment. One commenter wanted to know if any nonconformances have been discovered in inspection reports of any fabrication of the NUHOMS canister. If so, what? How was this resolved? How has the QA program for NUHOMS been reviewed? Is there a manual? How will contractors and subcontractors be checked? Response. A notice of nonconformance is documented in NRC Inspection Report No. 721004/93&hyph;07 dated August 23, 1993. The NRC staff conducted inspections in three phases at Duke Power Company, its contractor (Pacific Nuclear Fuel Services, Inc.) and subcontractor (Rancor, Inc.), concerning the QA activities with regard to the NUHOMS&hyph;24P dry spent fuel storage canisters. The NRC staff found that implementation of Duke Power Company QA Program was satisfactory, in general. However, certain NRC requirements under Subpart G of 10 CFR Part 72 were not met. QA activities cited in the inspection report were documentation of nonconforming materials, parts, or components; quality assurance records; control of purchased material, equipment, and services; control of measuring and test equipment; instructions, procedures, and drawings; licensee inspection; and audits. Nonconformance corrective actions were taken and documented by Duke Power Company. The NRC staff found these corrective actions acceptable and so stated in letters dated January 13, 1994, and April 4, 1994. The corrective actions taken and the implementation of the QA Program are reviewed in periodic inspections by the NRC staff. The latest version of the QA manual is ``VECTRA Technologies, Inc., Quality Assurance Manual,'' Revision 1, transmitted July 25, 1994, which reflects the corporation's new name and organization and includes additional changes to update the manual and clarify QA recordkeeping commitments. The NRC staff found Revision 1 acceptable and so stated in its letter dated August 23, 1994. In its review, the NRC staff compared Revision 1 of the VECTRA QA Manual with Revision 3, Edition 2, of the PNSI QA manual, which the NRC staff found acceptable by letter dated January 28, 1993. Contractors and subcontractors of cask vendors (or licensees) are subject to periodic QA inspections performed by the NRC staff. O.4. Comment. One commenter wanted to know if there is a possible problem, and if there was, how it was resolved, with a material defect in Swagelok tube fittings for NUHOMS? Response. The NRC is not aware of any material defect problem with Swagelok tube fittings on NUHOMS designs. There is no reliance on the Swagelok fittings as part of the confinement boundary for the NUHOMS canister. The fittings are covered by a metal plate that is welded on after the canister is vacuum dried. Therefore, if there is a failure in the fitting it would be the responsibility of the licensee to repair or replace it so that the DSC can be loaded properly, but its failure would not cause a public health and safety concern.
