FR940803-1-00016 FR940803-1-00004 2. Examples. Examples include: Food and refreshments at annual meetings, member functions, and branch openings Travel club benefits Prizes offered at annual meetings, such as U.S. Savings bonds, a deposit of funds into the winner's account, trips, and other gifts. Such prizes are not bonuses because they are offered as an incentive to increase attendance at the annual meeting, and not to entice members to open, maintain, or renew accounts or increase an account balance. Life savings benefits (s) Passbook account 1. Relation to Regulation E. Passbook accounts include accounts accessed by preauthorized electronic fund transfers to the account (as defined in 12 CFR §205.2(j)), such as an account credited by direct share and deposit of social security payments. Accounts that permit access by other electronic means are not ``passbook accounts,'' and any statements that are sent four or more times a year must comply with the requirements of §707.6. (t) Periodic statement 1. General. Passbook and term share accounts are exempt from periodic statement requirements. 2. Examples. Periodic statements do not include: Additional statements provided solely upon request Information provided by computer through home electronic credit union services General service information such as a quarterly newsletter or other correspondence that describes available services and products 3. Regulation E interplay. Credit unions need not, but may treat any Regulation E statements as periodic statements for part 707 purposes. For credit unions that choose not to treat Regulation E activity statements as part 707 periodic statements, the quarterly periodic statement must reflect the annual percentage yield earned and dividends earned for the full quarter. However, credit unions choosing this option need not redisclose fees already disclosed on an interim Regulation E activity statement on the quarterly periodic statement. For credit unions that choose to treat Regulation E activity statements as part 707 periodic statements, the Regulation E statement must meet all part 707 requirements. 4. Account status information. Credit unions may provide the account number, the type of account, and balance information for an account on a periodic statement given for another account. This allows members to receive information on their accounts either not covered by the periodic statement disclosure requirements (passbook and term share accounts) or accounts on different statement cycles (e.g., ``status information'' could be provided on a share draft monthly periodic statement for a share money market account on a quarterly periodic statement cycle). However, providing information other than the balance in an account (such as dividend rate or annual percentage yield earned information) would require the credit union to give full disclosures for the ``status information'' account on the piggybacked statement. (See commentary to §707.6(a)). 5. Use of ledger and collected balance to calculate Annual Percentage Yield Earned. Ledger balance means the record of the balance in a member's account, as per the credit union's records. (The ledger balance may reflect additions and deposits for which the credit union has not yet received final payment). Collected balance means the record of balance in a member's account reflecting collected funds, that is, cash or checks deposited in the credit union which have been presented for payment and for which payment has actually been received. (See Regulation CC, 12 CFR §229.14). The method used by a credit union to accrue or pay dividends or interest on noncash deposits must be the same method used to determine the annual percentage yield earned. For example, a credit union using the collected balance method must use the collected balance method to determine the annual percentage yield earned. (u) Potential member. 1. General. A potential member is a natural person eligible for membership in a credit union, who has not yet taken the steps necessary to make himself or herself a member. The term also includes natural person nonmembers eligible to hold accounts in a credit union pursuant to relevant federal or state law. 2. Verification of eligibility. All credit unions should have sound written procedures in place to identify those eligible for membership. If these procedures include verification measures, such as an application process, verification telephone call or letter to an employer or association within the field of membership, witnessing by an existing member, or similar procedure, then the credit union may first verify the membership eligibility of a potential member before sending account disclosures or other information to the potential member. This process of verifying a member's eligibility status, making a recommendation for membership, and providing account disclosures should be completed within 20 calendar days. 3. Nonmembers. Within its sole discretion, the board of directors of a credit union may provide TISA disclosures to nonmembers who are ineligible for membership or to hold an account at the credit union. If disclosures are made to such nonmembers, it is the position of the Board that no civil liability can accrue to the credit union for any errors in such disclosures. (See commentary to §707.3(d)). (v) State 1. General. Territories and possessions include American Samoa, Guam, the Mariana Islands, and the Marshall Islands. (w) Stepped-rate account
