FR940616-2-00040 FR940616-2-00028 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Proposed Information Collection Requests AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed information collection requests. SUMMARY: The Acting Director, Information Resources Management Service, invites comments on the proposed information collection requests as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. DATES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments on or before July 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attention: Dan Chenok: Desk Officer, Department of Education, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW., room 3208, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. Requests for copies of the proposed information collection requests should be addressed to Patrick J. Sherrill, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 5624, Regional Office Building 3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4651. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrick J. Sherrill (202) 708&hyph;8196. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 3517 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. chapter 35) requires that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) provide interested Federal agencies and the public an early opportunity to comment on information collection requests. OMB may amend or waive the requirement for public consultation to the extent that public participation in the approval process would defeat the purpose of the information collection, violate State or Federal law, or substantially interfere with any agency's ability to perform its statutory obligations. The Acting Director of the Information Resources Management Service, publishes this notice containing proposed information collection requests prior to submission of these requests to OMB. Each proposed information collection, grouped by office, contains the following: (1) Type of review requested, e.g., new, revision, extension, existing or reinstatement; (2) Title; (3) Frequency of collection; (4) The affected public; (5) Reporting burden; and/or (6) Recordkeeping burden; and (7) Abstract. OMB invites public comment at the address specified above. Copies of the requests are available from Patrick J. Sherrill at the address specified above. Dated: June 10, 1994. Mary P. Liggett, Acting Director, Information Resources Management Service. Office of Postsecondary Equation Type of Review: Extension. Title: Certification of Project Costs for College Facilities Programs. Frequency: One time. Affected Public: Non-profit institutions. Reporting Burden: Responses: 50. Burden Hours: 50. Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 0. Burden Hours: 0. Abstract: The collected information is used to determine the eligibility of costs claimed in conjunction with construction projects supported by the various college facilities construction programs. Without this information, the federal government cannot appropriately limit the amount of legitimate costs incurred under these programs. The information is necessary to determine the final approval amount of the loan or grant to protect the federal interest. Office of Postsecondary Education Type of Review: Reinstatement. Title: Performance Report for the Robert C. Byrd Honors Scholarship Program. Frequency: Annually. Affected Public: State or local governments. Reporting Burden: Responses: 59. Burden Hours: 59. Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 59. Burden Hours: 89. Abstract: This performance report is used by State educational agencies that have participated in the Robert C. Byrd Honors Scholarship Program. The Department will use the information to assess the accomplishments of project goals and objectives and to aid in effective program management. Office of the Under Secretary Type of Review: New. Title: Direct Loan Program Evaluation. Frequency: Annually. Affected Public: State or local governments; Non-profit institutions; Small businesses or organizations. Reporting Burden: Responses: 104. Burden Hours: 52. Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 0. Burden Hours: 0. Abstract: This survey will allow for the identification of baseline performance indicators and measures. The Department will use the information to report to Congress. Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs Type of Review: Reinstatement. Title: Application for Continuation Grants Under Bilingual Education Programs. Frequency: Annually. Affected Public: State or local governments; Non-profit institutions. Reporting Burden: Responses: 975. Burden Hours: 39,000. Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 0. Burden Hours: 0. Abstract: This form will be used by State Educational agencies to apply for funding under the Bilingual Education Programs. The Department will use the information to make grant awards. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14595 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;M
