FR941205-2-00131 FR941205-2-00073 a. Principal Benefit Certification. NAHA amended section 101(c) of the HCD Act to require that at least 70 percent of the CDBG assistance provided over a specified period must be used for activities that principally benefit low- and moderate-income persons. Applicants must certify that CDBG assistance will be used as required by the amended section 101(c). The principal benefit certification has been revised to incorporate this change from 60 percent to 70 percent. b. Program Income. In determining the applicability of CDBG requirements to the use of program income, section 804 of the 1992 Act removes any consideration of whether the grantee is still participating in the CDBG program. This means that program income generated from projects funded in FY 1993 and thereafter will always be subject to all of the CDBG requirements. c. Microenterprise and Small Business Development. Section 807(c) of the 1992 Act defines a ``small business'' as one that meets the criteria set forth in section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)), and defines a ``microenterprise'' as a commercial enterprise having five or fewer employees, one or more of whom own the enterprise. Additionally, section 807(c) of the 1992 Act provides that in the provision of assistance under ยง570.203(b) to for-profit microenterprises and small businesses, HUD will not consider the use of CDBG funds for training, technical assistance, and other support costs provided to such entities to be planning or administrative costs. (Section 807(c) also directs HUD not to consider CDBG funds as being used for a planning or administrative activity when the funds are used to pay costs to develop the capacity of the grantee (or a subrecipient) to provide training, technical assistance or other support services to small businesses or microenterprises. Consequently_since these activities are not to be considered as planning or administrative activities_they are subject to compliance with the national objective requirements.) d. Lump Sum Drawdowns. The use of lump sum drawdowns for residential rehabilitation has been re-authorized for CDBG funds appropriated after Fiscal Year 1992. e. Eligible Activities. (1) Changes Affecting Existing Categories. (a) Assistance to For-Profit Businesses. Section 806(b) of the 1992 Act amends section 105(a) of the HCD Act so that CDBG assistance provided to for-profit businesses is not limited to activities for which no other forms of assistance are available, or to activities that could not be accomplished, but for that assistance. (b) Direct Homeownership Assistance. NAHA amended section 105(a) of the HCD Act to provide that CDBG funds can be used to provide direct assistance to facilitate and expand homeownership among persons of low- and moderate-income. Under this provision, CDBG funds may be used to: subsidize interest rates and mortgage principal amounts for low- and moderate-income homebuyers; finance the acquisition by low- and moderate-income homebuyers of housing that is occupied by the homebuyers; acquire guarantees for mortgage financing obtained by low- and moderate-income homebuyers from private lenders (except that assistance under Title I of the HCD Act may not be used by recipients or subrecipients to guarantee mortgage financing directly); provide up to 50 percent of the downpayment required from low- and moderate-income buyers; and pay reasonable closing costs normally associated with the purchase of a home incurred by a low- and moderate-income homebuyer. While this provision was set to expire on October 1, 1993, it has been extended to October 1, 1994 by section 807(b) of the 1992 Act, with authority for HUD to extend the date for an additional year. HUD published a notice in the Federal Register on September 30, 1994 to officially extend the expiration date to October 1, 1995. Under the terms of this provision, the locality must commit funds to a specific homeowner prior to October 1, 1995.
