FR941220-0-00019 FR941220-0-00005 Comment: One commenter requested that we remove the current requirement that psychiatric nursing services be furnished under a plan of care established and periodically reviewed by a psychiatrist (see section 205.1(B)(15) of the Medicare HHA Manual). The commenter believed that this requirement made it difficult for some beneficiaries who do not have access to a psychiatrist to receive needed care from a psychiatrically trained nurse. The commenter also requested that we include several examples of covered psychiatric nursing care. Response: With regard to the requirement that a psychiatrist establish and review plans of care for psychiatric nursing services, we agree with the commenter's concerns. We have not included a similar requirement in this rule and intend to revise the requirements contained in the HHA Manual. We do not believe that this rule is the appropriate place to include specific examples of skilled nursing care. However, we do intend to include several examples of covered psychiatric nursing services in the revisions to the Medicare HHA Manual that will follow the publication of this rule. Comment: One commenter requested that the phrase ``standards of medical practice'' in proposed §409.44(b)(2)(i) of this section be revised to read ``standards of practice'' to recognize the standards that have been developed by therapy professionals. Response: We have not accepted this comment. We do not believe that the phrase ``standards of medical practice'' excludes those standards developed by therapy professionals. We require covered therapy services also to be considered specific, safe, and effective treatment under the appropriate therapy standards of practice. Comment: One commenter stated that the coverage requirements of proposed §409.44(b)(2)(ii) (which describes the level of complexity and sophistication of covered services) are too restrictive. The commenter believed that Medicare should cover any services that ``fall within the scope of the licensed professional.'' Response: We do not agree with the commenter. We believe that such a vague and general policy would result in Medicare paying for many services that do not necessarily require the skills of a licensed therapist to be performed safely and effectively. For example, assisting a patient with simple transfers could be performed safely and effectively by a physical therapist, but it should not be covered as a skilled therapy service because it could also be furnished safely and effectively by a home health aide. We believe that the provisions of this paragraph ensure that Medicare will pay only for those services which require the skills of a licensed therapist to be performed safely and effectively. Comment: One commenter stated that the requirement of §409.44(c)(2)(iii) that ``there must be an expectation that the beneficiary's condition will improve materially in a reasonable (and generally predictable) period of time *␣*␣*'' is too vague. The commenter specifically recommended that we delete the word ``materially'' from the paragraph. Response: We have not accepted this comment. We consider ``material'' improvement to be improvement to a significant degree or extent. This requirement ensures that Medicare will cover only those therapy services that are actually contributing to the treatment of the patient's illness or injury. Such a requirement cannot be completely precise in its application to all possible situations and its application does depend somewhat on the discretion of the intermediary. However, we believe that the requirement of this paragraph is reasonable and understandable. We also point out that this is a longstanding policy that is currently contained in the Medicare HHA Manual at section 205.2(A)(5).
