FR940406-0-00104 FR940406-0-00011 Comments were received on both sides of this issue. The manufacturers supported the test temperature specifications discussed at the July 1993 hearing. They believed these specifications would enable the canisters planned for meeting the enhanced evaporative emission requirements to also capture refueling emissions and would facilitate the use of liquid seals as an option to mechanical seals in the fillneck. Manufacturers commented that this would provide much needed design flexibility and alleviate their safety concerns. The American Petroleum Institute (API) and the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC) supported the 81 ○&hyph;84 ○F dispensed temperature range proposed earlier. They expressed concern that 67 ○F is not representative of actual dispensed fuel temperatures on high ozone days and therefore might lead to a situation where the test procedure does not adequately represent in-use conditions with the result that refueling emissions are controlled inadequately in use. EPA's goal in establishing test parameters is to ensure that the combination of test conditions results in designs that will achieve a very high level of control in use. Therefore, the representativeness of any one test parameter, such as dispensed fuel temperature, is of less concern than the net effect of the total test. For example, in-use RVPs in many parts of the nation during the summer months are lower than that specified in the test. What is important is the combined effects of the key parameters during an in-use refueling event. EPA's analysis of in-use effectiveness described in the Regulatory Impact Analysis and Summary and Analysis of Comments indicates that these test conditions will yield designs that achieve in-use control in excess of 95 percent during the ozone season in the NAAs (even assuming the accuracy of data showing that one region of the country has dispensed fuel temperatures within or exceeding the 81 ○&hyph;84 ○F range, a potentially questionable assumption, as explained in the next paragraph). Based on this analysis and the manufacturers' comments, EPA has concluded that the test specifications being finalized in this action are appropriate. The dispensed gasoline temperature parameter discussed in the NPRM was derived using limited survey information on in-use refueling events. The 81 ○&hyph;84 ○F dispensed temperature value in the NPRM was driven by refueling events in the Southeastern U.S. These dispensed fuel temperature values are seven or more degrees higher than any other region of the country. There is no obvious technical reason why the Southeastern U.S. values were so much higher than those found in other regions of the country. Thus, there is some possibility that they may be unrepresentative, in which case the ␣␣␣␣ 67 ○F temperature used in the refueling test is even more representative. (EPA is not completely disavowing the Southeastern U.S dispensed fuel data, since it is the only data available to EPA at this time. The Summary and Analysis of Comments contains an analysis of the sensitivity of the in-use effectiveness of the ORVR requirement to this dispensed temperature value.) 2. Integrated System Preconditioning The nature of integrated systems allows for a corresponding integration of ORVR and evaporative emission preconditioning procedures. This integration is desirable because of potential test resource savings. A major revision of the evaporative emission test procedure was completed recently and will be implemented beginning in the 1996 model year (58 FR 16002, March 24, 1993). EPA proposed three integrated system preconditioning options for the refueling test in the May 1993 Federal Register notice. Option A places the refueling test after the exhaust emissions portion of the supplemental evaporative emissions test procedure. Option B places the refueling test after the running loss portion of the evaporative emissions test sequence. As a logical extension to this option, EPA also proposed Option B1, which adds more driving to Option A in order to allow for more purging of the canister, similar to Option B, while avoiding the complexities of the Option B running loss procedure. EPA has selected Option B1, based on the above-described advantages and the support for this choice expressed by commenters. This procedure follows the supplemental evaporative emission test preconditioning procedure, involving an initial fuel tank drain and fill with certification test fuel to 40 percent full, a 12 to 36 hour soak at 68 ○ to 86 ○F (20 ○ to 30 ○C), a preconditioning drive over one Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule (UDDS) cycle, another fuel tank drain and fill to 40 percent, a canister preconditioning step detailed below, and then the exhaust emissions test. At this point the refueling test departs from the evaporative test sequence. Instead, additional driving is conducted to provide more opportunity for canister purge. This driving consists of a UDDS cycle followed by two New York City Cycles (NYCC) and then by another UDDS. This driving schedule corresponds to the driving specified for the evaporative running loss test, though not at the same high temperatures. After the driving, the above-described refueling procedure is conducted.
