FR940406-0-00066 FR940406-0-00005 ยง90.3 Definitions. (a) Closure. All missions of the base have ceased or have been relocated. All personnel (military, civilian and contractor) have either been eliminated or relocated, except for personnel required for caretaking and disposal of the base or personnel remaining in authorized enclaves. (b) Base realignment and closure cleanup plan. A plan for the expeditious environmental cleanup necessary to facilitate conveyance of the property to communities for economic redevelopment. (c) Base realignment and closure cleanup team. A team established for each DoD closing or realigning base where property is available for transfer to the community. The team has the authority, responsibility, and accountability for environmental cleanup programs at these installations, emphasizing those actions which are necessary to facilitate reuse and redevelopment. (d) Realignment. Any action that both reduces and relocates functions and DoD civilian personnel positions, but does not include a reduction in force resulting from workload adjustments, reduced personnel or funding levels, skill imbalances, or other similar cause. A realignment may terminate the DoD requirement for the land and facilities on part of an installation. That part of the installation shall be treated as ``closed'' for purposes of this part. (e) Redevelopment authority. Any entity, including an entity established by a State or local government, recognized by the Secretary of Defense as the entity responsible for developing the redevelopment plan with respect to the installation and for directing implementation of the plan. ยง90.4 Policy. It is DoD policy to: (a) Help communities impacted by base closures achieve rapid economic recovery through effective reuse of the assets of closing bases_more quickly, more effectively and in ways based on local market conditions and locally developed reuse plans_by implementing the President's Five-Part Plan that encourages: (1) Transferring real and personal property expeditiously to local redevelopment authorities and in ways that enhance economic development and job creation or other public benefits. This can best be accomplished by: (i) Making transfers of property to a redevelopment authority for economic development affordable, when necessary to foster community redevelopment plans. The use of existing public benefit conveyances should be considered, where appropriate, before the use of a public benefit conveyance for economic development. (ii) Accelerating the property screening process early in the disposal process to determine other potential Federal uses of the property, including the identification of the needs of homeless providers. This will determine how much of the property is available for early economic development and/or other community reuse. (iii) Informing communities, as early as possible after the base closure decision is final, if an installation will be considered for ``economic development'' conveyances under Pub. L. No. 103&hyph;160, Title XXIX and will not be offered for sale, instead. Such decisions shall be based on a determination that the existence of a ready market for the property indicates that public or private developers can not be relied upon as the preferable mechanism to spur economic redevelopment and the creation of new jobs. (iv) Encouraging interim leases at less than the estimated fair market value in order to facilitate State or local economic redevelopment efforts.
