FR940617-1-00070 FR940617-1-00012 21. Two comments objected to the proposed warning statement in ยง333.92(c)(6) for concentrated products containing quaternary ammonium compounds, which states, ``Dilute with distilled water before use because acidic or hard water may render the product inactive.'' One comment contended that this proposed warning is prejudicial to the quaternary ammonium products that can act in acidic or hard water and noted that the existence of quaternary ammonium compounds that can act as antimicrobials in acidic or hard water was recognized in the tentative final monograph (43 FR 1210 at 1219). The comment recommended that the labeling of products containing quaternary ammonium compounds include a statement, based on appropriate laboratory tests, about the ability of the product to perform in acidic solutions and the amount of water hardness (described as parts per million (ppm) calcium carbonate) in which the product will continue to be effective. The other comment stated that several concentrated quaternary ammonium compounds (e.g., 50 percent benzalkonium chloride, U.S.P.) registered with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) conform with the hard-water tolerance requirements and therefore can maintain activity at a water-hardness level of 600 ppm. The comment also stated that pH must be reduced below 3.5 before the effectiveness of quaternary ammonium compounds is decreased to any significant extent (Ref. 1). The comment concluded that, because normal potable water supplies do not approach these levels for either hardness or acidity, the requirement in proposed ยง333.92(c)(6) for diluting only with distilled water is inappropriate and needless. In the tentative final monograph, the agency acknowledged that hard water and acidity reduce the antimicrobial activity of quaternary ammonium compounds, but that there are some newer synthesized quaternary ammonium compounds that are not adversely affected by hard water and acidity (43 FR 1210 at 1218, 1219, and 1236). However, these newer quaternary ammonium compounds (e.g., a mixture of three benzalkonium halide compounds with varying chain lengths), while structurally related to benzalkonium chloride, benzethonium chloride, and methylbenzethonium chloride (the quaternary ammonium compounds which the Antimicrobial I Panel reviewed and which the agency proposed as Category III), were not reviewed or categorized by the Panel or the agency and are not included in this rulemaking. (See comment 58, 43 FR 1210 at 1219.) Further, the agency notes that the 50 percent quaternary ammonium concentrates that conform with EPA standards are intended for germicidal uses and not for the antiseptic uses that are being considered in this rulemaking. The agency is aware that studies have shown that effects of acidic water on quaternary ammonium compounds occur only at dilutions containing less than the dosage concentration proposed in the tentative final monograph (Ref. 2). Higher concentrations minimize quaternary ammonium compound inactivation due to pH change (Ref. 3). However, it is well known that natural water supplies in different areas differ in acidity and hardness. As a precautionary measure, FDA believes that concentrates of the ingredients considered in this rulemaking should be diluted in distilled water by consumers and health-care professionals, because information about water pH or hardness in any given area is not usually known. Diluting the concentrated quaternary ammonium compound products addressed in this rulemaking with distilled water ensures that inactivating factors are not encountered. Therefore, the agency proposes to retain the warning statement, ``Dilute with distilled water before use because acidic or hard water may render the product inactive,'' for diluting any Category I quaternary ammonium concentrate. However, because all the quaternary ammonium compounds remain in Category III at this time, the warning statement is not being included in this tentative final monograph. References (1) Lawrence, C. A., ``Surface-Active Quaternary Ammonium Germicides,'' Academic Press Inc., New York, pp. 76&hyph;79, 1950. (2) Kundsin, R. B., ``Investigations on Dynamics of Bactericidal Action of Two Quaternary Ammonium Salts,'' Archives of Surgery, 81:789&hyph;797, 1960. (3) Soike, K. F., D. D. Miller, and P. R. Ellikerr, ``Effect of pH of Solution on Germicidal Activity of Quaternary Ammonium Compounds,'' Journal of Dairy Science, 35:764&hyph;771, 1952.
