FR941006-1-00132 FR941006-1-00016 FDA also recognizes that the warning needs to be crafted to reflect the type of packaging used. Iron-containing products may be packaged in unit-dose packages, e.g., blister packs, or in containers with closures, e.g., a bottle with a cap. FDA tentatively concludes that for iron-containing products packaged in unit-dose packages, the warning statement should include the instruction ``Keep in original package until each use.'' This statement instructs the user not to misuse the product by removing more dosage units from their individual packs than will be ingested at one time. This instruction is important because such misuse can result in poisoning if children gain access to the dosage units that have been removed from their original packaging. This instruction was not specifically requested by any of the petitions. Because some incidents of pediatric iron poisoning have occurred after adults removed multiple dosage units from their original containers and stored them in nonchild-resistant vessels (see section I.C. of this document), however, the agency tentatively concludes that this statement is necessary to ensure that the product is properly used. The agency concurs with the NDMA petition that the statement ``Close Tightly'' should be included in the warning statement for containers with closures. Such a statement provides information on how to maintain the child-resistance of the container. FDA finds that this message is a material fact. FDA bases this finding, in part, on the fact that some incidents of iron poisoning have occurred even though the product was in child-resistant packaging. Children were able to gain access to iron products because the child-resistant closure was not properly secured (See section I.C. of this document). Thus, to ensure that iron-containing products are used safely, the child-resistance of the packaging must be maintained, and FDA tentatively concludes that inclusion of the statement ``Close Tightly'' is necessary to ensure that condition of use is maintained. FDA also tentatively concludes that the label must include the information ``Contains iron, which can harm or cause death to a child.'' This statement informs the user or the serious and potentially life-threatening nature of the consequences that can occur when a child ingests an uncontrolled amount of these products.
