FR941202-0-00070 FR941202-0-00010 Several commenters to the proposed rule in recognizing this burden noted that the rule was complex and difficult to understand, and suggested that additional guidance be provided, particularly for small businesses. To address these concerns the Emission Standards Division and the Small Business Assistance Program are developing a brochure to summarize this rule, and will be developing a guidance manual scheduled to be published in January 1995. This manual will include a detailed summary of the rule, example forms for reporting and recordkeeping, to alleviate at least in part the paperwork burden, and additional material for evaluating alternative cleaning technologies. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspects of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to Chief, Information Policy Branch (2/36), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St. SW., Washington, DC 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for the EPA.'' C. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of the Executive Order, OMB has notified EPA that it considers this a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of the Executive Order. The EPA has submitted this action to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record. D. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (or RFA, Pub. L. 96&hyph;354, September 19, 1980) requires Federal agencies to give special consideration to the impact of regulation on small businesses. The RFA specifies that a final regulatory flexibility analysis must be prepared if a proposed regulation will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. To determine whether a final RFA is required, a screening analysis, otherwise known as an initial RFA, is necessary. Regulatory impacts are considered significant if: (1) Annual compliance costs increase total costs of production by more than 5 percent; or
