FR940512-2-00090 FR940512-2-00053 IV Remedies Available to Potential Litigants Section 4 of the Clayton Act, U.S.C. 15, provides that any person who has been injured as a result of conduct prohibited by the antitrust laws may bring suit in federal court to recover three times the damages the person has suffered, as well as costs and reasonable attorneys' fees. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment will neither impair nor assist the bringing of any private antitrust actions under the Clayton Act. Under the provisions of section 5(a) of the Clayton act, 15 U.S.C. 16(a), the proposed Final Judgment has no prima facie effect in any private lawsuit that may be brought against the defendants. V Procedures Available for Modification of the Proposed Final Judgment As provided by the APPA, any person believing that the proposed Final Judgment should be modified may submit written comments within the sixty (60) day period from the date of publication in the Federal Register to Richard L. Rosen, Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 555 Fourth Street, NW., room 8104, Washington, DC 20001. These comments, and the Department's responses, will be filed with the Court and published in the Federal Register . All comments will be given due consideration by the Department of Justice, which remains free to withdraw its consent at any time prior to entry. The proposed Final Judgment provides that the Court retains jurisdiction over these actions, and any party may apply to the Court for any order necessary or appropriate for their modification, interpretation or enforcement. VI Alternatives To the Proposed Final Judgment The United States considered, as an alternative to the proposed Final Judgment, litigation to enjoin the merger. The United States rejected that alternative because the relief in the proposed Final Judgment should prevent the possible occurrence of conduct the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition in the provision of video programming to MSTDs in the United States or competition among MSTDs in the geographic areas in which Defendants have cable systems. Moreover, the terms of the proposed Final Judgment are supplemented by the provisions of the 1992 Cable Act and its implementing FCC regulations, as well as the judgments in the Primestar cases. Under these circumstances, seeking to enjoin the merger would only prevent the two firms from achieving the economic efficiencies that may result from vertical integration and, given their history and present circumstances, eliminating the cost imposed by their legal separation into separate firms. VII Determinative Documents No documents were determinative in the formulation of the proposed Final Judgment. Consequently, the United States has not attached any such document to the proposed Final Judgment. N. Scott Sacks, Patricia A. Shapiro, Kevin C. Quin, Nancy Dickinson, Susanna M. Zwerling, Trial Attorneys, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11572 Filed 5&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
