FR941006-1-00037 FR941006-1-00008 (c) Payment. (1) Interest computation and payment dates. Interest on a certificate will be computed on an annual basis and will be paid at maturity with the principal. Interest on a note or bond will be paid semiannually. The subscriber will specify the first interest payment date, which must occur any time between 30 days and one year of the date of issue, and the final interest payment date must coincide with the maturity date of the security. Interest for other than a full semiannual interest period is computed on the basis of a 365-day or 366-day year (for certificates) and on the basis of the exact number of days in the half-year (for notes and bonds). See appendix to subpart E of part 306 of this chapter for rules regarding computation of interest. (2) Method of payment. For securities for which subscriptions are submitted on or after February 1, 1987, payment will only be made by the Automated Clearing House method (ACH) for the owner's account at a financial institution designated by the owner. To the extent applicable, provisions of ยง357.26 on ``Payments,'' as set forth in 31 CFR part 357 and provisions of 31 CFR part 370, shall govern ACH payments made under this offering. For securities for which subscriptions were submitted prior to February 1, 1987, payment will be made: (i) By a direct credit to a Federal Reserve Bank or Branch for the account of the financial institution servicing the investor; or (ii) By ACH for the owner's account at a financial institution; or (iii) By fiscal agency check; or (iv) In accordance with other prior arrangements made by the subscriber with the Bureau of the Public Debt. ยง344.3 Subscription for purchase. (a) Subscription requirements. Subscriptions for purchase of securities under this offering must be submitted to the Division of Special Investments, Bureau of the Public Debt, 200 Third Street, PO Box 396, Parkersburg, WV 26102&hyph;0396. Initial and final subscriptions may be submitted by facsimile equipment at (304) 480&hyph;6818, by mail, or by other carrier. All subscriptions submitted by mail, whether initial or final, should be sent by certified or registered mail. (b) Initial subscriptions. (1) An initial subscription, either on a designated Treasury form or in letter form, stating the principal amount to be invested and the issue date, must be telecopied, postmarked, or where delivered by other carrier, must be date-stamped at least 15 calendar days before issue date. For example, if the securities are to be issued on March 16, the subscription must be telecopied, postmarked, or date-stamped no later than March 1. If the initial subscription is in letter form, it should read substantially as follows: To: Bureau of the Public Debt Pursuant to the provisions of Department of the Treasury Circular, Public Debt Series No. 3&hyph;72, current revision, the undersigned hereby subscribes for United States Treasury Time Deposit Securities_State and Local Government Series, to be issued as entries on the books of the Bureau of the Public Debt, Department of the Treasury, in the total amount and with the issue date shown below, which date is at least 15 calendar days after the date of this subscription: Principal Amount $ Issue Date The undersigned agrees that the final subscription and payment will be submitted on or before the issue date.
