FR940303-2-00103 FR940303-2-00058 Notice of Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the Proposed Olympic Experimental State Forest Management and Research Plan AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) and Washington State Department of Natural Resources (WDNR) intend to gather information necessary for the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). This notice is being furnished pursuant to the Council on Environmental Quality's regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) regulations (40 CFR 1508.22). The Service will consider a proposal to recommend that the Secretary of Interior (Secretary) approve a management and research plan for the Olympic Experimental State Forest upon its submission by the WDNR. The Secretary will determine whether the plan provides for the conservation of listed species within the plan area, under the general provisions of Public Law 102&hyph;436 title II and the federal Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) (Act). To satisfy both Federal and State environmental policy act requirements, the Service and WDNR are conducting joint scoping processes for the preparation of an EIS. Interested agencies, organizations, and individuals are encouraged to provide written comments on the issues which should be addressed in the EIS, to the Service or WDNR. DATES: Written comments regarding the scope of the EIS should be received on or before April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments regarding the scope of the EIS should be addressed to Mr. Curt Smitch, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 3773 Martin Way East, Building C, Suite 101, Olympia, WA 98501. Please refer to File No. 94&hyph;021101 on all comments. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Informational materials and comments received to date will be available for public inspection by appointment during normal business hours (8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday) at the Washington Department of Natural Resources, 1111 Washington St. SE, Olympia, WA 98504&hyph;7001; for appointment call Mary Ellen Birli at 206&hyph;902&hyph;1353. Scoping workshops may be scheduled as a further opportunity for interested persons to comment on the scope of the EIS. Interested persons may contact Mary Ellen Birli at 206&hyph;902&hyph;1353 to receive information about additional opportunities for participation. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: An experimental forest for state-managed lands on the Western Olympic Peninsula was recommended in 1989 by the Commission on Old Growth Alternatives_a citizens' advisory group with broad representation. The stated purpose was twofold: To test innovative methods of forest management designed to produce a sustained level of timber harvest while simultaneously protecting and restoring the forest ecosystem. The Olympic Experimental State Forest includes all state-owned lands on the western Olympic Peninsula, north of the Queets River. It is located in Clallam and Jefferson counties and totals 264,000 acres of forest lands. The listing of the northern spotted owl ( Strix occidentalis caurina ) as ``threatened'' under the Act in 1990, required that activities in the area proposed for the Olympic Experimental State Forest comply with section 9 of the Act which prohibits the ``take'' of listed species. Such prohibition limits the range of options for experimentation and research available on the experimental forest. See also 50 CFR 17.31(a). In October 1992, Congress passed legislation (Pub. L. 102&hyph;436, title II) specifically addressing the Olympic Experimental State Forest. The purpose of the legislation is: ``To assist the experimental management and research program being conducted by the State of Washington on State-owned trust lands on the western Olympic Peninsula in order to contribute to the conservation of the northern spotted owl, old growth ecosystems and fishery resources and to provide for a sustainable supply of timber and trust income in a manner that is consistent with these conservation objectives.''
