FR940617-0-00165 FR940617-0-00026 (iii) A description of all maintenance, including modifications, parts changes, and other servicing performed, and the date(s) and reason(s) for such maintenance; (iv) A description of all emission tests performed (except tests performed by the EPA directly) including routine and standard test documentation, as specified in subpart E of this part, date(s) and the purpose of each test; (v) A description of all tests performed to diagnose engine or emission control performance, giving the date and time of each and the reason(s) for the test; and (vi) A description of any significant event(s) affecting the engine during the period covered by the history of the test engine but not described by an entry under one of the previous paragraphs of this section. (b) Routine emission test data, such as those reporting test cell temperature and relative humidity at start and finish of test and raw emission results from each mode or test phase, must be retained for a period of one year after issuance of all certificates of conformity to which they relate. All other information specified in paragraph (a) of this section must be retained for a period of eight years after issuance of all certificates of conformity to which they relate. (c) Records may be kept in any format and on any media, provided that at the Administrator's request, organized, written records in English are promptly supplied by the manufacturer. (d) The manufacturer must supply, at the Administrator's request, copies of any engine maintenance instructions or explanations issued by the manufacturer. §89.125&hyph;96 Production engines, annual report. (a) Upon the Administrator's request, the manufacturer must supply a reasonable number of production engines for testing and evaluation. These engines must be representative of typical production and must be supplied for testing at such time and place and for such reasonable periods as the Administrator may require. (b) The manufacturer must annually, within 30 days after the end of the model year, notify the Administrator of the number of engines produced by engine family, by gross power, by displacement, by fuel system, or by other categories as the Administrator may require. §89.126&hyph;96 Denial, revocation of certificate of conformity. (a) If, after review of the manufacturer's application, request for certification, information obtained from any inspection, and any other information the Administrator may require, the Administrator determines that one or more test engines do not meet applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate), then the Administrator will notify the manufacturer in writing, setting forth the basis for this determination. (b) Notwithstanding the fact that engines described in the application may comply with all other requirements of this subpart, the Administrator may deny the issuance of, suspend, or revoke a previously issued certificate of conformity if the Administrator finds any one of the following infractions to be substantial: (1) The manufacturer submits false or incomplete information; (2) The manufacturer denies an EPA enforcement officer or EPA authorized representative the opportunity to conduct authorized inspections; (3) The manufacturer fails to supply requested information or amend its application to include all engines being produced; (4) The manufacturer renders inaccurate any test data which it submits or otherwise circumvents the intent of the Act or this part; (5) The manufacturer denies an EPA enforcement officer or EPA authorized representative reasonable assistance (as defined in §89.129&hyph;96(e)). (c) If a manufacturer knowingly commits an infraction specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(4) of this section, knowingly commits any other fraudulent act which results in the issuance of a certificate of conformity, or fails to comply with the conditions specified in §§89.203&hyph;96(f), 89.206&hyph;96(d), 89.209&hyph;96(c) or 89.210&hyph;96(g), the Administrator may deem such certificate void ab initio. (d) When the Administrator denies, suspends, revokes, or voids ab initio a certificate of conformity the manufacturer will be provided a written determination. The manufacturer may request a hearing under §89.127&hyph;96 on the Administrator's decision. (e) Any suspension or revocation of a certificate of conformity shall extend no further than to forbid the introduction into commerce of engines previously covered by the certification which are still in the hands of the manufacturer, except in cases of such fraud or other misconduct that makes the certification invalid ab initio. §89.127&hyph;96 Request for hearing. (a) A manufacturer may request a hearing on the Administrator's denial, suspension, voiding ab initio or revocation of a certificate of conformity. (b) The manufacturer's request must be filed within 30 days of the Administrator's decision, be in writing, and set forth the manufacturer's objections to the Administrator's decision and data to support the objections. (c) If, after review of the request and supporting data, the Administrator finds that the request raises a substantial and factual issue, the Administrator will grant the manufacturer's request for a hearing.
