FR940913-0-00026 FR940913-0-00006 Import regulations issued under the Act are based on regulations established under Federal marketing orders to regulate domestically produced products. Thus, this final rule has small entity orientation, and impact on both small and large business entities in a manner comparable to rules issued under marketing orders. This rule modifies the dates when imported onions, including red variety onions, are regulated based on requirements of the South Texas onion and Idaho-Eastern Oregon onion marketing orders. Section 8e provides that whenever certain specified commodities, including onions, are regulated under a Federal marketing order, imports of that commodity must meet the same or comparable grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements as those in effect for the domestically produced commodity. The Act further provides that when two or more marketing orders covering the same commodity are concurrently in effect, imports will be subject to the requirements established for the commodity grown in the area with which the imported commodity is in most direct competition. Marketing Order No. 958 regulates onions grown in certain counties of Idaho and Eastern Oregon and Marketing Order No. 959 regulates onions grown in South Texas. Fresh onion shipments from Idaho-Eastern Oregon are regulated throughout the year, while onion shipments from South Texas were regulated from March 1 through May 20 each year. On the basis of past shipment data, the Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) had determined that onions imported during the March 10 through May 20 period were in most direct competition with onions grown in South Texas and found that the minimum grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements for onions imported during that period should be the same as those established for South Texas onions under Marketing Order No. 959. The Secretary further determined that onions imported during the May 21 through March 9 period were in most direct competition with onions grown in Idaho-Eastern Oregon and that the minimum grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements for onions imported during that period should be the same as those established for Idaho-Eastern Oregon onions under Marketing Order No. 958. Based on a recommendation of the South Texas Onion Committee (committee), the agency responsible for local administration of Marketing Order No. 959, the Department has extended the end of the South Texas regulatory period from May 20 to June 15. The Fruit and Vegetable Division's Market News Service has reported no onion shipments of commercial quantities from the Idaho-Eastern Oregon production area during June from the 1990 through 1993 period, and only one year during this period, 1993, were onion shipments recorded during May. Therefore, onions imported during the period March 10 through June 15 are in most direct competition with those produced in South Texas. Thus, now that the change in the regulatory period for South Texas onions is effective, a corresponding change must be made in the onion import regulation so that the requirements established under the South Texas marketing order will be the determining requirements for onions imported during the May 21 through June 15 period. Currently, imports of onions during that period are required to meet minimum requirements based on those established under the Idaho-Eastern Oregon marketing order. This rule changes onion import requirements to be the same as the South Texas requirements during that period. With that adjustment, the onion import requirement will be based on the requirements for South Texas onions during the period March 10 through June 15, and will be based on the requirements for Idaho-Eastern Oregon onions during the June 16 through March 9 period. Red onion varieties are subject to minimum grade, size, quality, and maturity requirements under the Idaho-Eastern Oregon marketing order, but those requirements are not in effect for imported red onions during the South Texas regulatory period. However, based on a recommendation of the committee, the Department has established minimum requirements for red onion varieties grown in the South Texas production area. Since South Texas red onion varieties are regulated, red onions, imported from March 10 to June 15 shall be required to grade at least U.S. No. 1 with a 20 percent defect allowance and 1 and 3/4 inch minimum diameter. This requirement will be in effect through June 15 as the South Texas regulatory period has been extended to June 15. A Notice of this rule was published in the June 29, 1994, issue of the Federal Register [59 FR 33453]. Interested persons were invited to file written comments with respect to the proposal until July 29, 1994. No comments were received. Based on these considerations, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In accordance with section 8e of the Act, the U.S. Trade Representative has concurred with the issuance of this final rule. After consideration of all relevant material presented, including the proposal submitted by the committee, and other information, it is hereby found that this regulation, as hereinafter set forth, will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 980 Food grades and standards, Imports, Marketing agreements, Onions, Potatoes, Tomatoes.
