FR940406-1-00039 FR940406-1-00011 Comments NHTSA solicits public comments on the questions presented in this ANPRM and on other relevant issues. It is requested but not required that 10 copies be submitted. All comments must not exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address given above, and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation. 49 CFR Part 512. All comments received before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above for the advance proposal will be considered. To the extent possible, comments filed after the closing date will also be considered. Comments on the advance proposal will be available for inspection in the docket. After the closing date, NHTSA will continue to file relevant information in the docket as this information becomes available, and recommends that interested persons continue to examine the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed, stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. A regulatory information number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes the Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross reference this action with the Unified Agenda. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 533 Energy conservation, Gasoline, Imports, Motor vehicles. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2002; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50. Dated: March 31, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking.
