FR940603-1-00045 FR940603-1-00009 (6) Evidence of clear title to the site for substations and headquarters construction contracts, if not previously submitted. (d) Contract amendments requiring REA approval. The borrower must submit to REA three copies of each contract amendment (at least one copy of which must be an original signed in ink) which is subject to REA approval under §1726.24(b). Each contract amendment submittal to REA must be accompanied by: (1) A certified copy of the board resolution approving the amendment; and (2) A bond extension, where necessary. (e) Encumbrance of loan or loan guarantee funds. (1) For contracts subject to REA approval, the submittals required under §1726.35(c) will initiate REA action to encumber loan or loan guarantee funds for such contracts. (2) For contracts not subject to REA approval (except for generation projects), loan or loan guarantee funds will normally be encumbered using REA Form 219, Inventory of Work Orders, after closeout of the contracts. In cases where the borrower can show good cause for a need for immediate cash, the borrower may request encumbrance of loan or loan guarantee funds based on submittal of a copy of the executed contract, providing it meets all applicable REA requirements. (3) For generation project contracts not subject to REA approval, the borrower must submit to REA the following documentation: (i) A brief description of the scope of the contract, including contract identification (name, number, etc.); (ii) Contract date; (iii) Contractor's name; (iv) Contract amount; (v) Bidding procedure used; (vi) Borrower certification that: (A) The board of directors approved the contract; (B) The bidding procedures and contract award for each contract were in conformance with the requirements of Part 1726, Electric System Construction Policies and Procedures; (C) The terms and conditions of the REA approved form of contract have not been altered; (D) If REA has approved plans and specifications for the contract, the contract was awarded on the basis of those plans and specifications; and (E) No restriction has been placed on the borrower's right to assign the contract to REA or its successors. (4) Contract amendments. (i) For amendments subject to REA approval, the submittals required under §1726.35(c) will initiate REA action to encumber loan or loan guarantee funds for contract amendments requiring REA approval. (ii) For amendments not subject to REA approval (except generation projects), loan or loan guarantee funds will normally be encumbered using REA Form 219, Inventory of Work Orders, after closeout of the contracts. In cases where the borrower can justify a need for immediate cash, the borrower may request encumbrance of loan or loan guarantee funds based on submittal of a copy of the executed amendment, providing it meets all applicable REA requirements. (iii) For each generation project contract amendment not subject to REA approval, the borrower must submit to REA the following information and documentation: (A) The contract name and number; (B) The amendment number; (C) The amendment date; (D) The dollar amount of the increase or the decrease of the amendment; (E) Borrower certification that: (1) The amendment was approved in accordance with the policy of the board of directors (the borrower must ensure that REA has a certified copy of the board resolution establishing such policy); (2) The terms and conditions of the REA approved form of contract has not been altered; (3) No restriction has been placed on the borrower's right to assign the contract to REA or its successors. §1726.36 Documents subject to REA approval. Unless otherwise indicated, the borrower shall make all contracts and amendments that are subject to REA approval effective only upon REA approval. §§1726.37&hyph;1726.49 [Reserved] Subpart B_Distribution Facilities §1726.50 Distribution line materials and equipment.
