FR941117-2-00122 FR941117-2-00083 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;219] GPU Nuclear Corporation; Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station Environmental Assessment and Finding of No significant impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. DPR&hyph;16, issued to GPU Nuclear Corporation, et al. (the licensee), for operation of the Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station, located in Ocean County, New Jersey. Environmental Assessment Identification of the Proposed Action The proposed amendment would revise the Technical Specification Section 2.3.P(2) to raise the degraded voltage setpoints from 3671 volts to 3840 volts, and to revise the allowable setpoint range from # 1% to +20V, ^40V. The revised setpoint tolerance values in volts represents a range of +0.5%, ^1.0% compared to the existing setpoint tolerance range of # 1%. The proposed action is in accordance with the licensee's application for amendment dated July 8, 1994. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action is needed to provide improved protection to safety related electrical equipment from loss of capability in the event of a sustained degraded voltage condition of the offsite electrical grid system. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed action and concludes that the proposed change provides improved protection to safety related equipment from loss of capability in the event of a sustained degraded voltage condition on the offsite electrical grid system. The change will not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed action does involve features located entirely within the restricted area as defined in 10 CFR Part 20. It does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed action, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evacuated. The principal alternative to the action would be to deny the request. Such action would not provide the improved protection to safety related equipment from loss of capability in the event of a sustained degraded voltage condition on the offsite electrical grid system. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statement for the Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station dated December 1974. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the New Jersey State official regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State official had no comments. Finding of no Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed action. For further details with respect to the proposed action, see the licensee's letter dated July 8, 1994, as supplemented October 10, 1994, which are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room located at the Ocean County Library, Reference Department, 101 Washington Street, Toms River, NJ 08753. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 8th day of November 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Phillip F. McKee, Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;4, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28401 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
