FR940711-1-00011 FR940711-1-00003 During the transition to a fully competitive wholesale power market, some utilities may incur stranded costs as wholesale customers leave their systems to purchase power elsewhere. A utility may have built facilities or entered into long-term fuel or purchased power supply contracts with the reasonable expectation, based on historical experience and the behavior of its customer, that its wholesale requirements contract to sell electric energy to that customer would be renewed, and that the customer would pay its proportionate share of long-term investments and other costs incurred. If the customer is able to obtain unbundled transmission service from the utility in order to reach other power suppliers, the utility may have ``stranded costs.'' If the utility does not have an alternative buyer for the power previously sold to the departing wholesale requirements customer, or some other means of mitigating the stranded costs, the costs must be recovered from either thedeparting customer or the remaining customers or borne by the utility's shareholders. Changes are also occurring in retail electric markets, which could also cause retail stranded costs. 18 For instance, as a result of recent action by the Massachusetts legislature, discussed infra, the Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority (MBTA) changed from being a retail franchise customer to a wholesale transmission customer of Massachusetts Electric Company. Another example is the California Public Utilities Commission's recent initiation of a proceeding to consider the restructuring of California's retail electric industry to allow all consumers to obtain direct access to competing generation service providers. 19 The Michigan Public Service Commission is also considering a plan to offer consumer access to competing generation suppliers on a limited basis. 20 18 Retail stranded costs may occur when a retail franchise customer of a public utility or transmitting utility obtains unbundled transmission service from the utility; the franchise customer may become a wholesale transmission customer of the utility or a retail transmission customer of the utility. Retail stranded costs may also result from customer ``self-help'' actions such as customer self-generation, or a customer building its own transmission line, or a customer relocating to another utility's service territory. These types of retail stranded costs have long been a fact of life for utilities. This proceeding is not intended to address stranded costs resulting from customer ``self-help'' actions. 19 Order Instituting Rulemaking and Order Instituting Investigation on the Commission's Proposed Policies Governing Restructuring California's Electric Services Industry and Reforming Regulation, California Public Utilities Commission Nos. R. 94&hyph;04&hyph;031, I. 94&hyph;04&hyph;052 (April 20, 1994). 20 In the matter of the application of the Association of Businesses Advocating Tariff Equity for approval of an experimental retail wheeling tariff for Consumers Power Company, et al., MPSC Case Nos. U&hyph;10143 and U&hyph;10176 Opinion and Interim Order Remanding to the Administrative Law Judge for Further Proceedings, Michigan Public Service Commission, 150 P.U.R.4th 409 (April 11, 1994), appeal dismissed for lack of jurisdiction, Attorney General v. Michigan Public Service Commission, No. 175245 (Mich. Ct. App. June 15, 1994).
