FR940603-1-00109 FR940603-1-00009 (ii) To the maximum extent permitted by law, Bidder shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Owner and Owner's directors, officers, and employees from all liens and claims filed or asserted against Owner, its directors, officers, and employees, or Owner's property or facilities, for services performed or materials or equipment furnished by Bidder, its subcontractors and suppliers of any tier, and from all losses, demands, and causes of action arising out of any such lien or claim. Bidder shall promptly discharge or remove any such lien or claim by bonding, payment, or otherwise and shall notify Owner promptly when it has done so. If Bidder does not cause such lien or claim to be discharged or released by payment, bonding, or otherwise, Owner shall have the right (but shall not be obligated) to pay all sums necessary to obtain any such discharge or release and to deduct all amounts so paid from the amount due Bidder. (iii) Bidder shall provide to Owner's satisfaction evidence of Bidder's ability to comply with the indemnification provisions of subparagraphs i and ii above, which evidence may include but may not be limited to a bond or liability insurance policy obtained for this purpose through a licensed surety or insurance company. (c) The Bidder will confine his apparatus, the storage of materials and the operations of his workmen to limits indicated by law, ordinances, permits, or directions of the Architect, and shall not unreasonably encumber the premises with his materials. (d) The Bidder will not load or permit any of the structure to be loaded with a weight that will endanger its safety. (e) The Bidder will submit to the Owner, monthly reports in duplicate of all accidents giving such data as may be prescribed by the Architect. (f) Upon violation by the Bidder of any of the provisions of this section, the Bidder will, after written notice of such violation given to the Bidder by the Architect or the Owner, immediately correct such violation. Upon failure of the Bidder so to do, the Owner may correct such violation at the Bidder's expense; provided, however, that the Owner may, if it deems necessary or advisable, correct such violation at the Bidder's expense without such prior notices to the Bidder. (g) The Bidder will be responsible for all construction means, methods, techniques, sequences, and procedures and for coordinating all portions of the construction of the Project. Section 2. Insurance. The Bidder shall take out and maintain throughout the contract period insurance of the following types and minimum amounts: (a) Workers' compensation and employers' liability insurance, as required by law, covering all their employees who perform any of the obligations of the contractor, engineer, and architect under the contract. If any employer or employee is not subject to the workers' compensation laws of the governing state, then insurance shall be obtained voluntarily to extend to the employer and employee coverage to the same extent as though the employer or employee were subject to the workers' compensation laws. (b) Public liability insurance covering all operations under the contract shall have limits for bodily injury or death of not less than $1 million each occurrence, limits for property damage of not less than $1 million each occurrence, and $1 million aggregate for accidents during the policy period. A single limit of $1 million of bodily injury and property damage is acceptable. This required insurance may be in a policy or policies of insurance, primary and excess including the umbrella or catastrophe form.
