FR940228-1-00067 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary is proposing to add or amend the following definitions: Academic Year Section 481(d)(2) of the HEA provides a definition of academic year to be used for all the Title IV, HEA programs. The statute specifies that in an academic year, a full-time student is expected to complete at least twenty-four semester or trimester hours or thirty-six quarter hours at an institution that measures program length in credit hours, or at least nine hundred clock hours at an institution that measures program length in clock hours. The definition delineates not only the minimum amount of work that a full-time student enrolled in an undergraduate educational program is expected to complete during an academic year, but also the minimum period of time over which the work in any educational program must be completed. The Technical Amendments of 1993 specify that this provision is only applicable with respect to an undergraduate course of study. The Secretary expects that institutions would continue to use their own academic standards, within the framework of current program regulations, to determine the amount of work full-time graduate and professional students are expected to complete over a minimum of thirty weeks of instruction. The minimum time period specified is thirty weeks of instructional time. The Technical Amendments of 1993 further amended section 481 of the HEA definition of academic year to provide that the Secretary may reduce, for good cause on a case-by-case basis, the 30-week minimum to not less than 26 weeks of instructional time in the case of an institution of higher education that provides a 2-year or 4-year program of instruction for which it awards an associate or baccalaureate degree. The Secretary has been unable to determine a definition of ``good cause'' that would justify using this authority. In addition, the Secretary is concerned that regulatory standards for those reductions would encourage many institutions to seek that treatment routinely and this implementation would result in the inequitable treatment of Federal student aid recipients from institution to institution. Further, the Secretary is concerned that widespread implementation would result in increased costs to the Title IV, HEA programs. Therefore, the Secretary has not proposed specific criteria to implement this technical amendment at this time. The Secretary requests comments on a definition of ``good cause'' and ways of implementing this provision through regulations that address the Secretary's concerns. The Secretary has determined that the terms used in the definition of academic year must be clarified if the definition is to be well-understood and applied consistently. In determining what constitutes the 30-week period, the Secretary would count the period that begins on the first day of classes and ends on the last day of classes or examinations. For example, if an institution's first day of classes begins on a Tuesday, the first week of the academic year would begin on that Tuesday and end the following Monday. The institution would not begin counting with the Sunday preceding the first day of classes. The Secretary proposes that, for purposes of this definition, a week would be a consecutive seven-day period, as opposed to a five-day or six-day school week or seven individual days that are spread out over more than one calendar week. This approach would facilitate counting and readily accommodate institutions that start and end on different days of the week. For purposes of this definition, a week of instructional time would be any week in which at least one day of regularly scheduled instruction, examinations, or preparation for examination occurs. The Secretary recognizes that there may be certain weeks during an academic year during which fewer than five days of instruction occur. An institution should not be prohibited from counting those weeks in its 30-week period, provided at least one day of regularly scheduled classes occurs in each of those weeks. Further, this proposal would accommodate innovative educational programs such as those offered only on weekends or condensed schedules. At the same time, the proposal does not open the door to abuse, because regardless of the number of days of study that occur in any week, an institution must still provide enough instruction for a full-time student to be able to earn the minimum number of credit or clock hours needed to meet the definition. Finally, the Secretary would make clear that an institution cannot count, as instructional time, periods consisting purely of noninstructional activities, such as orientation, counseling, or vacations.
