FR941102-1-00081 FR941102-1-00018 The witness also testified that the effect of somatic cell levels on fluid milk products is reflected in higher acid degree values that indicate rancidity and off flavors, resulting in shorter shelf life. The expert witness testified that routine testing for somatic cells is conducted using a Foss-O-Matic infrared analyzer. The reference method for testing is the direct microscope somatic cell count in which the sample is stained and the somatic cells are counted using a microscope. The witness explained that if the electronic instruments are calibrated to the same reference samples the resulting test values and standard deviations should be in close agreement. The witness concluded that on a relative basis the results should be close to what would be obtained using other analytical tests. The notice of hearing contained a proposal by CMPC to include an adjustment for somatic cells. However at the hearing, a witness for CMPC explained that CMPC had decided neither to support nor oppose the inclusion of a somatic cell adjuster in the amended orders. The CMPC witness testified that the individual members of CMPC were free to support or oppose any of the somatic cell proposals as they saw fit. As originally proposed by CMPC, the somatic cell adjustment would be computed by multiplying the National Cheese Exchange barrel price times .0005. The resulting quantity would be multiplied by 500 minus the somatic cell count of the milk, in thousands. The resulting value would be applied on a per hundredweight basis. As explained by a witness for CMPC, the proposed somatic cell adjuster would apply to all producer milk, including that purchased by Class I handlers. The witness went on to explain that the effect of somatic cells on the value of producer milk and milk used in Class II and Class III would be included in the computation of the producer price differential. A somatic cell adjustment on Class I milk would not be included in the pool, and therefore would not affect Class I handlers' cost of milk. A witness for WCMA quoted extensively from the MCP recommended decisions for the Indiana, Ohio Valley, and Eastern Ohio-Western Pennsylvania milk marketing orders, and for the Michigan milk order, supporting the inclusion of an adjustment for somatic cells in Federal orders. The witness supported the CMPC proposal, but suggested that the somatic cell adjustment be applied to all milk; that is, Class I milk would not be exempted from a somatic cell adjustment. In addition, he proposed that the somatic cell adjustment be applied to the protein price rather than on a hundredweight basis. A witness for TAPP and FUMMC expressed support for including a somatic cell adjustment in the amended orders. The TAPP&hyph;FUMMC brief also supported such a provision. The witness stated that a somatic cell adjustment would benefit producers, handlers, and consumers by increasing the volume of milk marketed, improving yield, and supplying consumers with more nutritious, better quality dairy products. The TAPP/FUMMC witness explained that their proposal would have a neutral range of 301,000 to 400,000 somatic cells with a one-cent positive adjustment for each 50,000 somatic cell count below the neutral range up to a maximum of a six cents as the somatic cell count declined, and a one cent negative adjustment for each 50,000 somatic cell count above the neutral range up to a maximum of ten cents as the somatic cell count increased. The TAPP/FUMMC witness testified that under their proposal the somatic cell adjustment would apply to all producer milk, milk used in Class III, and, if the plan is to be revenue neutral, also to milk used in Class II. A witness for Swiss Valley Farms Company (Swiss Valley) testified in support of including additions and subtractions for somatic cells in the amended order. The Swiss Valley witness explained that somatic cells add proteolytic and lipolytic enzymes to the milk, as well as a plasmin enzyme that is extremely heat stable, such that it is not deactivated during pasteurization. Therefore, the enzyme continues to degrade the milk during storage. The witness added that low SCC milk is important to the Swiss Valley bottling operations because it results in fluid milk products of improved flavor, and to their cheese-making operations because of the resulting higher casein and lower whey protein content of the milk, which increases manufacturing returns.
