FR940105-0-00040 FR940105-0-00007 El Paso, Tenneco, and INGAA contend user or access fees are not appropriate for recovery of upfront costs, and Natural expresses concern that access fees may not be sufficient to compensate pipelines. 68 FMA suggests, in the absence of consensus on a new approach, the proper approach is to continue with the Order No. 636 policy of recovering fixed costs through reservation charges and only variable costs through usage charges. 68 INGAA suggests direct charges may be appropriate for additional services and features that go beyond the standards to be adopted by the Commission. In general, the Commission finds that its previous policy of permitting the pipelines to recover fixed costs through a reservation charge and only variable costs through a usage charge is appropriate for the basic EBB service. This basic service includes, at a minimum, the downloadable data sets and communication protocols established in this rule, which the Commission finds are necessary to promote a viable capacity release market and should provide generalized system-wide benefits to all users of the pipeline grid. Until additional standards are presented, the Commission cannot determine whether they provide sufficient benefits to the industry as a whole to warrant inclusion in the basic EBB package. For enhancements to the basic EBB service, which are not of general benefit, the Commission is open to considering cost recovery approaches that will recover fixed costs from the limited number of users deriving benefit from the service. The Commission encourages the industry to pursue such approaches. As an example, pipelines could consider using a process for recovering the costs of enhancements to the standard EBB package from only those customers that subscribe to the enhancements. The pipeline could explore with the users of its EBB the costs of providing a particular service or group of services and methods of recovering these costs from the subscribing users, such as through access fees, reservation charges, or direct charges. The pipeline and the users also could establish mechanisms for reimbursing the initial subscribers if additional users later evince an interest in obtaining the services. Once having obtained agreement from those customers desiring the service, the pipeline could make a tariff filing to establish the method of recovery or submit an application or petition for a declaratory order requesting advance Commission review of the proposed costs and charges. 69 69 18 CFR 385.204, 385.207. This process would be similar to the advance approval for research, development, and demonstration projects. 18 CFR 154.38(d)(5). 2. Liability Several commenters suggest the liability standard for EBB operations should be the same across all pipelines and, therefore, should be resolved either in this proceeding or in another generic proceeding. 70 Peoples Gas, et al., supports consideration of the issue in individual proceedings, but suggests the Commission restate here its standard that pipeline liability for EBB operations should be no different than for other operations. UDC asks the Commission to state that it will enforce its standard. Some parties contend the Commission should adopt a new standard, arguing EBBs are not like other pipeline operations since parties other than the pipeline are responsible for providing information. 71 Because verification of such information is time consuming, they recommend each party ensure the accuracy of the information it provides. Con Edison, in contrast, argues that pipeline tariff provisions regarding EBB user indemnification of the pipeline are too onerous and hold the EBB user to a higher standard of responsibility than applies to the pipeline. Enron contends the issue is beyond the scope of this proceeding. 70 Columbia Distribution, Con Edison, NGSA, NYMEX/EnerSoft. 71 Tenneco, Con Edison, NYSEG, WEV (knowingly providing false information should subject provider to damages). The Commission agrees that this issue goes beyond the technical concerns with standards development which were the focus of this proceeding. The Commission can determine policy related issues in individual cases without having to establish a new generic proceeding and already has addressed this issue in restructuring orders. The Commission has adopted the principle that a pipeline's liability for EBB operations should be the same as for its other operations. 72 The Commission also has addressed user liability standards in individual restructuring orders based upon the specific pipeline EBB agreement. 73 In general, the Commission has determined that a user's liability for unauthorized use of a customer identification number is limited to negligence or a wrongful act. 72 Algonquin Gas Transmission Company, 65 FERC ¶61,019 slip op. at 23&hyph;24 (1993); Great Lakes Gas Transmission Limited Partnership, 65 FERC ¶61,004 slip op. at 29&hyph;30 (1993). 73 South Georgia Natural Gas Company, 64 FERC ¶61,251 slip op. 11&hyph;12 (1993); East Tennessee Natural Gas Company, 65 FERC ¶61,223 (1993). 3. Non-Price Considerations O&R contends standards are needed to guard against capacity releases involving deals for indirect consideration, such as capacity release transactions tied to gas supply arrangements. It asserts this issue is not better addressed in individual proceedings, but requires a definitive policy statement. The Commission adheres to its conclusion that this issue is outside the scope of this technical rulemaking and should not be an issue considered by the continuing Working Group sessions. The Commission has addressed this concern in individual restructuring proceedings based on the facts and circumstances in each case. 74 As pointed out previously, should the Commission decide a general policy in this area is required in the future, the Commission need not articulate its policy through a generic proceeding, but can do so in individual proceedings. 74 See Northwest Pipeline Corporation, 63 FERC ¶61,124 at 61,803 (1993); Pacific Gas Transmission Company, 64 FERC ¶ 61,052 at 61,455&hyph;56 (1993).
