FR940405-2-00022 FR940405-2-00009 supplementary information: The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) invites interested parties to participate in a cooperative research consortium to assess the performance of air speed calibration facilities and establish realistic traceability for the participants. The calibration of anemometers is critical to ventilation measurements in the HVAC and related industries. Presently, anemometers are calibrated by both instrument manufacturers and users alike in a wide variety of facilities employing different methods. In most cases, both manufacturers and users establish traceability to a central laboratory such as NIST. However, there are indications that there may be variations as large as plus or minus 15% among the calibration measurements being made due to a lack of standard calibration technique. Measurements are considered traceable to designated standards if scientifically rigorous evidence is produced to show that the measurement process is producing measurement results for which the total measurement uncertainty relative to the designated standards is quantified. Realistic traceability to national standards for flow measurement can be obtained using a round-robin testing program, which produces reasonable estimates of systematic errors for a measurement process. The purpose of the consortium is to devise an appropriate test and set the conditions so that test results quantify the performance of anemometer calibration facilities, operated by both instrument manufacturers and users, using a round-robin testing program. The participating members will choose instruments and test conditions so that they are compatible with typical situations used in their facilities. This program is being undertaken within the scope and confines of The Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 (Public Law 99&hyph;502, 15 U.S.C. 3710a), which provides federal laboratories including NIST, with the authority to enter into cooperative research agreements with qualified parties. Under this law, NIST may contribute personnel, equipment and facilities, but not direct funding. Dated: March 30, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8087 Filed 4&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
