FR940513-2-00093 FR940513-2-00039 Line 6f_Contractual: Enter the total costs of all contracts, including (1) procurement contracts (except those which belong on other lines such as equipment, supplies, etc.) and, (2) contracts with secondary recipient organizations including delegate agencies. Also include any contracts with organizations for the provision of technical assistance. Do not include payments to individuals on this line. Justification: Attach a list of contractors indicating the name of the organization, the purpose of the contract, and the estimated dollar amount. If the name of the contractor, scope of work, and estimated costs are not available or have not been negotiated, indicate when this information will be available. Whenever the applicant/grantee intends to delegate a substantial part (one-third, or more) of the project work to another agency, the applicant/grantee must provide a completed copy of Section B, Budget Categories for each contractor, along with supporting information. Line 6g_Construction: Leave blank since new construction is not allowable and federal funds are rarely used for either renovation or repair. Line 6h_Other: Enter the total of all other costs. Such costs, where applicable, may include, but are not limited to: insurance, medical and dental costs; noncontractual fees and travel paid directly to individual consultants; local transportation (all travel which does not require per diem is considered local travel); space and equipment rentals; printing and publication; computer use; training costs, including tuition and stipends, training service costs including wage payments to individuals and supportive service payments; and staff development costs. Line 6i_ Total Direct Charges: Show the totals of Lines 6a through 6h. Line 6j_Indirect Charges: Enter the total amount of indirect charges (costs), if any. If no indirect costs are requested, enter ``none.'' Indirect charges may be requested if: (1) the applicant has a current indirect cost rate agreement approved by the Department of Health and Human Services or another federal agency; or (2) the applicant is a State or local government agency. Applicants other than state and local governments are requested to enclose a copy of this agreement. Local and state governments should enter the amount of indirect costs determined in accordance with HHS requirements. When an indirect cost rate is requested, these costs are included in the indirect cost pool and should not be also charged as direct costs to the grant. In the case of training grants to other than state or local governments (as defined in 45 CFR Part 74), federal reimbursement of indirect costs will be limited to the lesser of the negotiated (or actual) indirect cost rate or 8 percent of the amount allowed for total project (federal and non-federal) direct costs exclusive of any equipment charges, rental of space, tuition and fees, stipends, post-doctoral training allowances, contractual items, and alterations and renovations. As part of the justification, applications subject to this limitation should specify that the federal reimbursement will be limited to 8%. For training grant applications, the entry for line 6j should be the total indirect costs being charged to the project. The federal share of indirect costs is calculated as shown above. The applicant's share is calculated as follows: (a) Calculate total project indirect costs (a*) by applying the applicant's approved indirect cost rate to the total project (federal and non-federal) direct costs. (b) Calculate the federal share of indirect costs (b*) at 8 percent of the amount allowed for total project (federal and non-federal) direct costs exclusive of any equipment charges, rental of space, tuition and fees, post-doctoral training allowances, contractual items, alterations and renovations. (c) Subtract b* from a*. The remainder is what the applicant can claim as part of its matching cost contribution. Line 6k_Total: Enter the total amounts of Lines 6i and 6j. Line 7_Program Income: Estimate the amount of income, if any, expected to be generated from this project. Do not add or subtract this amount from the total project amount. Describe the nature, source, and expected use of income in the Level of Effort section of the Program Narrative. Section C_Non-Federal Resources Line 12_Totals: Enter amounts of non-federal resources that will be used in carrying out the proposed project. If third-party in-kind contributions are included, provide a brief explanation in the budget justification section. Section D_Forecasted Cash Needs Not applicable. Section E_Budget Estimate of Federal Funds Needed for Balance of the Project This section should be completed only if the total project period exceeds 17 months. Line 20_Totals: Enter the estimated required federal funds (exclude estimates of the amount of cost sharing) for the period covering months 13 through 24 under column ``(b) First;'' and, if applicable, for months 25 through 36 under ``(c) Second,'' for months 36 through 48 under ``(d) Third.'' Section F_Other Budget Information Line 21_Direct Charges: Not applicable Line 22_Indirect Charges: Enter the type of indirect rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) to be in effect during the funding period, the base to which the rate is applied, and the total indirect costs. Line 23_Remarks: Provide any other explanations or comments deemed necessary. 3. SF 424B_Assurances SF 424B, Assurances_Non-Construction Programs, contains assurances required of applicants under the Discretionary Funds Program of the Administration on Aging. Please note that a duly authorized representative of the applicant organization must certify that the applicant is in compliance with these assurances. With the possible exception of an Assurance of Protection of Human Subjects, no other assurances are required. For research projects in which human subjects may be at risk, an Assurance of Protection of Human Subjects may be needed. If there is a question regarding the applicability of this assurance, contact the Office for Protection from Research Risks of the National Institutes of Health at (301) 496&hyph;7041.
