FR940713-1-00008 FR940713-1-00001 Table 1._ Maximum Production Rates 1Class of poultry 1Birds per minute 2With PQC 2Without PQC Young chickens 91 70 Young turkeys: ␣ l i0J-type opening cut l i03-point suspension Less than 16 pounds 51 20 More than 16 pounds 41 16 ␣ l i0Bar-type opening cut l i03-point suspension Less than 16 pounds 45 20 More than 16 pounds 35 16 Under the proposal, the FSIS inspector in charge (IIC) or his/her designee would retain the responsibility for determining whether conditions permit adequate post-mortem inspection at the maximum rates. Criteria for justifying linespeed reductions would include the inability of the official establishment to present carcasses so that internal and external surfaces and organs can be inspected, remove condemnable birds from the line, and properly identify contaminated birds for trimming or knife salvage. Finished Product Standards Revisions The FPS now provided in the regulations would be updated and tightened to reflect more accurately the current conditions in the poultry industry. The current FPS program was developed on the basis of 1983 in-house data. Since the standards were adopted, the program has proven more effective in preventing nonconformances than the AQL it supplanted. However, experience in applying the FPS has disclosed certain limitations involving the application of testing rules and actions. The proposed revised FPS would overcome these limitations while preserving the advantages of the current FPS. The strength of both the current program and the proposed revised FPS is the effectiveness of on-line quality control in maintaining processing control. Processing control, which focuses on prevention rather than the detection of nonconformances, would continue to be the guiding concept of the FPS. The proposed FPS program would incorporate the following changes to the current FPS processing control monitoring program: (1) Consolidation of nonconformance categories. (2) Elimination of feces from reinspection categories. (3) Elimination of post-chill testing. (4) Setting nonconformances tolerances at same level for all poultry classes. (5) Separation of the trimmable lesion/condition category from processing/trim categories. (6) Simplification of on-line processing control monitoring rules. Consolidation of Nonconformance Categories The proposed revised FPS nonconformance categories (Table 1 at proposed 9 CFR 381.76(h)) would be fewer than the existing FPS nonconformance categories and the testing procedure would be simpler. The proposed category changes would make testing easier and provide earlier feedback. Appropriate preventive and corrective actions could be initiated because the carcass nonconformance would be based on ready-to-cook (RTC) requirements and sanitary dressing procedures. The current finished product standards (FPS) program has 20 prechill processing, 14 prechill trim, and 3 post-chill categories (37 categories). These groupings are based on the type of nonconformances found on carcasses. The proposed FPS program would have 8 nonconformance categories and 1 separate trimmable lesion/condition category. The nonconformances would be assigned to common groups with respect to control, origin, prevention, or removal. Prechill processing and trim categories would be combined on one test form to simplify the testing process so that only one cumulative summation (CUSUM) would be calculated.
