FR940613-2-00031 FR940613-2-00019 Financial Assistance Award; Intent To Award Cooperative Agreement To University of Illinois AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: DOE announces that pursuant to 10 CFR 600.6(a)(5), it is making a discretionary financial assistance award based on the criteria set forth at 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i) (B), (C), (D) and 600.14(d) to the University of Illinois, Department of the Illinois State Geological Survey (ISGS) under cooperative agreement number DE&hyph;FC01&hyph;94E124855. The purpose of the proposed agreement is to revise the Energy Information Administration (EIA) demonstrated reserve base (DRB) of coal for the State of Illinois, with new quantity/quality data. This agreement is necessary to achieve program objectives, conserve public funds and is essential to the public interest. This effort will have a total estimated cost of $83,000 to be provided by the DOE. The (ISGS) is the State authority on Illinois coal resources. This agreement will assist the State of Illinois in its efforts to continually collect analyses on coal quality and perform geological mapping to determine the quantity and quality of coal reserves in the state. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Placement and Administration, Attn: Shirley A. Jones, HR&hyph;531.21, 1000 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20585. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The cooperative agreement will provide funding for the ISGS to develop Phase I Coal Reserves Data Base (CRDB) coal resource data for updated estimates of the demonstrated reserve base (DRB) and recoverable reserves of coal in Illinois, allocated to specified ranges of sulfur content and heat content. The DRB constitutes the foundation data for coal reserve analyses. Recoverable reserve data derived from the DRB comprise the pivotal data base for analyzing future coal supplies. Data development may include analyses of coal geology, resource quantities, coal quality characteristics, and other factors that affect resource accessibility and minability. Data output must include remaining identified resources, DRB, remaining accessible reserve base, recoverable reserves, allocated by coal rank, type of mining, and (excepting identified resources) heat and sulfur content. DOE has determined that the proposed agreement meets the criteria set forth at 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2) (B), (C) and (D) in that (1) The activities are being conducted by the applicant using its own resources or those donated or provided by third parties; however, DOE support of that activity would enhance the public benefits to be derived and DOE knows of no other entity which is conducting or is planning to conduct such an activity, (2) the ISGS is a unit of state government and the activity to be supported is related to performance of a governmental function within the subject jurisdiction, thereby precluding DOE provision of support to another entity, and (3) the ISGS has exclusive domestic capability to perform the activity successfully, based upon unique equipment, proprietary data and technical expertise, or other such unique qualifications. The ISGS is charged with the responsibility of mapping and estimating the coal resources for the State of Illinois and possesses over 1,300 agency-collected analyses including sulfur contents and heat values. This data, along with data from other sources, will enable them to revise the coal reserves by quality and mining method for Illinois. No other private or government entity is known to have the data and mapping capability required to estimate the coal reserves by quality for the State of Illinois. Term: The term of the proposed cooperative agreement is expected to be 12 months from the effective date of award. Issued in Washington, DC on June 6, 1994. Scott Sheffield, Director, Headquarters Operations, Division B, Office of Placement and Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14303 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
