FR940511-2-00218 FR940511-2-00129 Appendix L&hyph;II. Criteria Allowing Review by the RAC Plant Working Group Without the Requirement for Full RAC Review ``Approval may be granted by ORDA in consultation with the Plant Working Group without the requirement for full RAC review (IBC review is also necessary) for growing plants containing recombinant DNA in the field under the following conditions: Appendix L&hyph;II&hyph;A. The plant species is a cultivated crop of a genus that has no species known to be a noxious weed. Appendix L&hyph;II&hyph;B. The introduced DNA consists of well/characterized genes containing no sequences harmful to humans, animals, or plants. Appendix L&hyph;II&hyph;C. The vector consists of DNA: (i) From exempt host-vector systems (see Appendix C); (ii) From plants of the same or closely related species; (iii) From nonpathogenic prokaryotes or nonpathogenic lower eukaryotic plants; (iv) From plant pathogens only if sequences resulting in production of disease symptoms have been deleted; or (v) Chimeric vectors constructed from sequences defined in (i) or (iv) above. The DNA may be introduced by any suitable method. If sequences resulting in production of disease symptoms are retained for purposes of introducing the DNA into the plant, greenhouse-grown plants must be shown to be free of such sequences before such plants, their derivatives, or seed can be used in field tests. Appendix L&hyph;II&hyph;D. Plants are grown in controlled access fields under specified conditions appropriate for the plant under study and the geographical location. Such conditions should include provisions for using good cultural and pest control practices, for physical isolation from plants of the same species outside of the experimental plot in accordance with pollination characteristics of the species, and the prevention of plants containing recombinant DNA from becoming established in the environment. Review by the IBC should include an appraisal by scientists knowledgeable of the crop, its production practices, and the local geographical conditions. Procedures for assessing alterations in and the spread of organisms containing recombinant DNA must be developed. The results of the outlined tests must be submitted for review by the IBC. Copies must also be submitted to the Plant Working Group of the RAC. XIV. Amendment to Part VI of the Points To Consider, NIH Guidelines, Regarding Expedite Review/Dr. Wivel On April 29, 1994, Dr. Nelson Wivel of the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, requested that part VI, Procedures to be Followed for Expedited Review, of the Points to Consider be amended to clarify submission requirements for Expedited Review. The Procedures to be Followed for Expedited Review currently reads: ``4. Regardless of the method of review, the Points to Consider must be the standard review for all gene transfer protocols.'' The proposed amendment reads: ``4. Regardless of the method of review, the Points to Consider must be the standard review for all gene transfer protocols; therefore, submission of the Points to Consider is required.'' OMB's ``Mandatory Information Requirements for Federal Assistance Program Announcements'' (45 FR 39592, June 11, 1980) requires a statement concerning the official government programs contained in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. Normally, NIH lists in its announcements the number and title of affected individual programs for the guidance of the public. Because the guidance in this notice covers not only virtually every NIH program but also essentially every Federal research program in which DNA recombinant molecule techniques could be used, it has been determined not to be cost effective or in the public interest to attempt to list these programs. Such a list would likely require several additional pages. In addition, NIH could not be certain that every Federal program would be included as many Federal agencies, as well as private organizations, both national and international, have elected to follow the NIH Guidelines. In lieu of the individual program listing, NIH invites readers to direct questions to the information address above about whether individual programs listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance are affected. Dated: May 4, 1994. Suzanne Medgyesi-Mitschang, Acting Deputy Director for Science Policy and Technology Transfer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11466 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
