FR940505-1-00439 FR940505-1-00012 (E) Step 5 . Continue to reduce combustion air flow stepwise, until one of these limits is reached: ( 1 ) Unacceptable flame conditions_such as flame impingement on furnace walls or burner parts, excessive flame carryover, or flame instability. ( 2 ) Stack gas CO concentrations greater than 400 ppm. ( 3 ) Smoking at the stack. ( 4 ) Equipment-related limitations_such as low windbox/furnace pressure differential, built in air-flow limits, etc. (F) Step 6 . Develop an O 2 /CO curve (for gaseous fuels) or O 2 /smoke curve (for liquid fuels) similar to those shown in Figures 1 and 2 using the excess oxygen and CO or smoke-spot number data obtained at each combustion air flow setting. (G) Step 7 . From the curves prepared in Step 6, find the stack gas oxygen levels where the CO emissions or smoke-spot number equal the following values: ␣ 1Fuel 1Measurement 1Value Gaseous CO Emissions 400 ppm. # 1 & # 2 oils Smoke-spot number number 1. # 4 oil Smoke-spot number number 2. # 5 oil Smoke-spot number number 3. Other oils Smoke-spot number number 4. The above conditions are referred to as CO or smoke threshold, or as the minimum excess oxygen level. Compare this minimum value of excess oxygen to the expected value provided by the combustion unit manufacturer. If the minimum level found is substantially higher than the value provided by the combustion unit manufacturer, burner adjustments can probably be made to improve fuel and air mixing, thereby allowing operation with less air. (H) Step 8. Add 0.5 to 2.0 percent to the minimum excess oxygen level found in Step 7 and reset burner controls to operate automatically at this higher stack gas oxygen level. This margin above the minimum oxygen level accounts for fuel variations, variations in atmospheric conditions, load changes, and nonrepeatability or play in automatic controls. (I) Step 9. If the load of the combustion unit varies significantly during normal operation, repeat Steps 1&hyph;8 for firing rates that represent the upper and lower limits of the range of the load. Because control adjustments at one firing rate may affect conditions at other firing rates, it may not be possible to establish the optimum excess oxygen level at all firing rates. If this is the case, choose the burner control settings that give best performance over the range of firing rates. If one firing rate predominates, settings should optimize conditions at that rate. (J) Step 10. Verify that the new settings can accommodate the sudden load changes that may occur in daily operation without adverse effects. Do this by increasing and decreasing load rapidly while observing the flame and stack. If any of the conditions in Step 5 result, reset the combustion controls to provide a slightly higher level of excess oxygen at the affected firing rates. Next, verify these new settings in a similar fashion. Then make sure that the final control settings are recorded at steady-state operating conditions. §52.2962 Enhanced in-use compliance program for light-and medium-duty vehicles. (a) General applicability. (1) Every new 1999 and later model year light-duty vehicle, light-duty truck, and medium-duty vehicle manufactured for sale, sold, offered for sale, introduced, or delivered for introduction to commerce, or imported into the State of California for sale or resale shall be covered by a certificate of conformity issued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. Medium-duty vehicles whose engines are covered by a certificate of conformity applicable to heavy-duty engines issued by the State of California pursuant to the California Code are exempted from this requirement, but must comply with the requirements of §52.2966. (2) Any manufacturer, dealer, or other person who violates paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $25,000. Any such violation with respect to paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall constitute a separate offense with respect to each motor vehicle. (3) Certain vehicle fleet operators, as defined in paragraph (g) of this section, are subject to the provisions contained in that paragraph. (b) Definitions and abbreviations. The definitions and abbreviations of 40 CFR parts 86 and 88, §52.2963, and the definitions contained in the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q) apply to this section unless the term is defined in this section. If defined in this section, the definition in this section governs. California emission standards means standards for the emission of pollutants from motor vehicles and engines set by the California Air Resources Board which have received waivers from the Administrator under section 209 of the Clean Air Act. Composite non-methane hydrocarbon emission level means the combined exhaust and evaporative emission non-methane hydrocarbon level, expressed in g/mi (or g/km). Conversion factors are applied to measured evaporative emissions to generate the composite level and measured evaporative hydrocarbon levels are equated to evaporative non-methane hydrocarbon levels. Enhanced ILEV means a vehicle for which the Administrator has issued the manufacturer a certificate of conformity designating the vehicle as an ILEV under 40 CFR 88.311&hyph;93 and as complying with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section. FIP I/M program means any motor vehicle inspection and maintenance program meeting the provisions of §52.2963. Full life means up to and including 100.0 percent of the full useful life mileage and age. Half life means up to and including 50.0 percent of the full useful life mileage and age. Light-duty truck means any motor vehicle rated at 6000 pounds GVWR or less which is designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is a derivative of such vehicle, or is available with special features enabling off-street or off- highway operation and use.
