FR940317-1-00192 FR940317-1-00016 The final official statement can be composed of a set of documents. Comment is requested on whether a seasoned issuer should be permitted to incorporate previously prepared documents by reference into the final official statement and, if incorporation by reference is permitted, what limitations or requirements should be imposed. Comment is requested on whether seasoned issuers should be required to provide documents incorporated by reference upon request and at no charge, and on what definition should be used for ``seasoned issuers.'' For example, seasoned issuers could be defined as repeat issuers having in excess of a specified dollar amount of outstanding securities. 2. Significant Obligors Proposed paragraph (b)(5) of the amendment would require financial and operating information on ``significant obligors'' of an issuer of a municipal security to be provided in the final official statement and in annual financial information. The proposed amendments, in paragraph (f)(9), also would define the term ``significant obligor.'' An obligor is any person who, directly or indirectly, under a lease, loan, sale, or other agreement or arrangement, is obligated to make payments to the issuer, which cash payments are the source of the cash flow servicing the obligations on municipal securities. The term ``obligor'' is not limited to issuers of separate securities under Rule 3b&hyph;5 under the Exchange Act and Rule 131 under the Securities Act. 23 Under the proposed definition, an obligor would be viewed as ``significant'' if it is the source of 20 percent or more of the cash flow servicing the obligations on the municipal securities. 23 An obligor is not only an industrial or commercial enterprise, but may include governmental and nonprofit entities as well. See the definition of issuer in Rule 15c2&hyph;12(e)(4), 17 CFR 240.15c2&hyph;12(e)(4); Rule 3b&hyph;5, 17 CFR 240.3b&hyph;5, and Rule 131, 17 CFR 230.131, under the Securities Act. This definition is designed to make available to the municipal securities market, at the time of issuance and on an annual basis, information on persons who ultimately are responsible for the cash flow servicing the municipal securities. The proposed definition recognizes that, with portfolio and concentration risk diversification, the ``significant obligor'' of an issuer of a municipal security may not be constant, but may change from year to year. Comment is requested on whether 20 percent is an appropriate threshold level of cash flow to require disclosure concerning a significant obligor, or whether a different threshold, such as 10, 15, or 30 percent, should be used. Comment also is requested on whether this standard should differ for a final official statement and annual financial information. Finally, comment is requested as to whether the issuer's obligation to provide information concerning significant obligors should be conditioned on a minimum threshold, for example, payment obligations in excess of $1,000,000, or some other dollar threshold. D. Exemptions Consistent with other provisions of Rule 15c2&hyph;12, the proposed amendments are limited in application to primary offerings of municipal securities with an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000 or more. The proposed amendments include a new exemption in paragraph (d)(2), applicable to paragraph (b)(5). This new exemption would provide that, in addition to the $1,000,000 threshold applicable to Rule 15c2&hyph;12 generally, Offerings would be exempt from the operation of paragraph (b)(5) if, at such time as the issuer of municipal securities delivers the securities to the Participating Underwriter, the issuer: (a) will have less than $10,000,000 in aggregate amount of municipal securities outstanding, including the offered securities; and (b) the issuer will have issued less than $3,000,000 in aggregate amount of municipal securities in the most recent 48 months preceding the Offering. This exemption is designed to exclude from the application of paragraph (b)(5) small issuers that do not frequently issue municipal securities. Comment is requested on the use of these thresholds. Comment also is requested on whether a different or additional threshold should be applicable to paragraph (b)(5). Such a threshold could be based on the number of holders of municipal securities, or on the number of holders falling below a certain level at the end of a fiscal year, for example, 300 or 500 debt holders. Comment is requested on whether issuers of conduit securities that are non-governmental private activity bonds should be excepted from this exemption, or if lower or different thresholds should be used for such issuers. Comment also is requested on whether the exemption in proposed paragraph (d)(2) is appropriate for conduit financings, in light of the fact that, in many instances, issuing authorities are created for the sole purpose of issuing bonds to finance a particular facility. The proposed amendments also include a new exemption in paragraph (d)(3), exempting from the application of paragraph (c) of the rule a primary offering of municipal securities (1) not sold in an Offering to which paragraph (b)(5) applied, or (2) sold in an Offering exempt under paragraph (d)(1) or paragraph (d)(2). The purpose of this exemption is to permit the recommendation in the secondary market of securities that were not subject to paragraph (b)(5), either because they were sold in a primary offering of municipal securities with an aggregate principal amount of less than $1,000,000, or because they came within the existing exemptions under newly designated paragraph (d)(1) for limited placements, short-term securities, and securities with demand features, or within the exemption in new paragraph (d)(2) for small, infrequent issuers. Comment is requested on this exemption. Specifically, comment is requested on whether paragraph (c) of the proposed amendments should be made applicable to all outstanding issues of municipal securities. The existing transactional exemption in newly designated paragraph (d) would apply to the amendments. E. Transitional Provision Newly designated paragraph (g) of the rule would contain a transitional provision for the proposed amendments. The provisions of paragraph (b)(5) would apply to a Participating Underwriter that had contractually committed to act as an underwriter in an Offering on or after the effective date of the rule. Comment is requested on whether this transitional provision is appropriate, and on whether the effective date of the proposed amendments should be delayed. III. Nationally Recognized Municipal Securities Information Repositories While the term ``NRMSIR'' currently is used in paragraph (b)(4) of Rule 15c2&hyph;12, it is not defined in the rule. In proposing the rule, however, the Commission requested comment on the creation of one or more repositories for municipal securities disclosure documents. 24 At that time, the Commission strongly supported the development of one or more central repositories. 25 Of the more than sixty comment letters that the Commission received, forty-five expressed views regarding the concept of repositories. Forty of the forty-five commenters expressed support for some form of a central repository. 26 24 Proposing Release, supra note 6 at 54 FR 37791. 25 Adopting Release, supra note 6 at 54 FR 28807. The Commission recognized the benefits that would accrue from the creation of competing private repositories. Id. In 1989, the MSRB announced its intention to establish and manage a central repository to provide for the collection and dissemination of official statements and refunding documents. Letter from John W. Rowe, Chairman, MSRB, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC (June 1, 1989). The MSRB developed its Municipal Securities Information Library (``MSIL'') system, which presently collects information and disseminates it electronically to market participants and information vendors. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29298 (June 13, 1991), 56 FR 28194. In January 1993, the MSRB began operating its Continuing Disclosure Information pilot system (``CDI System''), which is a central repository for voluntarily submitted official continuing disclosure documents relating to outstanding municipal securities issues. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30556 (April 6, 1992), 57 FR 12534. The CDI System operates as part of MSIL, and currently is capable of accepting documents of three or fewer pages in length. Neither MSIL nor the CDI System is a NRMSIR. In considering the approval of MSRB rule G&hyph;36, which requires underwriters to provide the MSRB with copies of final official statements and certain other information prepared by issuers, the Commission noted that the MSRB did not intend to seek NRMSIR status. The Commission noted that if the MSRB sought NRMSIR status, it would consider the competitive implications of such a request. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28081 (June 1, 1990), 55 FR 23333, 23337 n.26. 26 See Adopting Release, supra note 6 at 54 FR 28807.
