FR941220-0-00044 FR941220-0-00008 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 94 [ET Docket No. 92&hyph;9; FCC 94&hyph;303] Redevelopment of Spectrum To Encourage Innovation in the Use of New Telecommunications Technologies AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: By this Second Memorandum Opinion and Order ( Second MO&O ) the Commission refines and clarifies the rules and policies adopted to make spectrum available for emerging telecommunications technologies. The Second MO&O adopts rules to complete a regulatory framework for relocating fixed microwave operations where necessary to implement services using emerging technologies in the 2 GHz bands. This action is necessary to provide 2 GHz spectrum for future wireless communications services while preventing disruption to incumbent 2 GHz fixed microwave licensees. This action facilitates future authorizations of a broad range of new wireless communications services that employ emerging technologies. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 19, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Fred Lee Thomas, Office of Engineering and Technology, (202) 653&hyph;6204. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Second Memorandum Opinion and Order ( Second MO&O ) adopted November 28, 1994, and released December 2, 1994. A summary of the Memorandum Opinion and Order ( MO&O ) that is reconsidered in the Second MO&O may be found at 59 FR 19642 (April 25, 1994). This action will not add to or decrease the public reporting burden. The full text of this Commission decision is available for inspection and copying during regular business hours in the FCC Reference Center (Room 239), 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC. The complete text of this decision also may be purchased from the Commission's duplication contractor, International Transcription Service, (202) 857&hyph;3800, 2100 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20037. Summary of the Second Memorandum Opinion and Order 1. The Second MO&O responded to a Petition for Reconsideration filed jointly by the Public Safety Microwave Committee (PSMC), the Association of Public-Safety Communications Officials-International, Inc. (APCO), the County of Los Angeles (LA County), and the Forestry-Conservation Communication Association (FCCA) (collectively ``Petitioners''). Petitioners requested that the Commission not subject incumbent public safety facilities to mandatory relocation. 2. The Second MO&O effected changes to the rules to further the Commission's goals of providing for the fair and equitable sharing of 2 GHz spectrum by new services and the existing fixed microwave services that currently use these frequencies, and for the relocation of existing 2 GHz facilities to other spectrum where necessary. The rules provide licensees of services using emerging technologies with access to 2 GHz frequencies in a reasonable timeframe, while at the same time preventing disruption to existing 2 GHz operations and minimizing the economic impact on the existing licensees. 3. Specifically, the Commission amended the negotiation procedures for mandatory relocation of existing microwave facilities to provide for use of independent estimates of the cost to replace an existing facility in resolving disputes between licensees of existing facilities and new service providers. The Commission also modified the relocation plan to extend the mandatory negotiation period for public safety entities to two years. The relocation plan for public safety facilities will now provide a three-year period for voluntary negotiations followed by a two-year period for mandatory negotiations. 4. In the First Report and Order in this proceeding 57 FR 49020, October 29, 1992, the Commission exempted licensees of incumbent public safety facilities from involuntary relocation. In the Third Report and Order, 58 FR 46547, September 1993, it clarified the definition of public safety. The Commission's purpose in each decision was to ensure that essential safety of life and property communications are not disrupted or otherwise disadvantaged. 5. In the MO&O the Commission concluded on its own motion that it would be in the public interest to subject all incumbent facilities, including public safety, to mandatory relocation if an emerging technology provider requires the spectrum. Of particular concern was providing adequate spectrum for operation of new licensed personal communications services (PCS) services, and operation of unlicensed PCS devices, in major urban areas where there are a large number of incumbent public safety fixed microwave facilities. It has been recognized by incumbent fixed microwave users and PCS interests alike that it will not be possible for PCS and fixed microwave to operate in the same geographic area on the same frequency without interfering with each other. Upon review of the record, the Commission concluded that PCS service may be precluded or severely limited in some areas unless public safety licensees relocate when necessary. Allowing all public safety facilities to remain in the band indefinitely would defeat the Commission's primary goal of providing usable spectrum for the implementation of emerging technologies. 6. In the Second MO&O the Commission stated that it continues to believe that it is in the public interest to subject all incumbent 2 GHz fixed microwave facilities, including public safety licensees, to mandatory relocation if an emerging technology provider requires the spectrum they are using. The Commission concluded that its decision is supported by the record in this proceeding. Further, the Commission stated that this decision, along with the associated transition adopted in previous decisions, as modified in the MO&O , provides a fair balance between the interests of the incumbent fixed microwave service and those services that will use new emerging technologies, such as PCS. Specifically, the transition policy for mandatory relocation of incumbent public safety operations required to relocate, summarized below, will not disadvantage public safety incumbents. _All relocation costs will be paid entirely by the emerging technology licensee. These costs include all engineering, equipment, and site costs and FCC fees, as well as any reasonable additional costs. _Relocation facilities must be fully comparable to those being replaced.
