FR940712-2-00059 FR940712-2-00042 2. The Speakers Bureau a. Establish a Speakers Bureau that will improve the information available to minority organizations concerning health promotion and disease prevention activities among African-Americans. b. Design a strategy to access and/or create a reservoir of professional speakers to address local, State and national audiences on health promotion and disease prevention needs and practices among African-Americans. c. Develop culturally specific measures to encourage African-Americans to improve their health. d. Identify subject area experts who will address and integrate the structural units of health: physical, social, and psychological well-being. Develop a consensus building strategy to educate the community about the overlapping influence of these three health components. e. Develop an effective mechanism through community based organizations (CBOs), radio, television, or open forum to communicate current/updated information on health promotion and disease prevention to individuals and groups in African-American communities. f. Develop a mechanism to advance health promotion and disease prevention activities among members of community groups, health practitioners, educators, advocacy groups, health professions, health professional schools, and public schools. Share the information at national conventions and meetings. 3. The National Health Network a. Identify national, State/district and local African-American groups to collaborate with the CDC and State and local health departments. b. Establish a distribution system to disseminate health promotion and disease prevention information. c. Collaborate with national minority health professional associations, community based organizations, and PHS agencies to develop an effective plan to implement health promotion and disease prevention activities in the African-American communities (e.g., immunization). B. CDC Activities 1. Provide consultation, assistance and support to the grantee in planning, implementing and evaluating all aspects of the agreement. 2. Collaborate with the grantee in identifying areas of the project that need evaluation. 3. Collaborate with grantee in identifying priority needs for public health programs at the local, State, and national levels.
