FR940602-1-00044 FR940602-1-00013 (2) The employer shall adhere to the manufacturer's recommended ratings for wire rope and wire rope slings provided for use aboard ship, and shall have such ratings available for inspection. When the manufacturer is unable to supply such ratings, the employer shall use tables for wire rope and wire rope slings found in Appendix II to this part. A design safety factor of at least five shall be maintained for the common sizes of running wire used as falls in purchases, or in such uses as light load slings. (3) Wire rope with a safety factor of less than five may be used only as follows: (i) In specialized equipment, such as, but not limited to, cranes designed to be used with lesser wire rope safety factors; (ii) In accordance with design factors in standing rigging applications; or (iii) For heavy lifts or other purposes for which a safety factor of five is not feasible and for which the employer can demonstrate that equivalent safety is ensured. (4) Wire rope or wire rope slings provided by the employer and having any of the following conditions shall not be used: (i) Ten randomly distributed broken wires in one rope lay or three or more broken wires in one strand in one rope lay; (ii) Kinking, crushing, bird caging or other damage resulting in distortion of the wire rope structure; (iii) Evidence of heat damage; (iv) Excessive wear or corrosion, deformation or other defect in the wire or attachments, including cracks in attachments; (v) Any indication of strand or wire slippage in end attachments; or (vi) More than one broken wire in the close vicinity of a socket or swaged fitting. (5) Protruding ends of strands in splices on slings and bridles shall be covered or blunted. Coverings shall be removable so that splices can be examined. Means used to cover or blunt ends shall not damage the wire. (6) Where wire rope clips are used to form eyes, the employer shall adhere to the manufacturer's recommendations, which shall be available for inspection. If ``U'' bolt clips are used and the manufacturer's recommendations are not available, Table 1 of Appendix II to this part shall be used to determine the number and spacing of clips. ``U'' bolts shall be applied with the ``U'' section in contact with the dead end of the rope. (7) Wire rope shall not be secured by knotting. (8) Eyes in wire rope bridles, slings, bull wires, or in single parts used for hoisting shall not be formed by wire rope clips or knots. (9) Eye splices in wire ropes shall have at least three tucks with a whole strand of the rope, and two tucks with one-half of the wire cut from each strand. Other forms of splices or connections which are shown to be equivalently safe may be used. (10) Except for eye splices in the ends of wires and endless rope slings, each wire rope used in hoisting or lowering, or bulling cargo, shall consist of one continuous piece without knot or splice. (c) Natural fibre rope. (1) The employer shall ascertain and adhere to the manufacturer's recommended ratings for natural fibre rope and natural fibre rope slings provided for use aboard ship, and shall have such ratings available for inspection. When the manufacturer is unable to supply such ratings, Appendix II to this part provides guidelines for fibre rope ratings. (2) If the manufacturers recommended ratings and use recommendations are unavailable, Table 2 of Appendix II to this part provides guidelines to determine safe working loads of natural fibre rope slings comprising part of pre-slung drafts. (3) Eye splices shall consist of at least three full tucks. Short splices shall consist of at least six tucks, three on each side of the centerline. (d) Synthetic rope. (1) The employer shall adhere to the manufacturer's ratings and use recommendations for the specific synthetic fibre rope and synthetic fibre rope slings provided for use aboard ship, and shall have such ratings available for inspection. When the manufacturer is unable to supply such ratings, the employer shall use Tables 3A and B of Appendix II to this part. (2) If the manufacturers recommended ratings and use recommendations are unavailable, Tables 3A and B of Appendix II to this part shall be used to determine the safe working load of synthetic fibre rope and of synthetic rope slings comprising part of pre-slung drafts. (3) Unless otherwise recommended by the manufacturer, when synthetic fibre ropes are substituted for natural fibre ropes of less than 3 inches (7.62 cm) in circumference, the substitute shall be of equal size. Where substituted for natural fibre rope of 3 inches (7.62 cm) or more in circumference, the size of the synthetic rope shall be determined from the formula: E:GRAPHICSEP02JN94.001 Where C=the required circumference of the synthetic rope in inches (centimeters); C s = the circumference to the nearest one-quarter inch (.6 cm) of a synthetic rope having a breaking strength no less than that of the size natural fibre rope that would be required by paragraph (c) of this section; and C m = the circumference of natural fibre rope in inches (centimeters) which would be required by paragraph (c) of this section. In making each substitution, it shall be ascertained that the inherent characteristics of the synthetic-fibre are suitable for hoisting. (e) Removal of natural and synthetic rope from service. Natural and synthetic rope having any of the following defects shall be removed from service: (1) Abnormal or excessive wear including heat and chemical damage; (2) Powdered fibre between strands; (3) Sufficient cut or broken fibers to affect the capability of the rope;
