FR940812-1-00008 FR940812-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Office of Refugee Resettlement 45 CFR Part 400 Refugee Resettlement Program: Requirements for Employability Services, Job Search, and Employment; Refugee Medical Assistance; Refugee Social Services; Targeted Assistance Services; and Federal Funding for Administrative Costs AGENCY: Administration for Children and Families (ACF), HHS, Office of Refugee Resettlement. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would amend or clarify current requirements governing employability services, job search, employment, refugee medical assistance, social services, and Federal funding for State administrative costs and would establish requirements for the targeted assistance program. DATES: Comments must be received by September 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Toyo A. Biddle, Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 370 L'Enfant Promenade SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20447. Agencies and organizations are requested to submit comments in duplicate. Comments will be available for public inspection, beginning approximately one month after publication, at the above address on Monday through Friday of each week from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., except Federal holidays. Although we will not be able to acknowledge or respond to comments individually, in preparing the final rule, we will respond to comments in the preamble to the final rule. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Toyo A. Biddle, (202) 401&hyph;9253. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Refugee Act of 1980 amended the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) to create a domestic refugee resettlement program to provide assistance and services to refugees resettling in the United States. With the enactment of this legislation, the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) issued a series of regulations, at 45 CFR part 400, to establish comprehensive requirements for a State-administered Refugee Resettlement Program (RRP), beginning with the publication on September 9, 1980 (45 FR 59318) of a regulation governing State plan and reporting requirements. Subsequent regulations covered cash and medical assistance and Federal funding, published March 12, 1982 (47 FR 10841); grants to States, child welfare services (including services to unaccompanied minors), and Federal funding for State expenditures, published January 30, 1986 (51 FR 3904); and cash and medical assistance, requirements for employability services, job search, and employment, and refugee social services published February 3, 1989 (54 FR 5463). Description of the Regulation This proposed regulation clarifies some current policies, amends others, and sets forth regulatory requirements for the targeted assistance program (TAP). In recent years, annual refugee admissions have been high, resulting in an expanding pool of refugees in need of services. As of September 30, 1993, 1.6 million refugees have been resettled in the U.S. since 1975. All of these refugees, with the exception of those who have become U.S. citizens, are eligible to receive refugee program services. At the same time, the level of funds appropriated for services has remained essentially unchanged, making it difficult to serve all refugees in need of services with available resources. It is not uncommon, for example, for English language training classes, funded by the refugee program, to have waiting lists so that refugees who arrive in the country are not able to access English language training without a delay. Nine major States have indicated that there are currently waiting lists for refugee services, especially for English language training, in their States. We believe the increased demand for services makes it necessary to sharpen the program's priorities. Resources in the refugee program are no longer sufficient to provide the level of services needed to assist refugees for an open-ended period of time to become self-sufficient. We have learned from experience in the refugee program that the greatest impact that services can have on a refugee's social adjustment and economic well-being occurs during a refugee's initial years in the United States. These initial services often define a refugee's future experience. Findings from several studies indicate that comprehensive services, provided soon after a refugee's arrival in the U.S., increase the likelihood of early employment. Under commission from ORR in 1992, Dr. Robert L. Bach, in an examination of data from the Oregon Refugee Early Employment Project (REEP), found that refugees who received job services or pre-employment training in the first 90 days reduced the time to their initial job by almost two months. Dr. Bach's analysis indicated that each job service provided in the first 90 days increased the probability of employment by three percent. A study of the Oregon REEP, conducted by the Refugee Policy Group (RPG) and published in 1989, found that REEP set up client/caseworker ratios that permitted a staff-intensive approach early in the resettlement experience, an element which in large part, according to RPG, was crucial to REEP's achievement of earlier employment. Similarly, performance reported for the first year of the United States Catholic Conference (USCC) Wilson/Fish project in San Diego indicated that the project was able to reduce the average length of time on cash assistance by over two months through the provision of early comprehensive services aimed at employment.
