FR941202-0-00136 FR941202-0-00012 FRA 49 CFR Chapter II List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 219 Alcohol and drug abuse, Railroad safety, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons stated in the preamble, FRA amends 49 CFR Part 219, as follows: PART 219_CONTROL OF ALCOHOL AND DRUG USE 1. The authority for part 219 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. 20103, 20107, 20111, 20112, 20113, 20140, 21301, 21304; and 49 CFR 1.49(m). 2. Section 219.5 is amended by adding, in alphabetical order, definitions for ``positive rate'' and ``refuse to submit'' as follows: ยง219.5 Definitions. * * * * * Positive rate means the number of positive results for random drug tests conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random tests required by this part, divided by the total number of random drug tests conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random tests required by this part . * * * * * Refuse to submit means that a covered employee fails to provide a urine sample as required by 49 CFR Part 40, without a genuine inability to provide a specimen (as determined by a medical evaluation), after he or she has received notice of the requirement to be tested in accordance with the provisions of this part, or engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process. * * * * * 3. Section 219.602 is added as follows: ยง219.602 Administrator's determination of random drug testing rate. (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing shall be 50 percent of covered employees. (b) The Administrator's decision to increase or decrease the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is based on the reported positive rate for the entire industry. All information used for this determination is drawn from the drug MIS reports required by this part. In order to ensure reliability of the data, the Administrator considers the quality and completeness of the reported data, may obtain additional information or reports from railroads, and may make appropriate modifications in calculating the industry positive rate. Each year, the Administrator will publish in the Federal Register the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing of covered employees. The new minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing will be applicable starting January 1 of the calendar year following publication. (c) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is 50 percent, the Administrator may lower this rate to 25 percent of all covered employees if the Administrator determines that the data received under the reporting requirements of ยง219.803 for two consecutive calendar years indicate that the reported positive rate is less than 1.0 percent. (d) When the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing is 25 percent, and the data received under the reporting requirements of ยง219.803 for any calendar year indicate that the reported positive rate is equal to or greater than 1.0 percent, the Administrator will increase the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing to 50 percent of all covered employees. (e) Selection of covered employees for testing shall be made by a method employing objective, neutral criteria which ensures that every covered employee has a substantially equal statistical chance of being selected within a specified time frame. The method may not permit subjective factors to play a role in selection, i.e., no employee may be selected as a result of the exercise of discretion by the railroad. The selection method shall be capable of verification with respect to the randomness of the selection process. (f) The railroad shall randomly select a sufficient number of covered employees for testing during each calendar year to equal an annual rate not less than the minimum annual percentage rate for random drug testing determined by the Administrator. If the railroad conducts random drug testing through a consortium, the number of employees to be tested may be calculated for each individual railroad or may be based on the total number of covered employees covered by the consortium who are subject to random drug testing at the same minimum annual percentage rate under this part or any DOT drug testing rule. (g) Each railroad shall ensure that random drug tests conducted under this part are unannounced and that the dates for administering random tests are spread reasonably throughout the calendar year. (h) If a given covered employee is subject to random drug testing under the drug testing rules of more than one DOT agency for the same railroad, the employee shall be subject to random drug testing at the percentage rate established for the calendar year by the DOT agency regulating more than 50 percent of the employee's function. (i) If a railroad is required to conduct random drug testing under the drug testing rules of more than one DOT agency, the railroad may_ (1) Establish separate pools for random selection, with each pool containing the covered employees who are subject to testing at the same required rate; or (2) Randomly select such employees for testing at the highest percentage rate established for the calendar year by any DOT agency to which the railroad is subject. Issued in Washington, DC, November 22, 1994. Donald M. Itzkoff, Deputy Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration.
