FR940930-0-00172 FR940930-0-00028 2. Harmonization of ILEV Exhaust Standards and Test Procedures With the CFV Provisions In EPA's final rule on ``Clean Fuel Fleet Credit Programs, Transportation Control Measure Exemptions, and Related Provisions'' (58 FR 11888, March 1, 1993), Inherently Low-Emission Vehicle (ILEV) emission standards and test procedures were established. The exhaust emission standards were published in tables C93&hyph;6, C93&hyph;6.1, and C93&hyph;6.2. With the finalizing of exhaust emission standards and test procedures in today's rule, the earlier treatment of ILEV standards and test procedures for exhaust emissions are now obsolete. Technical revisions of the ILEV regulations are included in today's rule. These changes have the effect of focusing ILEV exhaust requirements on those of other CFVs, while the special ILEV evaporative emissions standard and test procedure remains unchanged. E. Display of OMB Control Numbers EPA is also amending the table of currently approved information collection request (ICR) control numbers issued by OMB for various regulations. This amendment updates the table to accurately display those information requirements contained in this final rule which have already been approved. This display of the OMB control number and the subsequent codification in the Code of Federal Regulations satisfies the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ) and OMB's implementing regulations at 5 CFR 1320. The ICR was previously subject to public notice and comment prior to OMB approval. As a result, EPA finds that there is ``good cause'' under section 553(b)(B) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B)) to amend this table without prior notice and comment. Due to the technical nature of the table, further notice and comment would be necessary. For the same reasons, EPA finds that there is good cause under 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(3). F. Regulatory Impacts The economic and environmental impacts of this rulemaking are only from the provisions pertaining to the Clean Fuel Fleet Program since the impacts of the California Pilot Program will most likely be superseded by the projected effect of the CARB LEV program and other federal requirements and should not create additional economic or environmental impact. EPA has prepared a Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) that evaluates the program costs, potential program benefits, and cost effectiveness of the Clean Fuel Fleet Program. As described in the proposal, included here is a summary of the results of those analyses. The program costs and potential benefits related to light-duty vehicles and trucks are evaluated separately from those of heavy-duty vehicles (above 8,500 lbs GVWR) because the CFV standards and the technology used to meet them are very different for the light-duty and heavy-duty classes. 1. Program Costs a. Light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. As described in the proposal, to estimate the potential costs of clean-fuel LDVs and LDTs, EPA has developed two scenarios representing different assumptions about the future use of nonconventional fuels. Scenario I assumes no major changes from conditions that exist today. Scenario II assumes the emergence of some driving force that would encourage or require OEMs to offer more non-petroleum fuel/vehicle combinations. Using the above scenarios, the incremental acquisition and operating costs, coupled with estimates of the number of CFVs operating, can be used to estimate an overall cost of the fleet program for LDVs and LDTs. The incremental acquisition cost is the amount a fleet owner must pay for a CFV above the cost of a comparable conventional vehicle, and different incremental costs are associated with each vehicle/fuel type. As in the proposal, EPA estimates an incremental acquisition cost of $170 for vehicles fueled with reformulated gasoline, $300 for alcohol-fueled vehicles, $2,000 for gaseous-fueled vehicles, and $3,300 for electric vehicles. Another fleet program cost is incurred in the operation of clean-fuel vehicles. Estimated operating costs, for all of the vehicle/fuel combinations, are based solely on fuel costs, since no additional maintenance is expected for CFVs above their conventional counterparts. As in the proposal, compared to conventional gasoline equivalent cost of $1.31 in the year 2000, the projected gasoline equivalents for the same year are as follows: $1.36 for reformulated gasoline, $1.12 for alcohol fuels, $1.09 for CNG, $0.62 for LPG, and $1.12 for electricity. Thus, all fuels except for reformulated gasoline represent a cost savings when compared to the estimated price of conventional gasoline in the year 2000.
