FR940627-2-00042 FR940627-2-00026 The courts have become increasingly involved in the operations of public child welfare agencies as a result of class action suits intended to promote system reform. The courts have demonstrated a willingness to oversee system change through court orders and consent decrees. The recognition of how intertwined courts and child welfare are is reflected in a set-aside component of the Family Preservation and Support Services program providing grants to State courts to assess and improve their proceedings relating to foster care and adoption beginning in FY 1995. The National Resource Center on Legal and Court Issues will help build the capacity of children and family service agencies to deal with a range of legal and court related concerns. In addition to meeting the minimum requirements detailed previously, applicants need to: •Describe a plan highlighting methods and techniques that can be employed to improve coordination and communication between the judicial system and the public child welfare system. •Describe a plan for assisting agencies to become more adept at understanding and more efficient at responding to law-related concerns. •Describe a plan for maintaining legal research and analysis capabilities and ongoing information dissemination functions on complex issues such as HIV/AIDS, custodial issues for medically fragile children, rights of addicted parents, parental rights to treatment, confidentiality, and others that may emerge. •Describe strategies for designing, delivering and/or collaborating with others on the training of judges and other significant court personnel to implement key provisions and requirements of federal child welfare legislation. •Describe a plan for reviewing and analyzing class action suits, court orders and consent decrees, and maintaining a database on litigation within the child welfare system. •Describe a plan for working with State court systems and/or with other organizations on assisting States regarding the grants for State court assessment and improvement from the Family Preservation and Support Services legislation. CFDA: 93.608 Child Welfare Research and Demonstration: Section 426 of the Social Security Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 626. 10. Project Duration: The length of each National Resource Center for Child Welfare Services Programs project shall not exceed 60 months. 11. Federal Share of Project Costs: The Federal share of the projects varies from Center to Center for the first 12 month budget period as follows: National Resource Center for Family-Centered Practice_$950,000 National Resource Center for Permanency Planning_$750,000 National Resource Center for Organizational Improvement_$550,000 National Resource Center for Youth Development_$550,000 National Resource Center on Legal and Court Issues_$400,000. Funding for subsequent years of the project may exceed the amount specified above for the first budget period based on a comprehensive needs assessment submitted by the grantee and the availability of funds. 12. Matching Requirements: The applicant must provide at least 10 percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost is the sum of the ACYF share and the non-federal share. The non-federal share may be met by cash or in-kind contributions, although applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions. Therefore, a project requesting $90,000 in Federal funds for the first 12 month budget period, must include a match of $10,000 (10 percent of total project costs, i.e., $100,000 for the first budget period).
