FR940617-2-00014 FR940617-2-00008 Best Information Available U.S. Customs shipment data suggest that there were sales of subject merchandise during the POI. Because MOFTEC and most of the potential respondents failed to provide information concerning whether there were such sales, the Department, in accordance with section 776(c) of the Act, must base its preliminary determination on best information available (BIA). In determining what to use as BIA, the Department follows a two-tiered methodology, whereby the Department normally assigns lower margins to those respondents who cooperate in an investigation and margins based on more adverse assumptions for those respondents who do not cooperate in an investigation. Since the potential respondents in this case did not cooperate, we assigned a BIA margin based on the most adverse assumptions. In this case, BIA is the information contained in the petition, as amended on November 24, 1993. ( See Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigations: Silicomanganese from Brazil, the People's Republic of China, Ukraine and Venezuela, 58 FR 64553, December 8, 1993.) The amended petition provides only one margin, listed below, for all PRC producers and exporters of silicomanganese. Critical Circumstances Petitioner alleges that critical circumstances exist with respect to imports of silicomanganese from the PRC. Pursuant to section 733(e)(1) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.16, we analyzed the allegations using the Department's standard methodology. To find critical circumstances, the Department must determine whether there is a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that 1) there is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere of the same class or kind of subject merchandise, or the importer knew or should have known that the producer or reseller was selling the subject merchandise at less than its foreign market value; and 2) there have been massive imports of the subject merchandise over a relatively short period. We have not found a history of dumping of PRC silicomanganese in the United States or elsewhere. According to Department practice, however, we will impute knowledge of dumping to importers of subject merchandise when the dumping margin exceeds 25 percent in purchase price situations ( see Preliminary Determination on Silicon Carbide from the PRC , 58 FR 64549, December 8, 1993). In this case, the estimated dumping margin for silicomanganese imports from the PRC is 150.00 percent. We consider imports of merchandise under investigation to be massive if there has been an increase of 15 percent or more over a relatively short period of time. For the preliminary determination, we were able to obtain import data through the month of March. To determine whether there have been massive imports of silicomanganese from the PRC, we compared the import volume for the month in which the petition was filed, November, and the four months subsequent to that month with the import volume for the five months prior to the filing of the petition, using Department of Commerce shipment data. We found that the import volume of silicomanganese during the period subsequent to the filing of the petition was massive, increasing by 426.83 percent over the previous period's import volume. For the foregoing reasons, the Department preliminarily finds that critical circumstances exist in this case. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of silicomanganese from the PRC that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date 90 days before the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the amount shown below. These suspension of liquidation instructions will remain in effect until further notice. ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Weighted-average margin percentage All exporters 150.00 ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. If our final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine before the later of 120 days after the date of this preliminary determination or 45 days after our final determination whether these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, the U.S. industry.
