FR941103-0-00127 FR941103-0-00016 (i) For specification MC 300, MC 301, MC 302, MC 303, MC 305 and MC 306 cargo tanks, the provisions of either specification MC 306 or DOT 406 until August 31, 1995 and, thereafter to specification DOT 406 only; (ii) For specification MC 304 and MC 307 cargo tanks, the provisions of either specification MC 307 or DOT 407 until August 31, 1995 and, thereafter to specification DOT 407 only; (iii) For specification MC 310, MC 311, and MC 312 cargo tanks, the provisions of either specification MC 312 or DOT 412 until August 31, 1995 and, thereafter to specification DOT 412 only; and (iv) For specification MC 330 cargo tanks, the provisions of specification MC 331. (4) The person performing the modification, stretching, or rebarrelling must: (i) Have knowledge of the original design concept, particularly with respect to structural design analysis, material and welding procedures; (ii) Assure compliance with the rebuilt cargo tank's structural integrity, venting, and accident damage protection requirements; (iii) Assure compliance with all applicable Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations for any newly installed safety equipment; (iv) Perform all retest procedures on each cargo tank in accordance with the applicable specification and §180.407; (v) Change the existing specification plate to reflect the cargo tank as modified, stretched or rebarrelled. This must include the name of the person doing the work, his DOT registration number, date, retest information, etc. A supplemental specification plate may be installed immediately adjacent to the existing plate(s), or the existing specification plate may be removed and replaced with a new plate; and (vi) On a variable specification cargo tank, install a supplemental or new variable specification plate, and replace the specification listed on the original specification plate with the words ``see variable specification plate''. (5) The design of the modified, stretched, or rebarrelled cargo tank must be approved by a Design Certifying Engineer registered in accordance with subpart F of part 107 of subchapter B of this chapter. The Design Certifying Engineer must certify that the modified, stretched, or rebarrelled cargo tank meets the structural integrity requirements of the applicable specification. The person performing the modifying, stretching or rebarrelling and a Registered Inspector must certify that the cargo tank is in compliance with this section and the applicable specification by issuing a supplemental manufacturer's certificate. The registration number of the Registered Inspector and the person performing the modification, stretching, or rebarrelling must be entered on the certificate. When a cargo tank is rebarrelled, it must be designed, constructed and certified in accordance with a cargo tank specification currently authorized for construction in Part 178 of this subchapter. (6) If the mounting of the cargo tank on the cargo tank motor vehicle involves welding on the cargo tank head or shell, then the mounting must be performed as follows: (i) Non-ASME Code stamped cargo tanks. For a non-ASME Code stamped cargo tank_ (A) By a cargo tank manufacturer holding an ASME ``U'' stamp, registered with DOT, and under the direction of a Design Certifying Engineer; or (B) By a repair facility holding an ASME ``U'' stamp or a National Board ``R'' stamp, registered with DOT, and under the direction of a Design Certifying Engineer. (ii) ASME Code stamped cargo tank. For an ASME Code stamped cargo tank, by a repair facility holding a National Board ``R'' stamp, registered in accordance with subpart F of part 107 of subchapter B of this chapter, and approved by a Design Certifying Engineer. (7) If the mounting of a cargo tank on a cargo tank motor vehicle does not involve welding on the cargo tank head or shell, or a change or modification of the methods of attachment, then the mounting shall be in accordance with the original specification or with the specification in effect at the time of the mounting. If the mounting involves any change or modification of the methods of attachment, then the mounting must be approved by a Design Certifying Engineer. (8) Prior to any modification, stretching, or rebarrelling a cargo tank must be emptied of any hazardous material lading. Cargo tanks containing flammable or toxic lading must be purged. (9) Any modification, stretching, or rebarrelling on the cargo tank involving welding on the shell or head must be certified by a Registered Inspector. Any repair of an ASME Code ``U'' stamped cargo tank must be in accordance with the National Board Inspection Code. (10) The suitability of modification, stretching, or rebarrelling affecting the structural integrity of the cargo tank must be determined by testing as prescribed for new manufacture in the applicable specification. (e) Records. Each owner of a cargo tank must retain at its principal place of business all records of repair, modification, stretching, or rebarrelling made to each tank during the time the tank is in service and for one year thereafter. Copies of these records must be retained by a motor carrier, who is not the owner of the cargo tank, at its principal place of business during the period the tank is in the carrier's service. The seller of a cargo tank shall provide the purchaser a copy of the cargo tank Certificate of Compliance, and all repair, inspection and test reports upon sale as an MC or DOT cargo tank. Issued in Washington, DC on October 21, 1994, under authority delegated in 49 CFR Part 1. D.K. Sharma, Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26625 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 1:21 pm] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;60&hyph;P ␣
