FR940104-2-00004 FR940104-2-00002 Access Management _2.7 miles of temporary road construction to provide access for harvesting, 6.0 miles of permanent road construction to provide access for harvesting, 10.7 miles of road reconstruction to improve safety, re-align the junction of roads 360 and 359 to improve safety, create 3 temporary helicopter landings for harvesting, manage road access by closing all new roads with gates or earthen barriers after completion of management activities, 5.7 miles of new trail construction, and 13.6 miles of existing trail reconstruction Fish Habitat Enhancement _5.4 miles of fish habitat improvement by increasing active debris, developing pools, and modifying debris dams and passage barriers Possible Forest Plan amendments or site-specific adjustments may be needed to implement the proposed action. For example, the Powell District will need to seek approval to exceed the 40 acre opening limitation, to create openings within the historic range of variation and minimize fragmentation of large blocks of old growth. Openings larger than 40 acres would retain remnants of the original tree cover to provide structural diversity within those stands. Possible Forest Plan amendments include: _Management area allocation changes for the Wild and Scenic River Corridor, to be determined through the concurrent Wild and Scenic River Suitability Study for White Sand Creek _Change the Forest Plan standard for Beaver Creek from A channel to B channel standards _Change the Forest Plan standard for Crab Creek from Steelhead to Cutthroat _Propose a Visual Travel Corridor for Elk Summit Road _Propose several Visual Travel Corridors including parts of Beaver Ridge Trail 47 and roads 369, 368, 111, 362, 360, and 359 The decision to be made is what, if anything, should be done in the White Sand Planning Area to achieve the purpose and need. The Clearwater Forest Plan provides guidance for management activities within the potentially affected area through its goals, objectives, standards and guidelines, and management area direction. The area of proposed timber harvest and reforestation would occur within Management Areas C8S, E1, E3, A4, and M2. Timber harvest would occur only on suitable timber land, except where needed to facilitate ecosystem burning. These areas would be harvested only to manage fuel conditions to prevent crown fires during reintroduction of fire to fire-dependant ecosystems. Ecosystem burning would occur within management area C6, Key Fishery Habitat. Below is a brief description of the applicable management direction. Management Area E1_Timber Management_Provide optimum, sustained production of timber products in a cost effective manner while protecting soil and water quality. Management Area E3_Aerial Harvesting Systems/Timber Management_Similar to management area E1, except long-span cable, multi-span cable, or helicopter harvest systems will be utilized to limit road development. Management Area C8S_Big Game Summer Range/Timber Management_Maintain high quality wildlife and fishery objectives while producing timber.
