FR940916-1-00163 FR940916-1-00016 Appendix A to Part 232_Schedule of Civil Penalties (Reserved) Appendix B to Part 232_Procedure for Requesting a Change to the Required Periodic Freight Brake or Single Car Test Interval 1.0␣Statistical Definitions Confidence Level means the degree of assurance that a statistical analysis done on a sample accurately reflects the characteristics of the larger population from which the sample was drawn. Periodic Freight Brake Test Failure means a failure of the freight control valve to pass the tests required by AAR Standard S&hyph;486&hyph;91, Section 3: Service, Stability, Minimum Application and Quick Service Limiting Valve, Slow Release and Emergency Tests. Population means all the individual members of a class or type of railroad equipment. Random Sample means a sample drawn from a population so that each member of the population has an equal chance of being selected as a member of the sample. Sample means a subset of a larger population analyzed to estimate or predict characteristics of the entire population. Single Car Test Failure means a failure of the brake control valve or relay valve to pass the Passenger Car Single Car Test in accordance with AAR Standard S&hyph;044 (Instruction Pamphlet No. 5039&hyph;4, Sup. 3). Statistical Analysis means using proven statistical methods to predict the characteristics of a large population based on an analysis of a smaller sample of that population. Valid Statistical Analysis means a statistical analysis based on a truly random sample of large enough size to produce meaningful predictions of the characteristics of a larger population. 2.0␣General (a) An interested party (the FRA itself could be such a party) shall advise the FRA by letter of its intent to initiate a periodic freight brake or single car test monitoring program with the intent to request a change to the required periodic freight brake or single car test interval. The party shall carefully define the equipment population to which the monitoring program applies. Defined populations may be a specific type of car or cars equipped with a specific type of brake system or air brake system component. (b) No cars receiving single car tests due to inspections or repairs made prior to their required periodic freight brake or single car test due date shall be included in the population. (c) The request shall be based on a valid statistical analysis of the periodic freight brake or single car test failure rate of the population. The statistical analysis shall be based on the entire population or a random sample size of the population large enough to give a 95% confidence levels that the periodic freight brake, single car, or single unit train test failure rate of the sample accurately reflects the failure rate of the population as a whole. 3.0␣Outline of Overall Statistical Analysis Procedure (a) Objective. To determine and readjust, as necessary, an inspection interval that ensures with 95% confidence that less than the following percentages of in-service units have a defect that would cause failure to pass the periodic freight brake or single car test at any point in time (population percent defective). (1) 5% for conventional freight equipment. (2) 3% for intermediate speed freight equipment. (3) 3% for conventional passenger or commuter equipment. (4) 2% for intermediate speed passenger or commuter equipment. (5) 1% for high speed passenger equipment. (b) Procedure. The following procedure shall be used to perform a statistical analysis to justify a change in the time interval between required periodic freight brake tests or single car tests of an equipment population: (1) Define the population to which the analysis applies and notify the FRA in writing of the intent to request a change in the time interval between required tests. (2) The phase in period required by §232.609 shall be completed for the population selected for analysis before the sampling period starts. (3) The records of the results of required scheduled single car tests or required scheduled periodic freight brake tests described in §232.615(a) shall be kept. The results of unscheduled tests shall not be included in the analysis. These records shall be kept for the following minimum sampling period: (i) Two years for populations of non-high utilization freight equipment. (ii) One year for high utilization freight equipment. (iii) Six months for all other types of equipment. (4) At the end of the sampling period, the total sample size (total number of units tested) and the total number of test failures (total number of units that failed the periodic freight brake test or single car test) shall be determined. (5) The failure rate for the sample shall be determined by dividing the total number of units failing the test by the total number of units tested. (6) The failure rate versus sample size shall be plotted on one of the following charts: (these charts ensure the required 95% confidence level is achieved) (i) Chart B&hyph;1 for non-high utilization conventional freight equipment. (ii) Chart B&hyph;2 for high utilization freight equipment. (iii) Chart B&hyph;3 for conventional passenger or commuter equipment. (iv) Chart B&hyph;4 for intermediate speed freight equipment. (v) Chart B&hyph;5 for intermediate speed passenger or commuter equipment. (vi) Chart B&hyph;6 for high speed passenger equipment. (c) Determination of New Required Test Interval. The following method shall be used to determine the new required test interval for the selected population: (1) The party requesting the change shall submit a summary of the testing and sampling program including the appropriate completed chart from Part 232 Appendix B (b)(6). (2) The FRA shall review the summary to determine: (i) The correct method was used; (ii) The sample was truly random or the entire population was used as the sample;
