FR940304-1-00170 FR940304-1-00014 •The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) which requires, in part, that an agency prepare an initial regulatory flexibility analysis for any proposed rule unless it determines that the rule will not have a ``significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.'' In the event that such an analysis is not required for a particular rule, the agency must publish a certification and explanation of that determination in the Federal Register . a. Environmental Review The Department prepared an Environmental Assessment (DOE/EA&hyph;0819) on the proposed standards pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., and the implementing regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508). The Environmental Assessment addresses the possible incremental environmental effects attributable to the application of the proposed standards to the design of the eight types of covered products: Room air conditioners, water heaters, direct heating equipment, mobile home furnaces, kitchen ranges and ovens, pool heaters, fluorescent lamp ballasts, and television sets. A Finding of No Significant Impact was issued December 1992 and is being published elsewhere in today's Federal Register . Publishing the finding has been delayed along with the proposed rulemaking due to difficulties in resolving issues and coordinating with a related rulemaking. The Finding of No Significant Impact concludes that the proposed standards would result in no significant environmental impacts and that an environmental impact statement is not required. The Environmental Assessment is published within the Technical Support Document and is available at the DOE Freedom of Information Reading Room at the address provided at the beginning of this notice. b. Regulatory Impact Review Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993) directs that, in proposing a significant regulatory action, 47 an agency perform a regulatory analysis. Such an analysis presents major alternatives to the regulation that could achieve substantially the same regulatory goal at lower cost, as well as a description of the costs and benefits (including potential net benefits) of the proposed rule. 47 ``Significant regulatory action'' means any regulatory action that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise intefere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive order. The Department has determined that this proposed rule is a ``significant regulatory action.'' Accordingly, the draft regulatory action has been prepared and submitted to the Office of Management and Budget. The Office of Management and Budget has reviewed the draft regulatory action under Executive Order 12866. The regulatory review of the draft regulatory action is summarized below. This summary focuses on the major alternatives considered in arriving at the proposed approach to improving the energy efficiency of consumer products. The reader is referred to the complete draft ``Regulatory Impact Analysis,'' which is contained in the Technical Support Document, available as indicated at the beginning of this notice. It consists of: (1) A statement of the problem addressed by this regulation, and the mandate for government action; (2) a description and analysis of the feasible policy alternatives to this regulation; (3) a quantitative comparison of the impacts of the alternatives; and (4) the economic impact of the proposed standard. It should be noted at the outset that none of the alternatives that were examined for these eight products saved as much energy as the proposed rule. Also, most of the alternatives would require that enabling legislation be enacted, since authority to carry out those alternatives does not presently exist.
