FR940513-2-00159 FR940513-2-00080 The proposal further provides that if such a specialist firm's net capital falls below $150,000, such firm shall be subject to remedial action including, but not limited to, the loss of specialist privileges. With regard to joint accounts, the proposal provides that if a specialist post is backed by more than one broker-dealer, then each such broker-dealer subject to the Aggregate Indebtedness Requirement of Rule 15c3&hyph;1 must maintain a minimum net capital of $150,000. If at any time such a broker-dealer's net capital falls below $150,000, such broker-dealer shall promptly notify the Financial Compliance Department of the Exchange and, in addition, such broker-dealer shall not operate as a specialist with net capital between $120,000 and $149,999 for more than 60 days unless such firm (a) obtains from the Vice President, Regulation, or a senior officer of the Exchange written consent to continue to operated as a specialist; and (b) takes corrective action including, but not limited to, actively seeking financing to correct its net capital deficiency. In addition, if such broker-dealer's net capital falls below $120,000, such broker-dealer shall be subject to remedial action including, but not limited to, the loss of specialist privileges. (c) Specialists subject to the alternative net capital requirements. The Exchange is proposing to provide in its rules that specialist firms subject to the Alternative Net Capital Requirement must comply with the requirements of Rule 15c3&hyph;1(a)(1)(ii). The Exchange is further proposing to state that if a specialist post is backed by more than one broker-dealer then each such broker-dealer that is subject to the Alternative Net Capital Requirement must comply with the requirements of Rule 15c3&hyph;1(a)(1)(ii). (d) Other proposed changes. The Exchange is proposing to make the following additional changes to its rules on capital requirements for specialists: First, the Exchange is proposing to clarify its rules by providing in Rule 2.1 that the new net capital requirements will be in addition to the Specialist Post Capital requirement of Rule 2.2. 13 Second, the proposal provides that the Exchange shall promptly notify the Equity Floor Trading Committee of any specialist firm's net capital deficiency and of any action taken by the Vice President, Regulation, or senior officer of the Exchange in connection therewith. Third, the proposal further provides that each specialist firm shall report its net capital to the Exchange in a form and manner prescribed by the Exchange. 14 13 Rule 2.2 provides, in part, that members registered as specialists shall at all times maintain for each specialist post a minimum of $150,000 in either cash or marketable securities or an amount equal to 25% of the sum of the market value of its securities positions, both long and short, whichever is greater. 14 The proposal also adds clarifying language to Rule 2.1(a), which states, among other things, that pursuant to the provisions of Rule 17a&hyph;11 under the Act, each member organization shall promptly notify the Commission if the member organization's net capital does not equal or exceed the appropriate minimum required by SEC Rule 15c3&hyph;1 or if notice is otherwise required by SEC Rule 17a&hyph;11. (2) Statutory Basis The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it promotes just and equitable principles of trade and protects investor and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;3 and should be submitted by June 3, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11702 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
