FR941006-0-00077 FR941006-0-00020 E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. Recovery efforts have been directed toward research and environmental education. A predictive habitat model was developed using Geographical Information System (GIS); 10 additional sites were discovered in 1993 using maps delineating potential habitat (Sperduto 1993). Educational materials in the form of posters, brochures and fact sheets were designed and made available to the general public. Ongoing research includes the investigation of mycorrhizal relationships (Larry Zetler, Clemson University, in litt. 1993), and habitat manipulation to encourage or stabilize I. medeoloides populations (Alison Dibble, University of Maine, in litt. 1993). Mycorrhizal associations are important factors in the germination and seedling establishment of most orchids. Though a mycorrhizal fungus was isolated from the closely related Isotria verticillata, host-specific mycorrhizae have not been identified for I. medeoloides. Alterations to I. medeoloides habitat that adversely affect the mycorrhizae would also result in adverse impacts to the orchid. However, until the specific mycorrhizal associate is determined, it will be difficult to understand the effects of subtle habitat alteration on the orchid or the fungal community. Recent monitoring results indicate a decline in viability of many of the populations that have been followed over a number of years. It appears that no obvious changes have occurred to the habitat of most of these populations and no causes for this decline have been determined. Though life history and demographic studies have provided some clues to the habitat requirements of this species, there is still a large gap in the understanding of what is required to maintain viable populations. Dormancy of Isotria medeoloides plants continues to be a matter of speculation and debate. The 1985 recovery plan provided preliminary information that a small whorled pogonia could go dormant for 10 to 20 years. To date, this length of dormancy has not been verified. The length of dormancy might also vary throughout the range of the orchid. Mehrhoff (1989b) conducted a 6-year study and observed that no plants emerged after 3 or more consecutive years; other studies indicate that plants may be dormant up to 4 years and dormancy may vary by year and by site (Brumback and Fyler 1988; Vitt 1991). Without better clarification of specific dormancy periods, it is difficult to distinguish between a dead or dormant plant. As adjacent, suitable habitat is developed, precluding the natural colonization of suitable habitat, management may be the only alternative for maintaining viable populations. It may be vital to develop habitat management strategies for existing sites in order to maintain self-sustaining populations. Without the knowledge of key habitat characteristics, management and the precise identification of potential habitat will be impossible. Soil type (including texture and moisture), nutrient availability, overstory cover, understory density, slope position and aspect are some of the habitat characteristics that might be important factors in population viability. Other unknown parameters include the variation of climatological factors and relative humidity throughout the species' range, and how these differences impact population stability, plant reproduction, recolonization and viability. The dearth in knowledge of habitat characteristics and life history information may result in the further decline of many populations through benign neglect. The 1992 recovery plan identified a number of tasks required to advance the understanding of Isotria medeoloides in furtherance of its recovery. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to make this rule final. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to reclassify this species from endangered status to threatened status. Threatened status is more appropriate because the number of known populations has tripled since the species was listed and 61 percent of the current viable sites are afforded permanent protection. However, it may still be likely to become an endangered species within the foreseeable future without additional site protection and further investigation of its life history and habitat parameters. Effects of the Rule
