FR941027-2-00024 FR941027-2-00013 Nitrate solutions Chloride solutions Other solutions including organic solutions Inorganic solids Oxides Metals and alloys Combustibles (used rags, used filters, plastic forms) Miscellaneous compounds Each of these groups contains materials which are chemically dissimilar to materials in other groups and may require separate stabilization processing. Therefore, the preferred stabilization alternative is likely to consist of more than a single process. The following stabilization alternatives are currently being considered for detailed analysis in the EIS. 1. Stabilization via Plutonium Reclamation Facility This alternative would involve the restart and operation of the Plutonium Reclamation Facility (PRF), portions of the Remote Mechanical C (RMC) line and two small glovebox processes that would convert and stabilize chemically reactive plutonium-bearing scrap for long-term storage. The PRF processes would be operated to convert certain plutonium-bearing materials to an aqueous solution. These materials include the plutonium oxide powder, incinerator ash, and scrap solutions. These materials would be dissolved with various acids and other chemicals to produce an impure plutonium nitrate solution. The process would use a heavy organic solution to extract plutonium from other impurities. The plutonium nitrate solutions would be converted to solid plutonium oxide, which is suitable for long-term storage. The equipment for this conversion process would be remotely operated from a shielded control room. The process would involve mixing the nitrate feed with oxalic acid to form a plutonium oxalate precipitate. The precipitate would be filtered out of the liquid and thermally oxidized to plutonium oxide. 2. Direct Denitration This alternative would involve the operation of small scale equipment which could be installed within two to four existing gloveboxes in the RMC processing area. The denitration process would be operated to stabilize materials which can be dissolved in nitric acid to form a nitrate solution. Materials would first be dissolved to form the impure nitrate solution, then small amounts of solution would be heated slowly to evaporate the water. The temperature would be increased to form a calcined plutonium oxide powder with other impurities. 3. Alkaline Precipitation As in the case of the direct denitration alternative, this alternative would involve the operation of small scale equipment which could be installed in two to four existing gloveboxes in the RMC processing area. The alkaline precipitation process would use alkaline hydroxides or oxalate compounds to precipitate plutonium from solution. The precipitate would then be filtered and thermally oxidized to plutonium oxide. 4. Molten Salt Calcination This alternative would involve the operation of small- to medium-scale equipment which could be installed in two existing gloveboxes plus a new glovebox in the RMC process area or in another suitable area of the PFP. The molten salt calcination process would use a gas-agitated pool of molten sodium carbonate to convert plutonium-bearing materials to plutonium oxide. The process could stabilize many types of materials including solutions (nitrates, chlorides, organics) and solids such as inorganic solids and combustibles. Some feeds would have to be pretreated prior to processing via size reduction or dissolution in various solutions. No Action Alternative Under this alternative, residues would remain in certain process equipment, gloveboxes, process canyon areas and ductwork. Cleanout of the facility would not take place and the residual material would not be stabilized or stored. Vault storage would continue as an ongoing action under this alternative; the materials in the vaults would continue to be inventoried, repackaged, and stabilized as necessary. Interim actions would be completed, along with basic safety upgrades. Surveillance and maintenance would continue at present required levels. DOE does not intend to analyze in detail the potential alternative of cleaning out the PFP but not stabilizing the residual material (i.e., storing the material without stabilization). Such an alternative would present safety concerns, would not meet the purpose and need for the proposed action, and is therefore unreasonable. Preliminary Identification of Environmental Issues The issues listed below have been tentatively identified for analysis in the PFP EIS. This list is presented to facilitate public comment on the scope of the EIS. It is not intended to be all-inclusive or to predetermine the potential impacts of any of the alternatives. (1) Potential effects on the public and on-site workers from releases of radioactive and other hazardous materials during operations and from reasonably postulated accidents; (2) Potential waste from the proposal, including pollution prevention and waste minimization; (3) Potential effects on air and water quality and other environmental consequences of operations and potential accidents; (4) Potential cumulative effects of operations at the Hanford Site, including relevant impacts from other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable activities at the site; (5) Potential effects on endangered species, floodplain/wetlands, and archaeological/historical sites; (6) Radiation exposure to workers; (7) Potential socioeconomic impacts, including environmental justice issues on surrounding communities; (8) Unavoidable adverse environmental effects; (9) Short-term uses of the environment versus long-term productivity; and (10) Potential irretrievable and irreversible commitments of resources. Regulatory Framework Federal and State laws that are of major importance to environmental management activities at Hanford include the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 as amended; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); the Washington State Hazardous Waste Management Act, Chapter 70.105 RCW; the Federal Facility Compliance Act of 1992; and the Clean Air Act. The Atomic Energy Act requires the management, processing and use of radioactive materials in a manner that protects workers, public health, and the environment. RCRA and the Washington State Hazardous Waste Management Act establish requirements for management of hazardous and mixed waste, including generation, treatment, storage, and disposal. DOE has submitted an air operating permit application to EPA and the permit is expected to be issued in the November 1995 timeframe; the requirements of the existing air quality permits for PFP are expected to encompass all the anticipated requirements of any new permit. Related NEPA Documentation NEPA documents that have been or are being prepared for activities at Hanford or are related to the proposed action include, but are not limited to, the following:
