FR940603-0-00027 FR940603-0-00013 The Mayor of Stillwater requested that the operating schedule be amended as a means of reducing traffic congestion on the approaches to the bridge. As a result, the Coast Guard proposed a change which would permit hourly openings on weekdays from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. and on Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays from 8 a.m. to midnight. The draw would continue to be operated with two hours advance notice from 10 p.m. to 8 a.m. weekdays, and from midnight to 8 a.m., Saturdays, Sundays, and federal holidays. Discussion of Comments and Changes The Coast Guard received six comments on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Three supported the proposed change citing increased bank erosion from heavy recreational traffic, air pollution from waiting vehicles, and loss of business in Stillwater due to traffic congestion and delays caused by frequent bridge openings. One, from the Minnesota Historical Society, stated that the proposed action would have no effect on the historic characteristics of the bridge, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Two, a local recreational boater and the owner of a local marina, objected to the proposed change. The boater commented that traffic congestion existed in downtown Stillwater during the winter months when the bridge was not opened for river traffic. He noted that excessively long bridge openings, resulting in increased delay times to highway traffic, during the preceding boating season were caused by unusual and persistent high river levels, requiring longer span openings to accommodate vessels that could have passed under the closed span during normal water conditions. He also noted that traffic delays were exacerbated by vehicles parking on streets approaching the bridge, and that the increased use of the bridge by tractor-trailers often precluded two-way traffic on the narrow bridge. The marina owner objected to the proposal because he would lose the business of larger vessels presently moored at his facility which required bridge openings to travel downriver. He commented that the City of Stillwater had received proposals over the past several years to resolve the traffic congestion, but had not implemented any of the recommendations. He also noted that street parking in downtown Stillwater restricted traffic flow. He questioned the perceived increase in boating traffic versus highway traffic, and requested that a public meeting be held to present the facts and discuss possible solutions. That meeting was convened in Stillwater on April 7, 1994. As a result of the public meeting and of the objections to the proposed revision, the Coast Guard requested that Minnesota Department of Transportation (MNDOT) conduct traffic studies, evaluate the results, and recommend an opening schedule that would retain an acceptable number of bridge openings and provide for peak highway traffic. Based on its evaluation of traffic counts and studies, MNDOT advised that no change was warranted by traffic conditions during weekday morning hours. Because heavy vehicular traffic arrived between 3 p.m. and 7 p.m. on weekdays, MNDOT recommended that the existing schedule be observed up to and including the 2:30 p.m. opening and that openings after 2:30 p.m. should occur at 4 p.m., 5:30 p.m., 6:30 p.m., and 7 p.m. with an opening every half hour thereafter until 10 p.m. Because heavy vehicular traffic arrived between 9 a.m. and 8 p.m. on weekends and holidays, MNDOT recommended that the existing schedule be retained, up to and including the 9 a.m. opening, and that the opening schedule be revised for one opening per hour from 9 a.m. until 8 p.m. with half-hourly openings from 8 p.m. until midnight. The Coast Guard has decided to amend the existing regulation with a temporary rule promulgating the opening schedule recommended by MNDOT. This temporary rule will be evaluated throughout the 1994 St. Croix River boating season and comments on the revision will continue to be received through November 15, 1994. The Coast Guard decided to make the amendment under temporary rulemaking rather than under a deviation which is valid only for up to 90 days because extending the evaluation period through the remainder of the St. Croix boating season provided for a better opportunity to consider the needs of the public. Regulatory Evaluation This regulation is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary because operators of commercial vessels have indicated that they can adjust to the changes without impact on their businesses. Small Entities After considering the submitted comments, the Coast Guard finds that any impact on small entities, if any, is not substantial. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) that this temporary rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This rule contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). Federalism Assessment The Coast Guard has analyzed this temporary rule under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that it does not raise sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environmental Assessment The Coast Guard has reviewed the environmental impact of this temporary rule and concluded that under section 2.B.2 of the NEPA Implementing Procedures, COMDTINST M16475.1B, this temporary rule is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation because promulgation of changes to drawbridge regulations have been found to not have a significant effect on the human environment. A categorical Exclusion Determination is available in the docket. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 117 Bridges. PART 117_DRAWBRIDGE OPERATION REGULATIONS
