FR940505-1-00348 FR940505-1-00012 Slip-resistant coating means a coating labeled exclusively as such which is formulated with synthetic grit, and used as a safety coating. Spatter coating/multicolor coating means a coating labeled exclusively as such wherein spots, globules, or spatters of contrasting colors appear on or within the surface of a contrasting or similar background. Stain means a coating which is formulated to change the color of a surface but not conceal the surface. Vinyl/fabric/polycarbonate coating means a coating labeled exclusively as such, which is used to coat vinyl, fabric, or polycarbonate substrates. Volatile organic compound (VOC) means any compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions other than those defined as exempt compounds. These exempt compounds have been determined to have negligible photochemical reactivity. For purposes of determining compliance with emission limits, VOC will be measured by test methods given in this section. Where such a method also measures compounds with negligible photochemical reactivity, an owner or operator may exclude these negligibly reactive compounds when determining compliance with an emission standard. However, the U.S. EPA may require such owner or operator, as a precondition to excluding these compounds for purposes of determining compliance, to provide monitoring methods and monitoring results demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the U.S. EPA, the amount of negligibly reactive compounds in the source's emissions. Webbing/veiling coating means a coating labeled exclusively as such, which is formulated to give a stranded to spider webbed appearance when applied. Weld-through primer means a coating formulated and labeled exclusively as such which provides a bridging or conducting effect to provide corrosion protection following welding. Wood stain means a coating which is formulated to change the color of a wood surface but not conceal the surface. Wood touch-up/repair/restoration means a coating formulated and labeled exclusively as such which provides an exact color or sheen match on finished wood products. (c) Standards . (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (g) of this section, no person shall sell, supply, offer for sale, apply, or manufacture for sale in California, any aerosol coating product which, at the time of sale, use, or manufacture, contains volatile organic compounds in excess of the limits specified in the following Table of Standards after the specified effective dates.
