FR940706-0-00004 FR940706-0-00001 Time: In §283.4(a) of the NPRM, the Department proposed that a State agency must file a notice of appeal within 10 days of receipt by certified mail or personal service of the bill for collection from FNS. Comments: The Department received three comments on this provision. One commenter stated that the 10-day time span to file the written notice of appeal was too short and that a 30-day period would be more reasonable. Two commenters indicated that it was unclear whether the notice of appeal or the bill for collection must be served by certified mail or personal service. These commenters questioned if it was FNS' intent to require that the notice of appeal be filed by certified mail or personal service. Response: The Department has considered the comment urging extension of the 10-day requirement but cannot adopt this suggestion. Section 13951 of the Leland Act retained the 10-day filing requirement for the notice of appeal but provides that the filing deadline shall be extended by the ALJ for cause shown. The Department believes that the requirements for the content of the notice of appeal are minimal and should not pose any undue difficulty for the State agency to meet the 10-day filing deadline. If an extension is requested, the request and cause for such request must be submitted to the ALJ or chief judge prior to the expiration of the 10-day filing deadline. The Department has also revised §283.22(f) to incorporate this provision. The Department also notes that section 13951(c)(4) of the Leland Act authorizes the ALJ to extend the deadlines for filing of the appeal petition, answer, rebuttal and initial decision for cause shown. The Department has considered the comment concerning the service of the notice of appeal and has revised this section to clarify that it is not FNS' intention to require the State agency to file the notice of appeal by certified mail or personal service. As discussed in the preamble to the NPRM, the State agency will have 10 days from receipt of the bill for collection to file a notice of appeal with the Hearing Clerk. Section 283.22(b) of the NPRM provides that the notice of appeal is considered to be filed on the date that it is postmarked or, if hand delivered, the date it is received by the Hearing Clerk. FNS will continue its policy of issuing the bill for collection either by certified mail or personal service. Once the State agency receives the bill for collection, it will have 10 calendar days to file its notice of appeal, unless an extension is requested prior to the expiration of the 10-day filing deadline. Exhaustion of Administrative remedies: The Department has added new §§283.4(b) and 283.25(b) to clarify that the State agency must appeal the bill for collection to the ALJ in order to exhaust available administrative remedies as a prerequisite to seeking judicial review. While the Department believes it is clear that Congress intended section 14(a) of the Act to require the State agency to exhaust an administrative appeal before the ALJ before seeking judicial review, the rule has been clarified to specifically require such exhaustion. Thus, the decision of the ALJ is final for purposes of judicial review. However, as discussed in the preamble regarding §283.17(c)(3), either party to the appeal may, at its option, seek reconsideration of ALJ decision or review by the Judicial Officer. Accordingly, §§283.4 (b)&hyph;(c) of the NPRM have been renumbered as §§283.4 (c)&hyph;(d) and §§283.25 (b)&hyph;(h) of the NPRM have been renumbered §§283.25 (c)&hyph;(i). Content of the notice: In §283.4(c) of the NPRM, the Department proposed the information which an acceptable notice of appeal must contain and that failure to file an acceptable notice of appeal would result in a dismissal of the notice by the ALJ and a waiver of the opportunity for further review unless the State agency pursues reconsideration by the ALJ or review by the Judicial Officer. Comment: The Department received one comment on this provision. The commenter indicated that there were no provisions for a State to remedy a technical defect or omission in a notice of appeal. Response: The Department has considered the comment concerning the technical defect or omission from the notice of appeal, and has determined that adoption of this suggestion is unnecessary since the NPRM contains provisions for a State to remedy a technical defect or omission in a notice of appeal. As discussed in §283.4(c)(2) of the NPRM, if the ALJ dismisses the notice of appeal because the State agency fails to file an adequate notice, the State agency may remedy the defect and either request reconsideration by the ALJ or review by the Judicial Officer in accordance with §§283.17(d) and 283.20 of the NPRM. These provisions would not apply for failure to file a timely notice of appeal or request for extensions of time to file. This section has been renumbered in the final rulemaking as §283.4(d). Good Cause: In §283.4(d) of the NPRM, the Department proposed that the Secretary's determination concerning good cause be final and not subject to an appeal to the ALJ. Comment: The Department received one comment on this provision. The commenter objected to the fact that FNS' good cause determinations will not be subject to the appeal process.
