FR940406-0-00035 FR940406-0-00002 (4) Sensitive position means any position of employment in which the employee will be required to have access to sensitive information. (b) Prohibitions _(1) Unauthorized aliens. The Board shall not hire any person unless that person is able to satisfy the requirements of Section 101 of the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. (2) Employment in sensitive positions. The Board shall not hire any person to a sensitive position unless such person is a citizen of the United States or, if a noncitizen, is an intending citizen. (3) Preference. Consistent with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, and other applicable law, applicants for employment at the Board who are citizens of the United States shall be preferred over equally qualified applicants who are not United States citizens. (c) Exception. The prohibition of paragraph (b)(2) of this section does not apply to hiring for positions for which a security clearance is required under Executive Order No. 10450, including any subsequent amendments or superseding orders that the President of the United States may issue from time to time, where the noncitizen either has or can obtain the necessary security clearance. Any offer of employment authorized by this paragraph (c) shall be contingent upon receipt of the required security clearance in the manner prescribed by law. (d) Applicability. This section applies to employment in all positions at the Board and to employment by Federal Reserve Banks of examiners who must be appointed, or selected and approved by the Board pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 325, 326, 338, or 625. ยง268.305 Class complaints. (a) Pre-complaint processing. An employee or applicant for employment who wishes to file a class complaint must seek counseling and be counseled in accordance with the procedures under ยง268.204 of this part. (b) Filing and presentation of a class complaint. (1) A class complaint must be signed by the agent of the class or representative, and must identify the personnel policy or practice adversely affecting the class as well as the specific action or matter affecting the agent of the class. (2) The complaint must be filed with the Board not later than 15 calendar days after the agent of the class receives a notice from the EEO Counselor of the right to file a class complaint. (3) The complaint shall be processed promptly by the Board, and the parties shall cooperate and shall proceed at all times without undue delay.
