FR940728-2-00057 FR940728-2-00043 Function 8._Clearinghouse For Environmental Information and Data Generation The Office would serve as a cross-media clearinghouse for environmental information related to the Indian program and would coordinate Agency-wide data collection for the Indian program. Assistant and Regional Administrators would be asked to have systems in place to identify and update Tribal data for their programs and, as part of the ``comprehensive'' Tribal environmental picture. This data should be accessible to the new Office for analysis and evaluation. To fulfill this function and improve EPA's ability to respond quickly and effectively to Tribal environmental problems, the Agency is considering calling for the new Office to establish a Tribal environmental database, in cooperation with program and regional offices and Tribes. The Office should make use of existing data base systems, information and documents already compiled by EPA and other relevant agencies and build upon these as appropriate. Function 9._Tribal Environmental Training The Office would coordinate Agency-wide development of training, education and technical assistance, in all relevant environmental areas, for Tribes. In doing so, attempts should be made to make ongoing training that other co-regulators receive, available and appropriate for Tribes. Several commentors have stated that, in particular, technical assistance is critical to successful Tribal environmental capacity building and program development. The Agency is exploring options for providing more technical assistance to Tribal environmental managers. Resources may limit certain options, but improvements can be made. The Agency is specifically looking for suggestions on how best to provide this service to Tribes. Function 10._Training of EPA Staff It is important that EPA employees have the necessary sensitivity, knowledge and understanding of Indian affairs to facilitate communication between EPA and Tribal representatives. The Office would promote and coordinate training on Indian issues for Agency managers and staff, particularly those working on Tribal and related programs. In the interim, EPA managers will be encouraged to provide training that moves the Agency in the direction of a better understanding of Indian issues. This training should address responsibilities under Federal Indian law and the EPA Indian Policy, EPA's Indian program activities, Tribal sovereignty and jurisdiction, Tribal environmental needs and activities, the role of Tribal individuals and organizations and cultural and historical differences that may affect EPA's working relationship with the Tribes. Function 11._Communication With Tribes Promoting and facilitating improved communication between EPA and Tribal governments (pursuant to the 1984 Indian Policy), and Tribal members and/or organizations, would be a major function of the new Office in cooperation with the program and regional offices. In keeping with the spirit of environmental justice and Executive Order 12875, EPA management should include Tribes in decision-making and program management activities that affect them. Communications and requests for Tribal input should occur early in any Agency process that may affect Tribes, and full consideration should be given to the policies, priorities, and concerns of the affected Tribe(s) and/or, where appropriate, affected Tribal members. Specifically, but not exclusively, EPA will notify and communicate with Tribes on an ongoing basis for such activities as rulemaking, policy development and direct implementation and management of EPA programs in Indian country. Commentors have suggested that it is critical for communication to occur between elected Tribal leaders, Tribal members and Tribal organizations, and the EPA Administrator and Regional Administrators in decisions that affect Tribes. In addition, the Office should serve as the central point of contact to interact with the Agency and Tribes on matters of national concern and should coordinate the activities and participation of the TOC in the future. The Agency invites comments on how to further improve communications with Tribes. Function 12._Interagency Coordination Efforts The Office would work to improve communication, cooperation and funding utilization between EPA and other Federal agencies regarding Indian matters. The new Office should review the content and status of existing Memoranda of Understanding on Indian Affairs between EPA and other Federal agencies for effectiveness and implementation. The new Office should also take appropriate steps to improve interagency coordination, especially with regard to specific environmental issues, opportunities for cooperative use of public funds and disputes that may arise from time to time. As a part of this effort, the new Office may find it useful to undertake an evaluation of all Federal resources available to Tribes and their relationship to Tribal environmental management in coordination with the other Federal agencies. To the extent possible, EPA's Headquarters and regional program offices should be encouraged to participate in interagency work groups to facilitate the resolution of environmental matters of mutual concern and foster integrated use of funds. Conclusion The Agency invites comments the issues addressed in this Notice, as well as additional suggestions for strengthening EPA's Tribal operations. The Agency will publish its final determinations based on review of public comment received in response to this Notice. Dated: July 15, 1994. Carol M. Browner, EPA Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18335 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
