FR941206-0-00204 FR941206-0-00019 (d) Each control device used in accordance with the requirements of ยง265.1088 of this subpart shall be inspected and monitored by the owner or operator in accordance with the procedure specified in ยง265.1033(f). (e) The owner or operator shall develop and implement a written plan and schedule to perform all inspection and monitoring requirements of this section. The owner or operator shall incorporate this plan and schedule into the facility inspection plan required under 40 CFR 265.15. (f) Inspection and monitoring of a cover in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall performed as follows: (1) The cover and all cover openings shall be initially visually inspected and monitored for detectable organic emissions on or before the date that the tank, surface impoundment, or container using the cover becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart and at other times as requested by the Regional Administrator. (2) At least once every 6 months following the initial visual inspection and monitoring for detectable organic emissions required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the owner and operator shall visually inspect and monitor the cover and each cover opening except for following cover openings: (i) A cover opening that has continuously remained in a closed, sealed position for the entire period since the last time the cover opening was visually inspected and monitored for detectable emissions; (ii) A cover opening that is designated as unsafe to inspect and monitor in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section; (iii) A cover opening on a cover installed and placed in operation before December 6, 1994, that is designated as difficult to inspect and monitor in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section. (3) To visually inspect a cover, the owner or operator shall view the entire cover surface and each cover opening in a closed, sealed position for evidence of any defect that may affect the ability of the cover or cover opening to continue to operate with no detectable organic emissions. A visible hole, gap, tear, or split in the cover surface or a cover opening is defined as a leak which shall be repaired in accordance with paragraph (f)(7) of this section. (4) To monitor a cover for detectable organic emissions, the owner or operator shall use the following procedure: (i) Method 21 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to test each cover seal and cover connection for detectable organic emissions. Seals on floating membrane covers shall be monitored around the entire perimeter of the cover at locations spaced no greater than 3 meters apart. (ii) For all cover connections and seals except for the seals around a rotating shaft that passes through a cover opening, if the monitoring instrument indicates detectable organic emissions (i.e., an instrument concentration reading greater than 500 ppmv plus the background level), then a leak is detected. Each detected leak shall be repaired in accordance with paragraph (f)(7) of this section. (iii) For the seals around a rotating shaft that passes through a cover opening, if the monitoring instrument indicates a concentration reading greater than 10,000 ppmv, then a leak is detected. Each detected leak shall be repaired in accordance with paragraph (f)(7) of this section. (5) An owner or operator may designate a cover as an unsafe to inspect and monitor cover if all of the following conditions are met: (i) The owner or operator determines that inspection or monitoring of the cover would expose a worker to dangerous, hazardous, or other unsafe conditions. (ii) The owner or operator develops and implements a written plan and schedule to inspect the cover using the procedure specified in paragraph (f)(3) of this section and monitor the cover using the procedure specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section as frequently as practicable during those times when a worker can safely access the cover. (6) An owner or operator may designate a cover installed and placed in operation before December 6, 1994, as a difficult to inspect and monitor cover if all of the following conditions are met:
