FR940114-1-00028 FR940114-1-00008 Proposed Revisions to Guideline No. 15_Police Traffic Services The current Police Traffic Service Guideline No. 15 emphasizes the use of police patrols to enforce traffic laws, improve traffic flow, prevent crashes, aid the injured, document each crash, supervise cleanup, and restore traffic flow. The guideline provides minimum standards by which a police department can measure its quality in traffic services, and suggests uniform training procedures, as well as standardized records and reporting systems. The guideline also addresses selective assignment of personnel and coordination with other agencies and neighboring jurisdictions and recommends in-service training for police personnel. The proliferation of highway safety legislation in recent years, such as tougher DWI laws, child restraint and seat belt use laws, and commercial motor vehicle safety laws, combined with an increased demand for other law enforcement services, has placed a strain on police agencies during a time of reduced budgets, manpower and resources. The proposed Guideline No. 15 assists law enforcement agencies by addressing how to do more with less. Such efforts include developing and participating in comprehensive programs; enlisting support of the media, community leaders, business and volunteer/activist groups; developing resource management plans; and training officers in state-of-the-art enforcement curricula. Other Guidelines Remain Unchanged The following 12 guidelines currently contained in §1204 will remain intact and unchanged by this proposal: Guideline No. 1␣Periodic Motor Vehicle Inspection Guideline No. 2␣Motor Vehicle Registration Guideline No. 4␣Driver Education Guideline No. 5␣Driver Licensing Guideline No. 6␣Codes and Laws Guideline No. 7␣Traffic Courts Guideline No. 9␣Identification and Surveillance of Accident Locations Guideline No. 12␣Highway Design, Construction, and Maintenance Guideline No. 13␣Traffic Engineering Services Guideline No. 16␣Debris Hazard Control and Cleanup Guideline No. 17␣Pupil Transportation Safety (Rev. 4/91) Guideline No. 18␣Accident Investigation and Reporting It should be noted that the guidelines are not binding on the States. A State's decision not to adopt a portion of a guideline, for example, would not entail penalties for the State. Nonetheless, the agencies encourage the use of the recommendations contained in these guidelines to optimize the effectiveness of highway safety programs conducted at the State and local level. Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments on this proposal. It is requested but not required that 10 copies be submitted. In order to expedite the submission of comments, copies of this notice are being mailed to all Governors, Governors' Representatives for Highway Safety, and State EMS Directors. Comments should not exceed 15 pages in length. Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. All comments received before the closing date indicated above will be considered, and will be available for examination in the docket at the above address both before and after that date. To the extent possible, comments filed after the closing date will also be considered. However, the revisions to these guidelines may proceed at any time after that date. The agencies will continue to file relevant material in the docket as it becomes available after the closing date, and it is recommended that interested persons continue to examine the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the docket should enclose, in the envelope with their comments, a pre-addressed stamped postcard. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. Economic and Other Effects The agencies have considered the impacts that would be associated with this proposed action, and determined that it is not significant within the meaning of Executive Order 12866 or the Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures. The guidelines contained in part 1204 are advisory, not mandatory. Accordingly, a full regulatory evaluation is not necessary. Since this matter relates to grants, the notice and comment requirements established in the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553, are not applicable. Because the agencies are not required to published a notice of proposed rulemaking regarding this rule, the agencies are not required to analyze the effect of this rule on small entities, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act. The agencies have nonetheless evaluated the effects of this notice on small entities. Based on the evaluation, I certify that this notice will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, the preparation of a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is unnecessary. Environmental Impacts The agencies have also analyzed this action for the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act. The agencies have determined that this action will not have any effect on the human environment. Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and it has been determined that it has no federalism implication that warrants the preparation of a federalism assessment. List of Subjects in 23 CFR Part 1204 Grant programs, Highway safety. In consideration of the foregoing, the agencies propose to amend 23 CFR part 1204 as follows: PART 1204_[AMENDED]
