FR940325-0-00079 FR940325-0-00016 Response: The Department refers to local laws that may give rise to trusteeship because the statutory definition of ``natural resource'' mentions resources belonging to, managed by, held in trust by, appertaining to, or otherwise controlled by any local government. This rule does not address local governments' standing to sue for natural resource damages. However, at least one court has held that a local government could not bring a natural resource damage claim, relying in part on State law. Werlein v. United States , 746 F. Supp. 887, 910 (D. Minn. 1990). Ohio v. Interior states that CERCLA allows State trustee officials to recover damages for injured resources owned by, managed by, appertaining to, or otherwise controlled by a local government. 880 F.2d at 460 n. 43. Comment: Some commenters requested that the rule be revised to require trustee officials to provide detailed statements of authority. Response: The Department believes that a trustee official's statement of authority, like all statements required under the regulations, should be detailed enough to provide PRPs, other trustee officials, the general public, any other interested parties, and ultimately the courts with an adequate opportunity to evaluate the statement. The level of detail may vary depending on the resources involved. The Department does not believe that any revision of the rule is necessary. Comment: A few commenters had questions about the application of the rule to specific resources. One commenter asked the Department to clarify that a tribal trustee official has authority to assert claims for natural resource damages no matter where the natural resources are located so long as the trustee official can establish trusteeship. Response: Nothing in these regulations prevents a Federal, State, or tribal trustee official from assessing damages for injuries to any natural resources, regardless of their location, so long as the trustee official can establish trusteeship over the resource. Comment: Other commenters raised questions about the Department's discussion of cultural and archaeological resources. Some commenters disagreed with the Department's statement that cultural and archaeological resources do not constitute natural resources under CERCLA. Other commenters agreed that such resources are not natural resources. However, these commenters disagreed with the Department's statement that trustee officials are allowed to factor the loss of archaeological and cultural attributes of a natural resource into a natural resource damage assessment through consideration of the loss of services provided by that natural resource. These commenters stated that consideration of archaeological and cultural services provided by a natural resource was tantamount to treating archaeological and cultural resources as natural resources in violation of the statute. One commenter requested that the Department clarify that an injury to an archaeological or cultural resource in and of itself is not a basis for a natural resource damage claim. Response: As was explained in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice, the Department acknowledges the confusion that has arisen as a result of multiple uses and meanings of the term ``resource'' under different statutes. ``Archaeological'' and other ``cultural'' resources are not ``land, fish, wildlife, biota, air, water, ground water, drinking water supplies, [or] other such resources.'' Therefore, ``archaeological'' and ``cultural'' resources do not constitute ``natural'' resources under CERCLA. Nevertheless, although archaeological and cultural resources, as defined in other statutes, are not treated as ``natural'' resources under CERCLA, the rule does allow trustee officials to include the loss of archaeological and other cultural services provided by a natural resource in a natural resource damage assessment. For example, if land constituting a CERCLA-defined natural resource contains archaeological artifacts, then that land might provide the service of supporting archaeological research. If an injury to the land causes a reduction in the level of service (archaeological research) that could be performed, trustee officials could recover damages for the lost service. Further clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. D. Trustee Coordination Comment: There were several comments concerning trustee coordination. A number of commenters wrote in support of the trustee coordination provisions in the rule. A few commenters thought that the rule should place greater emphasis on trustee coordination and provide additional guidance on how trustee officials can coordinate most effectively.
