FR940127-2-00079 FR940127-2-00058 Administration. This change is needed because of the addition of subchapter D in Chapter 2, Title II, of the Trade Act. The impact of this amendment is to require that the same types of benefit information be furnished by State agencies to workers applying for unemployment insurance and to workers certified for NAFTA&hyph;TAA as are required by the regular TAA program. B.3. Nonduplication of Assistance. AMENDED LAW. Subsection (c) of section 503 amends subchapter C of Chapter 2, Title II, of the Trade Act by adding a new section 249A at the end on nonduplication of assistance. This new section provides that no worker may receive assistance relating to a separation pursuant to certifications under both subchapters A and D. ADMINISTRATION. This new section is intended to eliminate duplication of assistance and benefits to a worker in situations where a worker group is certified concurrently for both regular TAA and NAFTA&hyph;TAA. These situations should be uncommon. However, should this occur, the worker will be provided benefits under one or the other certification. The worker is to make the decision regarding which certification will apply. Once a decision is made by the worker, it cannot be changed. Also, State agency staff must explain the differences between programs so workers can make an informed choice. B.4. Judicial Review. AMENDED LAW. Subsection (d) of section 503 amends section 284 of the Trade Act by inserting ``or section 250(c) after ``section 223.'' ADMINISTRATION. Section 284 (19 U.S.C. 2395(a)) of the Trade Act addresses judicial review. Subsection (d) has the effect of providing workers aggrieved by a decision of the Secretary of Labor on a petition, the same rights for judicial review as provided to workers pursuant to section 284 of the Trade Act. Regulations addressing judicial review are also set out at 29 CFR 90.19. C. TERMINATION OF TRANSITION PROGRAM C.1. Termination of Transition Program. AMENDED LAW. Section 505 of the Act amends subsection (c) of section 285 of the Trade Act by_ (1) striking ``No'' and inserting ``(1) except as provided in paragraph (2), no''; and (2) adding at the end the following new paragraph: (2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), no assistance, voucher, allowance, or other payments may be provided under subchapter D of chapter 2 after the day that is the earlier of_ (i) September 30, 1998, or (ii) the date on which legislation, establishing a program providing dislocated workers with comprehensive assistance substantially similar to the assistance provided by such subchapter D, becomes effective. (B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if, on or before the day described in subparagraph (A), a worker_ (i) is certified as eligible to apply for assistance, under subchapter D of chapter 2; and (ii) is otherwise eligible to receive assistance in accordance with section 250. such worker shall continue to be eligible to receive such assistance for any week for which the worker meets the eligibility requirements of such section.
