FR941102-1-00014 FR941102-1-00004 Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;148&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The Direction Générale de l'Aviation Civile (DGAC), which is the airworthiness authority for France, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Airbus Model A320 series airplanes. The DGAC advises that in-service inspection reports have revealed that the gap between the forward and aft seat track at frame 64 (left- and right-hand) could be exceeding the 2.8 mm (.11 inch) tolerance limit. Investigation revealed that the cause has been attributed to the method used on the assembly line to control the position of the seat track. This method is inadequate in monitoring the gap between the forward and aft seat track of the passenger seats at frame 64. Incorrectly installed seat tracks, if not corrected, could result in a gap that exceeds the tolerance limit, and could subsequently lead to separation of the passenger seats from the seat track under emergency landing conditions. Airbus has issued All Operator Telex (AOT) 53&hyph;01, dated August 27, 1992, which describes procedures for: 1. Performing a one-time visual inspection to determine if a seat fitting having an x-plunger behind a z-stud is installed at the seat track joint at frame 64; 2. Measuring the gap between the forward and aft seat tracks, if any seat fitting having an x-plunger is installed; 3. Applying sealing material at the seat tracks, if the gap is less than or equal to 2.8 mm; and 4. Removing or repositioning the seat, if the gap is greater than 2.8 mm. Airbus has also issued Service Bulletin A320&hyph;53&hyph;1088, dated May 10, 1993, which describes procedures for repositioning or replacing the seat tracks. The DGAC classified the AOT and service bulletin as mandatory and issued French Airworthiness Directive 93&hyph;081&hyph;042(B), dated May 26, 1993, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in France. This airplane model is manufactured in France and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the DGAC has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the DGAC, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would require a one-time visual inspection to determine if a seat fitting having an x-plunger behind a z-stud is installed at the seat track joint at frame 64, and correction of discrepancies. The proposed AD would also require repositioning or replacing the seat tracks, which would terminate the requirement of repetitively removing or repositioning the seat tracks. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. If any cabin equipment other than passenger seats is installed at frame 64, the correction would be required to be accomplished in accordance with a method approved by the FAA. The FAA estimates that 85 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD.
