FR940128-1-00110 FR940128-1-00006 1. General Guidelines for Scombroid Toxin Forming Species This Appendix provides guidance on how to meet the requirements of 21 CFR part 123, subpart A for fish and fishery products that consist in whole or in part of scombroid toxin forming species. These include tuna, bluefish, mahi mahi, mackerel, sardines, herring, kahawai, anchovies, marlin, and other species, whether or not of the family Scombridae, in which significant levels of histamine may be produced in the fish flesh by decarboxylation of free histidine as a result of exposure of the fish after capture to temperatures that permit the growth of mesophilic bacteria. The guidance focuses on preventing the formation of scombrotoxin, which can be harmful to humans, as a consequence of improper handling after capture, i.e., time and temperature abuse. 2. Critical Control Points Every processor who engages in processing other than, or in addition to, storing of fish or fishery products that consist in whole or in part of scombroid forming species, must ensure that neither decomposition leading to histamine formation, nor histamine formation, has occurred before receipt of such fish or fishery products. Processors must also ensure that neither decomposition leading to histamine formation, nor histamine formation, occurs as a result of inadequate handling practices by the processor. In order to prevent these hazards from occurring, Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plans prepared in accordance with 21 CFR part 123, subpart A will typically identify and address the receipt of raw materials, as well as processing, as critical control points. In accordance with 21 CFR part 123, subpart A, processors shall identify in their HACCP plans how they will control hazards at critical control points. This appendix provides guidance on how to do so with respect to scombroid toxin forming species. 3. Receipt of Raw Materials Critical Control Point a. First Processor 1. On-board handling. The first processor to take ownership after harvest of fish and fishery products of scombroid toxin forming species should ensure that vessels supplying such fish have in place measures to ensure that the fish were rapidly brought to, and maintained at, an internal temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below, and were not held for a period of time sufficient to allow histamine formation to begin at the temperature at which they were held. The processor may determine the time and temperature history of the fish by requiring certification of the fishing method and on-board handling practices, and a time/temperature log from the harvesting vessel. The time/temperature log should record, for each lot of fish, the date of harvest, fishing method, temperature of the harvest water, and temperature history of the fish relating to the lowering of the internal temperature. The temperature history of the fish may be documented by controlling and recording the key aspects of the cooling and storage operation (e.g., refrigerated brine or seawater temperature, fish size, and container packing). For purposes of this guideline, a lot of fish is the fish in a vessel storage compartment (i.e., well, tote, or other container). The log should be sufficient to enable the processor to determine whether the fish were subject to conditions in the water after capture, on the harvesting vessel, or in storage, that could cause, or significantly contribute to, the formation of histamine in the fish.
