FR941222-0-00005 FR941222-0-00001 Many commenters stated that APHIS should discontinue branding in favor of using microchips to individually identify Mexican-origin cattle. Some of the commenters pointed to studies that indicated that microchip technology would be well-suited to APHIS' stated goals of disease surveillance and traceback. We agree that microchips are useful, but several factors prevent us from changing the regulations to require their use. We continue to believe that an identification method must be distinct, permanent, and legible; microchips fail to fully satisfy those three criteria. In terms of distinctness, we believe that the identification should be readily visible, which microchips, clearly, are not. In terms of permanence, a microchip implanted in an animal could be removed or could migrate to other parts of the body. In terms of legibility, information can be readily stored on and retrieved from microchips, but there is no universal chip reader that can access the information stored on chips produced by different manufacturers. In addition to the many suggestions that APHIS use microchips to identify Mexican-origin cattle, numerous commenters offered other alternatives to M-branding. Those commenters suggested that APHIS use: Stickers, bells, ribbons, tail cropping, ear notching, tags, ear tags, magic markers, paint, indelible dye, stamps on the tails, and rings on the tails. As is the case with microchips, none of these suggested identification meets our criteria for distinctness, permanence, and legibility. Paints, dyes, stamps, and markers can fade or be obscured; stickers, bells, ribbons, and rings can be lost or removed; and notching or cropping, although permanent, are not readily and distinctly visible or legible. One commenter noted that the proposed new text of ยง92.427(c)(2) makes no mention of freeze branding, even though it eliminates the requirement for hot-iron branding. The commenter asked that freeze branding be mentioned, even encouraged, in the revised regulatory text of ยง92.427(c)(2) in order to inform persons who have read only the regulations, and not the supplementary information provided in the proposed rule and this final rule, that freeze branding may be used to identify cattle imported into the United States from Mexico. We agree that the marking methods acceptable to APHIS should be set forth in the regulations and have changed the regulatory text in this final rule to explicitly state that the ``M'' or ``M x '' mark may be applied with a freeze brand or hot iron. One commenter noted that although the proposed rule would allow the use of freeze branding or hot-iron branding to mark spayed heifers, an unpublished APHIS ovariectomy protocol that requires the M-branding of certain spayed heifers_even though that requirement is not published in the regulations_appears to require that a hot iron be used to apply the brand. The protocol states that the ``M x '' mark on spayed heifers must be a ``distinct, permanent mark which is legible on the right side of the tailhead as defined in Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 78.'' The commenter stated that there is no definition of ``distinct,'' ``permanent,'' or ``mark'' in those regulations, but there are definitions of different types of brands associated with the APHIS brucellosis eradication program that describe the brands exclusively, or predominantly, as being applied with a hot iron. The commenter felt that the protocol should be reworded to make it clear that freeze branding and other methods may be used to apply the ``M x '' mark on spayed heifers. The protocol to which the commenter is referring is part of the cooperative services agreement between APHIS and a private sector veterinarian that provides for APHIS veterinary medical officers to monitor ovariectomies performed on heifers located in Mexico prior to their importation into the United States. The protocol does not state that hot-iron branding must be used or that freeze branding may not be used; the ``distinct, permanent mark'' language was meant to allow both methods without specifying either. The revised text of ยง92.427(c)(2) now clearly states that either freeze branding or hot-iron branding may be used, so even if the protocol were construed to prohibit freeze branding, the regulations would preempt the protocol and freeze branding would be allowed. Some commenters stated that APHIS should develop faster, more accurate tests for the diagnosis of tuberculosis and work to eradicate tuberculosis in Mexico, which would eliminate the need to brand cattle from Mexico. We agree that eradicating tuberculosis in Mexico would eliminate the need for branding cattle from Mexico, but that goal has not yet been attained. Researchers from APHIS, other Federal agencies, and private entities are constantly working to develop better ways to diagnose and prevent the spread of diseases, including tuberculosis. Additionally, APHIS and the Mexican Government, along with the livestock industries in the United States and Mexico, are cooperating in a joint effort to eradicate tuberculosis in Mexico. Some commenters felt that since APHIS proposed to end the face branding of cattle from Mexico, it should also change the provisions of its regulations in 9 CFR parts 50, 51, 77, 78, and 80 that allow or require face branding. We have received similar requests and are giving them serious consideration. However, any changes to those regulations would have to be part of a separate rulemaking proceeding. Some commenters had the impression that APHIS knowingly allowed tuberculosis-infected cattle to be imported from Mexico and was using the M-brand to identify and track those cattle. Those commenters felt that APHIS should test all cattle offered for importation into the United States from Mexico for tuberculosis before allowing the cattle into this country. Other commenters understood that APHIS does indeed require cattle offered for importation from Mexico to be tested or, in the case of cattle imported for immediate slaughter under ยง92.429, accompanied by a certificate stating that they have been examined and found free from evidence of communicable disease, before allowing the cattle into this country. Those commenters did, however, state that APHIS should do a better job of testing or alter its methods to include a 60-day pre-entry quarantine followed by a tuberculosis test for cattle offered for importation into the United States from Mexico. As mentioned above, we are considering rulemaking that would establish additional quarantine and testing requirements similar to those mentioned by the commenter. Until such time as additional quarantine and testing requirements are put in place, we will continue to utilize the available tools and methods in our efforts to prevent the entry into the United States of tuberculosis from Mexico.
