FR940208-2-00014 FR940208-2-00010 Department of the Army Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Long Term Management Strategy for Savannah Harbor Navigation Project, Chatham County, GA and Jasper County, SC AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Savannah District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Savannah District is conducting a Long Term Management Strategy (LTMS) to address the long term operational and management needs for the dredging and dredged material disposal needs for the Federally Authorized Savannah Harbor Navigation Project. Savannah Harbor is located approximately 75 miles south of Charleston, South Carolina, and 120 miles north of Jacksonville, Florida. Savannah Harbor includes the lower 21.3 miles of the Savannah River. An additional 11.4 miles of channel is maintained from the mouth of the harbor across the bar to the Atlantic Ocean. Annual maintenance of the Savannah Harbor Navigation Project requires dredging and disposal of approximately 6 million cubic yards of material. The LTMS for the Savannah Harbor Navigation Project will focus on sound economic and environmental alternatives for the management of dredging and dredged material disposal for maintaining the Federally Authorized Navigation channel and additional material dredged under Department of the Army permits. Various alternative dredging schedules and dredging disposal schemes will be examined in an effort to minimize total dredging and disposal costs and identity environmentally sensitive and beneficial management practices. Analysis of potential impacts on endangered species, fisheries, birds, marine mammals, water quality, historic properties, etc., resulting from the various alternatives will be included in the EIS. SCOPING PROCESS: Federal, State and local officials; conservation groups, and interested businesses, groups, and individuals are invited to comment on the proposed project. Comments received as a result of this notice will be used to assist in identifying potential impacts to the quality of the environment. AVAILABILITY: The Draft Environmental Impact Statement will be made available to the public in October 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments may be forwarded to the District Engineer, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Savannah District, 100 W. Oglethorpe Ave., P.O. Box 889, Savannah, Georgia 31402&hyph;0889. DATES: Comments should be received on or before March 10, 1994 to ensure timely consideration. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions concerning this proposal may be directed to Mr. Jamie Sykes, (912) 652&hyph;5178. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer, [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2831 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4012&hyph;70&hyph;M
