FR941012-0-00082 FR941012-0-00011 Several commenters discussed incorporation of updated standards (Ex. 5&hyph;10, 5&hyph;22, 5&hyph;57, 9&hyph;3, 9&hyph;13; Tr. W1 203). Most emphasized the need to reference the most up-to-date standards in the final rule. In addition, two commenters said OSHA should allow the use of standards from other standards producing bodies, such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) (Ex. 5&hyph;22, 5&hyph;57). Two commenters also recommended that OSHA harmonize its regulatory language with ISO and Mine Safety and Health Administration protective structure standards (Ex. 5&hyph;10, 5&hyph;22). However, two commenters opposed incorporation by reference because they contend that other standards may not have followed the same notice and public comment rules as do OSHA standards (Ex. 9&hyph;3, 9&hyph;13). OSHA has considered the comments and in the final standard the Agency has decided to incorporate by reference the current SAE standards on ROPS and FOPS. While there was some comment about whether technical publications should be referenced in standards, OSHA believes it is better in this case to reference technical documents rather than spell out all of the many specifications the documents contain. Since the final standard is not requiring employers to retrofit machines, it is more important for employers to know that new machines they purchase meet the SAE standards. It is the manufacturer and not the employer who will have the expertise, personnel and equipment to do the necessary installation and testing of the protective structures as part of the manufacturing process, and it is the label of conformance placed on the equipment by the manufacturer that will be the method that the employer will usually use to demonstrate compliance with the protective structures requirement of the final standard. 10. Manual felling. The hearing notice raised two issues regarding manual felling: should exceptions to the undercut requirement be allowed, and where should the backcut be required to be made? a. Undercut requirement. The proposed standard included a provision requiring each manually felled tree to be undercut. This provision also required that undercuts be of a size to guide the tree fall in the intended direction and to minimize the possibility of splitting. The purpose of this provision was to prevent trees from splitting, kicking back, or falling in an unintended direction, thereby injuring an employee. Some commenters supported the proposed requirement (Ex. 5&hyph;42, 9&hyph;15; Tr. OR 485&hyph;88). One commenter said: [Undercutting] helps protect the feller from the butt of the tree riding back up the sawn notch and springing backwards over the stump towards him if the tree is felled uphill, or strikes something during its fall that pushes [the tree] backwards (Ex. 9&hyph;15)
