FR940429-0-00303 FR940429-0-00016 Discussion: Only a borrower's disposable pay is subject to garnishment. Since ``disposable pay'' is defined as that part of a borrower's compensation from an employer remaining after the deduction of any amounts required by law to be withheld, any such deductions ``take precedence'' and will affect the amount recovered from the borrower through garnishment. The Secretary has no authority to modify the withholding orders issued by other entities legally empowered to garnish the borrower's pay for other purposes. Change: None. Section 682.410(b)(10)(i)(D) 66. Comment: Some commenters believed that a guaranty agency should be permitted to automatically garnish the wages of a borrower who failed to maintain the terms of a repayment agreement with the guaranty agency. The commenters believed that it is unnecessary to provide further notice or appeal opportunities to a borrower who has broken the terms of the repayment agreement. Similarly, other commenters believed that a guaranty agency should be permitted to proceed with wage garnishment against a borrower who has defaulted on a loan without being required to offer a repayment opportunity to the borrower. The commenters believed that a borrower who has defaulted on a loan has already had numerous opportunities to repay the loan. Some commenters suggested that a borrower be limited to only one repayment opportunity. Discussion: All attempted garnishments must be preceded by a notice to the borrower of the guaranty agency's intention to initiate garnishment proceedings and an explanation of the borrower's rights, including the right to a hearing. The due process protection afforded the borrower under the HEA's garnishment rules renders previous repayment arrangements between the borrower and the agency irrelevant. Each garnishment action must be able to stand on its own as far as compliance with the requirements of the statute and regulations is concerned. Change: None. 67. Comment: Some commenters believed that the wage garnishment provisions of the HEA applied only to a borrower who entered into a repayment agreement with the guaranty agency and then later failed to comply with the terms of that agreement. The commenters believed there is no statutory authority to garnish the wages of a borrower simply because the borrower has defaulted on the loan obligation and has not made arrangements with the guaranty agency to repay the debt. Discussion: The HEA permits a guaranty agency to garnish the pay of a borrower who ``*␣*␣* is not currently making required repayment under a repayment agreement *␣*␣*.'' A borrower who owes a defaulted loan and has simply refused to make any repayment arrangement with a guaranty agency would certainly fit that description. Otherwise, borrowers could shield themselves from wage garnishment by refusing to enter into agreements to repay their loans to guaranty agencies. The HEA and the regulations are not designed to provide incentives to borrowers who refuse to repay their debts. Change: None. 68. Comment: Some commenters believed that the terms of the repayment agreement opportunity that a guaranty agency must offer a borrower prior to wage garnishment must be similar to the terms offered to a borrower under the loan rehabilitation program, that is, the borrower may not be required to pay more than a reasonable and affordable amount. Discussion: Section 488A(a)(4) of the HEA states that an individual subject to wage garnishment shall be provided an opportunity to enter into a written agreement with the guaranty agency under terms agreeable to the guaranty agency. Unlike other areas of the HEA that contain provisions mandating that the borrower's payment be ``reasonable and affordable,'' the wage garnishment section of the HEA contains no such requirement. The Secretary believes this is because Congress realized that a borrower who has not repaid his or her loan will have had numerous opportunities to have done so prior to the initiation of a wage garnishment proceeding. For example, the borrower will have already declined the opportunity to make payments under the loan rehabilitation program. However, since it would make no sense to demand a payment amounts from a borrower who could document that he or she was unable to pay those amounts, the Secretary encourages a guaranty agency, even at this late point, to attempt to accommodate a borrower who expresses a willingness to repay the loan but who is unable to do so under the terms proposed by the guaranty agency because of a documented hardship explained by the borrower. Change: None. Section 682.410(b)(10)(i)(E) 69. Comment: Some commenters believed a guaranty agency should be permitted to include a notice to the borrower about wage garnishment with the agency's other notices to the borrower about hearing opportunities available to the borrower with respect to IRS offset procedures and credit bureau reporting. The commenters recommended that a guaranty agency not be required to provide the borrower with an opportunity for a hearing more than once every 12 months. The commenters also believed that if the borrower had received a hearing and unsuccessfully contested the existence or the amount of the debt, the borrower need not be provided another hearing on those issues. Discussion: As permitted under §682.410(b)(5)(vi)(H), a guaranty agency may send a combined notice, or separate notices to a borrower concerning credit bureau reporting, IRS offset, wage garnishment, and any other enforcement action that may be taken to collect the debt. However, each garnishment proceeding taken against a borrower must comply with the notice and due process requirements that are unique to wage garnishment. Change: None. Section 682.410(b)(10)(i)(F)
