FR940707-1-00022 FR940707-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration 21 CFR Part 341 [Docket No. 94N&hyph;0232] Over-the-Counter Marketing of Antiasthma Drug Products; Background Document for Advisory Committee Meeting; Availability; Establishment of a Public Docket and Request for Comments AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Availability of background document; establishment of a public docket and request for comments. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration is announcing the availability of a background document for the joint meeting of the Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee and the Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee, on the over-the-counter (OTC) marketing of antiasthma drug products. Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , the agency is announcing the joint meeting. This action is being taken to ensure that all interested parties are aware of the issues that are the subject of the joint committee discussion. FDA is also announcing that it is establishing a public docket for comments, views, and other information submitted to the agency on these subjects from interested persons. DATES: Submit written comments by September 30, 1994, in order for written comments to be considered for discussion at the November 14, 1994, advisory committee meeting. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments or relevant data and requests for single copies of the background document to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. Comments and requests should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. Send two self-addressed adhesive labels to assist the branch in processing your requests. Three copies of written comments should be submitted, except that individuals may submit one copy. The background document and received comments are available for public examination at the Dockets Management Branch (address above), between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lee L. Zwanziger, or Leander B. Madoo, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (HFD&hyph;9), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;4695. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , FDA is announcing a forthcoming joint meeting of the Nonprescription Drugs Advisory Committee and the Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee, on OTC marketing of antiasthma drug products. FDA is holding this meeting to discuss: (1) OTC bronchodilator drug products currently available and possible pending changes in their status; (2) Whether there is a population for which OTC antiasthma drug products are appropriate; (3) The general question of whether antiasthma drug products should be available OTC; (4) Antiasthma drug products currently available by prescription only that could be considered for OTC status; and (5) Data requirements necessary to support conversion of prescription antiasthma drug products to OTC status. The purpose of this meeting is to address specific topics and questions contained in the background document that could result in future rulemaking. FDA has established public docket no. 94N&hyph;0232 to enable interested persons to submit comments or other relevant data on the background document that could result in future rulemaking. Dated: June 30, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16364 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
