FR941202-1-00014 FR941202-1-00002 (ii) Telephone disclosures. A creditor may provide new disclosures by telephone if the consumer initiates the change, and if, at consummation_ (A) The creditor provides new written disclosures; and (B) The consumer and creditor sign a statement that the new disclosures were provided by telephone at least three days prior to consummation. (2) Reverse mortgage disclosures. The creditor shall furnish the disclosures required by §226.33 at least three business days prior to: (i) Consummation of a closed-end credit transaction; or (ii) The first transaction under an open-end credit plan. (d) Basis of disclosures and use of estimates. Disclosures shall reflect the terms of the legal obligation between the parties. If any information necessary for accurate disclosure is unknown to the creditor, the creditor shall make the disclosure based on the best information reasonably available and shall state clearly that the disclosure is an estimate. (e) Multiple creditors; multiple consumers. If a transaction involves more than one creditor, only one set of disclosures shall be given and the creditors shall agree among themselves which creditor must comply with the requirements that this regulation imposes on any or all of them. If there is more than one consumer, the disclosures may be made to any consumer who is primarily liable on the obligation. If the transaction is rescindable under §226.15 or §226.23, however, the disclosures shall be made to each consumer who has the right to rescind. (f) Effect of subsequent events. If a disclosure becomes inaccurate because of an event that occurs after the creditor delivers the required disclosures, the inaccuracy is not a violation of this regulation, although new disclosures may be required under paragraph (c) of this section, §226.9(c), §226.19, or §226.20. §226.32 High-rate, high-fee mortgages. (a) Coverage. This section does not apply to the following: (1) A residential mortgage transaction. (2) A reverse mortgage transaction subject to §226.33. (3) An open-end credit plan subject to subpart B of this part. (b) Definitions. For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply: (1) High-rate, high fee mortgage means a consumer credit transaction that is secured by the consumer's principal dwelling, and in which either: (i) The annual percentage rate at consummation will exceed by more than 10 percentage points the yield on Treasury securities having comparable periods of maturity on the fifteenth day of the month immediately preceding the month in which the application for the extension of credit is received by the creditor; or (ii) The total points and fees payable by the consumer at or before loan closing will exceed the greater of 8 percent of the total loan amount, or $400; the $400 figure shall be adjusted annually on January 1 by the annual percentage change in the Consumer Price Index that was reported on the preceding June 1. (2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, points and fees mean: (i) All items required to be disclosed under §226.4(a) and 226.4(b), except interest or the time-price differential; (ii) All compensation paid to mortgage brokers; and (iii) All items required to be disclosed under §226.4(c)(7) (other than amounts held for future payment of taxes) unless the charge is reasonable, the creditor receives no direct or indirect compensation, and the charge is not paid to an affiliate of the creditor. (3) Affiliate means an entity defined in section 2(k) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841). (c) Disclosures. In addition to other disclosures required by this part, for each high-rate, high-fee mortgage transaction, the creditor shall disclose the following:
