FR940426-2-00044 FR940426-2-00030 Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York; Application to Engage in Nonbanking Activities Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York (Applicant), has applied pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) (BHC Act) and 225.23(a)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(3)) to engage de novo through its wholly owned subsidiary, Chase Securities, Inc., New York, New York (Company), a broker-dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. ), in underwriting and dealing, to a limited extent, in all types of equity securities, including without limitation, common stock, American Depositary Receipts, Global Depository Receipts, securities convertible into equity securities and options, and other direct and indirect equity ownership interests in domestic and foreign corporations and other entities, warrants and other rights issued in connection with the above securities, and securities issued by closed-end investment companies but not including ownership interests in open-end investment companies. Applicant proposes to conduct these activities throughout the United States and the world. Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act provides that a bank holding company may, with Board approval, engage in any activity which the Board, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, has determined (by order or regulation) to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. This statutory test requires that two separate tests be met for an activity to be permissible for a bank holding company. First, the Board must determine that the activity is, as a general matter, closely related to banking. Second, the Board must find in a particular case that the performance of the activity by the applicant bank holding company may reasonably be expected to produce public benefits that outweigh possible adverse effects. A particular activity may be found to meet the closely related to banking test if it is demonstrated that banks have generally provided the proposed activity; that banks generally provide services that are operationally or functionally similar to the proposed activity so as to equip them particularly well to provide the proposed activity; or that banks generally provide services that are so integrally related to the proposed activity as to require their provision in a specialized form. National Courier Ass'n v. Board of Governors , 516 F.2d 1229, 1237 (D.C. Cir. 1975). In addition, the Board may consider any other basis that may demonstrate that the activity has a reasonable or close relationship to banking or managing or controlling banks. Board Statement Regarding Regulation Y, 49 FR 806 (January 5, 1984). The Board previously has approved, by order, underwriting and dealing in, to a limited extent, all types of debt and equity securities. J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated, et al. , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 192 (1989) (1989 Section 20 Order), as modified by Order dated September 21, 1989, 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 751 (1989) (Modification Order) and the Order dated January 4, 1990 (Foreign Bank Order). Applicant has stated that, except as described below, it will conduct the proposed underwriting and dealing activities using the same methods and procedures, and subject to the same prudential limitations established by the Board in the 1989 Section 20 Order, as modified by the Modification Order, including the Board's 10 percent revenue limitation on such activities. For this reason, Applicant contends that approval of the application would not be barred by section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act (12 U.S.C. 377), which prohibits the affiliation of a state member bank with any company principally engaged in the underwriting, public sale, or distribution of securities. Applicant has submitted a request for a confirmation that foreign subsidiaries of Company's bank affiliates are not subject to the section 20 firewalls relating to personnel interlocks and cross-marketing activities. See J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated, et al. , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 192, 215 (1989). Applicant argues that the scope of these firewalls should be limited to U.S. affiliates of section 20 companies and that the extension of these firewalls to the foreign subsidiaries of Company's bank affiliates is not warranted in light of the regulatory framework applicable to these foreign subsidiaries, and that to do so would impose serious competitive disadvantages on Applicant. Applicant proposes that its subsidiary banks and the direct and indirect broker-dealer subsidiaries of such banks (including overseas broker-dealer subsidiaries of Edge Act subsidiaries of those banks) act as riskless principal or broker for customers in buying and selling bank-eligible securities that Company underwrites or deals in and to market such securities on behalf of Company. Applicant maintains that these activities are consistent with the Board's determinations in BankAmerica Corporation , 79 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1163, 1165 (1993) and Chemical Banking Corporation , 80 Federal Reserve Bulletin 49, 50 n.3 (1994). Applicant otherwise would continue to comply with the Section 20 Firewalls set forth in J.P. Morgan, supra , as modified subsequently by the Board. In order to satisfy the proper incident to banking test, section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act requires the Board to find that the performance of the activities by Company can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. Applicant believes that the proposed activities will benefit the public by promoting competition, lower financing costs, and more innovative financing. Applicant also believes that approval of this application will allow Company to provide a wider range of services and added convenience to its customers. Applicant believes that the proposed activities will not result in any unsound banking practices or other adverse effects. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely in order to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets, or is likely to meet, the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing and received by William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551, not later than May 16, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by 262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of the reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Jennifer J. Johnson, Associate Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94-10023 Filed 4-25-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
