FR940505-1-00133 FR940505-1-00012 Under this proposed permit system, all operators of marine pleasure craft will be required to carry an emission permit on board their boats while operating in the FIP area. Since boats are often operated in areas other than where the owner resides, permits will be required only for operation of a boat within the FIP area, not for ownership of a boat within the FIP area. Boat-owners who reside in the FIP area but only use their boats outside the FIP area would not be required to purchase permits. Two types of permits will be sold, annual permits and daily use permits. Owners of boats meeting the new emission standards described above would be eligible for permanent emission permits free of charge. Owners of all other boats could choose to buy either an annual permit which would allow them to operate their boats in the FIP area for the entire year, or a daily use permit which would allow them to operate their boat on a single specified day in the FIP area (owners could also purchase multiple daily use permits if they plan to operate their boats in the FIP area for only a few days per year). The fees for emission permits will be based on the average excess emissions of pre-standard engines compared to engines meeting the new emissions standards described above. For the purpose of permit fee calculation, the engines of marine pleasure craft will be divided into the following classes: 4- cycle gasoline inboard, 4-cycle gasoline outboard, 2-cycle gasoline outboard, 4-cycle gasoline sterndrive, sailboat auxiliary engines, and personal watercraft (e.g., Jet Ski). EPA invites comment on whether these general categories are appropriate for permit fee calculation, or whether they should be further subdivided to reflect differences in emissions or use within a class (e.g., some of these classes, such as 2-cycle outboards, could be further subdivided based on horsepower to reflect the very wide range of horsepower, usage, and total emissions that might be seen within the class). Average excess emissions per engine would be calculated separately for each engine class based on the difference between the sum of average HC and NO X emissions for pre-standard engines and the sum of average HC and NO X emissions for engines meeting the appropriate new standard. Total average excess emissions would then be calculated as the product of average excess emissions per engine for the engine class and the time of use for the engine class. For an annual permit, time of use would be based on the average annual use for the particular engine class. For a daily permit, eight hours of continuous use would be assumed for all engine classes. EPA requests comment on other options for time of use when assessing fees for daily permits. EPA currently estimates that a boat with a typical pre-standard 2-cycle gasoline outboard motor would be assessed an annual fee of approximately $400, based on typical emission rates and hours of use and using a rate of $10,000 per ton of excess emissions (this example assumes 35 hours of annual use, with HC emissions reduced from 118 g/hp-hr to 35 g/hp-hr as a result of the new standard while NO X emissions increase from 2.4 g/hp-hr to 4.7 g/hp-hr; this example is based on EPA's best current estimates which may change as more information is received and as the engine standards are finalized). At this time, EPA believes that this fee level will effectively discourage the operation of pre-standard engines in the FIP areas. However, EPA will monitor the effectiveness of this fee level in discouraging operation of pre-standard engines, and increase the fee per ton if needed to discourage virtually all such operation. To obtain a permit a boat owner would have to present to the permit office documentation regarding the engine class and whether or not the engine meets the new emissions standard. The boat's state registration documentation may be sufficient to ascertain the engine class. If not, one time physical inspections may be needed, in which case EPA would seek to delegate such inspections to local or state agencies. Engines meeting the new emissions standard will be required to be labeled as such by the manufacturers. Boat owners will be required to show that their boat engines have such a label in order to obtain a free permit. In the absence of such proof, the permit fee will be based on the assumption that the boat engine does not meet the new standard. Some boat engine manufacturers may already be producing engines that meet the new standards, before the labeling requirements have been finalized. These manufacturers have the option of presenting to EPA evidence (in the form of emissions test data which meets EPA's test requirements for these engines) of which engines met the requirement before it went into effect. If EPA accepts this evidence, owners of such engines could qualify for a free permit if they can prove that their boat engine qualifies based on the serial number of the engine.
