FR941122-2-00100 FR941122-2-00077 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34980; File No. SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;94&hyph;05] Self-Regulatory Organizations; International Securities Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of a Proposed Rule Change Eliminating the PORTAL Program November 16, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 11, 1994, the International Securities Clearing Corporation (``ISCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which items have been prepared primarily by ISCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change. The proposed rule change consists of the elimination of ISCC's PORTAL program. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Changes In its filing with the Commission, ISCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. ISCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (a) In 1989, ISCC obtained approval to provide a service which would permit ISCC to accept data from the National Association of Securities Dealers (``NASD'') in connection with transactions in the National Securities Clearing Corporation's PORTAL system. ISCC would forward instructions regarding PORTAL transactions to the Centrale de Livraison de Valeurs Mobiliers (``CEDEL'') and The Depository Trust Company's Institutional Delivery System for settlement. ISCC has not processed any PORTAL transactions for over two and one half years. Because this service has not been used and because currently the NASD does not and in the future the NASD will not transmit information on PORTAL transactions directly to ISCC, ISCC has determined to discontinue the service. Broker-dealers will have alternative means of settling transactions in PORTAL securities, including the ability to send data on these transactions directly to ISCC for transmission to CEDEL. (b) Since the filing will eliminate a service that has no volume and is therefore not cost effective to maintain, elimination is consistent with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition ISCC does not believe that the proposed rule will have an impact or impose a burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others ISCC has not solicited or received any comments. ISCC will notify the Commission of any written comments received by ISCC. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A)(iii) of the Act 2 and Rule 19b&hyph;4(e)(4) 3 thereunder in that it effects a change in an existing service of ISCC that does not adversely effect the safeguarding of securities of funds in the custody or control of ISCC or for which ISCC is responsible and does not significantly effect the rights or obligations of ISCC or persons using the service. At any time within sixty days of the filing of such proposed rule change, the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. 2 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)(iii) (1988). 3 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4(e)(4) (1994). IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to file number SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;95&hyph;05 and should be submitted by December 13, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28780 Filed 11&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
