FR940913-2-00008 FR940913-2-00004 For your information the Borrower is currently considering the following terms: (1) Amount: U.S. $10 million. (2) Term: 30 years. (3) Grace Period: Ten years grace on repayment of principal (during grace period, semi-annual payments of interest only). If variable interest rate, repayment of principal to amortize in equal, semi-annual installments over the remaining 20-year life of the loan. If fixed interest rate, semi-annual level payments of principal and interest over the remaining 20-year life of the loan. (4) Interest Rate: Alternatives of both fixed and variable rate loans are requested. (a) Variable Interest Rate: To be based on the three-month or six-month British Bankers Association LIBOR, preferably with terms relating to Borrower's right to convert to fixed. The rate should be adjusted weekly. (b) Fixed Interest Rate: If rates are to be quoted on a spread over an index, the lender should use as its index a long bond, specifically the 71/2% U.S. Treasury bond due November 15, 2024. Such rate is to be set at the time of acceptance. (5) Prepayment: (a) Offers should include any options for prepayment and mention prepayment premiums, if any. (b) Federal statutes governing the activities of the USAID Housing Guaranty program require that the proceeds of USAID-guaranteed loans be used to provide affordable shelter and related infrastructure and services to below median-income families. In the extraordinary event that the Borrower materially breaches its obligation to comply with this, or related, requirements, USAID reserves the right, among its other rights and remedies, to accelerate the loan. (It should be noted that since the inception of the USAID Housing Guaranty Program in 1962, USAID has not exercised its right of acceleration). (6) Fees: Please note that Lenders' placement fees (if any), legal fees, and out-of-pocket expenses are to be included in the rate quoted for this financing (i.e., such fees will not be deductible from the proceeds of the loan). The initial up front fees of USAID and the Paying and Transfer Agent shall be payable at closing from the proceeds of the loan. In the event of bidding through the Financial Advisor, the Investor is required to arrange with the Financial Advisor regarding the fees to be paid, which are also to be included in the interest rate to be quoted. (7) Closing Date: Not to exceed 60 days from date of selection of lender. Selection of investment bankers and/or lenders and the terms of the loan are initially subject to the individual discretion of the Borrower, and thereafter, subject to certain conditions required of the Borrower by USAID as set forth in agreements between USAID and the Borrower. The full repayment of the loans will be guaranteed by USAID. The USAID guaranty will be backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America and will be issued pursuant to authority in Section 222 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended (the ``Act''). Lenders eligible to receive the USAID guaranty are those specified in Section 238(c) of the Act. They are: (1) U.S. citizens; (2) domestic U.S. corporations, partnerships, or associations substantially beneficially owned by U.S. citizens; (3) foreign corporations whose share capital is at least 95 percent owned by U.S. citizens; and, (4) foreign partnerships or associations wholly owned by U.S. citizens. To be eligible for the USAID guaranty, the loans must be repayable in full no later than the thirtieth anniversary of the disbursement of the principal amount thereof and the interest rates may be no higher than the maximum rate established from time to time by USAID. Information as to the eligibility of investors and other aspects of the USAID housing guaranty program can be obtained from: Mr. Peter M. Kimm, Director, Office of Environment and Urban Programs, U.S. Agency for International Development, Room 401, SA&hyph;2, Washington, D.C. 20523&hyph;0214, Fax Nos: (202) 663&hyph;2552 or 663&hyph;2507, Telephone: 202/663&hyph;2530. Dated: September 9, 1994. Michael G. Kitay, Assistant General Counsel, Bureau for Global Programs, Field Support and Research, Agency for International Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22680 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6116&hyph;01&hyph;M
