FR940304-1-00093 FR940304-1-00014 Nevertheless, the Department recognizes that for analytical completeness, it should conduct studies on the potential impacts of standards on natural gas utilities. Accordingly, DOE is now examining methodologies and data sources that will enable it to conduct such studies. The Department, therefore, welcomes submittals of relevant information and data in this regard. Columbia Gas and the Montana-Dakota Utilities Company stated that conservation standards on gas appliances would result in a loss of natural gas sales, which, in turn, would lead to higher rates to all gas customers. (Columbia Gas, No. 45 at 5; Montana-Dakota Utilities Company, No. 54 at 3). The Department does not accept the inevitability of that contention; a loss of gas sales may or may not increase rates. The actual effect depends on the cost structure of the gas utility. If avoided costs are larger than rates, then reducing sales would actually decrease rates. Without study of individual gas utility cost structures, no a priori conclusion in this regard can be drawn. Lastly, four comments addressed the Department's planned analysis of environmental effects. Both the Southern Union Gas Company and Columbia Gas pointed out that the negative environmental effects from electric resistance water heaters are more severe than are the effects from natural gas water heaters. Columbia Gas stated that carbon dioxide emissions from electric resistance water heaters are 3.8 times higher than those from a minimum efficiency gas water heater. (Southern Union Gas Company, No. 22 at 2; Columbia Gas, No. 45 at 5). Also, the American Gas Association and Columbia Gas urged the Department to consider the environmental impact of the total energy delivery cycle, i.e., source energy, not just site consumption only. (American Gas Association, No. 23 at 3; Columbia Gas, No. 45 at 2). The statements regarding the relative environmental impacts of gas and resistance electric water heating are generally correct. Furthermore, the Department does account for source energy (not just site energy) savings by including the fuel used by electric utilities and the consequent emissions in the utility impact assessment and environmental analysis. These effects are reported in Chapter 9 of the Technical Support Document accompanying this Notice. b. Product-Specific Comments 1. Room Air Conditioners Classes. In the September 1990 advance notice, DOE proposed 12 classes of room air conditioners. The product classes consist of four categories; units with side louvers, units without side louvers, units with reversing valve with side louvers, and units with reversing valve without side louvers. There are five class divisions by capacity within each of the two categories without reversing valves. The California Energy Commission proposed a reduction in product classes from 12 to 4, eliminating the class divisions based on capacity. (California Energy Commission, No. 24 at 2). Whirlpool Corporation and Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers proposed two additional classes, a casement slider and a casement only room air conditioner. They stated that restricted geometry adversely impacts the potential new designs that can be applied to those types of room air conditioners. For example, rotary compressors could not be fitted into the casement units. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 7; Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers No. 61A at 4). The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy in its comments cited room air conditioners as an example where broad product classes have been properly selected. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6, at 1). There are several constraints placed on the design of room air conditioners. Because most room air conditioners are installed in double-hung windows, the size of the most typical double-hung windows becomes a significant factor in cabinet design and production. Every room air conditioner unit could be designed to optimize performance and efficiency as long as a specific cabinet could be built to best suit the unit's particular capacity and efficiency. Manufacturers cannot afford the luxury of optimizing every model they produce, so they limit their production of cabinets to three or four sizes. Because of space and configuration limitations, the larger capacity units for a given cabinet size will tend to be less efficient. For this reason the Department is rejecting the California Energy Commission proposal to ignore capacity in establishing classes. The Department decided to adopt additional classes for casement slider and casement only room air conditioners. These units offer a unique utility to the consumer in that they offer a performance-related feature (fitting into casement windows) which other room air conditioners cannot provide. The Department believes that the size limitations imposed on casement units are more significant than those faced by typical double-hung window units. Since its performance-related feature justified a lower standard, separate product classes were established for casement slider and casement only units. Because of the small amount of empirical data on casement type units, the Department was unable to analyze these classes. As a result, the Department is not proposing any standards for them.
