FR940429-0-00052 FR940429-0-00010 (e) The designated Department official provides the Advisory Committee with the accrediting agency's application and supporting documentation, the designated Department official's analysis of the application, all information relied upon by the designated Department official in developing the analysis, any response by the agency to the analysis or third-party comment, any Department concurrence with or rebuttal to the agency's response, and any third-party information the Secretary receives regarding the agency. (f) The designated Department official provides the agency with a copy of any Department rebuttal provided to the Advisory Committee under paragraph (e) of this section. (g) If the designated Department official fails to provide the agency with the materials described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section within the 45-day time frame specified in that section, the agency may request that the Advisory Committee defer action on its application until the next meeting of the Advisory Committee. (h) At least 30 days before the Advisory Committee meeting, the Secretary publishes a notice of the meeting in the Federal Register and invites interested parties, including those who submitted third-party comments concerning an agency's compliance with the requirements for recognition, to make oral presentations before the Advisory Committee. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.12 Review by the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity. (a)(1) The Advisory Committee considers an accrediting agency's application at a public meeting and invites the designated Department official, the agency, and other interested parties to make oral presentations at the meeting. (2) The designated Department official arranges for a transcript to be made of the Advisory Committee meeting. (b) At the conclusion of the meeting, the Advisory Committee recommends that the Secretary approve or deny recognition of the accrediting agency or defer a decision on the agency's application. (c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Advisory Committee recommends recognition of an agency if the agency complies with each of the requirements of this part. (2) The Advisory Committee may recommend recognition despite finding that the agency failed to comply with each of the requirements of this part if the Advisory Committee provides the Secretary with a detailed explanation as to why it believes the agency's failure to comply with the particular requirement(s) does not require denial or deferral. (3) If the Advisory Committee recommends recognition, the Advisory Committee also recommends the scope of recognition for the agency and a recognition period. (4) If the Advisory Committee recommends denial of recognition, the Advisory Committee specifies the reasons for the recommendation and the requirements of this part that the agency failed to meet.
