FR940128-1-00052 FR940128-1-00006 To assist themselves in the implementation of their shellfish laws, the States have formed the ISSC. The ISSC is an organization of State officials, representatives of Federal agencies, and representatives of the shellfish industry. It provides guidance to the States and provides a forum for them to discuss their problems in attempting to ensure the sanitary control of shellfish handling and production (Ref. 97, p. 3). FDA evaluates State and international shellfish sanitation programs (Ref. 98, part I, p. 2). When it finds that the program is consistent with the NSSP, FDA accepts the State's or country's shipper certifications. FDA publishes the ``Interstate Certified Shellfish Shippers List'' monthly, in which it lists the approximately 2,000 shellfish dealers that have been certified by participating States. While FDA continues to believe in the cooperative partnership that it has established with the States, there is evidence that this system is not protecting the public health as well as it might (Refs. 7, p. 331; 99, p. iii; and 100). Problems can originate anywhere. As explained in the discussion above of the term ``lot of molluscan shellfish,'' the water from which shellfish are harvested plays a significant role in determining their safety. If they are harvested from unclassified or polluted waters, shellfish can be a vector of communicable disease. Problems can also occur as a result of conditions under which the shellfish are held on the harvest vessel, in the processing plant, or by subsequent handlers or repackers of shucked products. Given the current situation, FDA has tentatively determined that it is necessary for it to take steps to strengthen and provide additional support for the existing cooperative program. Thus, FDA is proposing two measures. First, FDA is proposing to add ยง1240.60(b), which will require that all shellfish offered for transport or transported in interstate commerce bear a tag that lists the date, place, type, and quantity of shellfish, and by whom it was harvested, including the harvester's identification number. FDA is proposing this requirement because it has determined that a tag is the only means by which the agency can ensure that it will be possible to determine whether the shellfish have been taken from safe water. FDA is proposing to require that the place where the shellfish were harvested be listed because it will enable a processor who receives the shellfish, or a regulatory official who inspects them, to determine whether they were taken from safe water. FDA is proposing to require that the date when the shellfish were harvested be listed because, as discussed above, the shifting conditions in shellfish harvesting waters make shellfish safety virtually a day-to-day proposition. Therefore, when the shellfish are harvested becomes a critical factor. FDA is proposing that the type of shellfish e.g., oysters, clams, mussels, or scallops, and quantity be shown on the tag or bill of lading to ensure that the tag is applied only to the product to which it was initially affixed. Information on type and quantity of shellfish describes that product. FDA is proposing to require that the person by whom the shellfish were harvested be listed because that person has the most direct knowledge of where and when the shellfish were harvested and should be readily identifiable in case there are problems with the shellfish, so that quick action can be taken to meet the effect of any problem. Finally, FDA is proposing that the harvester identification number issued by the shellfish control authority be included to provide a means to confirm the harvester's identity and to obtain the harvester's local address in case of an illness investigation or followup to tagging and labeling discrepancies. FDA is proposing this tagging requirement under section 361 of the PHS Act. Under this section, the Surgeon General and, by delegation, FDA, is authorized to make and enforce such regulations as in FDA's judgment are necessary to prevent the introduction, transmission, or spread of communicable disease. FDA tentatively finds that requiring a tag is a measure necessary to prevent the spread of communicable diseases because the tag will readily permit identification of those raw shellfish that were harvested from properly classified waters, and thus that will not be vectors of communicable disease in interstate commerce, and those that were not harvested from properly classified waters and thus that may be vectors of disease. Under the PHS Act, FDA is also authorized to provide for such measures which in its judgment may be necessary to enforce the regulations that it adopts to prevent the spread of communicable diseases (section 361(a) of the PHS Act). Therefore, FDA is proposing to provide in ยง1240.60(b) for the seizure and destruction of any shellfish that are not properly tagged. Without the assurances provided by the tag, the shellfish may bear a microorganism that may render them injurious to health. Thus, they are unfit for consumption and must be removed from the food supply.
