FR941205-1-00038 FR941205-1-00014 An agreement's effect on shippers, ports and maritime commerce is a different matter. An agreement of significant anticompetitive dimensions_for example, a large market share combined with authority to fix rates and control service contracts_poses potential dangers of unlawful activities and unreasonable rate increases or service reductions both when it is first filed and for as long as it remains in effect. Thus, under the new regulatory framework established by the 1984 Act, the role of the Commission as a monitoring and surveillance agency was greatly enhanced. In discharging that responsibility, the Commission cannot merely examine an agreement's provisions; rather, it must continually gather, review and interpret data on the impact of the agreement on U.S. foreign commerce. As for the source of such information, the 1984 Act removed the burden of proof in agreement investigations from the carriers, but did not alter the accuracy of the Commission's 1966 observation in Mediterranean Pools Investigation that the primary source for information on the operation of an agreement is the carriers that are the parties to the agreement. At present, the Commission has regulations in place that obtain information from carriers about their agreements in two principal ways. All new agreements, unless specifically exempted, 8 and all ``significant modifications'' to existing agreements 9 must submit an information form 10 which, at a minimum, requires the parties to state the full name of the agreement (Part I); whether the agreement authorizes collective rate fixing (Part II(A)), cargo or revenue pooling (Part II(B)), or the establishment of a ``joint service/consortium'' arrangement (Part II(C)); whether the agreement was entered into as a response to any law or other official action by a foreign government ( e.g., cargo reservation laws) (Part VI); and persons who can be contacted by the Commission's staff for further information if necessary (Part IX). If an agreement does authorize collective rate fixing, cargo or revenue pooling, or the establishment of a ``joint service/consortium'' arrangement, the parties are required additionally to provide market share and cargo carryings information for the previous year (Part III), to identify the nature and extent of any competition on the trade (Part IV), and to identify any reports, studies or other research on competitive conditions in the trade (Part VIII). Agreements that authorize service rationalization are required to provide information on any changes in port calls or reductions in service that will result from the agreement within the next twelve months (Part V). In addition, filing parties may voluntarily describe the benefits that they anticipate will accrue from the agreement to themselves (such as improved operational efficiencies) or to shippers and U.S. commerce (such as improved service) (Part VII). 8 See 46 CFR 572.302&hyph;11. 9 ``Significant modifications'' are presently defined at 46 CFR 572.403(a)(3) to include *␣*␣* *␣*␣* significant changes in the geographic scope of conference or pooling agreements which expand the scope to cover additional foreign countries or U.S. port ranges, including initial conference intermodal authority, or the extension of the scope of a joint service agreement to ports outside the scope of the existing joint service agreement currently served by two or more of the parties; additions to the number of parties in pooling or joint service agreements; significant reductions in service levels; significant changes in pool penalty provisions or carrying charges; and changes in cargo categories or descriptions that result in a significant increase in the amount of cargo subject to the pool, or changes in the allocation of cargo or revenue that significantly change the cargo or revenue shares of national or non-national flag lines. 10 The current information form is published as appendix A to part 572 of the Commission's regulations, following 46 CFR 572.991. The data and information shown on an agreement's information form are the basis for pre-implementation review of an agreement under section 10 and section 6(g) of the 1984 Act, unless additional information is obtained as a result of a formal request issued under section 6(d), 11 in which case the agreement's effective date is delayed until the 45th day after the Commission receives the information requested, so that pre-implementation review can include the additional material. 11 N. 2, supra, and accompanying text. In addition, parties to effective agreements are required to file minutes of meetings of the carriers or other persons authorized to take action on behalf of the carriers, which include reports on shippers' requests and complaints and reports on consultations with shippers and shippers' associations. 12 12 46 CFR 572.702&hyph;703. C. Areas of Needed Improvement
