FR940802-2-00130 FR940802-2-00072 Tuesday August 2, 1994 Part II Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administration International Conference on Harmonisation; Guideline on Studies in Support of Special Populations: Geriatrics; Availability; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 147␣/␣Tuesday, August 2, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 93D&hyph;0138] International Conference on Harmonisation; Guideline on Studies in Support of Special Populations: Geriatrics; Availability AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is publishing a final guideline entitled ``Studies in Support of Special Populations: Geriatrics.'' The guideline was prepared by the Efficacy Expert Working Group of the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH). The guideline is intended to reflect sound scientific principles for testing drugs in geriatric populations. The guideline provides useful information for sponsors submitting applications to both the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) and the Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER). DATES: Effective August 2, 1994. Submit written comments at any time. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments on the guideline to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding the guideline: Patrick J. Savino, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (HFD&hyph;8), Food and Drug Administration, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855, 301&hyph;594&hyph;1012. Regarding the ICH: Janet J. Showalter, Office of Health Affairs (HFY&hyph;20), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;1382. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In recent years, many important initiatives have been undertaken by regulatory authorities and industry associations to promote international harmonization of regulatory requirements. FDA has participated in many meetings designed to enhance harmonization and is committed to seeking scientifically based harmonized technical procedures for pharmaceutical development. One of the goals of harmonization is to identify and then reduce differences in technical requirements for drug development. ICH was organized to provide an opportunity for tripartite harmonization initiatives to be developed with input from both regulatory and industry representatives. FDA also seeks input from consumer representatives and others. ICH is concerned with harmonization of technical requirements for the registration of pharmaceutical products among three regions: The European Union, Japan, and the United States. The six ICH sponsors are the European Commission, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associations, the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Japanese Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, FDA, and the U.S. Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. The ICH Secretariat, which coordinates the preparation of documentation, is provided by the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations (IFPMA). The ICH Steering Committee includes representatives from each of the ICH sponsors and the IFPMA, as well as observers from the World Health Organization, the Canadian Health Protection Branch, and the European Free Trade Area. At a meeting held on September 16, 1992, the ICH Steering Committee agreed that the draft tripartite guideline entitled ``Studies in Support of Special Populations: Geriatrics'' should be made available for comment. Subsequently, the draft guideline which published in the Federal Register of April 16, 1993 (58 FR 21082), was made available for comment by the European Commission and the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare, as well as by FDA, in accordance with their consultation procedures. At a meeting held on June 24, 1993, the comments were analyzed and the guideline was revised as necessary. With this notice, FDA is publishing in final form a guideline entitled ``Studies in Support of Special Populations: Geriatrics.'' This guideline has been endorsed by all ICH sponsors. The guideline provides useful information to sponsors submitting applications to both CDER and CBER. The guideline addresses harmonization in relation to clinical testing programs for drugs intended for use in medicines for the geriatric population, which is expected to increase significantly in the near future in Europe, Japan, and the United States. The use of drugs in the geriatric population requires special consideration due to the frequent occurrence of underlying diseases, concomitant drug therapy, and the consequent risks of drug interaction. The recommendations of this guideline do not materially differ from the recommendations of a 1989 CDER guideline entitled ``Guideline for the Study of Drugs Likely to be Used in the Elderly.'' Although the ICH harmonized guideline provides much useful information for sponsors submitting applications to CDER and CBER, the 1989 document contains background and additional commentary not present in the harmonized guideline. For this reason, FDA intends to provide both the ICH harmonized guideline and the 1989 document when information is requested on the study of new drugs in a geriatric population. Guidelines are generally issued under §10.90(b) (21 CFR 10.90(b)), which provides for the use of guidelines to state procedures or standards of general applicability that are not legal requirements but that are acceptable to FDA. The agency is now in the process of revising §10.90(b). Therefore, this guideline is not being issued under the authority of §10.90(b), and it does not create or confer any rights, privileges, or benefits for or on any person, nor does it operate to bind FDA in any way. As with all of FDA's guidelines, the public is encouraged to submit written comments with new data or other new information pertinent to this guideline. The comments will be periodically reviewed and, where appropriate, the guideline will be amended. The public will be notified of any such amendments through a notice in the Federal Register . Interested persons may, at any time, submit written comments on the guideline to the Dockets Management Branch (address above). Two copies of any comments are to be submitted, except that individuals may submit one copy. Comments are to be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. The guideline and received comments may be seen in the office above between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The text of the final guideline follows: Studies in Support of Special Populations: Geriatrics I. Statement of Purpose It is important to ensure that clinical testing programs are carried out according to harmonised guidelines based on agreed ethical and scientific principles so that the international development of valuable innovative drugs is achieved with maximum efficiency. Harmonisation in relation to medicines for geriatric populations is an important issue because the total population of the elderly will increase significantly in the coming years in Europe, Japan and the USA. The use of drugs in this population requires special consideration due to the frequent occurrence of underlying diseases, concomitant drug therapy and the consequent risk of drug interaction. II. General Principle Drugs should be studied in all age groups, including the elderly, for which they will have significant utility. Patients entering clinical trials should be reasonably representative of the population that will be later treated by the drug. III. Scope of Guideline This guideline is directed principally toward new Molecular Entities that are likely to have significant use in the elderly, either because the disease intended to be treated is characteristically a disease of aging (e.g., Alzheimer's disease) or because the population to be treated is known to include substantial numbers of geriatric patients (e.g., hypertension). The guideline applies also to new formulations and new combinations of established medicinal products when there is specific reason to expect that conditions common in the elderly (e.g., renal or hepatic impairment, impaired cardiac function, concomitant illnesses or concomitant medications) are likely to be encountered and are not already dealt with in current labelling. It likewise applies when the new formulation or new combination is likely to alter the geriatric patient's response (with regard to either safety/tolerability or efficacy) compared with that of the non-geriatric patient in a way different from previous formulations. The guideline also applies to new uses that have significant potential applicability to the elderly. It is recommended that exemptions from the guideline be determined in advance either by sponsors or, where feasible, by the sponsor and drug registration authorities, based, e.g., on estimates of the disease prevalence by age or through examination of the age distribution of usage for other drugs of the same class or drugs used for the same indication. IV. Definition of the Population The geriatric population is arbitrarily defined, for the purpose of this guideline, as comprising patients aged 65 years or older. It is important, however, to seek patients in the older age range, 75 and above, to the extent possible. Protocols should not ordinarily include arbitrary upper age cutoffs. It is also important not to exclude unnecessarily patients with concomitant illnesses; it is only by observing such patients that drug-disease interactions can be detected. The older the population likely to use the drug, the more important it is to include the very old. V. Clinical Experience Geriatric patients should be included in the Phase 3 database (and in Phase 2, at the sponsor's option) in meaningful numbers. The geriatric subpopulation should be represented sufficiently to permit the comparison of drug response in them to that of younger patients. For drugs used in diseases not unique to, but present in, the elderly, a minimum of 100 patients would usually allow detection of clinically important differences. For drugs to treat relatively uncommon diseases, smaller numbers of the elderly would be expected. Where the disease to be treated is characteristically associated with aging (e.g., Alzheimer's disease) it is expected that geriatric patients will constitute the major portion of the clinical database. The overall database of the dossier should be examined for the presence of age-related differences, e.g., in adverse event rates, in effectiveness, and in dose-response. If these relatively crude overview analyses show important differences, further evaluation may be needed. The geriatric data used in the overview can come either from the inclusion of elderly patients in all or most of the main Phase 3 or Phase 2/3 studies or from studies conducted exclusively in geriatric patients, at the sponsor's option. Inclusion of both groups in the same studies has the advantage of allowing direct comparisons of younger and older patients using data collected in similar ways. Such comparisons are more difficult when separate studies of young and old patients are used. Certain assessments, however, e.g., studies of cognitive function, require special planning and can be best accomplished in separate studies. VI. Pharmacokinetic Studies Most of the recognized important differences between younger and older patients have been pharmacokinetic differences, often related to impairment of excretory (renal or hepatic) function or to drug-drug interactions. It is important to determine whether or not the pharmacokinetic behavior of the drug in elderly subjects or patients is different from that in younger adults and to characterize the effects of influences, such as abnormal renal or hepatic function, that are more common in the elderly even though they can occur in any age group. Information regarding age-related differences in the pharmacokinetics of the drug can come, at the sponsor's option, either from a Pharmacokinetic Screen (as described subsequently) or from formal pharmacokinetic studies, in the elderly and in patients with excretory functional impairment. It is recognized that for certain drugs and applications (e.g., some topically-applied agents, some proteins) technical limitations such as low systemic drug levels may preclude or limit exploration of age-related pharmacokinetic differences. A. Formal Pharmacokinetic Studies Formal PK studies can be done either in healthy geriatric subjects or in patient volunteers with the disease to be treated by the drug. The initial PK study can be a pilot trial of limited size conducted under steady-state conditions to look for sizable differences between older and younger subjects or patients. A larger, single-dose PK study of sufficient size to permit statistical comparisons between geriatric and younger subjects' or patients' pharmacokinetic profiles is also acceptable. In either case, if large (i.e., potentially medically important) age-related differences are found, the initial PK study may need to be followed by a multiple-dose PK study of sufficient size to permit statistical comparisons (geriatric vs. younger) at steady-state. B. Pharmacokinetic Screening Approach Sponsors may opt, instead of conducting a separate PK evaluation of the elderly, to utilize a Pharmacokinetic Screen in conjunction with the main Phase 3 (and Phase 2, if the sponsor wishes) clinical trials program. This screening procedure involves obtaining, under steady-state conditions, a small number (one or two) of drug blood level determinations at ``trough'' (i.e., just prior to the next dose) or other defined times from sufficient numbers of Phase 2/3 clinical trials patients, geriatric and younger, to detect age-associated differences in pharmacokinetic behavior, if they are present. It is important to record time of dosing prior to blood concentration measurements, and relation of dosing to meals, and to examine the influence of demographic and disease factors, such as gender renal function, presence of liver disease, gastrointestinal disease or heart disease, body size and composition, and concomitant illnesses. Small differences are unlikely to be of medical importance. Where the screen detects large differences, formal pharmacokinetic studies may be indicated unless the screen's results are sufficiently informative. The advantage of a Pharmacokinetic Screen is that it can assess the effects, not only of age itself, but also of other factors associated with age (altered body composition, other drugs, concomitant illness) and their interactions. VII. Pharmacokinetics in Renally or Hepatically Impaired Patients Renal impairment is an aging-associated finding that can also occur in younger patients. Therefore, it is a general principle, not specific to these guidelines, that drugs excreted (parent drug or active metabolites) significantly through renal mechanisms should be studied to define the effects of altered renal function on their pharmacokinetics. Such information is needed for drugs that are the subject of this guideline but it can be obtained in younger subjects with renal impairment. Similarly, drugs subject to significant hepatic metabolism and/or excretion, or that have active metabolites, may pose special problems in the elderly. Pharmacokinetic studies should be carried out in hepatically-impaired young or elderly patient volunteers. If a Pharmacokinetic Screen approach is chosen by the sponsor (Section VI, see above), and if patients with documented renal impairment or hepatic impairment (depending on the drug's elimination pattern) are included and the results indicate no medically important pharmacokinetic difference, that information may be sufficient to meet this Geriatric Guideline's purpose. VIII. Pharmacodynamic/Dose Response Studies The number of age-related pharmacodynamic differences (i.e., increased or decreased therapeutic response, or side effects, at a given plasma concentration of drug) discovered to date is too small to necessitate dose response or other pharmacodynamic studies in geriatric patients as a routine requirement. Separate studies are, however, recommended in the following situations: Sedative/hypnotic agents and other psychoactive drugs or drugs with important CNS effects, such as sedating antihistamines Where subgroup comparisons (geriatric versus younger) in the Phase 2/3 clinical trials database indicate potentially medically significant age-associated differences in the drug's effectiveness or adverse reaction profile, not explainable by PK differences IX. Drug-Drug Interaction Studies Such interactions are of particular importance to geriatric patients, who are more likely to be using concomitant medications than younger patients, but of course are not limited to this age group. Therefore it is a general principle, not specific to these guidelines, that in cases where the therapeutic range (i.e., range of toxic to therapeutic doses) of the drug or likely concomitant drugs is narrow, and the likelihood of the concomitant therapy is great, that specific drug-drug interaction studies be considered. The studies needed must be determined case-by-case, but the following are ordinarily recommended: Digoxin and oral anticoagulant interaction studies, because so many drugs alter serum concentrations of these drugs, they are widely prescribed in the elderly, and they have narrow therapeutic ranges. For drugs that undergo extensive hepatic metabolism, determination of the effects of hepatic-enzyme inducers (e.g., phenobarbital) and inhibitors (e.g., cimetidine). For drugs metabolized by cytochrome P&hyph;450 enzymes, it is critical to examine the effects of known inhibitors, such as quinidine (for cytochrome P&hyph;450 2D6) or ketoconazole and macrolide antibiotics (for drugs metabolized by cytochrome P&hyph;450 3A4). There is a rapidly growing list of drugs that can interfere with other drugs that metabolize, and sponsors should remain aware of it. Interaction studies with other drugs that are likely to be used with the test drug (unless important interactions have been ruled out by a Pharmacokinetic Screen). Dated: July 27, 1994. Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18726 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
