FR940114-1-00029 FR940114-1-00008 1. The authority citation for part 1204 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 23 U.S.C. 402; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.48 and 1.50. §1204.4 [Amended] 2. In §1204.4, the following items would be added to the list of Highway Safety Program Guideline Numbers and Titles contained in the first paragraph: §1204.4 Highway Safety Program Guidelines. * * * * * 19␣Speed control. 20␣Occupant protection. 21␣Roadway safety. 3. In §1204.4 Guideline Nos. 3, 8, 10, 11, 14 and 15 would be revised and Guideline Nos. 19, 20 and 21 would be added to read as follows: §1204.4 Highway Safety Program Guidelines. * * * * * Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 3 Motorcycle Safety Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should have a comprehensive program to promote motorcycle safety. To be effective in reducing the number of motorcycle crash deaths and injuries, State programs should address the use of helmet and other protective gear, proper licensing, impaired riding, rider training, conspicuity, and motorist awareness. This Motorcycle Safety Program Guideline will assist States and local communities in the development and implementation of effective motorcycle safety programs. I. Program Management Each State should identify the nature and extent of its motorcycle safety problems, establish goals and objectives for the State's motorcycle safety program, and implement projects to reach the goals and objectives. State motorcycle safety plans should: Designate a lead agency for motorcycle safety; Develop funding sources; Collect and analyze data on motorcycle safety; Identify the State's motorcycle safety problem areas; Develop programs (with specific projects) to address problems; Coordinate motorcycle projects with those for the general motoring public; and Integrate motorcycle safety into community traffic safety programs. II. Motorcycle Personal Protective Equipment Each State should encourage motorcycle operators and passengers to use the following protective equipment: Motorcycle helmets (which should be required by law); Proper clothing, including gloves, boots, long pants, and a durable long-sleeved jacket; and Eye (which should be required by law) and face protection. Additionally, each passenger should be provided a seat and footrest. III. Motorcycle Operator Licensing States should require every person who operates a motorcycle on public roadways to pass an examination designed especially for motorcycle operation and to hold a license endorsement specifically authorizing motorcycle operation. Each State should have a motorcycle licensing system that requires: Motorcycle operator's manual; Motorcycle license examination, including knowledge and skill tests, and State licensing medical criteria; License examiner training; Motorcycle license endorsement; Motorcycle license renewal requirements; Learner's permit issued for a period of 90 days and only twice per applicant; and Penalties for violation of motorcycle licensing requirements. IV. Motorcycle Rider Education and Training Safe motorcycle operation requires specialized training by qualified instructors. Each State should establish a State Motorcycle Rider Education Program that provides for: Source of program funding; State organization to administer the program; Use of Motorcycle Safety Foundation curriculum or equivalent State-approved curriculum; Reasonable availability of rider education courses for all interested residents of legal riding age; Instructor training and certification; Incentives for successful course completion such as licensing skills test exemption; Quality control of the program; Ability to purchase insurance for the program; Permission to spend money in other motorcycle safety program areas as deemed appropriate; State guidelines for conduct of the program; and Program evaluation.
