FR940919-2-00154 FR940919-2-00063 [Docket No. 50&hyph;423] Northeast Nuclear Energy Company; Consideration of Issuance of Amendment to Facility Operating License, Proposed no Significant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for a Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;49, issued to Northeast Nuclear Energy Company (NNECO/the licensee), for operation of the Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 3, located in New London County, Connecticut. The proposed amendment would revise the Technical Specifications (TS) to modify surveillance requirements by increasing the acceptance criterion for the closure of the main steam isolation valves (MSIVs) from 5 seconds to 10 seconds. The proposed change would permit Millstone Unit 3 to resume plant operation. To resume plant operations Millstone Unit 3 must meet the operability requirements of the Technical Specifications for the MSIVs. On September 8, 1994, during monthly testing of the ``C'' MSIV, it was determined that the MSIV was inoperable because its closure time was determined to be greater than 5 seconds. Subsequent efforts to meet the required closure time have been unsuccessful. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. Pursuant to 10 CFR 50.91(a)(6) for amendments to be granted under exigent circumstances, the NRC staff must determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Under the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR 50.92, this means that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated; or (2) create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated; or (3) involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration (SHC), which is presented below: *␣*␣* The proposed change does not involve an SHC because the change would not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously analyzed. NNECO's proposal to modify Surveillance Requirement 4.7.1.5.1 of the Millstone Unit No. 3 Technical Specifications does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously analyzed. The increase in the MSIV stroke time from 5 seconds to 10 seconds has no adverse impact on the FSAR [Final Safety Analysis Report] analyses for the feedwater line break and the main steam line break. The applicable acceptance criteria (e.g., DNBR [departure from nucleate boiling ratio] and pressure) for both 3-loop and 4-loop operation continue to be met with an increase in the MSIV closure time from 5 to 10 seconds. No other accident analyses discussed in Chapter 15 of the FSAR are affected by the proposed increase in the MSIV closure time. Additionally, evaluations have determined that the proposal does not affect the environmental qualification program for either the main steam valve building or the containment, does not impact the design basis accident radiological consequence calculations, does not negatively impact fluid transient evaluations, has a negligible impact on the long term cooling capacity of the steam generators, and does not change pipe rupture mechanistic effects. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. The proposed change does not introduce any new failure modes. It simply modifies an acceptance criterion for a surveillance requirement. As such, increasing the MSIV stroke time from 5 seconds to 10 seconds affects only the FSAR analyses for the feedwater line break and the main stream line break. No other accident analyses discussed in Chapter 15 of the FSAR are affected by the proposed increase in the MSIV closure time. The applicable acceptance criteria (e.g., DNBR and pressure) for both 3-loop and 4-loop operation continue to be met with an increase in the MSIV closure time from 5 to 10 seconds. Additionally, evaluations have determined that the proposal does not affect the environmental qualification program for either the main steam valve building or the containment, does not impact the design basis accident radiological consequence calculations, does not negatively impact fluid transient evaluations, has a negligible impact on the long term cooling capacity of the steam generators, and does not change pipe rupture mechanistic effects. Thus, the proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. 3. Involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The increase in the MSIV stroke time from 5 seconds to 10 seconds has no adverse impact on the FSAR analyses for the feedwater line break and the main steam line break. The applicable acceptance criteria (e.g., DNBR and pressure) for both 3-loop and 4-loop operation continue to be met with an increase in the MSIV closure time from 5 to 10 seconds. No other accident analyses discussed in Chapter 15 of the FSAR are affected by the proposed increase in the MSIV closure time. Additionally, the proposed change does not impact the consequences of an accident previously analyzed. Based on the above, there is no significant reduction in the margin of safety.
