FR941230-1-00035 FR941230-1-00004 (ii) Illustrations. Incidental uses may include pay telephones, vending machines, advertising, use for television cameras, etc., but not output purchases. (4) Qualified improvements. Proceeds that provide a governmentally owned improvement to a governmentally owned building (including its structural components and land functionally related and subordinate to the building) are not used for a private business use if: (i) The building was placed in service more than one year before the construction or acquisition of the improvement is begun; (ii) The improvement is not an enlargement of the building or an improvement of interior space occupied exclusively for any private business use; (iii) No portion of the improved building or any payments in respect of the improved building are taken into account under section 141(b)(2)(A) (the private security test); (iv) No more than 15 percent of the improved building is used for a private business use; and (v) The improvement (and any related improvements) does not increase the fair market value of the building by more than 5 percent. This requirement is treated as satisfied if the improvement is to common areas (such as the roof, heating, ventilation, and air conditioning system, or elevators), and the improvement is not made as part of a substantial rehabilitation of the building. (g) Special rule for tax assessment bonds. In the case of a tax assessment bond that satisfies the requirements of ยง1.142&hyph;5(c), the loan (or deemed loan) of the proceeds to the borrower paying the assessment is disregarded in determining whether the private business use test is satisfied. Thus, the private business use of those proceeds is determined on the basis of the use of the property improved with the tax assessment loan and any other use of the proceeds used for that assessment. (h) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section: Example 1. Long-term lease with nongovernmental person. State A and Corporation X enter into an arrangement under which A is to provide a factory that X will lease for 20 years. The arrangement provides that A will issue $10 million of bonds, the proceeds of the bond issue will be used to purchase land and to construct and equip a factory in accordance with X's specifications, X will rent the facility (land, factory, and equipment) for 20 years at an annual rental equal to the amount necessary to amortize the principal of and pay the interest on the outstanding bonds, and the payments by X and the facility itself will be the security for the bonds. The bonds are private activity bonds under section 141(b)(1) and (2) since they are part of an issue (1) all of the proceeds of which are to be used (by purchasing land and constructing and equipping the factory) in a trade or business by a nongovernmental person, and (2) the payment of the principal of and interest on which is secured by the facility and payments to be made with respect to the facility. See ยง1.141&hyph;5 (relating to the private loan financing test) and ยง1.141&hyph;4 (relating to the private security or payment test).
