FR940503-1-00058 FR940503-1-00011 §65.573 Eligibility. (a) Any person who provides information or services which leads to a criminal conviction or a judicial or administrative civil penalty, enforced under section 113, for any violation of titles I, III, IV, V, or VI of the Act, except those persons identified in paragraph (b) of this section, shall be eligible to receive an award under this part. (b) The following persons are not eligible to receive an award: (1) Persons convicted of or found liable for the violation(s) that are the subject of the award, (2) Officers or employees of the United States Environmental Protection Agency, (3) Any of the following persons who, at the time he or she came into possession of the information or rendered the service which constitutes in whole or in part the basis for an award, was performing his or her official duty: (i) Officers or employees of the United States Government; (ii) Contractors or grantees of the United States Government; (iii) Officers or employees of a State or local government; (iv) Contractors or grantees of a State or local government; (4) Any members of the immediate family of persons who would be ineligible under paragraph (b)(3) of this section; and (5) Such other persons as the Administrator may determine to be ineligible who are not otherwise ineligible under the law. (c) Before the Administrator may pay an award, a certification of eligibility must be signed by the person receiving the award. §65.574 Information or tips regarding possible violations. (a) Persons having knowledge of violations of the Act may provide such information to the Regional Administrators listed in appendix A of this subpart. (b) Information regarding violations of the Act should also be provided to State and local agencies, although not required by this regulation. The USEPA, in many cases, defers to State enforcement authorities to address violations in a timely and appropriate manner. §65.575 Confidentiality. (a) Any person providing information or services under this subpart may request confidentiality as to his or her identity. (b) To the extent permitted by law, the EPA will not disclose the identity of, or information which could reasonably be expected to disclose the identity of, a person who has requested confidentiality prior to or at the time of providing information or services under this 66 subpart, except in exceptional circumstances under appropriate restrictions with the approval of the Office of General Counsel or a Regional Counsel. §65.576 Petitions for consideration. (a) Any person may petition the Agency to consider paying an award. (b) Addresses. (1) Petitions for consideration must be submitted in writing to the Regional Administrator in the Region(s) bearing a substantial relationship to the violation(s) that are the subject of the petition. (2) The appropriate addresses for the Regional Administrators are provided in appendix A of this subpart. (c) Timing. (1) Petitions may be submitted at any time prior to the judgment of conviction or assessment of a civil penalty but must be submitted no later than one year after the judgment of conviction or assessment of a civil penalty. (2) No award determination will be made before a judgment of conviction is entered or judicial or administrative civil penalty is assessed, agreed, or ordered to be paid. (d) Content. A petition for consideration shall contain the following information: (1) Whether a request for confidentiality was made prior to or at the time of providing the information or services, and whether such request is still in effect; the petition envelope should also specify whether the information or services were provided under a request for confidentiality; (2) Name, address, and telephone number of the petitioner; (3) A brief description of the federal enforcement action (whether the action was a criminal conviction or judicial or administrative civil penalty) which resulted (if known) from the information or services; (4) Name, title, agency and office affiliation, city, and telephone number of person(s) to whom the information and services was provided (to the extent known); (5) Name(s) and address(es) of the violator(s) and (to the extent relevant) the names and/or locations of any sites or facilities involved; (6) Description of the information or services that led to the federal enforcement action; (7) Date(s) the information or services were provided; (8) Description of any other involvement by the petitioner in the enforcement action; (9) Certification of eligibility stating that the petitioner meets the requirements for eligibility for an award set forth in §65.575 (if the petitioner is the person who provided the information or services); and (10) Any other relevant information in support of the petition. §65.577 Criteria for awards. In deciding whether to make an award, and in what amount, the Administrator shall consider relevant criteria, giving such weight and importance to each separate criterion as appears warranted in his or her judgment alone. Relevant criteria shall include, but not be limited to, one or more of the following:
