FR940505-1-00449 FR940505-1-00012 Remote Sensing Devices (RSD) means a transportable system of devices designed for the remote gathering of vehicle emissions and identification data while vehicles are being operated on public roads. Special mobile equipment means vehicles not designed or used primarily for the transportation of persons or property and only incidentally operated or moved over a highway, including ditch digging apparatus; well boring apparatus; earth moving and road construction and maintenance machinery, such as asphalt spreaders, bituminous mixers, bucket loaders, ditchers, graders, finishing machines, road rollers, scarifiers, earth moving carryalls, scrapers, power shovels and draglines; and self-propelled cranes and tractors, other than truck tractors. The term does not include house trailers; dump trucks; truck-mounted transit mixers, cranes or shovels; or other vehicles designed for the transportation of persons or property to which machinery has been attached. Test provider(s) means one or more entities with whom the Administrator has entered into a legal agreement, for the purposes of providing vehicle emission testing and other FIP I/M program activities except those activities which would clearly constitute a conflict of interest or are otherwise impractical, such as overt and covert auditing of the testing element, program effectiveness evaluation, and enforcement. As part of this legal agreement, the test provider(s) would be reimbursed for operating expenses and allowed a reasonable profit by way of a test fee to be collected directly from motorists at the time of testing. Transient test means a vehicle emission test in which exhaust emissions are sampled and analyzed under conditions simulating actual on-road driving conditions, including the use of loaded operation simulation, and a standardized driving cycle. For the purposes of the FIP I/M program, a transient test known as the IM240 shall be used for vehicle exhaust emissions testing. Unsafe condition means a defect, malfunction or other condition of a vehicle which may expose an emission inspector to harm in the performance of an emission inspection of that vehicle. A vehicle which is presented for testing in an unsafe condition may be rejected from testing until such time as the factors contributing to the vehicle's unsafe condition have been corrected. Vehicle model year means the date of manufacture of a vehicle as specified by the vehicle identification number (VIN), or, if this number is not available or cannot be interpreted for the year, the annual production period of the vehicle as designated by the manufacturer. Waiver means a notation on the emission inspection certificate of compliance indicating that the requirement of passing the otherwise required reinspection test has been waived. (c) Subject vehicles. Subject vehicles include all model year 1966 to 1998 gasoline-fueled vehicles to 19,500 pounds GVWR (including vehicles with engine-based certification), and all model year 1999 and newer vehicles of all fuel types to 14,000 pounds GVWR (excluding vehicles with engine-based certification from 8,500 to 14,000 pounds GVWR) which are: (1) Registered in or required to be registered in a FIP I/M program area. (2) Leased vehicles with registration or titling in the name of an equity owner other than the lessee or user where the motor vehicle is registered or required to be registered in a FIP I/M program area. (3) Available for rent in a FIP I/M program area or used in a FIP I/M program area, regardless of where the vehicles are registered. (4) part of a fleet registered in and/or primarily operated within a FIP I/M program area. (5) Federally-owned vehicles operated within a FIP I/M program area, with the exception of tactical military vehicles. (6) Vehicles owned, leased or operated by civilian and military personnel on Federal installations, except for vehicles belonging to or operated by visiting agency, employee or military personnel whose stays do not exceed a total of 60 calendar days per calendar year. (d) Exempted vehicles. Exempted vehicles shall include vehicles operated or registered as one of the following: (1) Special mobile equipment. (2) Farm equipment. (3) Motorcycles. (4) Motorized pedalcycles. (5) Vehicles repossessed by a financier or debt collector through the use of miscellaneous motor vehicle business registration plates. This vehicle exemption will no longer hold once a repossessed vehicle has been resold or leased or is otherwise being operated on a routine basis in the FIP I/M program area. (e) Prohibitions. (1) The Secretary of State of California, the California Department of Motor Vehicles, its employees, and any other persons representing the State of California are prohibited from reregistering any subject vehicle registered in the name of an owner or lessee whose primary residence is located within one of the FIP I/M areas unless evidence is presented that the EPA Administrator or his/her designee has issued such a vehicle a certificate of compliance with or a waiver from the applicable requirements of this section. (2) Operators of subject motor vehicles registered in the FIP I/M areas are prohibited from obtaining vehicle registration without first meeting all applicable FIP I/M program requirements. (3) The test provider(s) and its employees, as part of an agreement with the Administrator, shall be prohibited from the intentional improper testing or retesting of vehicles subject to the FIP I/M program. (f) Commencement date. The enhanced I/M program, as described in this section, will commence with 100 percent vehicle testing coverage on January 1, 1997. Given the lateness of this starting date, no phase-in of vehicle coverage shall be assumed, contrary to the provisions of 40 CFR 51.373. (g) Vehicle emission inspection cycle.
