FR940805-1-00062 FR940805-1-00013 (8) Clerical and support staff orientation training. All new clerical and support staff who have minimal inmate contact shall receive the number of hours of orientation and training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement within their first year of employment. (9) Clerical and support staff in-service training. All clerical and support staff shall receive an additional sixteen hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (10) Administrative and managerial staff orientation training. New administrative and managerial staff shall receive at least the number of hours of training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, within their first year of employment in this position. (11) Administrative and managerial staff in-service training. Administrative and managerial staff shall receive at least twenty-four hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment. (12) Specialized training. At least one detention officer per shift shall receive specialized training in the management of inmates with health and behavioral problems, including substance abuse and suicide. At least one detention officer per shift shall be certified as an emergency medical technician. All detention staff who have contact with inmates shall receive training in advanced first aid and CPR. The health authority shall identify health-related training needs. (e) Facility records _(1) Records compliance. The facility shall comply with 5 U.S.C. 552 (the Freedom of Information Act), 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended, 43 CFR 2.79(a), or comparable tribal regulations. (2) Records management. The facility shall have a system for the management, dissemination, retrieval, storage, archiving and (when appropriate) destruction of information and detention records. (3) Law enforcement sensitive information. Law enforcement sensitive records and information shall be marked privileged. The administrator or designee shall keep these records in a locked cabinet or file room. (4) Release of information and consent. Inmates shall sign a Release of Information Consent Form in compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended prior to the release of privileged information. The administrator or designee shall keep a copy of the signed release in the inmate's record. (5) Separation of record contents. The administrator or designee shall identify and separate contents of inmate records according to an established format which, at a minimum, shall separate privileged from public information. (6) Access to information. The administrator shall define clearly personnel who have access to inmate records. (7) Daily report. The administrator or designee shall maintain a daily report and provide a copy of it to the appropriate court(s). The daily report shall identify: (i) the names of inmates in custody, including inmates on temporary release or in other locations; (ii) names of inmates admitted and released; (iii) the legal status of each inmate; and (iv) the number of days each inmate has been in custody. (8) Identification and location record. The facility shall maintain a system that identifies all inmates in custody and their actual physical location. (9) Custody record. The facility shall maintain custody records of all inmates held at the facility. The record shall include, but not be limited to: (i) initial booking form; (ii) documented legal authority to detain the inmate; (iii) health and suicide screening forms; (iv) dates of court appearances; (v) signed release of information forms; (vi) an on-going record of cash and valuables; (vii) dates and times of temporary releases; (viii) names of visitors and dates of visits; (ix) facility rules and disciplinary policy signed by the inmate; (x) classification interview and subsequent classification actions; (xi) reports of major disciplinary actions, significant incidents or crimes committed while in custody; (xii) records of program participation including work release or inmate work programs; (xiii) good time accumulated (if applicable); and (xiv) final release or transfer report. (10) Booking information. The administrator or designee shall record booking information for every person admitted to the facility. The record shall include at least the following data: (i) booking number; (ii) name and known aliases; (iii) current or last known address; (iv) date and time of confinement; (v) a copy of the court order or other legal basis for detention; (vi) name, title, agency and signature of arresting officer; (vii) charge or charges; (viii) date and place of birth; (ix) ethnic origin or tribal affiliation; (x) present or last place of employment; (xi) emergency contact name, relationship, address and phone number; (xii) record of telephone calls made by arrestee at time of admission; (xiii) driver's license and social security number; (xiv) identifying information, including height, weight, gender and identifying marks, such as birthmarks, scars or tattoos; (xv) photograph and fingerprints (optional);
