FR940805-1-00064 FR940805-1-00013 (5) Heating and cooling. Temperatures shall be appropriate to the summer and winter comfort zones. (d) Security_ (1) Control center. The facility shall maintain a secure control center, which has a system for immediate communication with the inmate living areas. The control center shall monitor and coordinate the facility's security, life safety and communications systems. (2) Perimeter security. The perimeter shall be secured in a way that inmates remain in the perimeter and that access by the general public is denied without proper authorization. There shall be security doors between inmate areas and areas to which the public has access. (3) Security equipment storage. The facility shall provide space for the secure storage of chemical agents, restraining devices and related security equipment. The equipment shall be located outside inmate living and activity areas in a place that is readily accessible to authorized persons only. The facility shall store firearms in a secure area or cabinet outside the security perimeter of the facility in a place that is accessible only to authorized persons. (4) Emergency exits. In compliance with 29 CFR 1910.37, designated exits in the facility shall permit prompt evacuation of inmates and staff members in an emergency. Facility exits shall be properly positioned, clear and distinctly and permanently marked. (5) Protective Holding Cells. Other than as indicated in the mass arrest policy, single and multiple occupancy protective holding cells shall hold no more than eight persons and shall be used only for the temporary holding of persons during the booking process for periods of up to eight hours. Each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) sixty square feet of floor space; (ii) toilet facilities that are located above floor level, provide some degree of privacy and are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iii) hot and cold running water; and (iv) a bed or fixed bench at or above floor level. (6) Emergency equipment. The facility shall have the equipment necessary to maintain essential lights, power, ventilation, power-operated doors or locks and communication in an emergency. (7) Visual surveillance equipment. When visual electronic surveillance is used, it shall be located primarily in hallways, elevators, corridors, or at points on the security perimeter such as entrances and exits. (e) New facility planning process_ (1) New facility planning requirement. All new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall follow the Planning of New Institutions (PONI) process as required by 25 CFR Part 296. (2) Safety management review. The design and specifications for all new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall be reviewed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in compliance with 29 CFR 1960, Subparts B through D. (f) New construction, renovation and expansion_ (1) Single occupancy requirements (general population). Only one inmate shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy. All general population single rooms or cells shall have at least sixty square feet of floor space, provided inmates spend no more than ten hours per day locked in. When confinement exceeds ten hours per day, there shall be at least seventy square feet of floor space. In general population, each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iii) a wash basin with hot and cold running water; (iv) access to showers; and (v) a bed above floor level, a desk or writing surface, safety-type hooks or closet space, and a chair or stool. (2) Single occupancy requirements (special management). Only one inmate shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy. The facility shall provide single cell occupancy for special management classifications and other classifications as defined and justified in the PONI program. At least one special management cell shall be vented directly to the exterior. In special management, segregation rooms shall provide living conditions that approximate those of the general inmate population. All exceptions shall be clearly documented. Each special management room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) a minimum of seventy square feet of floor space; (iii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and that are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iv) access to showers; (v) hot and cold running water; and (vi) a bed at or above floor level, a desk or writing surface, and a stool. (3) Multiple occupancy requirements. Where used, multiple occupancy rooms or cells shall house inmates, who have been screened for suitability to group living and classified accordingly. The rooms shall provide: (i) continuous observation by staff; (ii) a minimum of fifty square feet of floor space per occupant in the sleeping area and a clear floor-to-ceiling height of not less than eight feet; (iii) natural light; (iv) a toilet(s) with some degree of privacy; (v) an operable wash basin(s) with hot and cold running water; (vi) access to showers; and (vii) beds above floor level and a locker or container for each occupant's belongings. (4) Space, furnishings and conditions for dayrooms. The facility shall provide separate dayroom space for each cellblock or detention room cluster. The dayroom shall provide: (i) natural light; (ii) a minimum of thirty-five square feet of space per inmate exclusive of lavatories;
