FR940725-1-00078 FR940725-1-00010 * * * * * (c) There must be no excessive decrease in the gradient of the curve of stick force versus maneuvering load factor with increasing load factor. 29. Section 23.157 is amended by revising paragraph (d) to read as follows: §23.157 Rate of roll. * * * * * (d) The requirement of paragraph (c) of this section must be met when rolling the airplane in each direction in the following conditions_ (1) Flaps in the landing position(s); (2) Land gear extended; (3) All engines operating at the power for a 3 degree approach; and (4) The airplane trimmed at V REF . 30. Section 23.161 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b)(1), (b)(2), (c), the introductory text of paragraph (d), and (d)(4), and by adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: §23.161 Trim. (a) General . Each airplane must meet the trim requirements of this section after being trimmed and without further pressure upon, or movement of, the primary controls or their corresponding trim controls by the pilot or the automatic pilot. In addition, it must be possible, in other conditions of loading, configuration, speed and power to ensure that the pilot will not be unduly fatigued or distracted by the need to apply residual control forces exceeding those for prolonged application of §23.143(c). This applies in normal operation of the airplane and, if applicable, to those conditions associated with the failure of one engine for which performance characteristics are established. (b)␣*␣*␣* (1) For normal, utility, and acrobatic category airplanes, at a speed of 0.9 V H , V C , or V MO /M MO , whichever is lowest; and (2) For the commuter category airplanes, at all speeds from 1.4 V S1 to the lesser of V H or V MO /M MO . (c) Longitudinal trim. The airplane must maintain longitudinal trim under each of the following conditions: (1) A climb with_ (i) Takeoff power, landing gear retracted, wing flaps in the takeoff position(s), at the speeds used in determining the climb performance required by §23.65; and (ii) Maximum continuous power at the speeds and in the configuration used in determining the climb performance required by §23.69(a). (2) Level flight at all speeds from the lesser of V H and either V NO or V MO /M MO (as appropriate), to 1.4 V S1 , with the landing gear and flaps retracted. (3) A descent at V NO or V MO /M MO , whichever is applicable, with power off and with the landing gear and flaps retracted. (4) Approach with landing gear extended and with_ (i) A 3 degree angle of descent, with flaps retracted and at a speed of 1.4 V S1 ; (ii) A 3 degree angle of descent, flaps in the landing position(s) at V REF ; and (iii) An approach gradient equal to the steepest used in the landing distance demonstrations of §23.75, flaps in the landing position(s) at V REF . (d) In addition, each multiengine airplane must maintain longitudinal and directional trim, and the lateral control force must not exceed 5 pounds at the speed used in complying with §23.67(a), (b)(2), or (c)(3), as appropriate, with_ * * * * * (4) Wing flaps retracted; and * * * * * (e) In addition, each commuter category airplane for which, in the determine of the takeoff path in accordance with §23.57, the climb in the takeoff configuration at V 2 extends beyond 400 feet above the takeoff surface, it must be possible to reduce the longitudinal and lateral control forces to 10 pounds and 5 pounds, respectively, and the directional control force must not exceed 50 pounds at V 2 with_ (1) The critical engine inoperative and its propeller in the minimum drag position; (2) The remaining engine(s) at takeoff power; (3) Landing gear retracted; (4) Wing flaps in the takeoff position(s); and (5) An angle of bank not exceeding 5 degrees.
