FR941025-0-00005 FR941025-0-00002 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Part 220 [Regulation T; Docket No. 0840] Credit by Brokers and Dealers AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Board is adopting amendments to Regulation T. The amendments are part of the Board's review of Regulation T and respond to rulemaking by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) concerning settlement of securities transactions and Congressional action concerning government securities. The proposed amendments were published for public comment in the Federal Register on July 1, 1994. The amendments address two general areas: payment periods for securities purchases and transactions in government securities. The amendments concerning payment periods will reduce by two days the amount of time customers have to meet initial margin calls or make full cash payment for securities at the same time the SEC reduces the standard settlement period by two days, require broker-dealers seeking an extension of this time period to obtain the extension from their designated examining authority if the balance due is $1000 or more, and revise regulatory language in the cash account so that the time periods within which extensions must be obtained and when the ``90-day freeze'' may be lifted are consistent for certain transactions in which settlement exceeds the standard settlement period. The amendments concerning transactions in government securities will exempt from Regulation T those broker-dealers registered with the SEC solely as government securities brokers or dealers and create a new account for customers of general broker-dealers that permits transactions in government securities to be effected without regard to other provisions of the regulation. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 25, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Scott Holz, Senior Attorney or Angela Desmond, Senior Attorney, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation (202) 452&hyph;2781; for the hearing impaired only, Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD), Dorothea Thompson (202) 452&hyph;3544. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed amendments are part of the Board's general review of Regulation T (Docket R&hyph;0772) and were published for public comment on July 1, 1994 (59 FR 33923). Twenty-two comments have been received. The comments on the proposed amendments concerning transactions in government securities were supported by all commenters, although some asked for additional amendments. The comments concerning the proposed reduction in payment periods were mixed, with some commenters in favor, some opposed, and some requesting a delay in the amendments' effectiveness. The related payment period issues were generally supported by the commenters, with the exception of the requirement that extensions be obtained solely from the broker-dealer's examining authority and the use of language that will automatically reduce the payment periods if the standard settlement cycle is reduced. Comments on these issues were also mixed. The Board is adopting the proposed amendments substantially as proposed. Technical changes have been made in the regulatory language and structure to respond to comments and clarify the intent of the amendments. The two general areas are discussed below. I. Payment Periods A. T+3 and Shortening of Payment Periods 1. Introduction. On October 6, 1993, the SEC adopted Rule 15c6&hyph;1, 1 which establishes a standard three business day settlement cycle for most securities transactions in the United States, effective June 1, 1995. Regular settlement is presently effected in five business days. This new standard is often referred to as ``T+3,'' meaning regular settlement will occur three business days after trade date. Regulation T contains a seven day time period within which brokers must obtain cash or margin deposits from their customers. The seven day payment period in Regulation T is based on the current five day settlement period. 1 17 CFR 240.15c6&hyph;1; 58 FR 52891 (October 13, 1993). The Board proposed shortening the payment period in Regulation T by the same amount of time that SEC Rule 15c6&hyph;1 shortens the standard settlement cycle. Instead of changing the phrase ``seven business days'' to ``five business days,'' the proposal defined a new term, ``payment period,'' to represent the number of days in the standard settlement cycle plus two business days. This formulation allows the regulation to be amended immediately without changing the current payment period. Once SEC Rule 15c6&hyph;1 becomes effective next June, the regulation will automatically require payment within five business days. Although the definition of payment period refers to settlement date, Regulation T remains a trade date based regulation. The use of the phrase ``payment period'' is meant to be an alternate way of requiring payment within seven business days until June 1995 and five business days thereafter, unless the SEC acts to further change the standard settlement cycle. Future changes by the SEC would be automatically incorporated in the Board's rule without the necessity of further amendment.
