FR940414-1-00035 FR940414-1-00010 • Subcategory C: Pesticide Chemicals Formulating, Packaging and Repackaging. • Subcategory E: Repackaging of Agricultural Pesticides Performed by Refilling Establishments Whose Principal Business is Retail Sales EPA has already issued final effluent guidelines limitations and standards for the manufacturing of pesticide active ingredients covered by subcategories A and B and BPT effluent limitations guidelines for subcategory C (as previously mentioned). Subpart D contains the analytical methods promulgated as part of the September 28, 1993, rulemaking. In today's notice, EPA is proposing to expand water pollution control requirements for the pesticide formulating and packaging subcategory. Effluent limitations for BAT, BCT and NSPS are proposed to be equivalent to BPT limitations previously established in regulations which are based on zero discharge. EPA is also proposing to establish PSES and PSNS for this subcategory. All formulating packaging and repackaging waste streams would be covered by the regulations except for certain waste streams from a subgroup of facilities that process products containing sanitizer chemicals, as defined in the regulations. EPA is also proposing limitations for BPT, BCT, BAT limitations and NSPS as well as PSES and PSNS, for the repackaging performed by refilling establishments as a new subcategory. III. Summary of Proposed Regulations A. BPT The BPT regulation promulgated in 1978 under subpart C of part 455 prohibits the discharge of process wastewater pollutants generated from formulating and packaging pesticide products. This regulation is not being changed. BPT regulations for subpart E, a new subcategory, are proposed. The new subcategory applies to repackaging agricultural pesticides when performed by refilling establishments whose principal business is retail sale. The proposed BPT for this subcategory would require that there be zero discharge of process wastewater pollutants. B. BCT EPA is proposing to establish BCT limitations equivalent to BPT limitations for both subcategories. C. BAT EPA is proposing to establish BAT limitations equivalent to BPT limitations for both subcategories. D. NSPS EPA is proposing to establish NSPS equivalent to BAT limitations for both subcategories. E. PSES EPA is proposing to establish PSES equivalent to BAT limitations (i.e., zero discharge) for both subcategories, except that a separate provision is proposed for subcategory C facilities that formulate, package or repackage sanitizer pesticides as listed in Table 8 to the proposed regulation. This separate provision requires zero discharge of process wastewater pollutants from only the ``interior'' wastestreams at these facilities as discussed in Section XII of this preamble. F. PSNS EPA is proposing to establish PSNS equivalent to NSPS for both subcategories. IV. Overview of the Industry A. Industry Description The industry as a whole is referred to as the pesticide formulating, packaging and repackaging industry. The subcategories are referred to as: •PFPR or subcategory C for the pesticides chemicals formulating, packaging and repackaging subcategory, (including sanitizer pesticides formulating, packaging and repackaging); and •Refilling establishments, or subcategory E for the repackaging at refilling establishments whose principal business is retail sale. The pesticide formulating, packaging and repackaging industry is made up of an estimated 5,200 facilities per EPA's data base generated through the annual reports submitted by pesticide producing establishments. These facilities are located throughout the country, with greater concentrations of refilling establishments located in the midwestern and southeastern states to serve the agricultural market. Approximately 3,240 of these facilities are represented by the data base for this rulemaking, which was developed primarily based on 272 pesticide active ingredients covered by the manufacturing rule.
