FR941202-2-00095 FR941202-2-00064 [Release No. 34&hyph;35007; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;46] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to a Post Primary Trading Session November 25, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on October 3, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On November 25, 1994, the Phlx filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change, as amended, from interested persons. 1 See letter from Gerald O'Connell, First Vice President, Phlx, to Glen Barrentine, Senior Counsel, Commission, dated November 23, 1994. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx, pursuant to rule 19b&hyph;4 of the Act, proposes to extend the close of trading on the Exchange's equity trading floor from 4:00 to 4:15 P.M., creating a new Post Primary session (``PPS''). The PPS would take place each trading day from 4:00 to 4:15 P.M. Exchange rules applicable to floor trading during the Exchange's regular trading hours ( i.e. , 9:30 a.m.&hyph;4:00 p.m.) would continue to apply to floor trading during the PPS, except that during the PPS, orders that are designated ``PPS'' are eligible for execution. Accordingly, the Exchange proposes to amend the following Phlx rules: Rule 101, adding Commentary .02 to specify equity floor trading hours; Rule 229, Commentary .17, adding reference to implementing the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Automated Communication and Execution System (``PACE'') as a routing system only, with Floor Procedure Committee approval; Rule 232 to add the PPS as well as opening before the primary market; and Equity Floor Procedure Advice EF&hyph;1, which provides the procedures for the designation and execution of orders in instances where the primary market is not open in an issue for which the Phlx is open, to change the eligibility designation from use of the yellow copy of the order ticket to the designator ``EXP'' and to make several clarifications. The text of the proposed rule change is available in full at the Commission Public Reference Room. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose
