FR940203-1-00054 FR940203-1-00011 The CASAC held a public meeting in 1988 to review a draft Supplement and the third draft Staff Paper. Major issues included: The definition of adverse health effects of O 3 ; the significance of health studies suggesting that exercising individuals exposed for 6 to 8 hours to O 3 levels at or below 0.12 ppm may experience lung inflammation and transient decreases in pulmonary function; the possibility that chronic irreversible effects may result from long-term exposures to elevated levels of O 3 ; and, the importance of analyses indicating that agricultural crop damage may be better defined by a cumulative seasonal average than by a 1-hour peak level of O 3 . In its ``closure letter'' of 1989, the CASAC indicated that the draft Supplement and draft Staff Paper ``provide an adequate scientific basis for the EPA to retain or revise primary and secondary standards for ozone.'' On October 22, 1991, the American Lung Association and other plaintiffs filed suit under section 304 of the Act to compel the EPA to complete its review of the criteria and standards for O 3 under section 109(d)(1) of the Act [ American Lung Association v. Reilly, No. 91&hyph;cv&hyph;4114 (JRB) (E.D.N.Y.)]. The U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York subsequently issued an order requiring the EPA to sign a Federal Register notice announcing its proposed decision on whether to revise the standards for O 3 by August 1, 1992 and to sign a Federal Register notice announcing its final decision by March 1, 1993. On August 10, 1992 (57 FR 35542), the EPA published a proposed decision under section 109(d)(1) that revisions to the existing primary and secondary standards were not appropriate at that time. The notice explained in some detail (see 57 FR 35546) that the proposed decision would complete the EPA's review of information on health and welfare effects of O 3 assembled over a 7-year period and contained in the 1986 Criteria Document and the 1989 Supplement. The notice made clear that the Administrator did not take into account more recent studies on the health and welfare effects of O 3 because these studies had not been assessed in the 1986&hyph;1989 Criteria Document/Supplement, nor had they collectively undergone the rigorous, integrative review process (including CASAC review) required to incorporate them into a new criteria document. The proposed decision, therefore, was based on an evaluation of key studies published through early 1989 as contained in the 1986&hyph;89 Criteria Document/Supplement, the 1989 Staff Paper assessment of the most relevant information in these documents, and the advice and recommendations of the CASAC as presented both in the discussion of these documents at public meetings and in the CASAC's 1986 and 1989 ``closure letters.'' In view of the large number of recent scientific papers and ongoing research on the health and welfare effects of O 3 , the August 10, 1992 notice also announced the EPA's intention to proceed as rapidly as possible with the next review of the air quality criteria and standards for O 3 . On March 9, 1993 (58 FR 13008) the EPA published its final decision not to revise the current primary and secondary NAAQS for O 3 . Because of the scientific and technical complexity of such assessments, the EPA had estimated that 2 to 3 years would be necessary to rigorously assess more than 1,000 new studies and incorporate key information into a revised criteria document, to evaluate the significance of the key information for decision-making purposes, to develop staff recommendations for the Administrator, and to provide appropriate opportunities for CASAC review and public comment. Given the potential importance of the new studies and the EPA's continuing concern about the health and welfare effects of O 3 , the March 9, 1993 notice also indicated the Administrator's intention to move the review process ahead as quickly as possible and, if appropriate, to propose revisions of the standards at the earliest possible date. Current Review Process/Schedule Following publication of the March 9, 1993 decision, the Agency, in consultation with the CASAC and the Science Advisory Board, undertook a rigorous examination of the NAAQS review process designed to identify all measures that could be taken to accelerate its review of the criteria and standards for O 3 consistent with assuring a sound and scientifically-credible decision. As a result, the EPA has adopted a number of measures intended to accelerate the O 3 NAAQS review. These measures include: (1) Conducting review and revision of the Criteria Document and development of the Staff Paper and associated analyses (e.g., exposure analysis and health risk assessments) in a more concurrent fashion than in the previous NAAQS reviews; (2) adhering to strict schedules for external review of Criteria Document and Staff Paper drafts consistent with a full opportunity for thorough scientific and public review; (3) establishing a highly-expedited Agency review process with senior level management oversight and involvement throughout the process, as well as early discussion of possible options with other Federal agencies, including the Office of Management and Budget; and (4) reducing the volume of information included in the revised Criteria Document by focusing on the most important new studies and setting a date beyond which new studies will not be included. The EPA's current O 3 NAAQS review schedule incorporates the measures cited above. The Agency's target date for completion of the Criteria Document and Staff Paper is mid-1995, with proposal of changes to the O 3 NAAQS, if appropriate, in mid-1996 and promulgation in mid-1997. Table 1 outlines key milestone dates for this accelerated schedule. As indicated in Table 1, there are a number of opportunities for public comment throughout the process. The EPA encourages involvement of interested parties and is providing this advance notice to alert potential participants in the review that adhering to the schedule will require some departures from past practices.
