FR940512-2-00047 FR940512-2-00035 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration for Children and Families Agency Information Collection Under OMB Review Under the provisions of the Federal Paperwork Reduction Act of 1981 (44 U.S.C. chapter 35), the Administration for Children and Families (ACF) is requesting clearance for instruments to implement Executive Order 12862 within the Administration for children and Families (ACF). The purpose of the data collection is to obtain customer satisfaction information from those entities who are funded to be our partners in the delivery of services to the American public. ACF partners are those entities that receive funding to deliver services or assistance from ACF programs. Examples of partners are States and local governments, the territories, service providers, Indian Tribes and tribal organizations, grantees, researchers, or other intermediaries serving target populations identified by and funded directly or indirectly by ACF. The surveys will obtain information about how well ACF is meeting the needs of our partners in operating the ACF programs. ADDRESSES: Copies of the information collection may be obtained from Edward E. Saunders of the Office of Information Systems Management, ACF, by calling (202) 205&hyph;7921. Written comments and questions regarding this information collection should be sent directly to: Laura Oliven, OMB Desk Officer for ACF, OMB Reports Management Branch, New Executive Office Building, room 3002, 725 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20503, (202) 395&hyph;7316. Information on Document Title: Voluntary Surveys of ACF Program Partners to Implement Executive Order 12862. OMB No.: New Request. Description: Executive Order 12862 directs agencies that provide significant services directly to the public to survey customers to determine the kind and quality of services they want and their level of satisfaction with existing services. This request is for the generic clearance for the Administration for Children and Families to implement Executive Order 12864 within the agency in relation to the satisfaction of those entities who are funded to be our partners in the delivery of services to the American public. ACF's partners are those entities that receive services or assistance directly from ACF programs such as State and local governments, the territories, the District of Columbia, Indian Tribes and tribal organizations, grantees, service providers, researchers, and significant other intermediaries serving target populations identified by and funded directly or indirectly by ACF. ACF will conduct voluntary confidential surveys of our partners to identify strengths and weakness in the administrative management of ACF programs and to determine how we can better serve our partners so together we can better serve the American public. The generic surveys of our partners will provide descriptive and statistical information on ACF programs across at-least twelve (12) major domains: Welfare, child support enforcement, vulnerable youth, day care, employment training, Head Start, emergency assistance, family violence, foster care, adoption assistance, services to special populations, and refugee resettlement. For each domain, ACF intends to use information provided by out partners to determine the kind and quality of services they want and expect, their level of satisfaction with existing services an to implement improvements where feasible and practical. The voluntary partnership surveys will focus only on issues of direct concern to our partners regarding their relationship and opinions on the level of efficiency and quality of services provided by ACF. These concerns may include: Partnership arrangements in policy formulation and implantation of program strategies, considerations of Federal, State and local administrative management practices in policy formulation, appropriateness and timeliness of decisionsmaking, timeliness of funding allocations and grant awards, utility of information collection, efficacy of information sharing, the elimination of inoperable internal rules and guidelines, courtesy and cooperation of federal staffs with out partners, assessing the effectiveness of technical assistance provided and the need for additional technical assistance, adequacy of problem resolutions, multi-cultural sensitivity in the decision-making process, and the attainment of goals and outcomes that can be used to measure the efficiency and cost effectiveness of ACF programs in meeting the needs of children, youth and families at the ACF level. Estimate of the Burden of Collection of Information Estimates of response burden are outlined in the following tables: ␣ 1␣ 1Annual number respondents 1Average annual frequency 1Average burden per response 1Annual burden hours States gov'ts 51 10 1 hour 510 The above figures are based on an estimate of approximately one (1) hour per response to respond and submit the information. The 51 respondents include the 50 States and the District of Columbia. The figure in the annual burden hours column takes into account State supervised, county administered (State supervised), and State administered programs where the county must submit data to the State prior to its aggregation and submission to the Administration for Children and Families. We propose to select approximately 10 States per year. The ten (10) States will represent both large and small States and county and State administered units.
