FR941220-1-00026 FR941220-1-00009 List of Tables Table 1_Proposed MCLG, BAT and Analytical Methods Table 2_Compliance Monitoring Requirements Table 3_Annual Costs of Proposed 1412 BAT Table 4_Proposed Analytical Methods for Sulfate Table 5_Proposed Methodology and Detection Limits for Sulfate Table 6_Sulfate Sample Preservation, Container, and Holding Time Requirements Table 7_Number of Systems Expected to Exceed 500 mg/L Table 8_National Annual Sulfate Costs For Options 1&hyph;4 Table 9_Average Annualized Costs for Households Table 10_Assumptions Made in Estimating Benefits Table 11_Annual Burden Hours I. Summary of Today's Action Today the Agency is proposing an MCLG of 500 mg/L, an MCL of 500 mg/L, and other NPDWR requirements for sulfate. Sulfate is a unique contaminant for several reasons. The health effect associated with the ingestion of relatively high levels of sulfate in drinking water (i.e., ranging from loose stools to diarrhea) is acute and temporary, and is expected to last approximately two weeks. In addition, the health risk only applies to persons not already acclimated to high sulfate-containing water: infants, travelers, and new residents. (For the purposes of this rule, infants are defined as children up to the age of 12 months.) Today's proposed rule is also unique because it affects all public water systems, that is, community water systems, traveler non-community water systems, and non-transient, non-community water systems. In the past, only regulations on microbial contaminants and nitrate have affected transient, non-community systems. EPA decided to defer promulgation of a sulfate standard, originally proposed July 25, 1990 (55 FR 30370) in order to identify an implementation approach which was tailored to the target populations. The approach EPA developed, working in cooperation with several States at a 1992 meeting, is innovative, and was designed specifically to provide flexibility to smaller systems. This approach could reduce compliance costs while still providing adequate protection of public health. It provides public water systems a means of compliance which is less expensive than central treatment, and it affords States flexibility in implementing the rule. Under this approach, the State would have the authority to allow the public water system (PWS), as one means of compliance with the sulfate MCL, to provide ``Alternative Water'' and public education/notification to the targeted, sensitive population. A PWS authorized to comply under this option would choose to supply customers with ``Alternative Water'', defined as either bottled water which has been monitored or certified to be in compliance with all EPA MCLs, or water treated by point-of-use (POU) or point-of-entry (POE) devices. In the interest of reducing costs and maximizing flexibility, the proposal allows for unique means of compliance. Four options are being proposed for public comment. The lead option requires provision of alternative water to both transient adults (travelers and new residents) and infants. Two variations of the lead option require provision of alternative water to infants only. These two options differ only in the content of the public notification. In one case, only infants are considered at risk, and temporary diarrhea is considered as only an inconvenience for adults. In the other, both adults and infants are considered at risk, but public notification is deemed sufficient protection for adults. Because the lead option and its two variations represent a significant change in regulatory approach, EPA considered another, more conventional option. This fourth option would enable systems to seek a variance from the sulfate MCL. As a condition of receiving a variance, systems would be required to provide alternative water to their target populations, just as in the lead option. The only difference is that the relief for small systems would be provided through a different statutory mechanism. The Agency also considered limiting compliance to central treatment, which would be consistent with the approach for other contaminants, but which would not provide flexibility for smaller systems. The Agency expects that approximately 1,500 of the 2,000 affected systems would choose the lead option (Option 1) if it were available to them. The annual cost to those systems is estimated to be $7 million. The Agency has conservatively assumed that the remaining 500 systems would choose central treatment or regionalization in spite of the availability of Option 1. The cost to those systems is estimated to be $71 million. Total national cost of Option 1, including $8 million for State implementation and monitoring costs, is $86 million. If central treatment were the only means of compliance with the sulfate rule, the annual national cost would be $147 million (household costs ranging from $244 to $811). Household costs for Option 1 range from $106 to $287 per year, but this is an average of all households in all systems, including those choosing central treatment. In an effort to reduce the cost of this rule even further, the Agency is giving serious consideration to variations of Option 1. These variations, described as Options 2 and 3, would require public notification/education, but would only require the provision of bottled water which complies with EPA MCLs to infants. The difference between Options 2 and 3 is that Option 2 would target only infants as being at risk from an adverse effect, and Option 3 would target both adults and infants, but would propose that public notification/education is sufficient protection for adults. The Agency sees advantages and disadvantages to these alternative options, which are discussed later in this notice. The cost for either option would be $16 million, which includes $8 million for State implementation and monitoring costs. Household costs for these two options would be from $2 to $145 per year. EPA also considered Option 4, which would achieve the same result as Option 1, but with different administrative procedures involving a variance from the sulfate MCL. Under Option 4, the regulation would specify that the conditions for States to grant a variance from the sulfate MCL would include the same elements described for Option 1, namely public notification/education and Alternative Water provisions. These elements would be defined as BAT only for the purposes of Section 1415 of the SDWA. The Agency believes that the unique nature of the sulfate health effect warrants a more flexible perspective on the implementation of the Act. The Agency recognizes that while the transitory nature of the diarrhetic effect of high-sulfate water may be uncomfortable and inconvenient for healthy adults, the potential risk to infants of diarrhea, as well as the dehydration and electrolyte imbalance which may be associated with it, are significant and potentially fatal if untreated. Table 1._ Proposed MCLG and MCL for Sulfate 1␣ 1␣ Inorganic Contaminant Sulfate Proposed MCLG 500 mg/L1 Proposed MCL 500 mg/L Best Available Technologies Reverse Osmosis (RO) ␣ Ion Exchange2 (IE) ␣ Electrodialysis (ED) Analytical Methods3 Colorimetry ␣ Gravimetry ␣ Ion Chromatography 1An alternative MCLG/MCL option of 400 mg/L was proposed in the July 25, 1990 notice but is not proposed here. 2For those systems with other anions that need to be removed (such as nitrate), the removal efficiency will decrease for those anions since sulfate binds more strongly to the exchange resin than other anions. 3Acceptance limits= # 15% at ≥10 mg/L.
