FR940722-0-00110 FR940722-0-00019 84. With regard to petitions to deny, we adopt expedited procedures consistent with the provisions of Section 309(i)(2) of the Communications Act to resolve substantial and material issues of fact concerning qualifications. 57 This provision requires us to entertain petitions to deny the application of the auction winner if petitions to deny are otherwise provided for under the Communications Act or our Rules. 57 The adoption of such procedures is necessary because Section 309(j)(5) of the Communications Act forbids the granting of licenses through competitive bidding unless the Commission determines that the applicant is qualified. 85. As we indicated in the Second Report and Order, the Commission need not conduct a hearing before denying an application if it determines that an applicant is not qualified and no substantial issue of fact exists concerning that determination. See Second Report and Order at ¶202. In the event that the Commission identifies substantial and material issues of fact in need of resolution, Section 309(i)(2) of the Communications Act permits in any hearing the submission of all or part of evidence in written form and allows employees other than administrative law judges to preside over the taking of written evidence. We will incorporate these principles into our broadband PCS procedural rules. D. Procedures in Alternative Auction Design 86. If we decide to employ a sequential auction design (using either oral or electronic bid submission), the same general rules and procedures described above will be used with certain modifications to fit the oral or electronic auction format. In the case of oral auctions, bidders would be required to follow the procedures described above, including the submission of the standard upfront payment of $0.02 per MHz-pop prior to the auction. Applicants would submit a sufficient upfront payment to cover the total number of MHz-pops they desire to win. Once a bidder has won the maximum number of MHz-pops covered by its upfront payment, that bidder will be precluded from further bidding in the auction. 58 Immediately after bidding closes on a license, the winning bidder ( i.e., the high bidder on a license on which bidding has closed) will be asked to sign a bid confirmation form. No other license will be put up for bid until a bid confirmation form is signed by a high bidder on the previous license. 59 Because we recognize that in an oral auction the chances of a bidder accidentally placing a high bid are greater than in other auction methods, and because the harm will be limited if the license is immediately re-offered, we will not impose a penalty on a high bidder who withdraws a high bid by refusing to sign the bid confirmation form. Thus, in an sequential oral auction in which a high bidder declines to sign the bid confirmation form, the license will be immediately put up for bid again. If, however, a high bidder signs a bid confirmation form but subsequently fails to submit the 20 percent down payment or otherwise defaults, the standard default penalties (described supra ) will apply. 60 58 This is similar to the procedure adopted in the Fourth Report and Order for the oral auctioning of IVDS licenses. See Fourth Report and Order in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, 9 FCC Rcd 2330, 59 FR 24947, May 13, 1994. 59 If we use single combined bidding, described supra, no other licenses will be put up for bid until a bid confirmation form is signed for each license put up for bid together in a combined auction. 60 See 47 CFR §§1.2104 and 1.2109. 87. If we decide to use sequential electronic bidding, bidders would again follow the general procedures described above including the submission of the standard upfront payment amount of $0.02 per MHz per pop prior to the auction. Applicants would submit a sufficient upfront payment to cover the total number of MHz-pops they desire to win. An applicant will not be eligible to bid on a license for which it has not applied or which contains more MHz-pops than the total MHz-pops covered by the bidder's upfront payment less any MHz-pops already won by that bidder. Once a bidder has won licenses representing the maximum number of MHz-pops reflected in its upfront payment, that bidder will be precluded from further bidding in the auction. Each bidder's eligibility will be computed and tracked by the auction software and bids placed by ineligible bidders will not be accepted. After the auctioneer declares bidding on a license closed and the high bidder has been notified, that bidder will be asked to confirm its high bid. If the high bidder in a sequential electronic auction declines to confirm its high bid, the license will be immediately re-auctioned and no penalty will be imposed. No other licenses will be put up for bid until a bid confirmation form is signed by a high bidder on the previous license. 61 As with sequential oral auctions, if a high bidder signs a bid confirmation form but subsequently fails to submit the 20 percent down payment or otherwise defaults, the standard default penalties (described supra ) will apply. 61 See also n. 59, supra. VI. Regulatory Safeguards A. Transfer Disclosure Requirements 88. In Section 309(j), Congress directed the Commission to ``require such transfer disclosures and anti-trafficking restrictions and payment schedules as may be necessary to prevent unjust enrichment as a result of the methods employed to issue licenses and permits.'' 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(4)(E). In the Second Report and Order, the Commission adopted safeguards designed to ensure that the requirements of Section 309(j)(4)(E) are satisfied. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶210&hyph;226 and 258&hyph;265. 89. In the Second Report and Order (at ¶214), we stated our belief that it is important to monitor transfers of licenses awarded by competitive bidding in order to accumulate the data necessary to evaluate our auction designs and to judge whether ``licenses [have been] issued for bids that fall short of the true market value of the license.'' H.R. Rep. No. 103&hyph;111 at 257. Therefore, we imposed a transfer disclosure requirement on licenses obtained through the competitive bidding process, whether by a designated entity or not. See 47 CFR §1.2111(a). We believe that the transfer disclosure requirements contained in Section 1.2111(a) of the Commission's Rules should apply to all broadband PCS licenses obtained through the competitive bidding process. Generally, licensees transferring their licenses within three years after the initial license grant will be required to file, together with their transfer applications, the associated contracts for sale, option agreements, management agreements, and all other documents disclosing the total consideration received in return for the transfer of its license. As we indicated in the Second Report and Order, we will give particular scrutiny to auction winners who have not yet begun commercial service and who seek approval for a transfer of control or assignment of their licenses within three years after the initial license grant, in order to determine if any unforeseen problems relating to unjust enrichment have arisen outside the designated entity context. See Second Report and Order at ¶214. 62 62 We note that these transfer disclosure provisions are in addition to the limitations on transfers that we have adopted in the Broadband PCS Reconsideration Order (with respect to spectrum disaggregation) or elsewhere in this Order (with respect to transfers of licenses in the entrepreneurs' block).
