FR940419-0-00024 FR940419-0-00007 1. The authority citation for 24 CFR part 941 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437b, 1437c, 1437g, and 3535(d). 2. In ยง941.206, paragraph (c) is revised to read as follows: ยง941.206 Eligible properties. * * * * * (c) Single family properties secured by an FHA-insured or HUD-held mortgage, or owned by HUD, the Veterans Administration (VA), or the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC). (1) Proposals for the acquisition of single family properties (with or without rehabilitation) that are secured by an FHA-insured or HUD-held mortgage or are owned by HUD, the Veterans Administration (VA), or the Resolution Trust Corporation (RTC), must be submitted to the Field Office for approval. The limited proposal procedure for scattered-site projects, as set forth at 24 CFR 941.404(n), may be followed to facilitate the PHA purchase for scattered-site projects of HUD/VA/RTC properties, any combination of such, and/or in combination with the purchase of eligible properties on the open market. (2) After approval of the limited proposal and execution of the ACC, Field Offices will determine the nature and scope of required technical reviews, taking into consideration the PHA submission identifying a property it wants to acquire that includes the proposed sales contract and PHA certifications that compliance with all necessary requirements will be met. If the PHA has provided the certifications as part of its limited proposal, the Field Office can, at its own discretion, accept all PHA certifications that required compliances will be met except the environmental assessment; by law, only HUD can certify compliance with 24 CFR part 50. The PHA certifications do not waive or dispense with the applicability of other Federal requirements pursuant to 24 CFR 941.202 through 941.209, but only serve to facilitate the approval process. These certifications shall address, but are not limited to: (i) Prevailing wages; (ii) Nondiscrimination requirements; (iii) Site and neighborhood standards; (iv) Intergovernmental review; (v) Accessibility requirements; (vi) Relocation requirements; (vii) Minimum Property Standards (MPS) or Housing Quality Standards (HQS); (viii) If replacement housing under section 18 is involved, that the housing to be acquired is consistent with the Replacement Housing Plan approved by HUD; (ix) Generally, properties constructed prior to 1978 should not be considered; however, if a proposed property was built prior to 1978, that lead-based paint testing and the determination of the cost feasibility of abatement will be done before the transfer to and payment of funds by the PHA or the contract is null and void; and (x) Any other Federal requirements listed under 24 CFR 941.202 through 941.209. (3) After receiving a PHA's submission in accordance with paragraph (c) (2) of this section, each Field Office will decide whether or not to require the review and approval of any further information, based on its consideration of the PHA's submission, the acquisition cost of the property, and the management and development capabilities of the PHA, including the PHA's performance rating, under the Public Housing Management Assessment Program (PHMAP) at 24 CFR part 901. (4) The Field Office will perform all necessary reviews to assure all compliance requirements are met. (5) Under this section, there is a target period of 50 days from the time the PHA indicates it wants to acquire a specific property and when the Field Office approves or rejects the request; after approval notification, the PHA has an additional 10 day target period in which to close on the property. Properties involving additional requirements, such as acquisition with extensive rehabilitation, lead-based paint testing and abatement, historic preservation requirements and/or an uncompleted environmental assessment, may require extension of the target date.
