FR940208-1-00069 FR940208-1-00012 Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 26␣/␣Tuesday, February 8, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Bureau of Prisons 28 CFR Part 551 RIN 1120&hyph;AA12 Control, Custody, Care, Treatment and Instruction of Inmates; Smoking/No Smoking Areas AGENCY: Bureau of Prisons, Justice. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: In this document, the Bureau of Prisons is proposing to revise and reorganize its regulations on Smoking/No Smoking Areas. As revised, designated smoking areas at the Bureau's medical referral centers and minimum security institutions ordinarily would be outside of buildings and away from entrances. Wardens at all low, medium, high, and administrative institutions other than medical referral centers may continue, but are not required, to designate indoor smoking areas in addition to outdoor smoking areas. This amendment is intended to provide for a clean air environment and to protect the health and safety of staff and inmates. DATES: Comments due by April 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, HOLC room 754, 320 First Street, NW., Washington, DC 20534. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roy Nanovic, Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, phone (202) 514&hyph;6655. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Bureau of Prisons is proposing to amend its regulations on Smoking/No Smoking Areas. A final rule on this subject was published in the Federal Register on November 16, 1989 (54 FR 47753). The Bureau of Prisons is committed to the creation of a clean air environment and to protect the health and safety of its staff and inmates by restricting areas in which a person is allowed to smoke. To achieve this purpose, the Bureau is proposing that ``smoking areas'' to be designated by Wardens at medical referral centers and at minimum security institutions shall ordinarily be outside of all buildings and away from all entrances so as not to expose others to second-hand smoke. Because inmates at minimum security institutions have ample access to designated outdoor smoking areas, the Bureau believes that the proposed change is a reasonable step towards a smoke free environment. Establishment of a smoke free environment at the Bureau's medical referral centers is proposed in accordance with guidelines from the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations. As for the remaining Bureau institutions, the proposed rule specifies that the Warden may, but is not required to, designate indoor smoking areas in addition to outdoor smoking areas. The Bureau believes that by allowing Wardens at these institutions this discretion, the Bureau will be able to more effectively assess the practicability of making further changes at higher security level institutions. In addition to the revisions described above, the Bureau has reorganized and revised its regulations on Smoking/No Smoking Areas for the sake of clarity and to avoid redundancy. For example, the current regulations contain cross references qualifying those locations where smoking ordinarily is not permitted. Because the Warden is responsible for designating smoking areas, ordinarily only where the needs of effective operations so require, the Bureau deems it unnecessary to list in its revised regulations specific locations which would still be subject to the Warden's discretion. The listing of these locations has therefore been removed from the regulation, but remains as guidance in implementing instructions to staff. The revised regulations also contain a nomenclature change in which the title ``Warden'' has been substituted for ``Chief Executive Officer''. The Bureau of Prisons has determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action for the purpose of E.O. 12866, and accordingly this rule was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. After review of the law and regulations, the Director, Bureau of Prisons has certified that this rule, for the purpose of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354), does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities.
