FR940406-2-00149 FR940406-2-00090 The Preservation Technical Assistance Grant program that is currently being administered by the Department, in accordance with a NOFA published on September 3, 1992, at 57 FR 40570 (as amended at 57 FR 56929 (December 1, 1992) and 58 FR 8766 (February 17, 1993)), will be terminated at intermediary selection. A portion of the unreserved funds from that earlier NOFA will be made available under this NOFA through the intermediaries. Grantees active under the September 3, 1992, NOFA will continue under that grant program unless they apply for and receive funds under this NOFA. The two forms of technical assistance grants that will be made available through intermediaries are Resident Capacity grants and Predevelopment grants. These are described in Appendix A to this NOFA. Of the $45 million available from FY 1993 and 1994 appropriations, $13.5 million is available for Resident Capacity grants and $31.5 million is available for Predevelopment grants. Of any additional funds made available under this program, 30 percent will be set aside for Resident Capacity grants and 70 percent for Predevelopment grants. The dollar amounts available to the individual resident and community organizations shall be limited to $30,000 for Resident Capacity grants and $200,000 for Predevelopment grants. The Predevelopment grants will be funded in at least two phases. The performance benchmarks for these phases will be negotiated between the Department and selected intermediaries prior to technical assistance application submission. III. Intermediaries A. Eligible Intermediaries (1) General Definition An eligible intermediary applicant is a local, State, regional, or national nonprofit or quasi-public organization or a State or local housing agency that has as a central purpose of its organization the preservation of low-income housing and the prevention of displacement of low- and moderate-income residents. An eligible intermediary must not receive direct Federal appropriations for operating support. All intermediaries must have a record of service to low-income individuals or community-based nonprofit housing developers in multiple communities, and must meet the standards of fiscal responsibilities established in OMB Circulars A&hyph;110 and A&hyph;122 or, if a State or local agency, 24 CFR 85 and OMB Circular 87. In addition, intermediaries must have experience with the allocation or administration of grant or loan funds. (Copies of OMB circulars are available from E.O.P. Publications, room 2200, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503, telephone (202) 395&hyph;7332. (This is not a toll-free number.) There is a limit of two free copies.) (2) Intermediary Categories (a) A national nonprofit applicant must also have been in existence for at least five years and be classified as an exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (b) A regional, State or local nonprofit applicant must also have been in existence for at least three years and either be classified as an exempt organization under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or be recognized otherwise as a tax-exempt entity. (c) A State or local agency. This category includes public housing agencies and State housing finance agencies. B. Fees Each selected intermediary will receive processing fees. The fees will include a start-up fee of $15,000 and an additional fee of five percent of each technical assistance grant the intermediary administers, which will be allocated as the grants are disbursed. These fees are based on the intermediary performing the following activities: Announcing the availability of grant funds; producing and distributing application kits; accepting, reviewing and approving and/or rejecting grant applications; executing grant agreements; disbursing grant funds; monitoring the grantees' activities under the grant award; monitoring compliance with the grant agreement through the term of the grant; and maintaining documentation of grant activities for the Department's monitoring of the intermediary. Intermediaries will be legally responsible to the Department for approving eligible applicants, activities, and budgets, and shall maintain all correspondence with and documentation regarding the technical assistance grantees for not less than five years. All intermediaries will receive the start-up fee when the intermediary contract is executed. Intermediaries will draw down five percent of each technical assistance grant award at the time those awards are disbursed, not to exceed five percent of the total funds available to the jurisdiction. If an intermediary reviews and rejects a technical assistance application, it will receive an administrative fee of $500. If an intermediary receives no technical assistance grant applications, it will receive only its start-up fee. On occasion, the Department will review grant activity to determine if reallocation of funds between geographic regions is necessary. C. Eligible Tasks Intermediaries may apply for one or both parts of the intermediary tasks described in this NOFA. The two distinct tasks are: •Administering Resident Capacity grants; and •Administering predevelopment grants. Through its application, an intermediary must describe the specific jurisdiction in which it proposes to perform such tasks. There will be no duplication of geographic coverage for any administrative task. In States where there is sufficient preservation activity to justify sub-State intermediaries, State or regional intermediaries may apply to perform activities in areas that include the jurisdiction of one or more HUD field offices. In no case will a field office jurisdiction be subdivided for purposes of intermediary selection for grant administration. To assure maximum geographic coverage by intermediaries, HUD may negotiate geographic coverage with intermediaries as part of intermediary selection. Specific tasks for all intermediaries will include the following: •Advertising fund availability for the jurisdiction overseen. •Producing and distributing grant application kits. (A sample kit will be provided by the Department.) •Accepting grant applications. •Reviewing and approving or rejecting grant applications. •Executing grant agreements. (A draft grant agreement will be provided by the Department.) •Vouchering for funds through the Department. •Disbursing grant funds. •Monitoring activities under the grant, including compliance under the grant agreement, throughout the term of the grant. •Reporting to the Department at least quarterly on the status of applications, grant awards, grantee activities, and funds expended. •Maintaining grant documentation for HUD monitoring and audits.
