FR940527-2-00143 FR940527-2-00114 2. Notification procedure: This section is revised to read: All requests to determine whether this system of records contains a record pertaining to the requesting individual may be directed to the Privacy Act Officer, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. 3. Record access procedures: This section is revised to read: Persons wishing to obtain information on the procedures for gaining access to or contesting the contents of these records may contact the Privacy Act Officer, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. SEC&hyph;47 SEC&hyph;47 is amended as follows: 1. System name: The name of this system notice is revised to read: Personnel Management Code of Conduct and Employee Performance Files. 2. System location: The reference to Regional and Branch Offices is removed and replaced by Regional and District Offices. 3. System manager(s) and address: The reference to the Director, Office of Human Resources Management is removed and replaced by Associate Executive Director, Office of Administrative and Personnel Management. SEC&hyph;49 SEC&hyph;49 is amended as follows: 1. System name: The name of this system notice is revised to read: Personnel Management Employment and Staffing Files. 2. System location: The reference to Regional and Branch Offices is removed and replaced by Regional and District Offices. The reference to Regional and Branch Office is removed and replaced by Regional and District Office. 3. Categories of records in the system: The references to Office of Personnel Management are removed and replaced by the Office of Administrative and Personnel Management. 4. Safeguards: The reference to Office of Personnel is removed and replaced by the Office of Administrative and Personnel Management. The reference to Director or Assistant Director of the Office of Personnel is removed and replaced by the Associate Executive Director, Office of Administrative and Personnel Management. The reference to Regional Administrators is removed and replaced by Regional Directors. 5. Retention and disposal: The reference to Office of Personnel Management is removed and replaced by the Office of Administrative and Personnel Management. 6. System manager(s) and address: This section is revised to read: Associate Executive Director, Office of Administrative and Personnel Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. SEC&hyph;52 SEC&hyph;52 is amended as follows: 1. System name: The name of this system notice is revised to read: Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research Records. 2. System manager(s) and address: This section is revised to read: Director, Office of Public Affairs, Policy Evaluation and Research, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. 3. Notification procedure: This section is revised to read: All requests to determine whether this system of records contains a record pertaining to the requesting individual may be directed to the Privacy Act Officer, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. 4. Record access procedures: This section is revised to read: Persons wishing to obtain information on the procedures for gaining access to or contesting the contents of these records may contact the Privacy Act Officer, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549.
