FR940217-2-00118 FR940217-2-00065 Storage: Various portions of the system are maintained on computer or in hard copy files, depending on the individual program office. Retrievability: Information can be accessed from the computer database by addressing data contained in the database, including individual names. An individual's name may be used to manually access material in alphabetized hard copy files. Safeguards: All records containing personal information are maintained in secured file cabinets or are accessed by unique passwords and log-on procedures. Only those persons with a need-to-know in order to perform their duties may access the information. Retention and disposal: File are maintained in accordance with approved record retention schedules. Awarded proposals are transferred to the Federal Records Center for permanent retention. Declined proposals are destroyed five years after they are closed out. System manager(s) and address: Division Director of particular office or program maintaining such records, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22230. Notification procedure: The NSF Privacy Act Officer should be contacted in accordance with procedures set forth at 45 CFR part 613. Record access procedures: See ``Notification Procedure'' above. Contesting record procedures: See ``Notification Procedure'' above. Record source categories: Information is obtained from the principal investigator, academic institution or other applicant, peer reviewers, and others. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: The portions of this system consisting of investigatory material which would identify persons supplying evaluations of NSF applicants and their proposals have been exempted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5). NSF&hyph;51 System name: Reviewer/Proposal File and Associated Records. System location: Decentralized. There are numerous separate files maintained by individual NSF offices and programs. National Science Foundation, 420&hyph;1 Wilson Boulevard, Arlington, Virginia 22230. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Reviewers that evaluate Foundation applicants and their proposals, either by submitting comments through the mail or serving on review panels or site visit teams. Categories of records in the system: The ``Reviewer/Proposal File and Associated Records'' system is a subsystem of the ``Principal Investigator/Proposal File and Associated Records'' system, and contains the reviewer's name, proposal title and its identifying number, and other related material. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101; 42 U.S.C. 1870. Purposes: This system enables program offices to reference specific reviewers and maintain appropriate files for use in evaluating applications for grants or other support. NSF employees may access the system to help select reviewers as part of the merit review process, and to carry out other authorized internal duties. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Disclosure of information may be made: 1. To Federal government agencies needing names of potential reviewers and specialists in particular fields. 2. To contractors, grantees, volunteers and other individuals who perform a service or work on a contract, grant, cooperative agreement, or job for the Federal Government. 3. To the Department of Justice or the Office of Management and Budget for the purpose of obtaining advice on the application of the Freedom of Information Act or Privacy Act to the records. 4. To another Federal agency, a court, or a party in litigation before a court or in an administrative proceeding being conducted by a Federal agency when the Government is a party to the judicial or administrative proceeding. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage:
