FR941020-1-00043 FR941020-1-00013 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration for Children and Families 45 CFR Part 1357 RIN AB44 Child Welfare Services Program AGENCY: Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Administration for Children and Families, HHS. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: We are proposing to amend the regulations governing direct payments to Indian Tribal Organizations (ITOs) for child welfare services, by eliminating the requirement that to be eligible ITOs must provide services under contract (or grant) with the Secretary of the Interior under section 102 of the Indian Self-Determination Act, and by adding a description of the formula used to calculate the amount of Federal funds available to eligible ITOs under title IV&hyph;B, Subpart 1 of the Social Security Act. We believe that complex and limiting eligibility requirements and low grant amounts have resulted in low ITO participation rates. The amendment will improve the quality of Indian child welfare services nationally by broadening eligibility and by allowing for an increase in grant amounts. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before December 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please address comments to Associate Commissioner, Children's Bureau, Administration on Children, Youth and Families, P.O. Box 1182, Washington, DC 20013; Attention: Michael Ambrose Beginning 14 days after the close of the comment period, comments will be available for public inspection in room 2219, 330 C Street, SW., Washington, DC 20201, Monday through Friday between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul Blatt (202) 205&hyph;8324. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Program Description and Background Title IV&hyph;B, Subpart 1, of the Social Security Act (the Act), the Child Welfare Services program, is a formula grant program. Each State receives a basic grant representing its share of $141 million and is eligible for a share of incentive funds beyond the basic grant if it provides certain protections, as required by section 427 of the Act, for children in foster care. The basic grant and the incentive funds provide States with Federal support for a wide variety of State child welfare services including preplacement preventive services to strengthen families and avoid placement of children, services to prevent abuse and neglect and services for the provision of foster care and adoption. The basic grant and incentive funds can be used to provide services regardless of the income of the families and children who are in need of such services. The Child Welfare Services program has been a part of the Social Security Act (the Act) since the Act's inception in 1935. In 1968, Congress transferred this program to title IV, part B of the Act (sections 420&hyph;425 of the Act). Historically, title IV&hyph;B has provided Federal grants to States to establish, extend and strengthen child welfare services. Under this program, services are available to all children, including the homeless, neglected, dependent and those with disabilities. The Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;272) was enacted on June 17, 1980. In addition to amending title IV&hyph;B, Pub. L. 96&hyph;272 established a new program, the title IV&hyph;E program, which replaced on October 1, 1982, the title IV&hyph;A foster care program in the States. The law created links between the two programs with numerous program and fiscal incentives. The impetus behind the passage of Pub. L. 96&hyph;272 was the belief of Congress and most State child welfare administrators, supported by extensive research, that the public child welfare system responsible for serving dependent and neglected children, youth and families had become a receiving or holding system for children living away from their parents. Congress envisioned in the new legislation a system that would help families remain together by assisting parents in carrying out their rules and responsibilities and providing alternative permanent placement for those children who cannot return to their own homes. II. Discussion of 45 CFR 1357.40 Pub. L. 96&hyph;272 created section 428 of the Act which provides for direct payments to certain Indian Tribal Organizations, of funds authorized under title IV&hyph;B for child welfare services to certain ITOs. Effective June 22, 1983, regulations published at 45 CFR 1357.40 implemented section 428 of the Act, and specified which ITOs are eligible to receive funds directly and under what circumstances direct payments should be made available. In determining which ITOs would be eligible for direct funding, the Department decided to make the option of applying for direct funding available to those ITOs which had contracted with, or received a grant from, the Bureau of Indian Affairs under Pub. L. 93&hyph;638 (Indian Self-Determination Act) for child welfare services. This requirement was intended to limit direct funding to ITOs that had established the need for child welfare services and had taken advantage of the opportunity for direct management and operation of a tribal child welfare services program. Under this approach, direct grants would be added to existing ongoing Indian child welfare programs operated by the tribal organizations. The title IV&hyph;B funds were intended to be linked to the other major Federal Indian social services program to support Indian self-determination, and complement the provisions of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (Pub. L. 95&hyph;608). This was considered important by the Department because title IV&hyph;B funds alone are insufficient for an ITO to establish and operate a basic child welfare services program.
