FR940921-2-00030 FR940921-2-00027 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION Agreement(s) Filed; American President Lines, Ltd. et al. The Federal Maritime Commission hereby gives notice of the filing of the following agreement(s) pursuant to section 5 of the Shipping Act of 1984. Interested parties may inspect and obtain a copy of each agreement at the Washington, D.C. Office of the Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, N.W., 9th Floor. Interested parties may submit comments on each agreement to the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, D.C. 20573, within 10 days after the date of the Federal Register in which this notice appears. The requirements for comments are found in ยง572.603 of Title 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Interested persons should consult this section before communicating with the Commission regarding a pending agreement. Agreement No.: 203&hyph;011340&hyph;002. Title: APL/OOCL Reciprocal Slot Exchange & Coordinated Sailing Agreement. Parties: American President Lines, Ltd. Orient Overseas Container Line Inc. Synopsis: The proposed amendment provides for the suspension of this Agreement during the unexpired period of its term, while the APL/MOL/OOCL Asia-Pacific Alliance Agreement remains effective. Agreement No.: 203&hyph;011466. Title: Container Transport Agreement. Parties: Cast Logistics (U.S.A.) Limited DSR&hyph;Senator Lines Compagnie Maritime d'Affretement Cho Yang Shipping Co. Ltd. Synopsis: The proposed Agreement authorizes the parties to consult and agree upon deployment and utilization of vessels, rationalization of sailings, and chartering of space from each other in the trade between U.S. Atlantic Coast ports (Bangor, ME./Key West, Florida range) and interior points via such ports and Mediterranean and Middle East ports. In addition, the parties may discuss and, on a voluntary basis, agree upon rates, charges, service items and conditions of service and policy in the Middle East trade. Agreement No.: 203&hyph;011467. Title: APL/MOL/NLL/OOCL Asia Atlantic Alliance Agreement. Parties: American President Lines, Ltd. Nedlloyd Lines B.V. Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, Ltd. Orient Overseas Container Lines, Inc. Synopsis: The proposed Agreement authorizes the parties to discuss and agree upon deployment and utilization of vessels, rationalization of sailings, the chartering of space from each other, and to discuss other matters of mutual concern in the trade between ports and points in the Far East, on the one hand, and, on the other, ports on the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts of the United States via the Panama Canal, and points in the U.S., including its commonwealths, territories and possessions via such Atlantic and Gulf Coast ports. In addition, the parties may discuss and agree upon any rates, terms and conditions of service contracts or tariffs. Adherence to any agreement reached is voluntary.
