FR940208-0-00111 FR940208-0-00031 Service Response: Numerous ongoing activities occur on Federal lands managed by the military. The Service has issued section 7 biological opinions on many of these activities. These opinions contain terms and conditions, which were usually developed in coordination with the military, to reduce the take of desert tortoises. Many ongoing activities and existing uses, such as the bombing ranges at Edwards Air Force Base (EAFB), the Naval Air Weapons Station (NAWS) at China Lake, the Chocolate Mountains Air Gunnery Range, the communications facilities at the National Aeronautics and Space Administrations' Goldstone Deep Space Communications Complex, and the rocket test area at Leuhmann ridge on EAFB, have already resulted in the removal of the constituent elements of desert tortoise habitat and would not be affected by a designation of critical habitat. Therefore, military agencies would not be required to relocate existing facilities to areas outside of critical habitat. Issue 17: Several DOD agencies were concerned that expansion of existing facilities or the siting of new facilities would be prohibited by designation of critical habitat. Service Response: In the case of new or expanded facilities that may affect desert tortoises or designated critical habitat, the DOD agencies will be required to consult with the Service pursuant to section 7 of the Act. Through the consultation process, the Service will determine if the proposed action is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of the desert tortoise or destroy or adversely modify designated critical habitat. The DOD provided no economic data for such future developments by which the Service could consider the economic costs of designating critical habitat in these areas. Issue 18: The NAWS and National Training Center at Ft. Irwin cited the existence of desert tortoise management plans on their lands and the increased costs of managing critical habitat as reasons for excluding these lands from critical habitat designation.
