FR940817-2-00268 FR940817-2-00113 One approach to reducing some of the uncertainties is to critically define and examine the assumptions made in the risk assessment process. Several of the more generic of these assumptions are listed in Table 5&hyph;1. Despite their diversity, these assumptions share the attribute of being partially replaceable by factual information. If, for example, the assumption of 100 percent absorption of a toxicant from a contaminated food source is replaced by data demonstrating that 90 percent of the toxicant is not biologically available under human exposure conditions, then a revised risk assessment could allow a 10-fold greater exposure from that source; i.e., the former risk assessment was too conservative by a factor of 10. As another example, many risk assessments employ data from two species. If experimental animals and humans absorb or metabolize the same fraction of a dose, the potency estimate would not change when extrapolating from animals to humans. Therefore, it is necessary to have information on both human and animal rates before changes in potency estimates are made. If a toxicant acts via a reactive intermediate and humans produce 10-fold more of the intermediate than either of the test species under similar conditions, then allowable human exposure should be decreased 10-fold (i.e., the allowable exposure levels are 10-fold too high) or an increased danger to human health exists. These findings could then replace the ``most sensitive species'' principle with facts concerning relevant human exposure and susceptibility. In these examples, the identification of the assumption helps define research needs or knowledge gaps (Sheehan et al., 1989). In general, the knowledge gaps are many and complex, but some can be filled with practical solutions. The combination of ample dose-response data and a quantitative risk assessment process can eliminate assumptions 1 (existence of a threshold) and 2 (reasonableness of safety factors) of the six generic assumptions (Table 5&hyph;1). The uncertainty of assumption 4 (exposure comparisons) could be at least reduced with the proper application of appropriate pharmacokinetic data. Likewise, the uncertainty of generic assumption 3 (variability of heterogeneous populations) can theoretically be reduced with the use of biomarkers of exposure and biomarkers of effect, to more accurately define the relationship between exposure and biological effect in a large population. Many assumptions remain, however, and uncertainty reduction by filling knowledge gaps will ultimately require greater understanding of biological mechanisms underlying neurotoxicity. A single risk assessment model may not be adequate for all conditions of exposure, for all endpoints, or for all agents. Risk assessment models of the future may well include biomarkers of both effect and exposure as well as biologically based mechanistic considerations derived from both epidemiologic and experimental test system data.
