FR940819-1-00047 FR940819-1-00011 Consequently, in order to accurately identify and review both reportable and certain non-reportable rail equipment accident/incidents, FRA is proposing in new ยง225.25(b) that railroads maintain a log similar to the injury/illness log that railroads are now required to maintain pursuant to ยง225.25(a) using a new form entitled ``Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Log'' (Form FRA F 6180.xx(a)) (attached as Appendix 17). A ``recordable'' rail equipment accident/incident would encompass any event not otherwise reportable involving the operation of on-track equipment that causes physical damage to either the on-track equipment or the track upon which such equipment was operated and that requires the removal or repair of rail equipment before any rail operations over the track can continue. A ``recordable'' rail equipment accident/incident, if not tended to, would thus disrupt railroad service. A scrape or indentation to rail equipment, however, would not make a rail equipment/accident ``recordable'' if routine rail operations over the track can continue without such equipment being repaired or removed from service. b. Property Damage Estimate Worksheet and Record (Proposed Form FRA F 6180.xx(b)). Appendix 18, entitled ``Property Damage Estimate Worksheet and Record'' (Form FRA F 6180.xx(b)) is a proposed worksheet that reporting railroads would use to determine costs associated with damage to (i) on-track equipment, (ii) signal equipment, (iii) track, and (iv) track structures and roadbed, as well as (v) costs of equipment rental and operation. These five cost categories would be totaled to derive the total accident cost. If the total accident cost meets or exceeds the reporting threshold, then the total cost for ``damage to on-track equipment'' in ``Part A'' would be transferred to ``block 25 (Equipment Damage)'' on the proposed ``Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Log'' (Form FRA F 6180.xx(a)). Likewise, the total cost for ``damage to signal equipment,'' ``damage to track,'' and ``damage to track structures and roadbed'' in ``Parts B, C, and D'' respectively, would be totaled and this amount would be transferred to ``block 26 (Track, Signal, Way & Structure Damage)'' on the ``Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Log.'' FRA proposes to print the ``Property Damage Estimate Worksheet and Record'' (Form FRA F 6180.xx(b)) on back of the ``Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Log'' (Form FRA F 6180.XX(a)). E. Quarterly Accident Reports FRA solicited comments in the ANPRM as to whether a quarterly report would result in more accurate accident data being filed with FRA. There remains a problem in accurately reporting both equipment accidents and personal injuries. Railroads submit detailed information on a monthly basis, and in some instances, only 30 to 60 days have elapsed since the date of the accident/incident until the railroad's certified report is filed with FRA. This does not always provide sufficient time for the railroads to gather and verify statistics on repair costs and lost workdays. These detailed monthly reports provide the data for FRA's annual Accident/Incident Bulletin. This annual Bulletin summarizes all reportable railroad accidents/incidents that occurred during the previous calendar year. Monthly reports are, to some extent, based on estimates rather than actual figures; therefore, the Accident/Incident Bulletin also reflects estimated data. In order to remedy this problem and ensure more consistently accurate statistics, FRA considered requiring quarterly accident reports covering the previous quarter's occurrences. This would provide at least 90 days (and up to 180 days depending on when the accident occurred within the quarter) during which the railroad could obtain actual repair data and lost workday information. Comments Some commenters suggested that the monthly reports could serve as estimates, while a quarterly report could contain the actual costs associated with accidents. Others recommended that the monthly report be eliminated and argued that quarterly reports containing actual costs would reduce inaccuracies. It was further suggested that quarterly reports should be required to contain a detailed report for incidents where damages exceeded $50,000. Some commenters believed that a requirement for quarterly reporting would not remedy any problems. They recommended that the monthly reporting requirement should be retained and that railroads should provide quarterly updating of lost workdays, restricted days, equipment damage, track damage, and other changes, via magnetic media. Others suggested that the information contained in monthly reports together with the submission of the end-of-year report is sufficient and that the addition of a quarterly report requirement would create additional work without a concomitant increase in valuable information. Finally, several railroads recommended that the deadline for submission of the annual report (Form FRA F 6180.45) be moved from January 31 to March 31. They believed this modification would enable the railroads to reconcile their actual figures with the estimated figures resulting in more accurate information. Analysis and FRA Conclusions FRA has concluded that substitution of quarterly reporting for monthly submission would result in very little additional accuracy of figures on repair costs and lost workdays. There would continue to be estimates involved due to the lack of completion of repairs or treatment, particularly the closer the incident to the submission date. Therefore, the discrepancies between monthly figures and the annual summary figures would continue to exist.
