FR941031-1-00005 FR941031-1-00002 Also in 1993, the Farm Credit Banks' Presidents Planning Committee (PPC) authorized an initiative to review the FCA regulations and make recommendations concerning those that the System believes are not directly related to safety and soundness or unduly restrict the full exercise of authorities granted by the Act. This initiative produced a System work group on related services (PPC work group) which included representatives from associations and banks in the AgriBank, Baltimore, Columbia, Springfield, and Western Farm Credit Districts. In July 1993, FCA met with the PPC work group to hear its concerns and objectives. The PPC work group completed its study on November 2, 1993, and provided the results to the FCA Board for its consideration in this proposed rule. The study recommended: (1) Elimination of existing prior approval requirements; (2) revision of coordination requirements to provide for increased flexibility in providing intra- and inter-district services; (3) revision of the requirement for bank annual review of service programs; (4) increased flexibility in how banks and associations administer related service programs; and (5) various technical and clarifying changes in subparts A and B. On April 4, 1994, the FCA received a ``Petition for Rulemaking to Revise 12 CFR part 618_subpart A, Concerning Financially Related Services'' (hereinafter referred to as ``FRS petition''), submitted by a Washington, D.C., law firm on behalf of one agricultural credit association (ACA), three Federal land credit associations (FLCAs) and five production credit associations (PCAs) in California and Michigan. The petitioners supported the PPC work group's recommendations, but suggested that, in light of the FCA Board's February 17, 1994 Policy Statement on Regulatory Philosophy (59 FR 32189), the FCA should consider a broader rulemaking proceeding and more fundamental changes in the regulation than may have originally been contemplated. The petitioners focused on areas where expanded authorities could be considered and requested that the FCA: (1) Define related services (although no definition was suggested); (2) authorize the offering of other services for a fee; (3) provide for a non-exclusive list of approved related services; (4) eliminate the prior approval requirement; (5) eliminate the annual bank review of related service programs; and (6) encourage innovative means for offering related services that meet borrower needs. On May 4, 1994, the FCA received a petition from an ACA in Michigan (hereinafter referred to as ``Insurance petition'') asking the FCA to reconsider the requirement in the Member Insurance regulations (subpart B) that insurance only be sold to members who have a debtor/creditor relationship. In addition to the above petitions and System input, over the past 18 months the FCA has received prior approval requests and technical/interpretive questions that have raised issues regarding what types of services are authorized, what types of institutions can offer services, and who the recipients of these services can be. Issues included questions about incidental authorities, sale of insurance out-of-territory, and sale of fee appraisals other than directly to members or borrowers. III. Proposed Regulatory Approach System institutions desire greater flexibility to use their statutory authority for providing related services in order to serve the evolving needs of farmers and ranchers and to meet competitive pressures. Although the FCA understands the System's desire to expand current related service activities, the agency's primary concerns continue to focus on safety and soundness issues and whether the System remains within the limits of current statutory authorities. Underlying these proposed regulations, is FCA's conclusion that, under most circumstances, it would be appropriate to replace the current prior approval requirement with specific criteria for determining what services can be offered and under what circumstances. However, the FCA, in its role as a safety and soundness regulator, wishes to reserve the right to review new services in order to ensure that they would not present excessive risk to the System. Because it is difficult to foresee what types of new services will be proposed, it is impracticable to prescribe specific regulations for new services that have yet to be offered by the System. The FCA, therefore, proposes to remove as much of the regulatory burden as possible, while maintaining its ability to apply the statute, achieve regulatory objectives, and preserve flexibility. The FCA has also reduced the role the funding bank is required, by regulation, to play in overseeing such programs. This allows the institution offering a service to take the primary responsibility for the related services it provides. The proposed regulation in part 618 defines terms and establishes specific authorizing criteria so that each institution can evaluate the services it would like to offer its customers. Thus, the proposed regulation clarifies the FCA's primary safety and soundness concerns and distinguishes between the types of services that can be offered and the programs for delivering these services. Subpart A has been rewritten and reorganized because of the wholesale nature of the regulatory changes proposed by the FCA. In proposed ยง618.8000, the FCA sets forth a definition of ``related service'' which includes insurance and encompasses activities previously referred to as technical assistance, financial assistance, or financially related services. The proposed regulation also details regulatory eligibility requirements for recipients of such services.
