FR940106-0-00151 FR940106-0-00022 (ii) Separation. The individual's first qualifying separation (as defined in paragraph (t)(3)(i) of §617.3) before application for TRA must occur: (A) On or after the impact date of such certification; and (B) Before the expiration of the two-year period beginning on the date of such certification, or, if earlier, before the termination date, if any, of such certification. (iii) Wages and employment. (A) In the 52-week period (i.e., 52 consecutive calendar weeks) ending with the week of the individual's first qualifying separation, the individual must have had at least 26 weeks of employment at wages of $30 or more a week in adversely affected employment with a single firm or subdivision of a firm. Evidence that an individual meets this requirement shall be obtained as provided in §617.12. Employment and wages covered under more than one certification may not be combined to qualify for TRA. (B)( 1 ) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, any week in which such individual_ ( i ) is on employer-authorized leave from such adversely affected employment for purposes of vacation, sickness, injury, maternity, or inactive duty or active duty military service for training, or ( ii ) does not work in such adversely affected employment because of a disability compensable under a workers' compensation law or plan of a State or the United States, or ( iii ) had adversely affected employment interrupted to serve as a full-time representative of a labor organization in such firm or subdivision, shall be treated as a week of employment at wages of $30 or more; ( 2 ) Provided, that_ ( i ) not more than 7 weeks in the case of weeks described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(B)( 1 )( i ) or paragraph (a)(1)( iii )(B)( 1 )( iii ) of this section, or both, and ( ii ) not more than 26 weeks described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(B)( 1 )( ii ) of this section, may be treated as weeks of employment for purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. (C) Wages and employment creditable under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section shall not include employment or wages earned or paid for employment which is contrary to or prohibited by any Federal law. (iv) Entitlement to UI. The individual must have been entitled to (or would have been entitled to if the individual had applied therefor) UI for a week within the benefit period_ (A) in which the individual's first qualifying separation occurred, or (B) which began (or would have begun) by reason of the filing of a claim for UI by the individual after such first qualifying separation. (v) Exhaustion of UI. The individual must: (A) Have exhausted all rights to any UI to which the individual was entitled (or would have been entitled to if the individual had applied therefor); and (B) Not have an unexpired waiting period applicable to the individual for any such UI. (vi) Extended Benefit work test. (A) The individual must_ ( 1 ) Accept any offer of suitable work, as defined in §617.3(kk), and actually apply for any suitable work the individual is referred to by the State agency, and ( 2 ) Actively engage in seeking work and furnish the State agency tangible evidence of such efforts each week, and ( 3 ) Register for work and be referred by the State agency to suitable work, in accordance with those provisions of the applicable State law which apply to claimants for Extended Benefits and which are consistent with Part 615 of this Chapter. (B) The Extended Benefit work test shall not apply to an individual with respect to claims for TRA for weeks of unemployment beginning prior to the filing of an initial claim for TRA, nor for any week which begins before the individual is notified that the individual is covered by a certification issued under the Act and is fully informed of the Extended Benefit work test requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section and §617.17. Prior to such notification and advice, the individual shall not be subject to the Extended Benefit work test requirements, nor to any State timely filing requirement, but shall be required to be unemployed and able to work and available for work with respect to any such week except as provided for workers in approved training in §617.17(b)(1). (vii) Job search program participation. (A) The individual is enrolled in, participating in, or has successfully completed a job search program which meets the requirements of §617.49(a); or the State agency has determined that no acceptable job search program is reasonably available under the criteria set forth in §617.49(c). (B) The job search program requirement shall not apply to an individual with respect to claims for TRA for weeks of unemployment beginning prior to the filing of an initial claim for TRA, nor for any week which begins before the individual is notified that the individual is covered by a certification issued under the Act and is fully informed of the job search program requirement of paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section and §617.49.
