FR941202-2-00197 FR941202-2-00098 ii. Forty or more test organisms shall be exposed to each control treatment and each effluent treatment. (f) Range Finding Toxicity Test _If required by the accrediting agency and in the event historical aquatic toxicological data are not available on an effluent, the lab shall conduct a range finding toxicity test to ascertain the range of effluent concentrations for subsequent definitive tests. Range finding toxicity tests shall at a minimum consist of one or more control treatments, and treatments of 100% effluent-by-volume, 50% effluent-by-volume, and 12.5% effluent-by-volume. A single test series is adequate, although duplicates may be used. Five or more test organisms shall be exposed to each control treatment and each effluent treatment. (g) Species Identification i. For species identification, the laboratory shall maintain or have access to a type specimen collection. ii. The laboratory must, at a specified frequency, use taxonomic experts to corroborate species identification. In-house or outside experts are acceptable for taxonomic identification of test species. (h) Criteria for Test Types _All definitive acute toxicity tests and N.M.A.T definitive acute toxicity tests must be conducted as either static non-renewal, static-renewal, or flow-through tests. Range-finding toxicity tests (if required) must be conducted as either static or flow-through. (i) Reference Toxicants _Reference toxicants shall be used as specified by method. 5.3.3␣Microbiology (a) Blanks (Sterility Checks) i. Membrane Filter (MF) Analysis Blank_A membrane filter sterile control test of rinse water, media and supplies shall be inoculated with at least 10 milliliters of sterile phosphate buffered dilution water (dilution blank control). These shall be performed at the beginning and end of all processed samples and after every tenth sample. ii. Multiple Tube Fermentation (MTF) Analysis Blank_A MTF blank shall be performed with each MTF sample. A single tube of LTB broth media shall be inoculated with 10 milliliters of sterile phosphate buffered dilution water (dilution blank control). (b) Laboratory Pure (Reagent) Water Requirements i. Laboratory pure water shall be analyzed annually by the Suitability Test for bactericidal properties for distilled water. ii. Laboratory pure water shall be analyzed monthly for pH, chlorine residual, standard plate count, and conductivity. iii. The laboratory pure water must be analyzed annually for trace metals. (c) MPN Analysis _The MPN test for all water samples shall be completed on 10% of positive confirmed samples, except that gram staining need not be performed for drinking water samples. If no positive tubes result from the tested drinking water samples, the complete MPN test, but not gram staining, must be performed on a quarterly basis on at least one positive water source.
