FR940505-0-00071 FR940505-0-00020 POSTAL SERVICE 39 CFR Part 111 Special Bulk Third-Class Eligibility Restrictions AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On October 28, 1993, the President signed into law Public Law 103&hyph;123, the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Appropriations Act for 1994. Title VII of the Act, the Revenue Forgone Reform Act, amends 39 U.S.C. 3626 by adding provisions to subsection (j) and new subsection (m). These sections concern the administration of special bulk third-class postage rates for certain qualified organizations. The provisions, which were not to take effect until after December 31, 1993, make certain types of advertisements, promotions, and offers, as well as some products, ineligible to be mailed at the special bulk third-class rates. This document contains regulations implementing the legislative changes. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ernest Collins, (202) 268&hyph;5316. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Postal Service published in the Federal Register (58 FR 64918&hyph;64919) on December 10, 1993, a proposal to amend the Domestic Mail Manual to implement certain provisions of Public Law 103&hyph;123, the Treasury, Postal Service, and General Appropriations Act for 1994. These provisions made certain types of matter ineligible to be mailed at the special bulk third-class postage rates, which are available for use by certain qualified nonprofit organizations and political committees. The Postal Service requested comments by January 10, 1994. Subsequently, the comment period was extended to February 9, 1994, by notice in the Federal Register (58 FR 65959) on December 17, 1993. At the request of postal customers, the Postal Service held a public meeting on January 28, 1994, as announced in the Federal Register (59 FR 1512) on January 11, 1994, to facilitate the receipt of comments regarding the proposal to implement new statutory restrictions on the use of special bulk third-class mail. The new legislation establishes additional content-based restrictions on matter eligible for special bulk third-class rates. In order for material that advertises, promotes, offers, or for a fee or consideration, recommends, describes, or announces the availability of any product or service to qualify for mailing at these rates, the sale of the product or the providing of the service must be substantially related to the exercise or performance by the organization of one or more of the purposes constituting the basis for the organization's authorization to mail at such rates. The determination whether a product or service is substantially related to an organization's purpose is to be made in accordance with standards established under the Internal Revenue Code. The legislation also establishes restrictions for mailing products at the special rates. The only products mailable at the special bulk third-class rates are low-cost products as defined under the Internal Revenue Code, items donated or contributed to the qualified organization, and periodical publications of qualified organizations. The Postal Service views the new provisions as supplementary to, rather than a change to or replacement for, existing restrictions on special rate mailings. That is, mailings ineligible for the special rates under existing rules remain ineligible for these rates, regardless of whether they violate the new restrictions. Further, mailings that violate the new restrictions would not be eligible for the special rates, regardless of whether they would be eligible under existing rules. As a general matter, it should be recognized that the Postal Service has limited discretion on what may be mailed at the special rates. These historically subsidized rates are based on statutes that prescribe standards for who may mail at the special rates and what may be sent at those rates. The Postal Service views its role as the administrator of these laws. Accordingly, its goal in this rulemaking is to promulgate rules implementing Public Law 103&hyph;123. As explained below, the new rules deny the use of special bulk third-class rates for mailpieces that contain advertisements for products or services of the qualified organization that are not ``substantially related'' to a purpose on which the organization's authorization to mail at the special bulk third-class rates is based. This prohibition applies to catalogs and publications containing such advertisements, regardless of the inclusion of other advertisements that do qualify for mailing at those rates. Paid advertisements that do not violate any of the current restrictions will continue to be allowed in publications sent at the special bulk third-class rates, as long as they pass the ``substantially related'' test. These new rules are in addition to, and are designed to be compatible with, existing prohibitions on the use of special bulk third-class rates for improper cooperative mailings, and certain advertising for credit cards, insurance policies, and travel arrangements. As a separate matter, the Postal Service will revise mailing statements for special bulk third-class mailings by citing the appropriate Domestic Mail Manual section to call mailers' attention to provisions with which they need to be familiar. Evaluation of Comments Received Written comments from almost 600 religious, educational, fraternal, charitable, labor, and agricultural organizations and individuals were received by the Postal Service. In addition, 14 commenters offered oral comments at the public meeting. Four hundred seventeen comments oppose enforcement of the ``substantially related'' test to determine whether an advertisement, promotion, or offer is mailable at the special bulk third-class rates. They state that the test would be detrimental to fundraising activities needed to sustain operating budgets, harm religious publications of all faiths, and impair organizations' abilities to carry on their religious, educational, or charitable functions. As explained above, the Postal Service's responsibility is to implement and administer a new statutory provision restricting the use of special bulk third-class rates. This law specifically requires that the sale of a product or the providing of a service must be ``substantially related (aside from the need, on the part of the organization promoting such product or service, for income or funds or the use it makes of the profits derived) to the exercise or performance by the organization of one or more of the purposes constituting the basis for the organization's authorization to mail at such rates'' (i.e., special bulk third-class rates). Consequently, the Postal Service and qualified organizations are required to use the ``substantially related'' test to determine whether an advertisement, promotion, or offer is mailable at the special bulk third-class rates.
