FR940816-2-00064 FR940816-2-00049 National Cancer Institute; Opportunity for a Cooperative Research Agreement (CRADA) for the Scientific and Commercial Development of Monoclonal Antibodies to a Tumor-Specific Growth Factor for the Diagnosis and Prognosis of Premalignant Lesions and Cancer AGENCY: National Institutes of Health, PHS, DHHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The National Cancer Institute (NCI) seeks a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company that can effectively pursue the scientific and commercial generation and development of a panel of monoclonal antibodies against an epidermal growth factor (EGF)-related peptide, cripto-1 (CR&hyph;1). The project is of scientific importance because CR&hyph;1 is a protein that exhibits structural homology to the EGF/transforming growth factor (TGF ) gene family peptides. As such, CR&hyph;1 might function as a growth factor or growth inhibitor. Therefore, CR&hyph;1 may be important as an autocrine or paracrine modulator in such processes as tumor cell growth, wound repair, neovascularization, and inflammation. NCI has successfully isolated and cloned the gene that encodes CR&hyph;1, an EGF-related peptide growth factor that does not function through the EGF receptor. The NCI has also obtained a rabbit anti-peptide polyclonal antibody that can detect the expression of CR&hyph;1 in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded human tissue sections. CR&hyph;1 has been shown to be preferentially and differentially expressed in several different human premalignant lesions and cancers. The selected sponsor will purify a recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein and use this material as an immunogen to generate anti-CR&hyph;1 monoclonal antibodies for use in the diagnosis and prognosis of human cancers. ADDRESSES: Inquiries and proposals regarding this opportunity should be addressed to either Michael Christini or Mark Noel (Tel # 301&hyph;496&hyph;0477 Fax # 301&hyph;402&hyph;2117), Office of Technology Development, National Cancer Institute, Bldg. 31, Room 4A49, NIH, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20892. DATES: Proposals must be received at the above address by 5 P.M. September 9, 1994. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The NCI is seeking a pharmaceutical or biotechnology company which, after obtaining a license in accordance with the requirements of the regulations governing the transfer of Government-developed agents (37 CFR part 404), can purify a recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein for which patents are pending or have been issued and to utilize this purified recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein as an immunogen to generate a panel of mouse monoclonal antibodies. The immunoreactive CR&hyph;1 protein has been detected by immunoperoxidase staining using a rabbit anti-peptide polyclonal CR&hyph;1 antibody in a majority of human colon cancers, breast cancers, gastric cancers and pancreatic cancers. Little or no staining was detected in surrounding, noninvolved colon, breast or gastric epithelial cells. In addition, a majority of premalignant colonic adenomas, breast ductal carcinomas in situ and gastric intestinal metaplasia express immunoreactive CR&hyph;1. A recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein has been generated using a yeast expression vector in Pichia pastoris and a partially purified protein obtained. This protein as well as synthetic, refolded peptides that correspond to the EGF-like domain in CR&hyph;1 are mitogenic for human breast cancer cells yet fail to bind to the EGF receptor or other type I receptor tyrosine kinases. Expression of CR&hyph;1 antisense mRNA using a recombinant, replication defective retroviral expression vector in colon cancer cells that expresses CR&hyph;1 inhibits the growth of these cells in vivo in nude mice. In order to utilize the diagnostic and therapeutic potentials of CR&hyph;1, it will be necessary to purify a significant amount of the recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein to more fully define its biological properties and to identify the receptor through which it functions. In addition, mouse monoclonal antibodies against the purified CR&hyph;1 recombinant protein will expedite screening studies for CR&hyph;1 expression in other human premalignant lesions and cancers and should exhibit more specificity and sensitivity for the detection of CR&hyph;1 in tissues by immunocytochemistry (ICC) or in tissue extracts or serum samples by ELISA. The role of the National Cancer Institute, the Division of Cancer Biology, Diagnosis and Centers includes: 1. NCI will provide expression vectors that encode CR&hyph;1 and can be used to produce CR&hyph;1 in E. coli. 2. NCI will provide expression vectors that encode CR&hyph;1 in yeast Pichia pastoris containing several milligrams of recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein. 3. NCI will provide a rabbit polyclonal anti-CR&hyph;1 antibody for monitoring CR&hyph;1 recovery during the purification from the yeast conditioned medium. 4. NCI will assay the purified recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein for bioactivity. 5. NCI will screen anti-CR&hyph;1 monoclonal antibodies for reactivity by Western blot analysis against native CR&hyph;1 protein from CR&hyph;1 positive human embryonal carcinoma or colon carcinoma cells. The role of the successful corporate partner will include: 1. Obtain background license in appropriate fields of use to the relevant Government patent rights. 2. Purify to homogeneity 30&hyph;50 milligrams of CR&hyph;1 from Pichia pastoris conditioned medium. 3. Provide the purified recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein. 4. Utilize the purified recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein to generate mouse anti-CR&hyph;1 monoclonal antibodies. 5. Screen anti-CR&hyph;1 monoclonal antibodies for specificity, reactivity, and sensitivity towards recombinant CR&hyph;1 protein. 6. Ascertain whether monoclonal anti-CR&hyph;1 antibodies can detect native CR&hyph;1 protein in CR&hyph;1 positive human colorectal or embryonal carcinoma cells by radioimmunoprecipitation analysis and by ELISA. 7. Determine whether anti-CR&hyph;1 antibodies can be used for ICC on formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded tissues known for CR&hyph;1 expression. 8. Provide funds to support a postdoctoral fellow and associated expenses. Criteria for choosing the collaborating company will include: 1. Ability to obtain background license to relevant patent rights. 2. Experience in producing and purifying recombinant proteins, particularly growth factors or cytokines. 3. Experience in generating and screening monoclonal antibodies. 4. Willingness to cooperate with the NCI in the collection and evaluation of data. 5. Willingness to cost share in laboratory studies. 6. An agreement to be bound by the DHHS rules involving the use of human and animal subjects, and human tissue. 7. Provisions for equitable distribution of patent rights to any inventions. Generally the rights of ownership are retained by the organization which is the employer of the free license to the Government (when a company employee is the sole inventor) or (2) an exclusive or nonexclusive license to the company on terms that are appropriate (when the Government employee is the sole inventor). Dated: August 8, 1994. Barbara M. McGarey, Deputy Director, Office of Technology Transfer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19943 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
