FR940505-1-00428 FR940505-1-00012 (u) Emissions of oxides of nitrogen from large institutional, commercial, and industrial boilers, steam generators, and process heaters. (1) Applicability. For the purposes of this paragraph, the affected area includes the Sacramento Metro Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. (i) Any owner or operator of a boiler, steam generator, or process heater with a rated heat input capacity equal to or greater than 5 million British thermal units per hour (mmBtu/hr) shall comply with the applicable requirements standards of paragraphs (u)(1) through (u)(7) of this section. (ii) Any owner or operator of a boiler, steam generator, or process heater with a rated heat input capacity equal to or greater than 5 million British thermal units per hour (mmBtu/hr) that claims an exemption from the standards of paragraph (u)(3) of this section because of the exemption criteria specified under paragraph (u)(4)(ii) of this section shall comply with the applicable requirements of paragraph (u)(6)(iii)(I) of this section. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (u)(1) through (u)(7) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. Annual heat input means the actual amount of heat released by fuels burned in a unit during a 12 calendar month rolling period, based on the fuel's higher heating value. The annual heat input shall be calculated as the sum of the previous 12 monthly fuel use rates multiplied by the fuel's higher heating value. Boiler or steam generator means any combustion equipment used in any institutional, commercial, or industrial operation that is designed to burn gaseous and/or liquid fuel and used to produce steam, heat water and/or other fluids, and/or generate electricity. A boiler or steam generator does not include any waste heat recovery unit that is used to recover sensible heat from the exhaust of a combustion turbine or any unfired waste heat recovery boiler that is used to recover sensible heat from the exhaust of any combustion equipment. British thermal unit (Btu) means the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water from 59 ○F to 60 ○F at one atmosphere. Heat input means the chemical heat released due to fuel combustion in a unit, using the higher heating value of the fuel. This does not include the sensible heat of incoming combustion air. Higher heating value (HHV) means the total heat liberated per mass of fuel burned (Btu per pound), when fuel and dry air at standard conditions undergo complete combustion and all resultant products are brought to their standard states at standard conditions. If certification of the HHV is not provided by the third party fuel supplier, it shall be determined by one of the following test methods: ASTM D2015&hyph;85 for solid fuels; ASTM D240&hyph;87 or ASTM D2382&hyph;88 for liquid hydrocarbon fuels; or ASTM D1826&hyph;88 or ASTM D1945&hyph;81 in conjunction with ASTM D3588&hyph;89 for gaseous fuels. Non-gaseous fuel means any fuel which is not a gas at 68 ○F and one atmosphere. NO X emissions means the sum of nitric oxides and nitrogen dioxide in the flue gas, collectively expressed as nitrogen dioxide. Process heater means any combustion equipment used in any institutional, commercial, or industrial operation that is designed to burn gaseous and/or liquid fuel and which transfers heat from combustion gases to water, heat transfer medium, or process streams. Process heater does not include any kiln or oven used for drying, baking, cooking, calcining or vitrifying; any unfired waste heat recovery heater that is used to recover sensible heat from the exhaust of any combustion equipment; or any fuel-fired degreasing or metal finishing equipment. Rated heat input capacity means the heat input capacity specified on the nameplate of the combustion unit. If the combustion unit has been altered or modified such that its maximum heat input is different than the heat input capacity specified on the nameplate, the new maximum heat input shall be considered as the rated heat input capacity. Shutdown means the period of time a unit is cooled from its normal operating temperature to cold or ambient temperature. Stack gas oxygen trim system means the system of monitors that is used to measure stack excess combustion air, typically consisting of flue gas oxygen and/or carbon monoxide monitors that automatically provide a feedback signal to the combustion air controller that maintains the stack excess air at the desired level. Startup means the period of time a unit is heated from cold or ambient temperature to its normal operating temperature as specified by the manufacturer. Unit means any boiler, steam generator, or process heater as defined in this definition. (3) Standards. (i) Any owner or operator that operates a unit with an annual heat input rate equal to or greater than 9 billion British thermal units per year (109 Btu/yr) shall: (A) Not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain NO X emissions in excess of the following: ( 1 ) For gaseous fuels, 30 parts per million (ppm) corrected to 3 percent volume stack gas O 2 on a dry basis averaged over a period of 15 consecutive minutes; or ( 2 ) For liquid fuels, 40 ppm corrected to 3 percent volume stack gas O 2 on a dry basis averaged over a period of 15 consecutive minutes; and ( 3 ) Demonstrate initial compliance with the NO X emission standard in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (u)(7)(i) of this section. (B) Establish a controlled ppm carbon monoxide (CO) emission limit that represents good operating and combustion practices. No owner or operator shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that contain CO in excess of the lowest of one of the following limits:
