FR940426-1-00006 FR940426-1-00002 The remaining proposed revisions are to §303.6 (a) and (f) of the FDIC's regulations. They are technical in nature in order to conform these sections, which concern application procedures and public notices of application filings, to the new procedures set forth in proposed §303.2. First, the proposal revises §303.6(a) (2) and (3) to take into account the different procedures set forth in §303.2(c) for institutions with CRA ratings of Satisfactory or better as opposed to institutions with CRA ratings of less than Satisfactory. Second, the heading of §303.6(f)(1)(A) would be revised under the proposal to make it clear that section applies to applications to establish an RSF. Third, the proposal amends §303.6(f)(2) to delete any reference to remote service facilities. This is being proposed in order to conform this section of the regulation with the proposed revision to §303.6(a) which deletes the publication requirement for applicants with CRA ratings of satisfactory or better. The Board is of the opinion that this is a sensible proposal which will substantially reduce the regulatory burden imposed on state nonmember banks and insured state-licensed branches of foreign banks that desire to establish or relocate an RSF without adversely affecting the FDIC's ability to assure the safety and soundness of the insured financial institutions it regulates or its responsibilities under the CRA. The Board also requests comment on whether the proposal should treat different types of RSFs differently, i.e., an RSF which caters exclusively to one bank's customers as opposed to a shared RSF which is utilized by customers of many banks. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 303 Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (Government agencies), Bank deposit insurance, Banks, banking, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation hereby proposes to amend part 303 of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 303_APPLICATIONS, REQUESTS, SUBMITTALS, DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY, AND NOTICES REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY STATUTE OR REGULATION 1. The authority citation for part 303 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 378, 1813, 1815, 1816, 1817(a)(2)(b), 1817(j), 1818, 1819 (``Seventh'', ``Eighth'' and ``Tenth''), 1828, 1831e, 1831o, 1831p&hyph;1(a); 15 U.S.C. 1607. 2. In §303.2, paragraph (a) introductory text is amended by removing the second parenthetical in the first sentence, the parentheticals in the second and third sentences, and by removing ``, relocate a remote service facility'' and ``other than a remote service facility'' from the fourth sentence, and paragraph (c) is revised to read as follows: §303.2 Applications by insured state nonmember bank to establish a branch, move its main office or relocate a branch. * * * * * (c) Special procedures for remote service facilities. (1) For purposes of this section, establishing means owning or leasing a remote service facility either individually or jointly. (2) An insured state nonmember bank or an insured state-licensed branch of a foreign bank whose most recent Community Reinvestment Act rating is Satisfactory or better and who desires to establish and operate or relocate a remote service facility (RSF) shall file a letter with the appropriate regional director. The letter shall contain the exact location of the proposed or relocated RSF, including street address (unless one has not been assigned to the location), and either a representation that the site of the proposed or relocated RSF is not included in or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places or written verification that in the opinion of the appropriate state historic preservation officer the establishment or relocation of the RSF will have no adverse effect on a historic site. Unless the institution is notified otherwise by the FDIC within seven days of receipt of the letter, the institution may establish and operate or relocate the RSF. In the event that the institution cannot represent in good faith that the site of the proposed or relocated RSF is not included in or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places or evidence that written verification has been obtained from the appropriate state historic preservation officer, the institution shall proceed pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section. (3) An insured state nonmember bank or an insured state-licensed branch of a foreign bank whose most recent Community Reinvestment Act rating is not Satisfactory or better and who desires to establish and operate or relocate an RSF shall file the letter described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and comply with the notice provisions of §303.6(f). Unless the institution is notified otherwise by the FDIC within 15 days after completion of processing of the letter, the institution may establish and operate or relocate the RSF; provided however, that in the event that a protest is filed with the FDIC or other objection is taken prior to completion of processing the letter, the institution shall not establish and operate or relocate the RSF until the FDIC provides written notice of its approval.
