FR941207-2-00091 FR941207-2-00064 [Release No. 34&hyph;35023; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;23] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Relating to Inter-Currency Spread Priority November 29, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on August 1, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the Phlx. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx, pursuant to Rule 19b&hyph;4 of the Act, proposes to amend Rules 1033 and 1066 to allow spread priority for eligible spreads between two different foreign currency options (``FCOs''). For example, a Deutsche mark call and a French franc put could be executed as a spread, such that the bid/offer could be expressed as a net credit or debit and a single execution could occur as long as at least one individual component (leg) of each spread is executed at a better price than the established bid/offer and no leg is executed outside of the established bid/offer for that option contract. In order to permit the execution of inter-currency spreads, a definition of this type of order is proposed to be added to Phlx Rule 1066, as a subcategory of ``spread'' orders, which is a subcategory of ``hedge'' orders. Also, the Phlx proposes to adopt new paragraph (i) to Rule 1033, which establishes spread priority principles for inter-currency spreads. On November 18, 1994, the Phlx filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposal to renumber a proposed paragraph due to recent changes to Rule 1033. 2 2 See Letter from Edith Hallahan, Phlx, to Michael Walinskas, Derivative Products Regulation, SEC, dated Nov. 17, 1994. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, Phlx, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Phlx included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Phlx has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Currently, an option spread is executable as a single transaction at a total net debit or credit with one contra-side, pursuant to Phlx Rule 1033(d). Under this provision, an eligible spread can be afforded spread priority as long as the net credit/debit improves the established market for the spread as measured by the aggregate price of the respective legs if executed individually. The Commission recently approved a Phlx proposal to expand the spread priority provisions applicable to FCOs to include three-way, ratio, and multi-spread transactions. 3 Specifically, that proposal expanded upon the existing requirement (in Rule 1033(d)) to improve the established market as follows: at least one options leg must be executed at a better price than the established market for that option as well as that no option leg be executed outside of the established market for that option. 4 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 35015 (November 29, 1994). 4 As a result, according to the Phlx, the net credit/debit necessarily improves the established market for the spread (the current standard), because the market for at least one leg is bettered. The purpose of this proposal is to extend spread priority to spreads involving two different foreign currency options. For example, a spread could be executed between any two FCOs, American- 5 or European-style 6 expiration, and any expiration date (regular, month-end, or long-term). Inter-currency spread priority pursuant to the proposed rule change would not, however, be available for cross-rate, cash/spot, or the Exchange's customized FCOs. 5 An American-style option is one that can be exercised at any time prior to expiration of the option. 6 A European-style option is one that can only be exercised during a specified period immediately prior to expiration of the option.
