FR940304-2-00041 FR940304-2-00033 FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION [File No. 922&hyph;3290] American Institute of Habit Control, Inc., et al.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis to Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would prohibit, among other things, a Miami, Florida based company from making any representation about the relative or absolute performance or efficacy of any smoking cessation or weight loss program, unless they possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate the representation. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Matthew Daynard, FTC/H&hyph;200, Washington, DC 20580. (202) 326&hyph;3291. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with ยง4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). In the matter of American Institute of Habit Control, Inc., a corporation, and Steven Present, individually and as an officer of said corporation. File No. 922 3290. Agreement Containing Consent Order to Cease and Desist The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of American Institute of Habit Control, Inc., a corporation, and Steven Present, individually and as an officer of said corporation (``proposed respondents'' or ``respondents''), and it now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated. It is hereby agreed by and between American Institute of Habit Control, Inc., by its duly authorized officer, and Steven Present, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and their attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent American Institute of Habit Control, Inc., is a Florida corporation, with its principal office or place of business at 9655 South Dixie Highway, Miami, Florida 33156. 2. Proposed respondent Steven Present is the sole officer, director and shareholder of said corporation. He formulates, directs and controls the acts and practices of said corporation and his address is the same as that of said corporation. 3. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the attached draft complaint. 4. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; and (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504.
