FR940513-2-00097 FR940513-2-00040 5. Coordinate and collaborate with other PHS supported research programs to prevent duplication and enhance overall efforts. B. CDC Activities 1. Collaborate as appropriate with recipient in all stages of the project. 2. Provide programmatic and technical assistance. 3. Participate in improving program performance through consultation based on information and activities of other projects. 4. Provide scientific collaboration. 5. At the request of the applicant, assign Federal personnel in lieu of a portion of the financial assistance to assist with developing the curriculum and training, or conducting other specific necessary activities. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be evaluated through a dual review process. The first review will be a peer evaluation of the scientific and technical merit of the application conducted by the Prevention Centers Grant Review Committee. The second review will be conducted by senior Federal staff, who will consider the results of the first review, national program needs, and relevance to the mission of CDC. Awards will be made based on priority score rankings by the peer review, recommendations based upon program review by senior Federal staff, and the availability of funds. A. The Prevention Center Grants Program Objective Review Committee may recommend approval or disapproval based on the intent of the application and the following criteria: 1. Prevention Center Theme (5 points) The extent to which the theme will result in innovative approaches or interventions to meet health priorities, emerging health needs, health needs of an identified demographic group, or combination thereof. 2. Overall Program Plan (15 points) The extent to which the overall program plan has clear objectives that are specific, measurable, and realistic, and makes effective use of Center resources to advance the Center's theme. 3. Specific Project Plans (55 points) The technical and scientific merits of the proposed projects, the potential to achieve the stated objectives and the extent to which the applicant's plans are consistent with the purpose of the program. a. Core activities (10 points) b. Demonstration projects (20 points) c. Collaborative project with State/local health or education department (15 points) d. Prevention Research Training (10 points) 4. Evaluation Plan (5 points) The extent to which the overall prevention center theme and objectives will be evaluated in regard to progress, efficacy, and cost benefit. 5. Management and Staffing Plan (15 points) The extent to which the applicant demonstrates the ability and capacity to carry out the overall theme, objectives, and specific project plans. 6. Institutionalization Plan (5 Points) The Center's plan for institutionalization of the prevention center within the parent organization. 7. Budget (not scored). The extent to which the budget and justification are consistent with the program objectives and purpose. Centers are strongly urged to include a plan for obtaining additional resources that lead to institutionalization of the Center. B. Review by senior Federal staff Further review will be conducted by Senior Federal staff. Factors to be considered will be: 1. Results of the peer review. 2. Program needs and relevance to national goals. 3. Budgetary considerations.
