FR941003-1-00069 FR941003-1-00006 (c) Timing. Section 106 requires the Agency Official to complete the Section 106 process prior to the approval of the expenditure of any Federal funds on the undertaking or prior to the issuance of any license or permit. This does not bar an Agency Official from expending funds on, or authorizing, nondestructive project planning activities preparatory to an undertaking before complying with Section 106, provided that such expenditures or activities do not restrict the consideration of alternatives to avoid or mitigate adverse effects on historic properties. The Agency Official shall ensure that the Section 106 process is initiated early in the planning stages of the undertaking, when the widest feasible range of alternatives is open for consideration. The Agency Official shall establish a schedule for completing the Section 106 process that is consistent with the planning schedule for the undertaking, the conduct of reviews required under other authorities (See ยง800.20), and the final approval of the undertaking. (d) Relation of the Section 106 process to agency preservation programs under Section 110. Section 110(a) of the Act requires a Federal agency to establish a preservation program for the identification, evaluation, and nomination of historic properties to the National Register and the protection of such properties. Agency procedures for compliance with Section 106 are a required element of such a program. Section 110 further requires that agency Section 106 procedures be consistent with this part. Subpart B of this part sets forth standards and procedures for determining consistency. The Council encourages agencies to develop their Section 110 procedures as soon as possible. Unless or until an agency has formally adopted its procedures and completed the process for substitution, including Council review (ยง800.3(c)), this part governs the actions taken by an agency to take into account the effects of a proposed undertaking on historic properties and afford the Council a reasonable opportunity to comment in accordance with Section 106 of the Act. (e) Participants in the Section 106 process ._(1) Agency Official. The Agency Official with jurisdiction over an undertaking has legal responsibility for complying with Section 106. It is the Agency Official's responsibility to determine whether the agency's proposed action is an undertaking; establish an undertaking's area of potential effect; identify and evaluate potentially affected historic properties; assess an undertaking's likely effect upon them; seek and consider alternatives to avoid or reduce any adverse effects upon historic properties; decide upon an appropriate resolution of adverse effects; and afford the Council its comment opportunity. (i) Assistance by non-Federal parties. The Agency Official may use the services of grantees, applicants, consultants, or designees to prepare the necessary information and analyses, but remains legally responsible for Section 106 compliance, including all determinations charged to the Agency Official under this part. If any document or study is prepared by a consultant or contractor for purposes of compliance with Section 106 and this part, the Agency Official shall furnish guidance and shall independently evaluate the document prior to its approval, taking responsibility for its scope and contents. (ii) Multiple agencies involved in an undertaking. If more than one Federal agency is involved in an undertaking, each agency has the responsibility for compliance with Section 106 and this part. The Council and the Federal agencies, in consultation with the Council, may mutually agree to designate a lead Federal agency. The lead Federal agency shall identify the appropriate official to serve as Agency Official for the purposes of this part. Assumption of lead agency status carries with it the responsibility to act on behalf of all participating Federal agencies during Section 106 review, addressing their collective responsibilities under Section 106 and this part. Designation of one agency as lead Federal agency does not abrogate the other Federal agencies' responsibilities to participate in the negotiation process if the Council deems it necessary, and to comply with the requirements of Section 106 and this part. (2) State Historic Preservation Officer. The State Historic Preservation Officer coordinates State participation in the implementation of the National Historic Preservation Act and is a key participant in the Section 106 process. The role of the State Historic Preservation Officer is to consult with and assist the Agency Official in identifying historic properties, assessing effects upon them, and considering and deciding upon the resolution of adverse effects. The State Historic Preservation Officer reflects the interests of the State and its citizens in the preservation of their cultural heritage and helps the Agency Official identify parties interested in an undertaking, effects upon historic properties, and alternatives that may avoid or reduce adverse effects upon historic properties. (3) Council. The Council is responsible for promulgating regulations to implement Section 106 in its entirety, consulting with and commenting to the Agency Official on an undertaking that affects historic properties, interpreting this part, and generally overseeing the operation of the Section 106 process. The Council may participate at any point in the Section 106 process at its own initiative. (4) Interested parties. (i) Interested parties are those individuals and organizations that are identified by the Agency Official or who indicate to the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer or the Council in accordance with this part their concern with the effects of an undertaking on historic properties. If the State Historic Preservation Officer or the Council receive notification from interested parties, they shall notify the Agency Official. This part requires that particular interested parties be invited to participate in the Section 106 process under certain circumstances. In addition, whenever the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, and the Council, if participating, agree that active participation of an interested party will advance the objectives of Section 106, they may invite that party to participate. Anyone who wishes to participate in the Section 106 process as an interested party should notify the Agency Official in writing and make the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Council aware of that request. (ii) Interested parties may include: (A) Local governments. Local governments are encouraged to take an active role in the Section 106 process when undertakings affect historic properties within their jurisdiction. When a local government has legal responsibility for Section 106 compliance under programs such as the Community Development Block Grant Program, participation as the Agency Official is required. When no such legal responsibility exists, units of local government may request to participate in the Section 106 process. (B) Applicants for Federal assistance, permits, and licenses. When the undertaking is proposed by an applicant for Federal assistance or for a Federal permit or license, the applicant may participate in the Section 106 process in the manner prescribed in this part.
