FR940216-0-00089 FR940216-0-00010 Certain NO X controls for heavy-duty highway and nonroad vehicles are likely to be as or more cost effective as a 6.8% NO X reduction standard. EPA is in the process of developing and studying such controls. However, as discussed in subsection 2.b, heavy-duty NO X controls cannot be implemented without mandatory leadtime provisions, and thus the benefits of these controls will not be realized for many years beyond implementation of the Phase II RFG standards. In addition, all heavy-duty mobile source NO X control strategies that have not yet been implemented or are not already under consideration are likely to be very costly. NO X control combined with the reformulated gasoline program is very reasonable by contrast. The comparative cost-effectiveness to stationary source NO X emission controls is based on control strategies suggested for utility boilers. 36 In ozone nonattainment areas, standards are being considered that will require controls more stringent than suggested by reasonably achievable control technology (RACT) standards. The RACT standards will likely be met through the use of low NO X burner technology. This technology has a relatively low cost-effectiveness at up to $1,000/ton, but the achievable emissions reduction is limited. In order to attain the required level of control for utilities to meet the ozone air quality standard in many areas, additional controls will likely be required, especially by the year 2000. One of the likely strategies utilized will be selective catalytic reduction (SCR) which is estimated to cost $3,000&hyph;$10,000/ton NO X . 36 ``Evaluation and Costing of NO X Controls for Existing Utility Boilers in the NESCAUM Region''; Draft Report prepared by Acurex Corp., prepared for Bill Neuffer, OAQPS, U.S. EPA, October 1992. 3. Final VOC Standards and NO X Standards To reduce the cost to the industry of complying with the Phase I and Phase II RFG standards, EPA had proposed granting refiners the option of meeting the VOC and the air toxics emission standards on an averaging basis rather than requiring compliance on a per gallon basis. However, the NO X emissions standards had to be met on a per gallon basis rather than on an average basis. Several comments received on the NO X standard expressed a desire for the allowance of NO X averaging as well as a per gallon standard. According to these comments NO X averaging would provide greater flexibility to refiners, and was consistent with the Reg-Neg agreement. One comment stated that NO X averaging would not cause air quality concerns, while a per gallon NO X standard (even at no NO X increase) would impose substantial constraints on VOC. NO X averaging would provide the industry with greater flexibility in meeting the NO X standard for Phase II RFG. In addition, the cost-effectiveness analysis is inherently based on averaging (since the costs are derived based on regional refinery models). Hence, EPA has elected to allow both a per gallon and an averaging standard for NO X emissions under the Phase II RFG program. As discussed in section VII, the Phase II averaging standard for NO X is set 1.3 percentage points more stringent than the per gallon standard (slightly smaller than the increment for VOC and air toxics). A minimum per gallon standard (under averaging) will be set at 4 percentage points below the averaging standard, following the precedent set with the VOC standard for Phase I RFG. Based on all of the factors discussed above, as well as the results of the regulatory impact analysis, EPA today is setting VOC reduction standards for Phase II reformulated gasoline and concurrent NO X reduction standards for gasoline sold in areas participating in the RFG program beginning in the year 2000. (The toxics standard is discussed below in subsection 4.) The standards are shown in Table VI&hyph;3 below. The combination of fuel parameters on which the standards are based is just one of many fuel formulations which could be used to achieve the standards. From EPA's analysis of cost-effectiveness, however, it is clear that RVP control and sulfur control are expected to be the basic fuel parameter changes that refiners will rely on to comply with these standards. At the same time, it must be stressed that today's standards are performance standards which may be met by the refiner's choice of fuel parameter controls; EPA is not establishing specifications for fuel composition. Specific issues concerning these final standards are discussed in the following sections. Table VI&hyph; 3._ VOC Standards for Phase II Reformulated Gasoline and NO X Reduction Standards [Percent Reduction in Emissions] 1Controlled emission 1VOC control region 1 1VOC control region 2 VOC: Per gallon 127.5 25.9 Averaging 29.0 27.4 Minimum 25.0 23.4 NO X : Per gallon 5.5 5.5 Averaging 6.8 6.8 Minimum 3.0 3.0 1Reductions relative to a base fuel with RVP at 7.8 psi on a per gallon basis would be 17.2% for VOC and 5.3% for NO X . a. Flexibility for refiners. The VOC and NO X standards presented in Table VI&hyph;3 were determined assuming both controls were necessary. Were EPA not to set a NO X standard, there may be greater flexibility to further control RVP for the purposes of VOC control. As shown in Table VI&hyph;1, for the purposes of VOC control RVP to 6.5 and sulfur to 250 ppm would achieve a reduction of 27.2% in VOC control region 2, at an incremental cost-effectiveness of $3,700/ton VOC (or less than $600/ton incremental to the Phase I reductions). This is nearly the same level of reduction achieved with RVP at 6.7 psi and sulfur reductions to 138 ppm under the combined VOC and NO X standards. Various comments questioned basing the VOC standard on a gasoline RVP of 6.5 psi, due to potential driveability problems with fuels at lower RVPs (which refiners will produce on occasion to meet the average standard). Commenters were concerned that the VOC standard would reduce the flexibility available to refiners by essentially requiring all RFG to have an RVP of 6.5 psi. As discussed previously, EPA currently believes that 6.5 psi RVP is a practical limit in the reduction of gasoline volatility, due to the lack of information at the present time to ascertain whether or not driveability problems exist below that level. In the absence of NO X control, EPA believes that adequate flexibility would still exist for refiners to meet a VOC performance standard based on the control of RVP down to 6.5 psi, since some flexibility still exists in adjusting sulfur and olefin levels. However, in the context of a NO X standard this flexibility is greatly reduced.
