FR940928-0-00053 FR940928-0-00019 (5) for any manufacturer or private labeler to distribute in commerce any new covered product which is not in conformity with an applicable energy conservation standard established in or prescribed under this part. The maximum penalties are $100 for each violation. Each violation of (1), (2) and (5), above, shall constitute a separate violation with respect to each covered product, and each day of violation of (3) and (4), above, shall constitute a separate violation. III. Environmental Review Pursuant to section 7(c)(2) of the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93&hyph;275), a copy of this notice has been submitted to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency for comment concerning the impact of this proposal on the quality of the environment. Since test procedures are used to standardize the measurement of energy usage, and will not affect the quality or distribution of energy usage, prescribing test procedures will not result in any environmental impacts. The Department of Energy, therefore, has determined that prescribing test procedures under the Program is not a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. This Rulemaking, which amends existing part 430 of title 10, will not change the environmental effect of such regulation, and is an item which is ``categorically excluded (A6)'' by the Department of Energy's regulations on National Environmental Policy Act Implementing Procedures (10 CFR part 1021) (57 FR 15122, April 24, 1992) (Appendix A to subpart D, Categorical Exclusion A6.). Consequently, neither an Environmental Impact Statement nor an Environmental Assessment is required for this rule. IV. Regulatory Planning and Review Today's regulatory action has been determined not to be a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993). Accordingly, today's action was not subject to review under the Executive Order by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs. V. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;345) (5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612) requires that an agency prepare an initial regulatory flexibility analysis and that it be published at the time the Interim Final Rule is published. This requirement (which appears in section 603) does not apply if the agency ``certifies that the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.'' This rule affects manufacturers of general service fluorescent and incandescent lamps. As previously discussed, the test procedures would not have significant economic impact, but rather, would provide common testing methods. Therefore, the Department of Energy certifies that this rule, if promulgated, would not have a ``significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.'' VI. Federalism Review Executive Order 12612 (52 FR 41685, October 30, 1987) requires that regulations or rules be reviewed for any substantial direct effects on States, on the relationship between the Federal Government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among various levels of government. If there are sufficient substantial direct effects, then Executive Order 12612 requires preparation of a federalism assessment to be used in all decisions involved in promulgating and implementing a regulation or a rule. The Department of Energy has identified a substantial direct effect that today's Interim Final Rule would have on State governments. It would initially preempt inconsistent State regulations. However, the Department of Energy has concluded that such effect is not sufficient to warrant preparation of a federalism assessment for the following reason: The Act provides for subsequent State petitions for exemption. Thus, a determination as to whether a State law prevails must be made on a case-by-case basis using criteria set forth in the Act. When the Department of Energy receives such a petition, it will then be appropriate to consider preparing a federalism assessment consistent with the criteria in the Act.
