FR940318-1-00015 FR940318-1-00004 Further, PMI's who work with smaller operators would not see sufficient data to give them the assurance that an expanded leak check interval for any valve is justified. Since failure threshold criteria and definitive leak/failure rate data do not exist for the majority of the subject valves, it is essential that the FAA, at the ACO level, have feedback as to the leak and failure rates experienced in the field. Although the PMI's serve as the FAA's critical link with the operators (and their oversight responsibilities will not be minimized by this AD action), it is the staff of the ACO that provides the engineering support necessary to evaluate whether increases in repeat leak check intervals will maintain an acceptable level of safety. Additionally, given that possible new relevant issues might be revealed during the approval process, it is imperative that the engineering staff at the ACO have such feedback. Relationship of Leak Checks to Certification Maintenance Requirements (CMR) Several commenters state that, because this proposal is considered to be a model for future AD actions applicable to other airplanes (presumably including newly-delivered aircraft that will be configured with similar in-line drain valves), the adoption of proposed paragraph (a) will require repetitive leak checks on all newly delivered aircraft. The commenters view this as ``tantamount to issuing a certification maintenance requirement (CMR)'' via the AD process. The FAA does not concur. CMR items are intended to be repetitive inspections or component replacements for equipment, systems, and installations. Accomplishment of CMR items would ensure that the statistical probability of certain failures that could occur during operation of the airplane does not exceed the limitations specified in ยง25.1309 (``Equipment, systems, and installations'') of the FAR, which is applicable to the design and approval of transport category airplanes. Further, CMR items are based on statistical safety analyses of airplane electrical, electronic, hydraulic, pressurization, and propulsion systems. These analyses must be completed by the manufacturer and approved by the FAA prior to the issuance of an airplane Type Certificate (TC). Following issuance of the TC, those inspections, component replacements, or overhaul interval requirements for airplane systems that are based on in-service experience with the airplane, but that do not result in re-evaluation of the basic statistical analysis on which approval of the system is based, do not qualify as CMR items. The leak check schedule proposed in this notice is not related to compliance of the airplane design with the statistical evaluation requirements of FAR ยง25.1309 for equipment, systems, and installations. For this reason, the proposed leak checks do not qualify as a CMR item. The intent of the proposed leak checks is to address the unsafe condition presented by the problems associated with blue ice; the appropriate vehicle for mandating actions to address an unsafe condition is the airworthiness directive. Compliance Time for Proposed Maintenance Program Change Several commenters request that the proposed 30-day compliance time for revising the operators' FAA-approved maintenance programs be extended to 180 days. The commenters consider that the proposed time is too short, since implementing such a revision will require addition work hours, personnel, and material. The FAA concurs. In view of the increased scope of the proposed changes to the maintenance program, the FAA has revised paragraph (b) to require compliance within 180 days. This will allow operators adequate time to implement the required revisions to the maintenance program, both logistically and administratively. It will also provide time for the development of the necessary training programs and the training of personnel in the new procedures.
