FR940419-0-00085 FR940419-0-00019 4. Federal rules which may duplicate, overlap, or conflict with the rule . The EPA reviewed the FAR coverage on organizational conflicts of interest and rights in data, which this rule supplements. The FAR requires Contracting Officers to identify and evaluate potential organizational conflicts of interest before contract award and to avoid, neutralize or mitigate significant potential conflicts. This rule fulfills and is consistent with these requirements. In addition, this rule will address limitations on a firm's other contracting efforts during contract performance, and in some cases after completion of the work assignment or other similar tasking document, or after performance of the EPA work contract. The FAR also recognizes that Federal agencies may restrict a contractor's right to distribute or use data first produced in performance of a contract when necessary in the furtherance of the agency mission objectives. The rule's requirement for contractor employees working under Superfund contracts to sign confidentiality agreements restricting release of contract data and other information generally conforms to these FAR requirements. The EPA also reviewed FAR subpart 9.5 Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest which deals with conflict of interest standards for advisory and assistance service contracts and marketing consultants to contractors. The EPA rule specifically addresses EPA contracts and subcontracts under the Superfund program. Although the FAR guidance and the EPA rule have the same general objectives of identifying, avoiding mitigating, and neutralizing conflicts of interest, the EPA provisions include reporting requirements to ensure that conflicts of interest are reviewed not only prior to contract award, but also during the period of contract performance and after contract performance to ensure enforcement actions are not jeopardized. It is only in this way that EPA can examine whether a contractor's work efforts, which may be initiated during the EPA contract performance period or in some cases thereafter, may present an unacceptable risk to the Agency. This rule does not duplicate, overlap, or conflict with other Federal rules. 5. Alternatives to the rule . EPA considered alternatives to the final rule, such as establishing different compliance or reporting requirements or simplifying the requirements for small entities. EPA also considered exempting small entities from all or part of the rule. EPA concluded that the stated objectives cannot be met under such alternatives. An undisclosed conflict of interest poses the same risk to EPA whether it is a conflict involving a large or small business contractor. EPA believes the final rule, along with other established internal controls within the Agency, will avoid actual or potential conflicts of interest that may jeopardize future actions by the Agency. List of Subjects in 48 CFR Parts 1501, 1509, 1510, 1512, 1527 and 1552 General contract clauses, Contract delivery or performance, Contractor qualifications, Copyrights, Data, Government procurement, Patents, Purchase descriptions, Solicitation provisions, Specifications, Standards. Dated: April 7, 1994. Betty L. Bailey, Director, Office of Acquisition Management. For the reasons set out in the preamble, Chapter 15 of Title 48 Code of Federal Regulations is amended as set forth below: 1. The authority citation for parts 1501, 1509, 1510, 1512, 1527, and 1552 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 205(c), 63 Stat. 390, as amended, 40 U.S.C. 486(c). (a) Section 1501.370 is revised to read as follows: ยง1501.370 OMB control numbers. The information collection activities contained in the EPAAR sections listed below have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and have been issued OMB numbers in accordance with section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq.
