FR940429-0-00223 FR940429-0-00015 Discussion: The Secretary does not intend for this requirement to be burdensome to institutions. This provision merely requires an institution with a placement service to document that the institution does what it claims to do_namely, place students in jobs. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters objected to the requirement that an institution establish and maintain records that support the educational qualifications of each regular student admitted to the institution whether or not that student receives Title IV, HEA program assistance, that are relevant to the institution's admission standards. Both commenters believed that institutions should only be required to establish and maintain summary or aggregate information on the educational qualifications of students admitted to the institution. This aggregate data would be available to the Secretary only if the Secretary could demonstrate a compelling need to review the information. Discussion: The Secretary believes this provision is necessary to establish whether an institution is in compliance with the statutory admission requirements of sections 1201(a) and 481(b) and (c) of the HEA for purposes of institutional eligibility and participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters urged the Secretary to include a requirement that institutions retain records documenting whether and when a student completes his or her educational program. This information is needed to verify completion rates. Discussion: The Secretary has taken these comments under consideration, but concluded that other regulatory provisions governing the completion rate calculations contain requirements to retain documentation to support the computations. Changes: None. Section 668.24␣Audit Exceptions and Repayments Comments: Two commenters supported the Secretary's proposed requirement for a third-party servicer to notify all institutions for which the servicer provides the same service, in addition to those institutions under whose contract the servicer incurred a liability for a Title IV, HEA program violation. Other commenters felt that this requirement was excessively broad. Several of these commenters argued that this requirement would unnecessarily damage a third-party servicer's reputation. Several commenters noted that the Secretary's proposed notification requirements were not all that different from full notification of all institutions with which the servicer contracts. One commenter suggested that third-party servicers should be required to notify institutions receiving the same service for which the servicer owes a liability only if that liability is material. One commenter recommended that a third-party servicer that is assessed a liability should have a reasonable amount of time to provide the notification to the servicer's clients. Another commenter was of the opinion that the Secretary notify all of the institutions with which the servicer contracts of the Secretary's determination at the same time that the servicer is notified. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenters that objected to the notification requirements. If a third-party servicer is assessed liability for a violation of a Title IV, HEA program requirement, any institution for which the servicer provides the same service in which the violation was found is potentially at risk as a result of the servicer's actions. Obviously, each institution under whose contract the servicer committed a violation should be notified because the Secretary holds that institution responsible for the full amount of the liability. In addition, each institution that contracts with the servicer for the same service in which the violation was found should also be informed of the servicer's violation. The Secretary believes that an institution that receives the same service should be informed of the servicer's violation of any Title IV, HEA program requirement because the servicer may commit a similar violation at that institution and the institution could be held liable for that violation. This notice will also allow an institution to take corrective action without waiting for formal action by the Secretary. With respect to the commenter who was concerned that third-party servicers should have a reasonable amount of time in which to notify affected institutions of the Secretary's determination to assess a liability against the servicer, the Secretary does not believe that that time frame needs to be quantified. Servicers are expected promptly to notify affected institutions of the Secretary's determination because those institutions are also responsible for violations committed by their servicers. Servicers that fail to notify institutions may jeopardize an institution's ability to provide information to show that questioned expenditures were proper or take corrective action to mitigate violations caused by a third-party servicer. In reviewing a third-party servicer's appeal of the Secretary's determination, the Secretary will take into consideration whether or not the servicer notified affected institutions promptly of the Secretary's determination. The Secretary does not agree that it is necessary for the Department of Education to provide notice to all of the institutions with which a third-party servicer contracts if that servicer is assessed a liability. A third-party servicer, as a responsible agent of an institution, has an obligation to keep that institution informed of any developments that might possibility jeopardize the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. If the Secretary seeks to assess liability against an institution for a third-party servicer's conduct, he will provide the appropriate notice to the affected institution. Changes: None.
