FR940503-0-00045 FR940503-0-00009 (vii) The laboratory's procedures for achieving traceability of measurements; (viii) The laboratory's scope of calibrations and/or tests; (ix) Arrangements for ensuring that the laboratory reviews all new work to ensure that it has the appropriate facilities and resources before commencing such work; (x) Reference to the calibration, verification and/or test procedures used; (xi) Procedures for handling calibration and test items; (xii) Reference to the major equipment and reference measurement standards used; (xiii) Reference to procedures for calibration, verification and maintenance of equipment; (xiv) Reference to verification practices including interlaboratory comparisons, proficiency testing programs, use of reference materials and internal quality control schemes; (xv) Procedures to be followed for feedback and corrective action whenever discrepancies are detected, or departures from documented policies and procedures occur; (xvi) The laboratory management policies for departures from documented policies and procedures or from standard specifications; (xvii) Procedures for dealing with complaints; (xviii) Procedures for protecting confidentiality and proprietary rights; (xix) Procedures for audit and review. (3) The laboratory shall arrange for audits of its activities at appropriate intervals to verify that its operations continue to comply with the requirements of the quality system. Such audits shall be carried out by trained and qualified staff who are, wherever possible, independent of the activity to be audited. Where the audit findings cast doubt on the correctness or validity of the laboratory's calibration or test results, the laboratory shall take immediate corrective action and shall immediately notify, in writing, any client whose work may have been affected. (4) The quality system adopted to satisfy the requirements of this section shall be reviewed at least once each year by the management to ensure its continuing suitability and effectiveness and to introduce any necessary changes or improvements. (5) All audit and review findings and any corrective actions that arise from them shall be documented. The person responsible for quality shall ensure that these actions are discharged within the agreed timescale. (6) In addition to periodic audits the laboratory shall ensure the quality of results provided to clients by implementing checks. These checks shall be reviewed and shall include, as appropriate but not be limited to: (i) Internal quality control schemes using whenever possible statistical techniques; (ii) Participation in proficiency testing or other interlaboratory comparisons; (iii) Regular use of certified reference materials and/or in_house quality control using secondary reference materials; (iv) Replicate testings using the same or different methods; (v) Re-testing of retained items; (vi) Correlation of results for different characteristics of an item. (d) Personnel. (1) The testing laboratory shall have sufficient personnel, having the necessary education, training, technical knowledge and experience for their assigned functions. (2) The testing laboratory shall ensure that the training of its personnel is kept up-to-date. (3) Records on the relevant qualifications, training, skills and experience of the technical personnel shall be maintained by the laboratory. (e) Accommodation and environment. (1) Laboratory accommodation, calibration and test areas, energy sources, lighting, heating and ventilation shall be such as to facilitate proper performance of calibrations or tests. (2) The environment in which these activities are undertaken shall not invalidate the results or adversely affect the required accuracy of measurement. Particular care shall be taken when such activities are undertaken at sites other than the permanent laboratory premises.
