FR941004-1-00095 FR941004-1-00018 Section 1357.15(s)␣Significant Portion of Funds Used for Family Support and Family Preservation Services We are proposing in §1357.15(s) that the State (not the Indian tribes) specify in the CFSP the percentage of FY 1995 and FY 1996 family preservation and family support funds (title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2) that the State will expend for each type of service. States should provide an explanation for how this distribution was reached and how it meets the requirement that a ``significant portion'' of the service funds must be spent for both family preservation and family support services. Paragraph (s) is based on a statutory requirement in section 432(a)(4) of the Act which provides that a ``significant portion'' of the service expenditures must be used for family preservation services and family support services. While there is no minimum percentage that defines significant, we have proposed that the State's rationale will need to be especially strong if the request for either allocation is below 25 percent. We considered a number of alternatives based on recommendations from focus group participants and others: •That we require the State to allocate equal amounts or a fixed amount for both family preservation and family support services; •That we prescribe a certain amount to be spent on each service and require States to pass through the family support allocation directly to CBOs to provide family support services; •That a minimum of a third of the service dollars be used for family support; a third for family preservation; and the remainder for either family support services, family preservation services or a combination of the approaches depending on the needs of the State and community; and •That we allow the State agency to have complete flexibility to decide how to expend the funds. We recognize that there are differences among the States in the level at which States and communities are operating services programs. We also recognize that the needs of families and children are not identical in all jurisdictions. Therefore, our proposal reflects our desire to provide flexibility to accommodate a wide range of differences among States, to reflect the legislative history, and to strike a reasonable balance that assures the requirements of the Act are met. Section 1357.15(t) Staff Training, Technical Assistance and Evaluation Section 1357.15(t)(1), is based on section 422(b) of the Act. We are proposing that States include in the CFSP a staff development and training plan which addresses the two title IV&hyph;B programs. This training plan must also be combined with the training plan under title IV&hyph;E based on 45 CFR 1356.60(b)(2). In paragraph (t)(2), we have proposed that the technical assistance activities that will be undertaken to support the goals and objectives in the plan be described in the CFSP. In paragraph (t)(3), we propose that the State's CFSP provide a description of any evaluation and/or research activities on child and family services, underway or planned, and how they relate to the goals and objective in the CFSP. On-going training and technical assistance activities are critical to support the continuous improvement efforts under the five-year CFSP. Focus group participants recommended training for the entire staff for the child and family services agency in order to implement the new vision and the principles of child and family services, including county administrators, supervisors, front-line staff, foster parents, State administrators, and volunteers who provide services. Furthermore, they emphasized the importance of interdisciplinary training, particularly including the courts which carry out requirements related to child protective services, foster care and permanency planning. Regarding our proposal for information on evaluations in paragraph (t)(3), we want to emphasize that States are not required to conduct evaluations and/or research activities related to the CFSP. We know, however, that some States are conducting such activities, and we are interested in learning about these. We know, for example, that a few States use CAPTA funds for research activities and a few States are undertaking studies to evaluate family preservation services. Section 435 of the law requires the Department to conduct national evaluations on the effectiveness of family preservation and family support programs. The Department has recently released an RFP for three national evaluation studies. To the extent feasible, we intend to coordinate these national evaluation projects with evaluations being conducted by States, and we look forward to the States' participation in the national studies. We also encourage States to participate in a GAO study currently underway to collect information for a report to Congress on family support and family preservation.
