FR940404-2-00193 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the First Meeting of the Intergovernmental Committee for the Convention on Biological Diversity (ICCBD), United Nations Environment Program, Geneva, October 11&hyph;15, 1993 Representative Rafe Pomerance, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Alternate Representative Brooks Yeager, Director, Office of Policy Analysis, Department of Interior Advisers Melinda P. Chandler, Oceans, International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State Harlan Cohen, Office of Environment, Science and Technology, United States Mission to the United Nations, Geneva Luther V. Giddings, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture Francesca Grifo, International Cooperative Biodiversity Groups Program, Fogarty International Center, National Institutes of Health Thomas Hourigan, Office of International Donor Programs, Agency for International Development Twig Johnson, Director, Office of Environment and Natural Resources, Research and Development Bureau, Agency for International Development Jeffrey P. Kushan, U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce Franklin Moore, Office of International Activities, Environmental Protection Agency Arthur Paterson, International Liaison Staff, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Peter O. Thomas, Office of Ecology and Terrestrial Conservation, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Robert Ward, Office of the General Counsel, International Activities Division, Environmental Protection Agency Private Sector Advisers John M. Fitzgerald, Director of Wildlife Law, Defenders of Wildlife, Washington, DC Edward T. Lentz, Vice President, Director, Corporate Intellectual Property, SmithKline Beacham, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Doanld Maclauchlen, International Resource Director, International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the International Lead and Zinc Study Group (ILZSG), 38th Annual Meeting, Berlin, October 14&hyph;19, 1993 Representative David A. Larrabee, Lead and Zinc Industry Specialist, Office of Materials, Machinery, and Chemicals, Department of Commerce Alternate Representative David C. Chang, International Economist, Office of International Commodities, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Adviser James F. Carlin, Jr., Commodity Specialist, Bureau of Mines, Department of the Interior Private Sector Advisers Richard Bauer, Vice President, Eastern Alloys, Maybrook, New York Salvatore P. Ciccolella, Vice President, Commercial, Big River Minerals Corporation, Saint Louis, Missouri James M. Cowley, Director, Concentrate Sales, Kennecott Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah Robert A. Flake, President, Metal Operations, Dresser Industries, Houston, Texas Stanley Neomonitis, Clarendon Limited, Stamford, Connecticut Larry Stoehr, Sales Manager, The Doe Run Company, Saint Louis, Missouri United States Delegation to the First Meeting of the Permanent Consultative Committee I, Inter-American Telecommunications Commission (CITEL), Rio de Janierio, Brazil, October 18&hyph;26, 1993 Representative Gary M. Fereno, Director for CITEL and ITU&hyph;T Standards Policy, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, Department of State Alternate Representative William Moran, Policy Specialist, National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce Advisers Patricia Cooper, Telecommunications Industry Analyst, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce Douglas V. Davis, Attorney/Adviser, Federal Communications Commission Robert G. Stephens, International Policy Analyst, Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Private Sector Advisers Cynthia Baur, Consultant, Department of Communication, University of California, San Diego, California Raymond Crowell, Director, Strategic Planning, COMSAT Corporation, Washington, DC David Fine, Manager, Standards and Development, Southwest Bell Corporation, Washington, DC Ileana Fleites-LaSalle, Senior Market Planner, AT&T, Holmdel, New Jersey Thomas J. Plevyak, Manager, International Studies, Bell Atlantic Corporation, Arlington, Virginia
