FR941122-1-00015 FR941122-1-00001 PART 274_ISSUANCE AND USE OF COUPONS §274.12 [Amended] 4. In §274.12, paragraphs (k)(2) and (k)(3) are removed and paragraphs (k)(4) through (k)(6) are redesignated as paragraphs (k)(2) through (k)(4) respectively. PART 277_PAYMENT OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES 5. In §277.4: a. Paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(10), (b)(11), and (b)(12) are removed; b. Paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(9) are designated as paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) respectively; c. The second sentence in newly redesignated paragraph (b)(7) is revised; and d. New paragraph (g) is added. The revision and addition reads as follows: §277.4 Funding. * * * * * (b) Federal Reimbursement Rate *␣*␣* (7) *␣*␣* The rates of Federal funding for the activities identified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section shall not be reduced based upon the agency's payment error rate. * * * * * (g) Investigations of authorized retail or wholesale food concerns when performed in coordination with the USDA Office of Inspector General and FNS shall be funded at the 50 percent Federal reimbursement rate. * * * * * 6. In §277.9, paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: §277.9 Administrative Costs Principles. * * * * * (b) The incremental cost of certifying AFDC households for Food Stamp Program benefits are allowable costs for FNS reimbursement. * * * * * 7. In §277.11, a new paragraph (d) is added to read as follows: §277.11 Financial Reporting Requirements. * * * * * (d) Time Limit for State Agencies to File Claims. (1) After the deadline in paragraph (c)(4) of this section for the final Form SF&hyph;269 report, State agencies shall use the Form SF&hyph;270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement, as needed within three years of the end of the Federal fiscal year to amend a prior expenditure report pertaining to such Federal fiscal year. The three-year reporting deadline may be extended by FNS if litigation, an audit, or a claim is unresolved at the end of the three-year period. The SF&hyph;270 shall be used to amend prior expenditure reports, and to request reimbursement for any additional funding due or to pay back to FNS any inadvertent prior overclaim. Requests for reimbursement will only be honored if the claim is filed within the timeframe in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. FNS reserves the right to bill State agencies for amounts due FNS due to an overclaim even if no SF&hyph;270 has been submitted. (2) Subject to the availability of funds from the appropriation for the year in which the expenditure was incurred, FNS may reimburse State agencies for an allowable expenditure only if the State agency files a claim with FNS for that expenditure within two years after the calendar quarter in which the State agency obligated the funds. FNS will consider non-cash expenditures such as depreciation to have been made in the quarter the expenditure was recorded in the accounting records of the State agency in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. (3) For Automated Data Processing (ADP) expenditures approved under §277.18(c), subject to the availability of funds and required FNS approval related to the Advance Planning Document, FNS may reimburse State agencies for allowable expenditures at the appropriate rate in effect at the time the equipment or service was received only if the State agency files for a claim with FNS within two years after the calendar quarter in which the funds were obligated. FNS will consider non-cash expenditures such as depreciation to have been made in the quarter the expenditure was recorded in the accounting records of the State agency in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. (4) Waiver requests for an extension of the deadline in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section may be granted by FNS only if the request was submitted in writing to FNS prior to the applicable deadline. The State agency's request for a waiver must include a specific explanation, justification, and documentation of why the claim will be late and when the claim will be filed. (5) The time limits in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section will not apply to any of the following: (i) Any claim for an adjustment to prior year costs previously claimed under an interim rate concept; (ii) Any claim resulting from an audit exception; (iii) Any claim resulting from a court-ordered retroactive payment. However, this provision does not bind FNS to a State or Federal decision when FNS was not a party to the action; (iv) Any claim for which FNS determines there was good cause for the State agency's not filing it within the time limit. Good cause is lateness due to circumstances beyond the State agency's control such as Acts of God or documented action or inaction of the Federal Government. It does not include neglect or administrative inadequacy on the part of the State, State agency, legislature, or any of their offices or employees.
