FR940222-1-00007 FR940222-1-00002 C. Risks of Nontraditional Activities Summary of Comments The agencies received 69 comment letters on nontraditional activities, with some duplication among the agencies. Many commenters believed that it would be very difficult to create a definitive list of activities that should be considered nontraditional. Some commenters indicated that the risks of nontraditional activities depend on both the activity and the institution involved, and thus that each depository institution should be addressed on a case-by-case basis through the examination process. It was also observed that, while the activities themselves might be new or nontraditional, the risks of these activities can be segmented into components (e.g., credit risk, interest-rate risk, operating risk) that are normally associated with traditional banking activities. Commenters also raised concerns that explicit capital requirements for nontraditional activities might affect the competitive balance between insured depository institutions and non-bank financial firms such as securities firms. In particular, concern was raised that restricting new activities could limit the ability of banks and thrifts to compete with non-bank competitors, or alternatively restrictions might unduly discourage depository institutions from undertaking otherwise prudent initiatives. Some commenters also indicated that capital standards imposed for an activity should be parallel to standards imposed on non-banks that compete in the same activity. Some commenters expressed concern about the potential risks that arise from inexperience when a smaller or less- sophisticated institution first embarks on a new business venture, while others believed that the activities undertaken by the larger and more experienced institutions present greater risks. Proposed Approach New developments in technology and financial markets have introduced significant changes to the banking industry, and in some cases have led institutions to engage in activities not traditionally considered part of their business. Both in the risk-based capital regulations and guidelines adopted by the agencies in 1989, and in subsequent revisions and interpretations, the agencies have adopted measures to take adequate account of the risks of nontraditional activities under the risk-based capital standards. Thus, to the extent that section 305 constitutes a mandate to the agencies to make certain that risk-based capital standards are kept current with industry practices, the agencies have been acting consistently with section 305. Furthermore, in keeping with section 305, the agencies will continue their efforts to incorporate nontraditional activities into risk-based capital.
