FR940428-2-00142 FR940428-2-00066 Coast Guard [CGD 94&hyph;031] Unified Command and Incident Command System AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of workshop. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will be cosponsoring a workshop on the unified command and Incident Command System on May 20, 1994, in Alexandria, Virginia. The workshop will address issues relating to the unified command and Incident Command System and their use in oil and hazardous substance spill response. This notice announces the date, time and location of the workshop. DATES: The public workshop will be held on May 20, 1994, from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. ADDRESSES: The public workshop will be held at the Best Western Old Colony Inn, 625 1st Street, Alexandria, Virginia. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LCDR Rhae Giacoma, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection (G&hyph;MEP&hyph;4), (202) 267&hyph;2616. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Information The National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (40 CFR Part 300), required to be prepared and published by the President under 33 U.S.C. 1321(d), designated the U.S. Coast Guard and EPA as On-Scene Coordinators (OSCs) for response to oil and hazardous substance spills. The Coast Guard is the designated OSC for coastal zone response; EPA is the designated OSC for the inland zone. Regulations issued by several agencies, including the Coast Guard, EPA and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), govern response efforts to oil and hazardous substance spills. OSHA regulations, ``Rules for Hazardous Waste Operations'' (29 CFR 1910.120), require the implementation of an Incident Command System to effectively control and manage operations at an emergency site. The coverage of these regulations includes cleanup operations involving oil and hazardous substances. Revisions to the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan currently being considered include language describing the national response management structure as a ``unified command triangle'', where the OSC, a state-designated representative and a responsible party representative work together to achieve an effective and efficient response. This unified command response management structure is intended to meet OSHA requirements for an Incident Command System. There are several firefighting-based Incident Command Systems currently in use by local fire fighters around the country that are providing conflicting information as to the correct way to plan for spill response. This has caused confusion for oil and hazardous substance spill response planners attempting to develop an effective response structure. A number of On-Scene Coordinators, in guiding the Area Committees in the development of their Area Contingency Plans for pollution response, are attempting to develop a detailed response structure. Many are looking at the possibility of incorporating one of the firefighting-based Incident Command Systems into the response structure outlined in their Area Contingency Plans. Area Committees have raised questions regarding the best system for oil and hazardous substance spill response, or even whether use of these systems is appropriate. With increasing questions being raised, the Coast Guard and EPA decided to hold a public workshop to discuss the various issues relating to the unified command and Incident Command System and how they relate to oil and hazardous substance spill response. Workshop Format and Schedule The workshop format will consist of a presentation by the Coast Guard and EPA on the national response management structure as outlined in the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan. This will be followed by a question and answer period and open discussion of the various issues relating to the unified command and Incident Command System as they relate to oil and hazardous substance spill response. Dated: April 19, 1994. J.F. McGowan, Captain, U.S. Coast Guard Acting Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10178 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
