FR940805-2-00094 FR940805-2-00056 Draft Policy Statement on Agreement State Program AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Draft policy statement on Agreement State Program. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission staff is releasing the proposed policy statement on the Agreement State Program for public comment. The draft policy statement establishes Agreement State program principles, and describes the respective roles and responsibilities of the NRC and the States in the administration of this program, which is authorized by Section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. Agreement States are States which have assumed regulatory authority from NRC over the possession and use of certain radioactive materials. On August 25, 1993, the Commission requested the NRC staff to recommend improvements to the NRC's Agreement States Program to assure adequate protection of the public health and safety. This draft policy statement responds to the first area the Commission requested be considered, ``improvements in guidance and principles of operations for the Agreement State Program.'' This draft document is an ``umbrella'' policy statement which will serve as broad guidance in delineating the NRC's and the State's respective responsibilities and expectations. In this regard, the NRC especially requests comments on the following: The Commission has proposed that the categories of findings made about adequacy of an Agreement State's program be Adequate, Marginally Adequate and Inadequate. For the Marginally Adequate finding, the NRC action could be either (a) followup reviews, or (b) probation with followup reviews, depending on whether or not NRC were confident that the State would address the program deficiencies in an expeditious and effective manner. Comment is requested as to whether these three categories are appropriately and sufficiently descriptive of the performance, or whether the ``Marginally Adequate'' category needs to be subdivided such that States placed on probation are not identified in the same category as those which are not placed on probation. In addition to the draft proposed ``Statement of Principles and Policy For the Agreement State Program,'' a document provided to the Commission entitled ``Specific Review Area Recommendations,'' and draft internal procedures on the NRC process to be applied when a State agreement is suspended or terminated, also are being made available for public comment. We also request specific comments on the use of 10 CFR Part 2, Subpart L ``Informal Hearing Procedures for Adjudications in Materials and Operator Licensing Proceedings'' for suspension and termination decisions, in lieu of the hearing procedures detailed in the internal procedures published with this Notice for suspension and termination of an agreement, sections V and VI, respectively. The staff is soliciting comments from the Agreement States and the public at this informal stage by publishing the documents and also placing them in the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's Public Document Room located at 2120 L Street, NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. Comment period expires October 4, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it if practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. Mail written comments to: Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, D.C. 20555, Attention: Docketing and Services Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm on Federal workdays. For further information contact Ms. Maria Lopez-Otin, Federal Liaison, Office of State Programs, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 504&hyph;2598. Once the comments are received, the staff will develop a final draft of the policy statement for Commission review. After obtaining Commission approval, the proposed policy statement will once again be issued for a final round of public comment. Two other policy statements continue to be applicable, in large part, but future revisions to these existing policy statements will be necessary to reflect the new ``umbrella'' policy statement. The two existing policy statements are: ``Criteria for Guidance of States and NRC in Discontinuance of NRC Regulatory Authority and Assumption Thereof by States Through Agreement'' (46 FR 7540; January 23, 1981 as amended by policy statements published at 46 FR 36969; July 16, 1981 and 48 FR 33376, July 21, 1983) and ``NRC Review of Agreement State Radiation Control Programs, Final General Statement of Policy'' (57 FR 22495; May 28, 1992). This draft statement of policy does not contain a new or amended information collection requirement subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (434 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). Dated at Rockville, Maryland this 29th day of July, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Acting Secretary of the Commission.
