FR940325-2-00083 FR940325-2-00046 Submissions which propose the use of grant funds for the development of any printed or visual materials must contain convincing evidence that these materials are not available from other sources. OCS will not provide funding for such items if justification is not sufficient. Approval of the development of films or visual presentations proposed by applicants approved for funding will made part of the grant ward. See Part F, Section 4, for special instructions on developing a work program. Part C_Application Prerequisites 1. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants for Priority 1 are States, public agencies and private non-profit organizations that can demonstrate familiarity and expertise nationwide with the training and/or technical assistance needs of community action agencies or State CSBG administering agencies; and, for Priority 2, States, public agencies and private non-profit organizations that can demonstrate their familiarity with the CSBG Program and their ability to collect data from States on a voluntary basis. In order to be considered for funding, proof of non-profit status must be submitted with the application. Any of the following is acceptable evidence: (1) Copy of the applicant organization's listing in the Internal Revenue Service's (IRS) most recent list of tax-exempt organizations described in section 501(c)(3) of the IRS Code; or (2) a copy of the current valid IRS tax exemption certificate. 2. Available Funds The amount of funds available for grant awards under this announcement in FY 94 is $271,439; $171,439 are available for training and technical assistance activities and $100,000 for data collection activities. It is anticipated that two grants will be made for T&TA activities and one grant will be made for data collection activities. 3. Grant Duration OCS will grant funds for a maximum of 12-month project and budget periods. The application must clearly demonstrate that the project work plan will achieve measurable results and can be successfully completed within the stated time period. 4. Project Beneficiaries Projects proposed for funding under the training and technical assistance priority area must result in direct benefits to staffs of State or local service providers in carrying out their responsibilities under the Community Services Block Grant Act. 5. Sub-Contracting or Delegating Projects OCS will not fund any project where the role of the applicant is primarily to serve as a conduit for funds to organizations other than the applicant. This prohibition does not bar the making of subgrants or subcontracting for specific services or activities needed to conduct the project. However, the applicant must have a substantive role in the implementation of the project for which funding is requested. Part D_Application Procedures 1. Availability of Forms Attachments A, B and C contain all of the standard forms necessary for the application for awards under these OCS programs. These forms may be photocopied for use in developing the application. Copies of the Federal Register containing this announcement are available at most local libraries and Congressional District Offices for reproduction. If copies are not available at these sources, they may be obtained by writing or telephoning the office listed under the section entitled FOR FURTHER INFORMATION at the beginning of this announcement.
