FR940706-2-00037 FR940706-2-00022 (iii) Allottees receiving Power pursuant to section G.1.(ii) above. This Power is subject to recall by Western upon a 3-year written notice. (iv) If Western determines that a partial recall of NDA Act Power from any of the priority groups identified above is necessary to fulfill the request, Western shall apply the following formula to determine the amount of NDA Act Power to be recalled from each Allottee. E:GRAPHICSEN06JY94.025 A is defined as each Allottee's contribution to the sum of the NDA Act Power CROD for all Allottees in the priority group. B is the sum of all Allottees' NDA Act Power CROD in the priority group. C is the requested amount to be recalled from the priority group. 4. Withdrawal Procedures When Western is required to initiate withdrawals of Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power pursuant to the Final Withdrawal Procedures, Western shall determine the amount to be withdrawn from each Allottee by using the Final Withdrawal Procedures. Western will then total the amounts to be withdrawn from each Allottee and will use the following hierarchy to initiate withdrawals of the Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power: (i) Allottees receiving Power pursuant to section G.1.(iv). (ii) Allottees receiving Power pursuant to section G.1.(iii). (iii) Allottees receiving Power pursuant to section G.1.(ii). (iv) Allottees receiving Power pursuant to section G.1.(i). (v) If Western determines that a partial withdrawal of Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power from any of the above-mentioned groups is necessary, Western shall apply the following formula to determine the amount of Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power to be withdrawn. E:GRAPHICSEN06JY94.026 A is defined as each Allottee's contribution to the sum of the Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power for all the Allottees within the group. B is the sum of all Allottees' Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power within the group. C is the requested amount of Type III Withdrawable NDA Act Power to be withdrawn from the group.
