FR941102-2-00032 FR941102-2-00023 Office of Fossil Energy [FE Docket No. EA&hyph;102] Application to Export Electricity Enron Power Marketing, Inc. AGENCY: Office of Fossil Energy, DOE. ACTION: Notice of application. SUMMARY: Enron Power Marketing, Inc., (Enron) has requested authorization to export electric energy to Mexico. Enron is a marketer of electric energy. It does not own or control any electric generation or transmission facilities. DATES: Comments, protests, or requests to intervene must be submitted on or before January 3, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments, protests, or requests to intervene should be addressed as follows: Office of Coal & Electricity (FE&hyph;52), Office of Fuels Programs, Fossil Energy, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20585. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ellen Russell (Program Office) 202&hyph;586&hyph;9624 or Michael T. Skinker (Program Attorney) 202&hyph;586&hyph;6667. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Exports of electricity from the United States to a foreign country are regulated and require authorization under section 202(e) of the Federal Power Act. On October 4, 1994, Enron filed an application with the Office of Fossil Energy (FE) of the Department of Energy (DOE) for authorization to export electric energy to Mexico pursuant to section 202(e) of the Federal Power Act. Enron owns no generation or transmission facilities but has been certified by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) as a power marketer. Enron expects the majority of its transactions to be short-term sales of electricity for which contracts have yet to be negotiated. This is the first application for export that FE has accepted from an individual entity that does not own or operate physical facilities. The FE decision to accept an application from a power marketer, as opposed to the ``traditional'' electric power entities which own and/or operate physical facilities, is based on the marketer taking possession of the electric energy inside the United States. This situation is distinguished from the power broker which simply facilitates a sale of electric energy without ever taking ownership of the commodity.
