FR941107-2-00216 FR941107-2-00112 Guideline for Isolation Precautions in Hospitals Executive Summary The Guideline for Isolation Precautions in Hospitals was revised to meet the following objectives: (1) to be epidemiologically sound, (2) to recognize the importance of all body fluids, secretions, and excretions in the transmission of nosocomial pathogens, (3) to contain adequate precautions for infections transmitted by the airborne, droplet, and contact routes of transmission, (4) to be as simple and user friendly as possible, and (5) to use new terms to avoid confusion with existing infection control and isolation systems. The revised guideline contains two tiers of precautions. In the first, and most important, tier are those precautions designed for the care of all patients in hospitals regardless of their diagnosis or presumed infection status. Implementation of these ``Standard Precautions'' is the primary strategy for successful nosocomial infection control. In the second tier are precautions designed only for the care of specified patients. These additional ``Transmission-based Precautions'' are used for patients known or suspected to be infected or colonized with epidemiologically important pathogens that can be transmitted by airborne or droplet transmission or by contact with dry skin or contaminated surfaces. Standard Precautions synthesize the major features of Universal (Blood and Body Fluid) Precautions (designed to reduce the risk of transmission of bloodborne pathogens) and Body Substance Isolation (designed to reduce the risk of transmission of pathogens from moist body substances). Standard Precautions apply to (1) blood, (2) all body fluids, secretions, and excretions regardless of whether or not they contain visible blood, (3) nonintact skin, and (4) mucous membranes. Standard Precautions are designed to reduce the risk of transmission of microorganisms from both recognized and unrecognized sources of infection in hospitals. Transmission-based Precautions are designed for patients documented or suspected to be infected or colonized with highly transmissible or epidemiologically important pathogens for which additional precautions beyond Standard Precautions are needed to interrupt transmission in hospitals. There are three types of Transmission-based Precautions: Airborne Precautions, Droplet Precautions, and Contact Precautions. They may be combined together for diseases that have multiple routes of transmission. When used either singularly or in combination, they are to be used in addition to Standard Precautions. The revised guideline also lists specific clinical syndromes or conditions in both adult and pediatric patients that are highly suspicious for infection and identifies appropriate Transmission-based Precautions to use on an empiric, temporary basis until a diagnosis can be made; these empiric, temporary precautions are also to be used in addition to Standard Precautions. A working draft of this guideline was reviewed by experts in infection control. However, all recommendations in the guideline may not reflect the opinions of all reviewers. Introduction To assist hospitals in maintaining up-to-date isolation practices, HICPAC1 has updated the CDC recommendations for isolation precautions for use in hospitals. The recommendations are based on the latest epidemiologic information on transmission of infection in hospitals; they supersede previous CDC recommendations for isolation precautions for use in hospitals. 2&hyph;4 The recommendations are intended primarily for use in the care of patients in acute-care hospitals, although some of the recommendations may be applicable for some patients receiving care in extended-care facilities. The recommendations are not intended for use in day care, well care, or domiciliary care programs. Because (1) there have been few studies to test the efficacy of isolation precautions, and (2) gaps still exist in the knowledge of the epidemiology and modes of transmission of some diseases, disagreement with some of the recommendations is expected. HICPAC recognizes that the goal of preventing transmission of infections in hospitals can be accomplished by multiple means, and that hospitals will modify the recommendations according to their needs and circumstances and as directed by federal, state, or local regulations. Modification of the recommendations is encouraged if (1) the principles of epidemiology and disease transmission are maintained, and (2) precautions are included to interrupt spread of infection by all routes that are likely to be encountered in the hospital. Part I. Evolution of Isolation Practices Early Isolation Practices The first published recommendations for isolation precautions in the United States appeared as early as 1877, when a hospital handbook recommended placing patients with infectious diseases in separate facilities,5 which ultimately became known as infectious disease hospitals. Although this practice segregated infected patients from noninfected patients, nosocomial transmission continued to occur because infected patients were not separated from each other according to their disease, and few, if any, aseptic procedures were practiced. Personnel in infectious disease hospitals began to combat problems of nosocomial transmission by setting aside a floor or ward for patients with similar diseases6 and by practicing aseptic procedures recommended in nursing textbooks published from 1890 to 1900.5
