FR940504-2-00035 FR940504-2-00033 [FRL&hyph;4880&hyph;7] Molokai Aquifer, Maui County, HI: Sole Source Aquifer Determination AGENCY: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Final determination. SUMMARY: Pursuant to section 1424(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, the Regional Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has determined that the aquifer underlying Molokai, Hawaii is the sole or principal source of drinking water for the island. The Regional Administrator has determined that contamination of this aquifer would create a significant hazard to public health. As a result of this determination, Federally financially assisted projects constructed anywhere in the designated area will be subject to EPA review to ensure that they do not contaminate the aquifer through a recharge zone so as to create a significant hazard to public health. ADDRESSES: The data upon which this determination has been made are available to the public and may be inspected during normal business hours at the EPA, Region 9, Water Management Division, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA, 94105. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sunny Kuegle, Groundwater Pollution Control Section, (W&hyph;6&hyph;2), (415) 744&hyph;1830. Supplementary Information: 1. Background Section 1424(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act states: If the Administrator determines, on his own initiative or upon petition, that an area has an aquifer which is the sole or principal drinking water source for the area and which, if contaminated, would create a significant hazard to public health, he shall publish notice of that determination in the Federal Register . After the publication of any such notice, no commitment for Federal financial assistance (through a contract, loan guarantee, or otherwise) may be entered into for any project which the Administrator determines may contaminate such aquifer through a recharge zone so as to create a significant hazard to public health, but a commitment for Federal financial assistance may, if authorized under another provision of law, be entered into to plan or design the project to assure that it will not so contaminate the aquifer. In 1987, EPA delegated authority to designate Sole Source Aquifers to EPA Regional Administrators. On April 23, 1993, Sarah Sykes submitted a petition for Sole Source Aquifer Designation to EPA Region 9. After Sarah Sykes submitted additional information pursuant to EPA's request, EPA determined the petition to be complete on September 29, 1993. EPA conducted a public hearing on Molokai, Hawaii on January 6, 1994. The public comment period on the petition closed on January 21, 1994. II. Basis for Determination The factors to be considered by the Regional Administrator in the designation of an area under section 1424(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act are: (1) Whether the aquifer is the area's sole or principal source of drinking water and; (2) whether contamination of the aquifer would create a significant hazard to public health. On the basis of the information available to EPA, the Regional Administrator has made the following findings which are the basis for the determination: 1. The aquifer underlying Molokai currently serves as the sole or principal source of drinking water for the residents of the island. 2. Contamination of the aquifer would create a significant hazard to public health. There is no economically feasible alternative drinking water source or combination of sources near the designated area. Potential sources of contamination include: cesspools, landfills, and highway accidents. 3. The determination of the boundary of the Sole Source Aquifer is consistent with EPA's Sole Source Aquifer designation Decision Process: Petition Review Guidance (Office of Groundwater Protection, 1987). III. Description of the Molokai Sole Source Aquifer The Molokai Sole Source Aquifer underlies the entire island of Molokai, Maui County, Hawaii. The aquifer is largely constituted by igneous rocks formed by numerous lava flows. Fresh to brackish groundwater flows within the igneous rocks in a lens-shaped configuration under Molokai. Lateral groundwater flow is locally impounded by near vertical dikes. These dikes form relatively impermeable compartments of groundwater at elevations above the island-wide lens. Yields from wells on Molokai range from 0.5 to 1.8 million gallons per day. IV. Information Used in the Determination The information used in the determination includes the petition and the amended petition as submitted by Sarah Sykes. In addition, the determination is based on EPA's ``Technical Support Document.'' The Technical Support Document is based on reviews of hydrogeologic studies conducted on Molokai. These documents are available to the public and may be inspected during business hours at the EPA, Water Management Division, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, California. V. Project Review EPA region 9 will seek to work with the Federal agencies that may in the future provide financial assistance to projects within the boundaries of the Molokai Sole Source Aquifer. EPA will seek to develop agreements with other Federal agencies whereby EPA will be notified of proposed commitments of Federal financial assistance for projects which could contaminate the aquifer. In the event that a Federal financially assisted project could contaminate the Molokai Sole Source Aquifer through its recharge zone so as to create a hazard to public health, no commitment of Federal financial assistance will be made. However, a commitment for Federal financial assistance may, if authorized under another provision of law, be entered into to plan or design the project to insure it will not contaminate the aquifer.
