FR940228-1-00064 FR940228-1-00010 The Amendments of 1992 amended the HEA in several areas relating to the participation of institutions in the Title IV, HEA programs. The Student Assistance General Provisions regulations contain requirements that are common to educational institutions that participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. The following list summarizes the major issues in this NPRM. •Each participating institution is subject to a new statutory definition of an academic year in which a full-time student (with respect to an undergraduate course of study), during a minimum 30-week period, must complete: At institutions that measure program length in credit hours, at least 24 semester or trimester hours or 36 quarter hours; or at institutions that measure program length in clock hours, at least 900 clock hours. Section 668.2 proposes to clarify the terms used in the statutory definition of academic year. •The statute now mandates the definition of an eligible program for proprietary institutions of higher education and postsecondary vocational institutions, including ``short-term'' programs (at least 300 but less than 600 clock hours) that would be eligible for the FFEL programs only. The statute requires that these programs must have completion and placement rates of at least 70 percent, measured in accordance with regulations. Section 668.8 proposes methodologies for those measurements. The Secretary eventually may propose a single methodology (based on comments on this NPRM, regulations to implement the Student Right-to-Know Act, and other NPRMs) to be used wherever appropriate in regulations for the Title IV, HEA programs. In accordance with the statute, this NPRM contains further provisions to evaluate the quality of these programs, specifically a requirement proposed by the Secretary that a program may not exceed by more than 50 percent the minimum number of clock hours required by the State for training in the recognized occupation for which the program prepares students, and a requirement that a program be in existence for at least one year before applying for eligibility under these criteria. •This NPRM proposes to add two new sections to codify procedures with regard to applications to participate initially or to continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program (proposed §668.12) and procedures by which the Secretary certifies that an institution meets the standards in subpart B of these regulations and accordingly may participate in a Title IV, HEA program (proposed §668.13). Proposed §668.13 also includes proposed procedures whereby the Secretary codifies new statutory provisions governing provisional certification procedures for participation in a Title IV, HEA program. Provisional certification permits the Secretary to allow an institution that otherwise would not qualify to participate in a Title IV, HEA program to participate on a limited basis. The institution is subject to shorter periods of participation than a fully certified institution and does not have the right to the extensive appeal proceedings under subpart G of the Student Assistance General Provisions if the Secretary revokes the institution's provisional certification. Instead, as proposed by the Secretary in this NPRM, the institution would be offered a modified appeal. Further, an institution that is provisionally certified may be monitored more closely to the extent that the Secretary believes the institution warrants a greater degree of oversight. •Section 668.14 proposes to amend the regulations governing program participation agreements to include numerous new provisions added by the Amendments of 1992 and provisions previously prescribed by the HEA but not specifically spelled out in the regulations. This section also includes provisions proposed by the Secretary. This NPRM proposes to implement statutory requirements regarding disclosure of revenues and expenses for institutions that offer athletically related student aid. This NPRM would also address statutory requirements concerning incentive payments based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid. •This NPRM proposes significant changes to §668.15 (currently §668.13) the section governing the evaluation of an institution's financial responsibility. The NPRM proposes to strengthen the factors used to evaluate an institution's financial responsibility and to reflect statutory changes, including the provision that requires that any standards developed for the determination of an institution's financial responsibility take into account any differences in accounting principles between for-profit and nonprofit institutions. For example, this NPRM proposes to require a for-profit institution to have a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 1.25:1 and a nonprofit institution to have a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 1:1. As the statute requires the establishment of cash reserves sufficient to ensure repayment of any required refunds, the NPRM also proposes to require each institution to maintain a minimum cash reserve of at least 10 percent of the institution's total deferred tuition income at the end of the institution's most recent fiscal year.
