FR940603-1-00192 FR940603-1-00009 Work included in these sections shall be performed under the schedule as set forth below: XXXX . Schedule of Deenergization of Existing Distribution Lines Under Which Work Under Sections H, I, and N Shall Be Performed 1Line Section (to be designated by point to point description on detail map) 1Hours and days of week when lines will be deenergized to permit line changes ␣ ␣ The Bidder will so plan and perform its work on the above lines that it will be possible for the Owner to safely reenergize all lines involved at the expiration of the time limits set up in the above schedule to resume service to all consumers being served prior to deenergization. Prior to commencement of work each day on lines to be deenergized, the Bidder will notify the Owner in writing thereof, designating the lines to be deenergized and upon receipt of such notice, the Owner will deenergize such lines. Upon completion of work each day on such deenergized lines, the Bidder will notify the Owner thereof in writing or in such other manner as the circumstances permit designating the lines to be reenergized and stating that such lines may be safely reenergized and upon receipt of such notice, the Owner will reenergize such lines. SECTION H_CONVERSION ASSEMBLY UNITS Conversion assembly units are pole-top assemblies and cover the furnishing of all labor and additional materials for changing an existing assembly unit to a new assembly unit, utilizing certain items of materials of the existing assembly unit on poles to be left in place. The unit prices for materials should include only additional material that is required to complete the new unit, less suitable allowance for material removed. Any materials removed from the existing assembly units which are not required in the construction of the conversion assembly unit become the property of the Bidder and may, with the permission of the Engineer, be reused by the Bidder in the construction of other assembly units called for in the Construction Contract. Conversion assembly units are specified by the prefix H with the new construction assembly unit designation shown first and the existing assembly unit designation shown last. For example, a H B1&hyph;A1 signifies the conversion of an existing A1 assembly unit to a B1 assembly unit (as was defined in the description of construction assembly units). In this instance the Bidder utilizes the existing pin-type insulator, single upset bolt and neutral spool in the construction of the new assembly unit. The Bidder furnishes the additional crossarm, crossarm pins, braces, machine bolt, carriage bolts, lag screw, and insulator required for the new unit. The Bidder takes possession of the pole-top pin and two machine bolts and with the permission of the Engineer may reuse these elsewhere in the construction of the Project. The Bidder will not be held accountable to the Owner for the materials he so acquires. The Conversion assembly units also include the furnishing of all labor and materials in the transferring, resagging and retying of conductors from one position on the pole to a different position on the pole where such transfers are required. Where replacement of conductor is required, the existing conductor will be removed under section I and the new conductor installed under section N. Where replacement of a pole is required, the existing pole and pole-top assembly will be removed under section I and the new pole and pole-top assembly will be installed according to section N and no H units will be involved. Conversion assemblies are listed in three subsections for converting pole-top assemblies from single to V phase, single to three phase, and V to three phase. The following descriptions apply to only those units not sufficiently explicit. 1Unit 1Description lH ␣
