FR940407-1-00046 FR940407-1-00012 a. Discounted Cash Flow Method. The DCF method of estimating the cost of common-stock equity is the technique that is used with the greatest frequency by state and federal regulatory commissions and agencies. Its popularity reflects the intuitive appeal of the DCF model with its basis in valuation theory. That theory holds that the current market price of a common stock is equal to the present value of its expected future dividend payments plus the proceeds that an investor would expect to receive when the common stock is finally sold. Because the value of an amount of money to be received in the future is less than the value of the same amount of money received today, 28 the expected value of the future dividends and ultimate proceeds must be discounted back to the present at the investor's required rate of return in computing the present value of a common stock. The most basic mathematical representation of this concept assumes that: (1) Dividends grow at a constant annual rate, and (2) that an investor will hold the common stock forever. The latter assumption implies that the value of the stock depends solely on the dividends that are expected to be paid. The basic DCF model is expressed algebraically as follows: 28 The value of a dollar received today is greater than that of a dollar received a year from today, for example, because today's dollar can be invested and begin to earn a rate of return immediately. E:GraphicsEP07AP94.007 where: P o is the current market price per share of the regulated company's common stock; D 1 is the dividend to be received at the end of year 1 (mathematically D 1 =D o (1+g), where D 0 is the current dividend); K e is the required or expected return on the regulated firm's common-stock equity capital ( i.e. , the cost of common-stock equity capital); and g is the constant expected annual rate of growth in dividends per share. The equation is solved for K e in rate of return testimony in order to determine the cost of the common-stock equity of the regulated firm under consideration. Solving the equation for K e yields the following expression: E:GraphicsEP07AP94.008 Hence, the basic or standard DCF model states that the cost of common-stock equity is equal to the expected (first-year) dividend yield plus the rate at which investors expect dividends to grow in the future. To illustrate the basic DCF model, assume that the current market price of a hypothetical regulated company's common stock is $30.00 per share, and that a single common stock share currently pays a $2.00 dividend, which is expected to grow at a rate of 5 percent per year. The cost of common-stock equity capital for such a company is: E:GraphicsEP07AP94.009 i. Practical Issues (a) Expected Growth Rate of Dividends. The major practical issue involves determining ``g,'' the constant expected annual rate of growth in dividends per share. There are three techniques that are commonly used to estimate ``g'': (1) Historical growth rates; (2) professional investment services' projections; and (3) sustainable growth or retention growth. An average of the growth rates arrived at separately using each of the three methods is often used to produce a final growth estimate. This averaging procedure is the one reflected in the proposed rule. (i) Historical Growth Rate. The historical growth rate in dividends over some period, frequently five or ten years, is one method used to estimate ``g.'' Historical data are used because investors' expectations of future growth are based in part on growth rates experienced in the past. The historical growth in earnings per share, or book value per share, is sometimes used as a proxy for the growth in dividends, because dividends are often increased at discrete intervals, so that their estimated growth rate can differ considerably depending upon the precise beginning and ending points of the selected data series. The proposed rule, therefore, requires averaging the historical growth rate of dividends per share, earnings per share, and book value per share in arriving at an estimate of ``g.'' The period over which ``g'' is to be measured must be sufficiently long to avoid distortions in the data resulting from short-term conditions and aberrational years, but sufficiently short to capture foreseeable influences relevant for investors' evaluation of the future. The most recent five- and ten-year periods are commonly used to calculate the growth rate. The proposed rule uses an average of the five- and ten-year growth rates on the basis that the average represents a reasonable trade-off between the incongruous requirements of representativity and statistical adequacy.
