FR940214-0-00025 FR940214-0-00004 39. Section 1944.235(a)(1) Comment: Two respondents suggested that closing instructions be furnished to the borrower within a certain timeframe. FmHA response: The issuance of the closing instructions involves coordination and input from another Government Agency. While FmHA may request more expeditious issuance of the closing instructions, it has no control over when the instructions will be furnished. Additionally, we have no way of knowing how the process is impacted by that Agency's workload. 40. Section 1944.235(a)(2) Comment: One respondent supported this section. Another respondent stated that this section does not agree with the earlier requirement concerning what amount needs to be furnished to cover the initial O&M amount discussed in ยง1944.211(a)(7)(i). FmHA response: This issue was discussed under ยง1944.211(a)(7)(i), above. 41. Section 1944.235(b)(3) Comment: One respondent suggested that an appeal process be included for co-general partners. One respondent suggested that another provision be added to allow transfer of an obligation when the applicant is unable to continue for legitimate reasons and the transferee is eligible for 515 assistance. Another respondent suggested consideration be given to who is responsible for the default so that a co-general partner who is innocent of the default will not be penalized by being denied access to the program for 5 years. FmHA response: We interpret the first and last respondent comments to pertain to the same concern. FmHA does not agree that a co-general partner be exempt from these provisions since the loan was made to the entity and it is up to the entity to maintain its financial integrity. The regulations already contain provisions for handling cases where the entity chooses to transfer an obligation without monetary default. There would be no penalty in that case. 42. Section 1944.235(c)(1) Comment: One respondent suggests that the language be changed to allow interim lenders who are now making loans to only FmHA-financed projects. Another suggested that the language be changed to state ``other than identity of interest companies.'' Another respondent felt that the record of providing financing to non-FmHA projects be on a national basis and not limited to the State in which a particular loan is made. A respondent suggested that the language be changed to state the lender be ``authorized'' to do business in a State since not all States require the lender to be licensed. Two respondents suggested that FmHA provide the interim financing to eliminate the expense connected with outside interim financing. Two other respondents voiced their objection to this section. Two respondents supported this section. FmHA response: FmHA feels strongly that the borrower not provide its own interim financing. The interim lender is responsible for inspecting each stage of construction. If borrowers are allowed to provide their own interim financing they, in essence, would also be allowed to inspect their own construction. FmHA feels that inspections by arms-length third parties will provide a more objective assessment of construction standards and quality. The language has been changed to state that the lender be ``authorized'' to do business in a State rather than ``licensed.'' As long as interim financing can be secured at reasonable rates, fees, and terms, FmHA does not feel that the wholesale use of Government funds for interim financing is in keeping with the intent that local lenders be given the opportunity of furnishing the interim financing. 43. Section 1944.236 Comment: Two respondents objected to nonprofit borrowers being able to use an attorney who is a member of their organization while limited profit borrowers are prohibited from doing the same.
