FR940106-0-00008 FR940106-0-00003 (c) Until all loans made or guaranteed by REA have been repaid, the borrower must furnish three copies of the auditor's report, report on compliance, report on internal controls, and management letter to REA within 120 days of the as of audit date. * * * * * 3. In §1773.20, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §1773.20 CPA's submission of the auditor's report, report on compliance, report on internal controls, and management letter. (a) Time limit. As soon as possible after completion of the audit, but within 90 days of the as of audit date, the CPA should deliver the auditor's report, report on compliance, report on internal controls, and management letter to the president of the borrower's board of directors. As a minimum, copies should be provided for each member of the board of directors and the manager. Further, three copies must be provided to the borrower for transmittal to REA. * * * * * 4. In §1773.21, paragraphs (b) and (c) are revised to read as follows: §1773.21 Borrower's review and submission of the auditor's report, report on compliance, report on internal controls, and management letter. * * * * * (b) The borrower must furnish REA with three copies of the auditor's report, report on compliance, report on internal controls, and management letter within 120 days of the as of audit date. Any provision in REA's security instrument that requires such documents to be furnished to REA in a shorter period of time may be disregarded. (c) The borrower must furnish REA with three copies of its plan for corrective action, if any, within 180 days of the as of audit date. * * * * * 5. Section 1773.34 is amended by removing paragraph (e)(1)(i), redesignating paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) through (e)(1)(iv) as paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) respectively and revising the newly designated paragraphs, removing paragraph (e)(2)(i), redesignating paragraphs (e)(2)(ii) through (e)(2)(iv) as paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (e)(2)(iii) respectively and revising the newly redesignated paragraphs to read as follows: §1773.34 Management letter. * * * * * (e) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (i) The requirement for funds to be deposited in banks or other depositories designated in the loan documents or approved by REA. For purposes of this part 1773, funds shall be defined as cash on deposit in demand and time accounts, and certificates of deposit; (ii) The requirement for a borrower to obtain written approval of mortgagees to enter into any contract for the operation or maintenance of all or any substantial part of its property, or for the use by others of its property. For purposes of this part 1773, the following contracts shall be deemed as requiring REA approval: (A) Management contracts in which the borrower has contracted to have another borrower or other entity manage its affairs; (B) Management contracts in which the borrower has contracted to manage another borrower or other utility system; (C) Operations and maintenance contracts in which the borrower has contracted to have another borrower or other entity operate and/or maintain all or a substantial part (45% or more) of the physical plant facilities of the borrower; (D) Operations and maintenance contracts in which the borrower has contracted to operate and maintain the physical plant facilities of another borrower or other utility system; and (E) Contracts between the borrower and its manager; and (iii) The requirement for a borrower to prepare and furnish mortgagees annual financial and statistical reports on the borrower's financial condition and operations. The CPA must state whether the information represented by the borrower as having been submitted to REA in its most recent December 31 REA Form 7 or Form 12 is in agreement with the borrower's records, and must comment on any exceptions noted. If the borrower represents that an amended report has been filed as of December 31, the comments must relate to the amended report. (2) *␣*␣* (i) The requirement for a borrower to obtain written approval of the mortgagees to enter into any contract for the operation or maintenance of property and for the use of mortgaged property by others, or for services pertaining to toll traffic, operator assistance, or switching. For purposes of this part 1773, the following contracts shall be deemed as requiring REA approval: (A) Any contract, agreement or lease between the borrower and an affiliate other than as allowed under 7 CFR part 1744, subpart E; (B) Any lease of a building or land; and (C) Any other contract as defined in §1773.34 (e)(2)(i) except: ( 1 ) Industry standard traffic settlement agreements involving interexchange and long distance carriers which, in form and substance, conform with contracts in general use in the telecommunications industry; ( 2 ) Billing and collecting agreements; ( 3 ) Toll pooling arrangements involving National Exchange Carrier Association and state associations; ( 4 ) Directory services agreements; and ( 5 ) Joint use agreements; (ii) The requirement for funds to be deposited in banks or other depositories designated in the loan documents or approved by REA. For purposes of this part 1773, funds shall be defined as cash on deposit in demand and time accounts, and certificates of deposit; and (iii) The requirement for a borrower to prepare and furnish mortgagees annual financial and statistical reports on the borrower's financial condition and operations. The CPA must state whether the information represented by the borrower as having been submitted to REA in its most recent December 31 REA Form 479 is in agreement with the borrower's records, and must comment on any exceptions noted. If the borrower represents that an amended report has been filed as of December 31, the comments must relate to the amended report. * * * * * 6. Section 1773.40 is revised to read as follows: §1773.40 Regulatory assets. The CPA's workpapers must document whether all regulatory assets comply with the requirements of SFAS No. 71. For electric borrowers only, the CPA's workpapers must document whether all regulatory assets have received REA approval. 7. Section 1773.45 is revised to read as follows: §1773.45 Regulatory liabilities. The CPA's workpapers must document whether all regulatory liabilities comply with the requirements of SFAS No. 71. For electric borrowers only, the CPA's workpapers must document whether all regulatory liabilities have received REA approval. 8. Appendix C to Part 1773 is revised to read as follows: Appendix C to Part 1773_Illustrative Independent Auditors' Management Letter REA requires that CPAs auditing REA borrowers provide a management letter in accordance with §1773.34. REA requires that this letter bear the same date as the auditor's report and be addressed to the borrower's board of directors. The CPA is required to sign the auditor's report, report on compliance, report on internal controls, and management letter.
