FR941004-2-00040 FR941004-2-00021 Corps of Engineers Intent to Prepare a Draft Supplement to the Columbia and Lower Willamette River Environmental Impact Statement, July 1975 AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Portland District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: Notice of Intent to Prepare a Draft Supplement to the Columbia and Lower Willamette River Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), July 1975. The original EIS addressed impacts of operational and maintenance dredging, and completion of the 40-foot navigation channel downstream from Vancouver, Washington, and Portland, Oregon. This Supplement is being prepared to address the impacts to physical, biological, and cultural elements of the environment as a result of current dredging practices and the potential effects of management alternatives that will be developed in the Dredged Material Management Study (DMMS) for the Columbia and Lower Willamette Rivers. The proposed action is to perform a management study (DMMS) that will identify and recommend alternatives for modifications to the existing Operations and Maintenance dredging program and potential new proposals, such as pile dike construction and other measures that are directed at reducing the frequency or quality of dredging. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Portland District, Regulatory and Environmental Resource Branch, P.O. Box 2946, Portland, Oregon 97208&hyph;2946. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Jim Anderson, (503) 326&hyph;6998. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Columbia and Lower Willamette River (C&LW) 40-foot navigation project is maintained by the Corps of Engineers. Between four and seven million cubic yards of sand are dredged from the Columbia River portion of the project annually. In addition, 500&hyph;750 thousand cubic yards of silty sand and sandy silts are dredged from the Lower Willamette River on a three to five-year interval. Between 1988 and 1991, the Corps of Engineers completed development of a Long-Term Management Strategy (LTMS) for the portion of the channel that traverses the Columbia River Estuary, River Miles 3&hyph;28. A series of 50-year plan scenarios were developed. In October 1993, the Corps of Engineers was directed to undertake a dredged material management study (DMMS) for the entire C&LW project. The DMMS study will also be coordinated with the Columbia River Channel Deepening Feasibility Study effort. While intended to produce a stand alone document, the DMMS will, in part, also fulfill the requirements to define the without project condition for the Feasibility Study. The study will be similar to the lower estuary LTMS, in terms of process, but will follow the newer guidance for planning horizon, scope of study, etc. Dredged material management issues on the Columbia River that are new since completion of the LTMS will be fully developed in the DMMS for both the estuary and the remainder of the project. Most notable among new issues is the listing of three salmon stocks which migrate through the project area as endangered under the Endangered Species Act. The scoping process commenced in July 1994 with the issuance of a scoping letter. Federal, state and local agencies, Indian tribes, and interested organizations and individuals were asked to comment on the scope of the SEIS. Potentially significant issues to be addressed in the SEIS will be based on effects of management alternatives and subsequent actions thereof. Potential effects on: wetlands and vegetation, wildlife habitat and populations, fisheries in the Columbia and Willamette Rivers (including Snake River salmon), and cultural resources, will be studied. Other environmental review and consultation requirements which will be addressed in conjunction with the DSEIS include: a. Clean Water Act of 1977, as amended. b. Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act. c. Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, as amended. d. Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. e. Cultural Resources Act. f. Marine Projection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972. g. Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management. h. Executive Order 11990, Protection of Wetlands. i. Analysis of Prime or Unique Farmlands. A formal scoping meeting has not been scheduled, however, comments are currently being received and the DSEIS is scheduled to be made available to the public in July 1997. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24397 Filed 10-3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;AR&hyph;M
