FR940513-0-00070 FR940513-0-00018 (d) Exclusion of reasonable preferred returns and guaranteed payments. (1) Overview. (2) Preferred returns. (3) Guaranteed payments. (4) Reasonable amount. (i) In general. (ii) Safe harbor. (5) Unreturned capital. (i) In general. (ii) Return of capital. (6) Timing rules. (i) Limitation on allocations of income with respect to reasonable preferred returns for capital. (ii) Reasonable guaranteed payments may be deducted only when paid in cash. (7) Examples. (e) Chargebacks and offsets. (1) In general. (2) Disproportionate allocations. (i) In general. (ii) Limitation on chargebacks of partial allocations. (3) Minimum gain chargebacks attributable to nonrecourse deductions. (4) Minimum gain chargebacks attributable to distribution of nonrecourse debt proceeds. (i) Chargebacks disregarded until allocations made. (ii) Certain minimum gain chargebacks related to returns of capital. (5) Examples. (f) Exclusion of reasonable partner-specific items of deduction or loss. (g) Exclusion of unlikely losses and deductions. (h) Provisions preventing deficit capital account balances. (i) [Reserved]. (j) Exception for partner nonrecourse deductions. (1) Partner nonrecourse deductions disregarded until actually allocated. (2) Disproportionate allocation of partner nonrecourse deductions to a qualified organization. (k) Special rules. (1) Changes in partnership allocations arising from a change in the partners' interests. (2) De minimis interest rule. (i) In general. (ii) Example. (3) De minimis allocations disregarded. (4) Anti-abuse rule. (l) [Reserved]. (m) Tiered partnerships. (1) In general. (2) Examples. (n) Effective date. (1) In general. (2) General effective date of the regulations. (3) Periods after June 24, 1990, and prior to December 30, 1992. (4) Periods prior to the issuance of Notice 90&hyph;41. (5) Material modifications to partnership agreements. (b) Application of section 514(c)(9)(E), relating to debt-financed real property held by partnerships _(1) In general . This §1.514(c)&hyph;2 provides rules governing the application of section 514(c)(9)(E). To comply with section 514(c)(9)(E), the following two requirements must be met: (i) The fractions rule. The allocation of items to a partner that is a qualified organization cannot result in that partner having a percentage share of overall partnership income for any partnership taxable year greater than that partner's fractions rule percentage (as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section). (ii) Substantial economic effect. Each partnership allocation must have substantial economic effect. However, allocations that cannot have economic effect must be deemed to be in accordance with the partners' interests in the partnership pursuant to §1.704&hyph;1(b)(4), or (if §1.704&hyph;1(b)(4) does not provide a method for deeming the allocations to be in accordance with the partners' interests in the partnership) must otherwise comply with the requirements of §1.704&hyph;1(b)(4). Allocations attributable to nonrecourse liabilities or partner nonrecourse debt must comply with the requirements of §1.704&hyph;2(e) or §1.704&hyph;2(i). (2) Manner in which fractions rule is applied _(i) In general. A partnership must satisfy the fractions rule both on a prospective basis and on an actual basis for each taxable year of the partnership, commencing with the first taxable year of the partnership in which the partnership holds debt-financed real property and has a qualified organization as a partner. Generally, a partnership does not qualify for the unrelated business income tax exception provided by section 514(c)(9)(A) for any taxable year of its existence unless it satisfies the fractions rule for every year the fractions rule applies. However, if an actual allocation described in paragraph (e)(4), (h), (j)(2), or (m)(1)(ii) of this section (regarding certain allocations that are disregarded or not taken into account for purposes of the fractions rule until an actual allocation is made) causes the partnership to violate the fractions rule, the partnership ordinarily is treated as violating the fractions rule only for the taxable year of the actual allocation and subsequent taxable years. For purposes of applying the fractions rule, the term partnership agreement is defined in accordance with §1.704&hyph;1(b)(2)(ii)( h ), and informal understandings are considered part of the partnership agreement in appropriate circumstances. See paragraph (k) of this section for rules relating to changes in the partners' interests and de minimis exceptions to the fractions rule. (ii) Subsequent changes. A subsequent change to a partnership agreement that causes the partnership to violate the fractions rule ordinarily causes the partnership's income to fail the exception provided by section 514(c)(9)(A) only for the taxable year of the change and subsequent taxable years. (c) General definitions _(1) Overall partnership income and loss. Overall partnership income is the amount by which the aggregate items of partnership income and gain for the taxable year exceed the aggregate items of partnership loss and deduction for the year. Overall partnership loss is the amount by which the aggregate items of partnership loss and deduction for the taxable year exceed the aggregate items of partnership income and gain for the year. (i) Items taken into account in determining overall partnership income and loss. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the partnership items that are included in computing overall partnership income or loss are those items of income, gain, loss, and deduction (including expenditures described in section 705(a)(2)(B)) that increase or decrease the partners' capital accounts under §1.704&hyph;1(b)(2)(iv). Tax items allocable pursuant to section 704(c) or §1.704&hyph;1(b)(2)(iv)( f )( 4 ) are not included in computing overall partnership income or loss. Nonetheless, allocations pursuant to section 704(c) or §1.704&hyph;1(b)(2)(iv)( f )( 4 ) may be relevant in determining that this section is being applied in a manner that is inconsistent with the fractions rule. See paragraph (k)(4) of this section. (ii) Guaranteed payments to qualified organizations. Except to the extent otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this section_
