FR940613-1-00016 FR940613-1-00003 As indicated in the Interim Rule, the FDIC generally expects proposed conversions to substantially satisfy the standards found in the mutual-to-stock conversion regulations of the OTS (12 CFR Part 563b). Any variance from those regulations is closely scrutinized. As also indicated in the Interim Rule, however, compliance with OTS requirements is not necessarily sufficient for FDIC regulatory purposes. The Interim Rule specifies that the FDIC will look to the OTS rules ``currently in effect'' at the time the FDIC reviews the proposed conversion. As indicated below, the OTS recently revised its mutual-to-stock conversion regulations. Thus, upon the issuance of the OTS revised regulations on May 3, 1994 (59 FR 22725), the FDIC began taking into account the extent to which proposed conversions of State Savings Banks conform with the various provisions of the OTS' revised regulations. The Interim Rule remains effective during the pendency of this proposed rulemaking. III. Comments Received on the Proposed Policy Statement and Interim Rule In developing and issuing this proposed rule it was helpful for the FDIC staff and the Board to consider the comments received on the Proposed Policy Statement and the Interim Rule. It is anticipated that the Board will again consider those comments when taking final action on the Proposed Policy Statement and the Interim Rule. Some issues identified and discussed in the comments are not germane to the proposed rule, but may be relevant when the Board takes final action on the Proposed Policy Statement and Interim Rule; thus, although they are mentioned briefly in the summary of comments provided below, those issues are not otherwise discussed in the context of this proposed rulemaking. In the Proposed Policy Statement and the Interim Rule the FDIC specifically requested comment on, among other issues: What abuses are prevalent in mutual-to-stock conversions and why the FDIC should take action against such abuses; whether federal oversight in conversions of State Savings Banks is necessary; whether the FDIC should issue a regulation closely following the OTS conversion regulations or the FDIC should take a less formal approach; whether the FDIC should seek Congressional action in this area; and the mechanics and substantive provisions of the Interim Rule. A summary of the comments received on the Proposed Policy Statement and Interim Rule is provided below. IV. Need for the Proposed Rule Recently the OTS revised its mutual-to-stock conversion regulations primarily to address immediate concerns about excessive management remuneration and inadequate depositor participation in conversions of savings associations (59 FR 22725 (May 3, 1994)) (OTS Revisions). In essence, the new regulations attempt to prevent management abuses by strengthening the rights of depositors. The FDIC believes that the OTS Revisions are a necessary, sound first step in correcting certain abuses stemming from conversions and that the absence of some federal oversight of mutual-to-stock conversions of State Savings Banks presents an opportunity for inconsistency and abuse. Thus, the FDIC thinks it may be necessary and appropriate to adopt regulations similar to the OTS Revisions. For these reasons, as discussed below, the FDIC is issuing this proposed rule. Because the fundamental problem concerning the distribution of existing economic value in mutual-to-stock conversions is not addressed by the OTS Revisions, however, the Board believes other forms of abuse may still arise. The FDIC believes that it is necessary to re-examine the conversion process to explore whether the existing economic value of a converting mutual institution can be better distributed directly to those who should receive it.
