FR941205-1-00021 FR941205-1-00007 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 92&hyph;ASW&hyph;34] Proposed Revision of Class E Airspace; Hondo, TX AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (SNPRM); reopening of comment period. SUMMARY: This document revises an earlier proposed airspace rule that would have amended the airspace at Hondo, TX. That proposal was preempted by the development of a new very high frequency omni-directional range (VOR) standard instrument approach procedure (SIAP) to Runway (RWY) 17. The legal description of the proposed airspace in the notice of proposed rulemaking was incomplete. The intended effect of this proposal is to provide adequate controlled airspace for aircraft executing the recently established VOR RWY 17 SIAP at Hondo, TX. DATES: Comments must be received on or before January 20, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to Manager, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Federal Aviation Administration Southwest Region, Docket No. 92&hyph;ASW&hyph;34, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration, Southwest Region, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Room 663, Fort Worth, TX, between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Federal Aviation Administration, Southwest Region, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Donald J. Day, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Federal Aviation Administration, Southwest Region, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530; telephone: (817) 222&hyph;5593. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed under the caption ADDRESSES . Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit, with those comments, a self-addressed, stamped, postcard containing the following statement: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 92&hyph;ASW&hyph;34.'' The postcard will be date and time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in the light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Room 663, Fort Worth, TX, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of SNPRM Any person may obtain a copy of this SNPRM by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, System Management Branch, Department of Transportation, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. Communications must identify the notice number of this SNPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A that describes the application procedure.
