FR940930-1-00069 FR940930-1-00020 (h) Losses sustained by financial institutions. The Government will be liable to financial institutions for losses sustained in processing ACH credit and debit entries originated by a Government participant. The Government's total liability is limited to the amount of the payment entry, unless the exception in ยง210.2(b) applies. Financial institutions shall have exercised due diligence, using standard commercial practices, in following the transaction instructions associated with the entry. The provisions of this subsection do not apply to credits and debits received by the RDFI after the death or legal incapacity of the beneficiary. Such credits and debits shall be governed by ยง210.10 of this part. (i) Acquittance. The appropriate crediting of the amount of an entry to a Receiver's account shall constitute full acquittance of the Government for the amount of the entry. The crediting of the amount of an entry received by the Federal Reserve Bank and posted to Treasury's General Account shall constitute full acquittance of the ODFI for the amount of the entry. Full acquittance of the ODFI shall not occur if the entries do not balance, are incomplete, are clearly incorrect, or, are incapable of being processed. ยง210.5 Federal Reserve Banks. (a) Fiscal Agent role. Each Federal Reserve Bank serves as a Fiscal Agent of the Government and is authorized to act as the Government's ACH Operator. (b) Routing and Transit Numbers. All routing and transit numbers issued to Government participants require the prior approval of the Service. (c) Delivery and funds availability. The Federal Reserve Banks shall make the Government's ACH entry information available to a financial institution or its agent no later than the opening of business for the financial institution on the settlement date. The Federal Reserve Banks shall make funds available to the financial institution for credit entries at the opening of business for the Federal Reserve Banks on the settlement date as prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Federal Reserve Banks shall prescribe the medium which will be used. (d) Authorization of Federal Reserve Banks to debit or credit financial institutions. A financial institution that utilizes an account at a Federal Reserve Bank and that transmits ACH transactions to or from a Government participant, shall be deemed to authorize the Federal Reserve Bank to use the account for settlement purposes. (e) Federal Reserve Bank liability. Each Federal Reserve Bank shall be responsible only to the Treasury and shall not be liable to any other party for any loss resulting from the Federal Reserve Bank's action under this part. ยง210.6 Financial institutions. (a) Acceptance of the terms of this part. Financial institution acceptance or transmittal of ACH entries to or from participating Government participants constitutes the financial institution's agreement to the terms of this part, regardless of whether it has executed an authorization. (b) Funds availability. RDFIs shall make Government consumer credit entries available to the Receiver for withdrawal not later than the opening of business (the later of 9:00 a.m. local time or the time the teller facilities, including automatic teller machines, are available for customer account withdrawals). (c) RDFI action in response to Government-originated Prenotifications. Government Originators may send Prenotification transactions to the RDFIs prior to the start of authorized credit or debit entries.
