FR941117-0-00194 FR941117-0-00013 Some commenters raised the point that financial statements of a general governmental unit may not necessarily be relevant in certain project and structured financings. 102 As an example, one commenter noted that in some asset backed financings, information about the governmental issuer may be relevant only with respect to its experience in managing programs of loan pools. 103 102 See, e.g., Letter of ABA Urban Law Section; Letter of APPA; Letter of Goldman Sachs; Letter of Gust & Rosenfeld; Letter of The Hospital & Higher Education Facilities Authority of Philadelphia; Letter of Morgan Stanley; Letter of NABL; Letter of New York State Housing Finance Agency. 103 See Letter of ABA Urban Law Section. Commenters proposed a number of alternatives to the requirement to provide annual audited financial statements. Among the alternatives was a suggestion that financial statements be required in the form customarily prepared by the issuer promptly upon becoming available and that audited financial statements be provided to the extent available. 104 Other suggestions included limiting the requirement to those entities required by state or federal law to have audited financial statements. 105 104 See, e.g., Letter of ABA Business Law Section; Letter of Association of Bay Area Governments; Letter of North East Independent School District; Letter of PSA; Letter of Washington Finance Officers Association. 105 See, e.g., Letter of the Treasurer of the State of North Carolina; Letter of Washington Finance Officers Association. In view of the comments received, the amendments do not adopt the proposal to mandate audited financial statements on an annual basis with respect to each issuer and significant obligor. Instead, the amendments continue to require annual financial information, which may be unaudited, and may, where appropriate and consistent with the presentation in the final official statement, be other than full financial statements. While it is anticipated that full financial statements will be provided for entities with ongoing revenues and operating expenses, it is possible that in the case of dedicated revenue streams and certain types of structured financings, other types of special purpose financial statements, project operating statements or reports may be used to reflect the financial position of the credit source for the financing. However, if audited financial statements are prepared, then when and if available, such audited financial statements will be subject to the undertaking and must be submitted to the repositories. 106 Thus, as suggested by a number of commenters, the undertaking must include audited financial statements only in those cases where they otherwise are prepared. 106 See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(5)(i)(B). The amendments adopt the proposed requirement that the undertaking specify the accounting principles pursuant to which the financial information provided as part of the annual financial information will be prepared. 107 As discussed in the Proposing Release, it is important that financial information be prepared on a consistent basis to enable market participants to evaluate results and perform year to year comparisons. 108 The undertaking also must specify whether audited financial statements will be provided as part of the annual financial information. 109 107 See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(5)(ii)(B). 108 See Proposing Release. A number of commenters responded to the request for comment on specification of the use of generally accepted accounting principles (``GAAP'') and generally accepted auditing standards (``GAAS''). See, e.g., Letter of Comptroller of the State of California; Letter of Government Accounting Standards Board (``GASB''); Letter of NAST; Letter of National State Auditors Association; Letter of Prudential Investment Corp. The amendments as adopted do not mandate the use of either GAAP or GAAS. 109 See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(5)(ii)(B). The amendments do not establish a standardized format for presentation of financial information, or any specification of the content of the information, other than by reference to the final official statement. The annual financial information may be presented through any disclosure document or set of documents, whatever their form or principal purpose, that include the necessary information. The amendments, as adopted, contemplate that sequential final official statements prepared by frequent issuers may meet the standards of the rule. As in the case of final official statements, annual financial information submitted to a repository also may reference other information already submitted to repositories or the MSRB, or filed with the Commission. 110 110 Of course, any required information must be the subject of an undertaking, and if the information cross referenced has not been submitted to a repository or the MSRB, or filed with the Commission, the undertaking will not have been complied with. (3) Operating data. The Proposed Amendments 111 would have required that the undertaking call for pertinent operating information, and that the parties specify the pertinent operating information to be provided on an annual basis. The basic concern of commenters regarding this provision, in addition to issues of specification of form and content discussed above, was that the use of the term ``pertinent'' did not provide sufficient guidance as to who would determine what was pertinent and what independent obligations Participating Underwriters would have with respect to such evaluation. 112 111 Paragraph (b)(5)(i)(A) of the Proposed Amendments. 112 See, e.g., Letter of APPA; Letter of Fidelity Management and Research Company; Letter of Hawkins Delafield & Wood.
