FR940811-2-00106 FR940811-2-00066 4.3.1␣Market structure, coordination, and foreclosure. When a licensor and its licensees compete in technology or goods markets, a restraint in a licensing arrangement may increase the risk of coordinated pricing, output restrictions, or the acquisition or maintenance of monopoly power. The potential for competitive harm generally increases with the degree of concentration in, the difficulty of entry into, and the inelasticities of supply and demand in markets in which the licensor and licensees are in a horizontal relationship. Cf. 1992 Horizontal Merger Guidelines, §§1.5, 3. When the licensor and licensees are in a vertical relationship, harm to competition from a restraint may occur if it forecloses access to, or increases competitors' costs of obtaining, important inputs (other than as a natural consequence of the licensee acquiring a licensed technology for its own use). An example is a licensing arrangement with most of the established manufacturers in an industry preventing those manufacturers from using any technology. The risk of foreclosing access or increasing competitors' costs is related to the fraction of markets affected by the licensing restraint and to other characteristics of the input and output markets, such as concentration, difficulty of entry, and elasticities of supply and demand. Harm to competition from a restraint in a vertical licensing arrangement also may occur if a licensing restraint facilitates coordination to raise prices or reduce output in markets in which one of the parties participates. For example, if owners of competing technologies impose similar restraints on their licensees, the licensors may find it easier to coordinate their pricing. Similarly, licensees that are horizontal competitors may find it easier to coordinate their pricing if they are subject to common license restraints imposed either by a common licensor or by competing licensors. The risk of anticompetitive coordination is increased when the relevant markets are concentrated and difficult to enter. 4.3.2␣Licensing arrangements involving exclusivity. A licensing arrangement may involve exclusivity in two distinct respects. First, the licensor may grant one or more exclusive licenses, which restrict the right of the licensor to license others and possibly also to practice the technology itself. Generally, such as grant to exclusivity may raise antitrust concerns only if the licensees themselves, or the licensor and its licensees, are actual or potential competitors in a relevant technology or goods market in the absence of the licensing arrangement. Examples of exclusive licenses with possible competitive consequences include cross-leasing by parties collectively possessing market power ( see section 5.5), grantbacks ( see section 5.6), and acquisitions of intellectual property rights ( see section 5.7). A second form of exclusivity, exclusive dealing, arises when a license prevents or restrains the licensee from using competing technologies. Such restraints can have the effect of denying rivals sufficient outlets for exploiting their technologies and thus be anticompetitive. Exclusivity may be required by the licensor, as in an explicit exclusive dealing arrangement ( see section 5.4), or induced through economic incentives. For example, a royalty arrangement based on total sales of a licensee's product, regardless of whether it is made using the licensed technology, may increase the cost to a licensee of substituting alternative technologies, and thus may have effects similar to an exclusive dealing arrangement. See Complaint, United States v. Microsoft, Inc., Civ. No. 94&hyph;1564 (D.D.C., filed July 15, 1994); Competitive Impact Statement, id. (filed July 27, 1994). Whether a restraint of this kind has anticompetitive effects depends, inter alia, on the availability of other outlets for competitively viable exploitation of rival technologies. Restraints that impose or encourage exclusive dealing may have procompetitive effects. For example, a licensing arrangements that prevents the licensee from dealing in other technologies may encourage the licensee to develop and market the licensed technology or specialized application of that technology. See, e.g., Example 7. The Department will take into account such precompetitive effects in evaluating the reasonableness of the arrangement. See section 4.4. The Department will focus on the actual practice and its effects, not to the formal terms of the arrangement. A license denominated as non-exclusive (either in the sense of exclusive licensing or in the sense of exclusive dealing) may nonetheless give rise to the same concerns posed by formal exclusivity. A non-exclusive license may have the effect of exclusive licensing if it is structured so that the licensor is unlikely to license others or to practice the technology itself. A license that does not explicitly require exclusive dealing may have the effect of exclusive dealing if it is structured to make it costly for licensees to use competing technologies. However, a licensing arrangement will not automatically raise these concerns merely because a party chooses to deal with a single licensee or licensor, or confines his activity to a single field of use or location, or because only a single licensee has chosen to take a license.
