FR940318-2-00136 FR940318-2-00079 Office of Refugee Resettlement Refugee Resettlement Program; Proposed Availability of Formula Allocation Funding for FY 1994 Targeted Assistance Grants for Services to Refugees1 in Local Areas of High Need AGENCY: Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR), ACF, HHS. 1 In addition to persons admitted to the United States as refugees, eligibility for targeted assistance includes Cuban and Haitian entrants, certain Amerasians from Vietnam who are admitted to the U.S. as immigrants, and certain Amerasians from Vietnam who are U.S. citizens. (See section II of this notice on ``Authorization.'') The term ``refugee'', used in this notice for convenience, is intended to encompass such additional persons who are eligible to participate in refugee program services, including the targeted assistance program. 1Refugees admitted to the U.S. under admissions numbers set aside for private-sector-initiative admissions are not eligible to be served under the targeted assistance program (or under other programs supported by Federal refugee funds) during their period of coverage under their sponsoring agency's agreement with the Department of State_usually two years from their date of arrival, or until they obtain permanent resident alien status, whichever comes first. ACTION: Notice of proposed availability of formula allocation funding for FY 1994 targeted assistance grants to States for services to refugees in local areas of high need. SUMMARY: This notice announces the proposed availability of funds and award procedures for FY 1994 targeted assistance grants for services to refugees under the Refugee Resettlement Program (RRP). These grants are for service provision in localities with large refugee populations, high refugee concentrations, and high use of public assistance, and where specific needs exist for supplementation of currently available resources. In order to provide States increased flexibility, this notice proposes to eliminate the specific requirement that at least 85% of targeted assistance funds must be used for services which directly enhance refugee employment potential and proposes to replace this requirement with a more general requirement that targeted assistance funds must be used primarily for employment-related services. In addition, this notice proposes to eliminate the requirement that cash assistance recipients must make up a percentage of the targeted assistance caseload which is not less than the State's current welfare dependency rate among refugees. This notice also proposes to eliminate welfare dependency as a factor in the targeted assistance allocation formula in light of the unavailability of up-to-date national welfare dependency data since FY 1989. The formula has been updated to take into account FY 1993 arrivals. In FY 1994, targeted assistance funds will be available only for a one-year grant project period.
