FR940622-2-00106 FR940622-2-00077 Telephone Script for Professional Nurse ``Welcome. You have reached the U.S. Government's telephone application processing system. We are pleased that you have contacted us about nursing positions with the Federal Government. This application system will ask you a series of questions about your qualifications and career preferences. You will need to record your answers, either verbally or by using the keys of your touch-tone telephone. This will take approximately 15 minutes. To complete this application process, you will need to know your undergraduate degree grade-point average and the number of months of experience, education or training you obtained beyond your basic degree program for each specialization. If you make an error during this process, you will be given an opportunity at the end of this call to cancel your responses and start over. If you are not sure of the information at this time, you may hang-up and call again. You will be rated for all grade levels GS&hyph;05, 07, 09, 11 and 12. If you are interested in any grade level not covered by this system, please contact the U.S. Office of Personnel Management's Federal Employment Information Center nearest you. If you are calling from a touch tone telephone and would like to continue with the application process, press 1. If you are calling from a rotary or pulse dial telephone, please wait for further instructions. 1=Touch tone callers go to I.1 Citizenship. For Rotary Callers After 5 seconds, the applicant will hear the following message. ``This system will recognize the words ``yes'' and ``no''. When answering a question, please wait for the tone and speak clearly and distinctly.'' 1. Citizenship: ``Are you a citizen of the United States? Please say `YES' or `NO'.'' Yes, continue No, Play non-citizen message and end call. ``We appreciate your interest in applying for nursing positions in the Federal government. However, to be considered for employment, you must be a U.S. citizen. Thank you for your time.'' 2. First name, middle initial, last name and address: ``So that we can send you an application form by mail, please say your first time name, middle initial, last name, and address including city, state and zip code, when you hear the tone. Please spell any necessary words. If this is an overseas address, please give the city and country. Also, please say your telephone number, including area code. When you finish recording, you will be given an opportunity to review your message.'' ``You will receive the necessary application form within a few days. Thank you for your interest in nursing positions with the U.S. Government.'' End recording for rotary and pulse dial callers. For Touch Tone Callers ``For your convenience, each question will be automatically repeated if you do not respond within five seconds. If you do not respond the second time, the system will disconnect and you must redial. I. Personal Information ``This begins your application for nursing positions with the U.S. Government. 1. Citizenship: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ ``Are you a citizen of the United States?'' 1=yes, (GO to I.2) l``For yes, press 1. lFor no, press 2.'' 2=non-citizen. Play non-citizen message and end call. ``We appreciate your interest in applying for nursing positions in the Federal government. However, to be considered for employment, you must be a U.S. citizen. Thank you for your time.''
