FR940106-2-00106 FR940106-2-00056 Wyle Laboratories states that it will implement control procedures for identifying products which have been certified. It will maintain a controlled and secure file for each product tested. This file will contain the technical and business records of the test program, including the services agreement, test results, correspondence, transmittals, the Factory Inspection Reports, and the product documentation. (See Exhibit 2.A.(1), Section 7). The applicant further states that products bearing the Wyle label will be considered evaluated, certified, and listed by Wyle. It will certify that these products are in compliance with the applicable safety standards to which they were tested. Wyle will thereafter have unannounced and unrestricted access to conduct inspections at approximately three-month intervals at manufacturing and other facilities where products certified by them may be fabricated, processed, or stored. Wyle will conduct field inspections to monitor and assure proper use of its certification label after the products are delivered to the end user. (See Exhibit 2.A(1), Sections 5 and 9, and Exhibit 2.A.(2), Appendix XI). WL states that its Product Safety Certification activities are performed completely independent of its clients. No Wyle clients have ownership positions in Wyle or have any sort of influence on WL's activities. No WL employees are under the influence or control of manufacturers or suppliers. (See Exhibits 2.A; 2.A.(1), Section 3; and Exhibits 2.A.(2), Appendix I). The applicant appears to maintain effective procedures for producing creditable findings or reports that are objective and without bias. (See Exhibit 2.A.(2), Appendices IV and VIII). Wyle asserts that its Appeals Procedure (see Exhibit 2.A.(2), Appendix X) includes a system which provides an unbiased review of any controversial matter. The Appeals Procedure is available for any interested party, including users. All other pertinent aspects of Wyle Laboratories' program are detailed in Exhibited 2.A and 3.A. Background The applicant states that Wyle Laboratories was founded in 1949 in El Segundo, California, as an independent test laboratory to support the nation's fledgling aerospace industry. As manned spaceflight became a national priority and support of spaceflight development was required, Wyle expanded to a new location in Norco, California, which was dedicated in 1959. To complement the propellent and vibration testing capabilities of the California locations, Wyle states that it created the Huntsville facility in 1962 to support the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the establishment of the George C. Marshall Space Flight Center (MSFC) in Huntsville, Alabama, with testing, engineering, and research capabilities. Of the three major operations at the Huntsville facility, the one of interest to the NRTL Accreditation program is the Test Operations Division, which includes the Product Safety Department. The Product Safety Testing and Certification Division of the Test Operations Division is responsible for the testing, certification, and factory follow-up inspections of the products. The applicant states that over its 42 year history, Wyle Laboratories_Scientific & Systems (3S) Group has expended and diversified into various business disciplines. At the same time, the applicant states that the Company has continuously maintained its independent laboratory status as a major provider of conformity assessment services to North America's most quality-conscious industries. Wyle's focus continues to be on the science of evaluation, test and measurement engineering, as well as the business of regulatory compliance. Wyle Laboratories desires recognition for testing and certification of products when tested for compliance with the following test standards: ANSI/UL 153_Portable Electric Lamps ANSI/UL 187_X-Ray Equipment ANSI/UL 465_Central Cooling Air Conditioners ANSI/UL 484_Room Air Conditioners ANSI/UL 489_Molded-Case Circuit Breakers and Circuit-Breaker Enclosures ANSI/UL 499_Electric Heating Appliances ANSI/UL 506_Specialty Transformers ANSI/UL 508_Electric Industrial Control Equipment UL 544_Electric Medical and Dental Equipment ANSI/UL 1012_Power Supplies ANSI/UL 1025_Electric Air Heaters ANSI/UL 1069_Hospital Signaling and Nursing Call Equipment ANSI/UL 1087_Molded-Case Switches ANSI/UL 1236_Electric Battery Chargers UL 1244_Electrical and Electronic Measuring and Testing Equipment ANSI/UL 1262_Laboratory Equipment ANSI/UL 1310_Direct Plug-In Transformer Units ANSI/UL 1411_Transformers and Motor Transformer for Use in ␣␣Audio-, Radio-, and Television-Type Appliances ANSI/UL 1459_Telephone Equipment ANSI/UL 1570_Fluorescent Lighting Fixtures ANSI/UL 1571_Incandescent Lighting Fixtures ANSI/UL 1585_Class 2 and Class 3 Transformers ANSI/UL 1778_Uninterruptible Power Supply UL 1863_Communication Circuit Accessories ANSI/UL 1950_Information Technology Equipment Including Electrical Business Equipment
