FR941110-0-00144 FR941110-0-00016 Many commenters disagreed that facilities be furnished with a separate summary of all level 1&hyph;1 deficiencies rather than receiving notice of them on the official deficiency statement. They believed that it would be confusing to have a facility's deficiencies recorded, in parts, between two separate documents, as well as harder to track repeat deficiencies at the next standard survey. Many commenters made specific recommendations of required remedies for various levels of severity and scope. Some suggested that HCFA or the State only impose a plan of correction at the lower scope and severity levels, while other commenters wanted HCFA to mandate civil money penalties and other remedies. Many consumer advocates expressed concern that the proposed scope and severity scales did not represent the intent of the Congress to make resident rights and physical environment requirements equivalent to quality of care requirements. They contend that the way the scales are currently written, resident rights and physical environment deficiencies would never rise above severity level 2. A few commenters believe that the scope and severity scales should be predicated on a statistical analysis of probability and suggest that this could be done by health care professionals who could factor into the scales the predisposition of a given individual to a particular incident. Many commenters asked that the ambiguous terms used within the level descriptions be defined, for example, how many cases constitute ``in a number of cases.'' One commenter suggested that a numerical or percentage determination be made to clarify the terms, for example, 1&hyph;3 instances = isolated, or less than 17 percent occurrences = isolated. One commenter suggested that the scope scale include only three levels, combining the proposed levels 3 and 4 because there was no distinction for the remedies. Another commenter observed that the scope scale level descriptions were written in terms of the number of times that the surveyors made a particular observation, and contended that while this approach may be appropriate for certain types of problems, it is not for others. For example, when surveying for life safety code compliance, what scope would be assigned to a total sprinkler system failure? This problem is a single observation, but it is one that affects every resident in the facility. This commenter, therefore, suggested that if we are to accurately reflect the extent of the deficiency, then scope should be based on the number of residents who are affected by the deficient practice. Overall, many commenters feared that the scope and severity scales, as proposed, give the enforcing agency virtually unlimited discretion in selecting remedies. They contended that the proposed scheme does not limit imposition of the most onerous remedies only to the most serious deficiencies and they, therefore, suggest that a prescriptive approach be developed for correlating deficiencies and remedies. Response: Historically, the enforcement system was based on a hierarchical set of requirements called conditions of participation, standards, and elements. Each condition of participation included groups of standards, and standards were made up of separate elements. Enforcement was based on the level of the requirement for which a deficiency was cited. For example, condition-level deficiencies in a SNF resulted in the initiation of termination procedures or a denial of payment for new admissions. However, if only standard-level deficiencies were found, only a plan of correction was required. Since the Congress has expressly eliminated the use of hierarchical requirements in nursing homes, we needed an organized way to determine how serious a facility's deficiencies are, as well as a consistent approach to guide enforcing agencies in making enforcement decisions.
