FR940406-2-00165 FR940406-2-00092 •Maintaining data on general training characteristics sufficient to allow evaluation by central and regional offices, and self-evaluation by the training grantees; •Developing and implementing general training plans and continuing professional education programs which include measurable objectives; •Sharing materials developing with other training programs so as to avoid unnecessary duplication of effort. All materials developed with Title X funds must be made available at cost to other Title X projects upon request; •Facilitating trainees' receipt of continuing education units where appropriate, and •Planning an annual continuing education conference and attending at least one national training meeting annually. Application Requirements Applications must be submitted on the forms supplied (PHS&hyph;5161&hyph;1) (OMB Approval No. 0937&hyph;0189) and in the manner prescribed in the application kits available from the Office of Grants Management. Applicants are required to submit an application signed by an individual authorized to act for the applicant agency or organization and to assume for the organization the obligations imposed by the terms and conditions of the grant award. Applicants are required to submit an original application and two copies. Accepted applications will be subjected to a competitive review process. The results of this review will assist the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Population Affairs in considering competing applications and in making the final funding decisions. Any public or private nonprofit organization or agency is eligible to apply for a grant. It is not required that an entity applying for a grant be physically located in the region to be served by the proposed project. A copy of the legislation and regulations governing this program will be sent to applicants as part of the application kit package. Applicants should use the legislation, regulations and information included in this announcement to guide them in developing their applications. Applications should be limited to 50 doubled-spaced pages, not including appendices providing curriculum vitae or statements of organizational capabilities. Awards will be made only to those applicants who have met all applicable requirements. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity which involves the establishment and pursuit of goals designed to prevent disease and promote health. This announcement is related to the priority areas of Family Planning and Educational and Community-Based Programs. Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00474&hyph;0) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report; Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;0325. (Telephone (202) 783&hyph;3238.) Grant Award Eligible competing grant applications will be reviewed and assessed against the following criteria: 1. The extent to which the proposed training program will increase the delivery of services to Title X clients, particularly persons from low-income families. (15 points) 2. The extent to which the proposed training program has the potential to fulfill the training needs of the family planning services grantees in the areas to be served, which may include among other things: a. Development of a capability within family planning services projects to provide pre- and in-service training to their own staffs; b. Improvement of the family planning service delivery skills of family planning and health services personnel; and c. Improvement in the utilization and career development of paraprofessional and paramedical manpower in family planning services. Total consideration for a, b, and c. (15 points) 3. The extent to which the training program proposes appropriate strategies to improve the provision of family planning services in rural areas and HPSAs. (15 points) 4. The capacity of the applicant to make rapid and effective use of the training grant. (10 points) 5. The administrative and management capability and competence of the applicant. (15 points)
