FR940810-2-00106 FR940810-2-00072 [Release No. 34&hyph;34485; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;15] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to the NASD's Free-Riding and Withholding Interpretation August 3, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on March 18, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to amend its Free-Riding and Withholding Interpretation, an Interpretation of the NASD's Board of Governors under Article III, Section 1 of the Association's Rules of Fair Practice. 1 Below is the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is in italics; proposed deletions are in brackets. 1 NASD Manual, Rules of Fair Practice, Art. III, Sec. 1 (CCH) ¶2151.06. ``Free-Riding and Withholding'' Introduction The following Interpretation of Article III, Section 1 of the Association's Rules of Fair Practice is adopted by the Board of Governors of the Association pursuant to the provisions of Article VII, Section 3(a) of the Association's By-Laws and Article I, Section 3 of the Rules of Fair Practice. This Interpretation is based upon the premise that members have an obligation to make a bona fide public distribution at the public offering price of securities of a public offering which trade at a premium in the secondary market whenever such secondary market begins (a ``hot issue'') regardless of whether such securities are acquired by the member as an underwriter, as a selling group member, or from a member participating in the distribution as an underwriter or a selling group or otherwise. The failure to make a bona fide public distribution when there is a demand for an issue can be a factor in artificially raising the price. Thus, the failure to do so, especially when the member may have information relating to the demand for the securities or other factors not generally known to the public, is inconsistent with high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade and leads to an impairment of public confidence in the fairness of the investment banking and securities business. Such conduct is, therefore, in violation of Article III, Section 1 of the Association's Rules of Fair Practice and this Interpretation thereof which establishes guidelines in respect to such activity. As in the case of any other Interpretation issued by the Board of Governors of the Association, the implementation thereof is a function of the District Business Conduct Committees and the Board of Governors. Thus, the Interpretation will be applied to a given factual situation by individuals active in the investment banking and securities business who are serving on these committees or on the Board. They will construe this Interpretation to effectuate its overall purpose to assure a public distribution of securities for which there is a public demand. The Board of Governors has determined that a member who makes an allocation to a restricted person or account of an offering that trades at a premium in the secondary market shall not be considered to have violated this Interpretation if it cancels the allocations for such restricted person or account, prior to the end of the first business day following the date on which secondary market trading commences and reallocates such security at the public offering price to an non-restricted person or account. Interpretation Except as provided herein, it shall be inconsistent with high standards of commercial honor and just and equitable principles of trade and a violation of Article III, Section 1 of the Association's Rules of Fair Practice for a member, or a person associated with a member, to fail to make a bona fide public distribution at the public offering price of securities of a public offering which trade at a premium in the secondary market whenever such secondary market begins regardless of whether such securities are acquired by the member as an underwriter, a selling group member or from a member participating in the distribution as an underwriter or selling group member, or otherwise. Therefore, it shall be a violation of Article III, Section 1 for a member, or a person associated with a member, to: 1. Continue to hold any of the securities so acquired in any of the member's accounts; 2. Sell any of the securities to any officer, director, general partner, employee or agent of the member or of any other broker/dealer, or to a person associated with the member or with any other broker/dealer, or to a member of the immediate family of any such person; provided however, that: (a) This prohibition shall not apply to a person in a limited registration category as that term is defined below; and (b) The prohibition shall not apply to sales to a member of the immediate family of a person associated with a member whose is not supported directly or indirectly to a material extent by such person if the sale is by a broker/dealer other than that employing the restricted person and the restricted person has no ability to control the allocation of the hot issue. 3. Sell any of the securities to a person who is a finder in respect to the public offering or to any person acting in a fiduciary capacity to the managing underwriter, including, among others, attorneys, accountants and financial consultants, or to [a member of the immediate family of any such person;] any other person who is supported directly or indirectly, to a material extent, by any person specified in this paragraph.
