FR941116-0-00116 FR941116-0-00022 Other Production Eligible production not enrolled in either the target price or price support levels of the options program was eligible to be pledged as collateral for CCC price support loans and for deficiency payments. Other Requirements and Restrictions All put options purchased as required by the options program must have been purchased through a separate account with a registered commodity broker. A subaccount is not considered ``separate'' for purposes of the options program. Documentation Documentation of all transactions involving the commodities covered by the program was required to be provided to CCC. This documentation includes, but is not limited to, copies of brokers' trade confirmations, account statements, and copies of cash contracts or bills of sale. Corn and Wheat Options Program Participants Options program participants for corn and wheat must have complied with the acreage limitations and other requirements of the acreage reduction programs. Additionally, participants agreed that (1) in the case of target price participation, the total of the premium subsidies received under the options program and the deficiency payments received under the annual acreage reduction programs will not exceed $50,000 per person; and (2) in the case of price support participation, the total of premium subsidies received under the option program and loan deficiency payments, marketing loan gains and ``Findley'' deficiency payments received under such price support programs will not exceed $75,000 per person. A ``person'' will be determined in the same manner as a ``person'' is determined for payment limitation purposes for such annual programs. Incentive Payments Incentive payments made under either participation level are not subject to any payment limit, except to the extent that the total number of bushels any one producer may enroll in the options program is limited to 50,000 bushels for corn and 15,000 bushels for wheat and soybeans. In the event that CCC made disaster assistance available with respect to the 1993 crops of wheat, corn, or soybeans to producers participating in the options program at the target price level, such producers must refund any premium subsidies and incentive payments received on any enrolled commodities in order to receive disaster assistance from CCC. CCC will be operating a similar program in 1994, with the following changes. Section 1413.13␣Eligibility The number of States and counties participating in the options program has been increased. Participating States and counties now include: (1) For corn and soybeans, Champaign, Logan, and Shelby Counties in Illinois. (2) For corn only, Carroll, Clinton, and Tippecanoe Counties in Indiana, and Boone, Grundy, and Hardin Counties in Iowa. (3) For wheat, Ford and Thomas Counties in Kansas for hard red winter wheat, and Barnes and Grand Forks Counties in North Dakota for hard red spring wheat. Wheat participation will not be available in the counties in Illinois, Indiana, and Iowa. The counties in Kansas shall use the Kansas City Board of Trade for hard red winter wheat put option contracts, and the counties in North Dakota shall use the Minneapolis Grain Exchange for hard red spring wheat put option contracts. Section 1415.15␣Agreements In order to treat seed corn producers enrolled in the options program the same as if they had remained in the acreage reduction program, and to give them the same pricing flexibility as commercial corn producers, the quantity eligible for enrollment and the quantity eligible for pricing shall be based on the ratio of the program payment yield established for the crop for the farm to the actual yield produced.
