FR940712-2-00047 FR940712-2-00037 Repurchase Transactions and Other Sales Transactions One question raised by the use of sales volume as a test of the 10 percent limit is whether securities repurchase agreements (``repo transactions'') should be treated as ``sales'' and therefore covered under such a test. Repo transactions are hybrids, having some characteristics of collateralized lending and some characteristics of an outright sale of securities. The Federal Reserve, for purposes of open market operations, has taken the position that repo transactions are sales rather than loans. The Board requests comment on how repo transactions should be treated for purposes of a sales volume test, if such a test were adopted as an appropriate alternative measure. In addition, the Board invites comments concerning reporting and other administrative issues associated with implementing a sales volume test. The Board specifically requests comment on how sales volume should be computed for various types of transactions involving the same kinds of underlying securities in different market places. For example, Treasury bonds may be sold in the cash market, on a ``When Issued'' basis, on a forward contract basis, or indirectly, by purchasing a put option or selling a futures contract. Although each type of transaction may be reported differently for balance sheet purposes, all of the various kinds of transactions may have an identical impact on the section 20 subsidiary's risk profile. The Board is considering adopting instructions similar to those contained in the current Federal Reserve Report Series Form FR 2004, Schedule B ``Weekly Report of Cumulative Dealer Transactions'' for collection of sales volume information. Accordingly, comments are requested concerning whether the instructions and definitions for reporting sales volume data in the FR 2004 would provide an adequate basis for developing sales volume reporting for section 20 subsidiaries. Comments are also requested concerning the definition and reporting of various types of transactions that are not addressed in the existing FR 2004 report instructions. Manipulative Transactions When the Board first approved the establishment of the section 20 subsidiaries, it considered and rejected using a sales volume test, on the ground that the eligible securities sales volume of a section 20 subsidiary, like asset values, could be easily inflated by repeated matched book transactions intended for no other purpose than to inflate the subsidiary's eligible sales volume base. 10 As noted above, many of the comments on the previously proposed asset-based test pointed out the credit risk and market limitations on the extent to which a section 20 subsidiary may engage in matched book or similar transactions. While these limits may be less effective where a section 20 subsidiary engages in unusual sales of securities with its own affiliate, rather than with a third party, solely for the purpose of increasing the volume of eligible securities sales, these matters can be addressed during the examination process and, as noted above, corrective action can be taken where manipulative transactions are found. 10 Citicorp, supra, 73 Federal Reserve Bulletin at 484. D. Compliance With Both Measures A possible means for addressing the disadvantages of asset values and sales volume alone as appropriate measures is to require a section 20 subsidiary electing an alternative test to comply with both measures. The Board seeks comment on this possible requirement. E. Implementation of Any Alternative Test The Board notes that comments received on the asset-based test previously proposed suggested that, if such a test were adopted, some section 20 subsidiaries may not have access to sufficiently detailed asset data for earlier quarters to allow computation of such a test on a rolling 8-quarter basis and may not be able to obtain this information easily. Therefore, the Board proposes that, if an alternative measure is adopted using either asset values or sales volume, or a combination of both measures, a section 20 subsidiary would be allowed, at its election, initially to comply with such a test on a prospective basis only for the first two-year period. The Board followed this approach when the indexed revenue test was adopted. As was also the case with respect to adoption of the indexed revenue test, the Board proposes that, regardless of which test may be adopted as an alternative measure, any section 20 subsidiary electing to use a new test would be required to continue using that test for a period of at least two years, in order to prevent frequent switching between tests that would impair an accurate assessment of the relative importance of the subsidiary's ineligible securities activities. F. Proposed Elimination of Indexed Revenue Test The Board also seeks comment as to why, if a new alternative measure is adopted, the indexed revenue test should not be eliminated because there would no longer be a need for that alternative measure. However, a section 20 subsidiary would be allowed to continue to elect to use the unadjusted revenue test, if the subsidiary wishes to avoid the costs associated with converting to any new test. G. Proposed Modification of Board Orders The Board proposes that its orders approving the establishment of section 20 subsidiaries be modified to provide that a section 20 subsidiary may elect, as an alternative to the existing revenue tests, to apply an asset-based test to assess compliance with the 10 percent limit on ineligible securities activities. Under such a test, a section 20 subsidiary would be viewed as in compliance with that section for any quarter if the average daily assets held in connection with underwriting and dealing in ineligible securities for that quarter, when added to the average daily assets held in connection with ineligible securities activities for the previous seven quarters, does not exceed 10 percent of the average daily total assets of the subsidiary for that quarter and for the seven previous quarters. 11 11 Securities underwritten by the subsidiary, including securities taken into inventory in a private placement pursuant to SEC Rule 144A, would be treated as assets of the subsidiary for each day underwriting activity takes place with respect to such securities. In the alternative, the Board proposes that section 20 subsidiaries be authorized to elect to apply, as an alternative to the existing revenue test, a sales volume test to assess compliance with the 10 percent limit. Under such a test, a section 20 subsidiary would be viewed as in compliance with that section for any quarter if the total dollar volume of sales of ineligible securities from underwriting and dealing activities for that quarter, when added to the total dollar volume of such sales for the previous seven quarters, does not exceed 10 percent of the total dollar volume of sales of all securities and other assets by the subsidiary for that quarter and for the seven previous quarters. Finally, as a third alternative, the Board proposes that section 20 subsidiaries be authorized to apply an alternative test measured by both asset values and sales volume. Under such a test, a section 20 subsidiary would be viewed as in compliance with section 20 for any quarter if the subsidiary simultaneously satisfied both the asset-based and sales volume measures described above. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, July 6, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16820 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
