FR940414-2-00152 FR940414-2-00084 2. If no authorization is received from the trademark holder, cancel a first-time violation upon payment of an amount between 20 and 50 percent of the value of the merchandise, depending on the presence of aggravating or mitigating factors. 3. For subsequent violations where no authorization of the trademark holder is received, cancel the claim upon payment of an amount equal to no less than 50 percent of the value of the merchandise. In order to receive any relief, extraordinary mitigating factors must be shown. 4. As a general rule, if the merchandise is counterfeit, no relief shall be granted. If the merchandise is genuine, that fact shall be considered as a mitigating factor in accordance with the above guidelines. J. Failure to provide a sample. 1. If the importer fails to provide a sample within the time period prescribed, but then does provide the sample subsequent to the issuance of liquidated damages and can prove to the satisfaction of the import specialist that the sample is, in fact, from the shipment in question and the merchandise is not violative of any provision of law regarding its admissibility, the claim for liquidated damages may be cancelled upon payment of an amount between one and five percent of the value of the merchandise in the shipment, but not less than $100. 2. If the importer fails to provide a sample, cancel the claim consistent with guidelines for the violation which the sample was being examined. For example, if a sample is sought to determine whether merchandise is copyright-violative, and the importer fails to provide a sample, cancel the claim consistent with guidelines for failure to redeliver copyright-violative merchandise where no retroactive license is given. K. Other Customs-enforced statutes and regulations. 1. If the merchandise is not redelivered for any reason not enumerated above, the claim may be cancelled upon payment of between 1 and 10 percent of the value of the merchandise depending upon the presence of aggravating or mitigating factors. 2. For subsequent violations, cancel the claim upon payment of an amount between 10 and 50 percent of the value of the merchandise, depending upon the presence of aggravating or mitigating factors. 3. If the issue is Customs supervision of exportation or destruction of merchandise which is the subject of a notice of refusal of admission issued by FDA or CPSC, and such exportation or destruction occurs, but not under supervision, cancel the claim in accordance with guidelines enumerated in subparagraphs K(1) or K(2) directly above. 4. If exportation or destruction (when ordered) never occurs, grant no relief. 5. Claims for liquidated damages arising for failure to comply with special marking for watch and clock movements, cases and dials as required by Chapter 91, Additional U.S. Note 4, United States Tariff Schedule (19 U.S.C. 1202) shall be cancelled in accordance with the guidelines promulgated subparagraphs K(1) or K(2) directly above. V. Guidelines for Cancellation of Claims Arising From Failure To Provide Missing Documents (19 CFR 113.42) A. Discretionary application of $25 provision. The regulatory provisions which permit cancellation of the bond upon payment of $25 are discretionary. In lieu of following such provision, the following guidelines should be used. B. Issuance of modified CF&hyph;5955A. A modified CF5955A similar to that issued in cases involving late filing of entry summaries shall be issued in missing document cases. 1. Option 1. a. Petitioner may pay a specified sum within 60 days and the case will be closed. b. Such payment shall act as a waiver of his right to file a petition. 2. Option 2. a. Normal petitioning procedures are in effect. b. Mitigation shall not be permitted to an amount less than $100 greater than that afforded under Option 1 unless extraordinary mitigating factors can be shown. c. Petitions shall be limited to the following issues: i. Circumstances causing the delay in filing of the document. ii. Extent of the lateness. iii. Past record of the importer. iv. Lack of intent to file documents untimely.
