FR940105-2-00056 FR940105-2-00021 For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: ``Work Opportunity'' means any offer to a person to earn income by producing goods or providing services, where (1) the offeree must pay to the offeror, or a person identified by the offeror, any amount of money, whether in the form of a registration, application or other fee, a payment for initial inventory or supplies, or in any other form, as a condition of participating; and (2) the offeror represents that the offeree will or could be compensated in any manner by the offeror or by a person identified by the offeror. ``Participant'' means any person who pays the offeror of a work opportunity, or a person identified by such offeror, any amount of money, whether in the form of a registration, application or other fee, a payment for initial inventory or supplies, or in any other form, as a condition of participating in a work opportunity. ``Net Earnings or Profits'' means the compensation paid to a participant in a work opportunity, less the costs to a participant of materials, supplies and shipping. I It is ordered that, Respondents William E. Taylor and Susan L. Taylor, individually and trading and doing business as Sandcastle Creations, an unincorporated association, and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the marketing, advertising, promotion, offering, or sale of any work opportunity, in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from: A. Making any material misrepresentation, including but not limited to: 1. Misrepresenting the past, present or potential future earnings or profits of participants in any work opportunity; or 2. Misrepresenting the marketplace demand for any product or service for which respondents are offering a work opportunity. B. Making any earnings-related or profit-related claim which uses the phrase ``up to'' or words of similar import or which states any dollar amount, unless the stated level of earnings or profits constitutes the net earnings or profits which can be achieved by an appreciable number of participants; and further, in any instances where consumers could not reasonably foresee the major factors or conditions affecting the ability to achieve the stated level of earnings or profits, cease and desist from failing to disclose clearly and prominently the class of consumers who can achieve the stated level. II It is further ordered that, For three (3) years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this Order, respondents shall maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: A. Specimen copies of all materials disseminated which contain such representation; B. All materials that were relied upon as substantiation in disseminating such representation; C. The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all work opportunity participants who paid any money to respondents within the previous three years; and D. The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all work opportunity participants who earned any income or profits from respondents during the previous three years, and for each such participant: all written agreements between respondents and each participant during the previous three years; and the dates and amounts of all payments paid to each participant for work completed pursuant to the work opportunity during the previous three years.
