FR940812-1-00023 FR940812-1-00005 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 24 [PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, FCC 94&hyph;198] Implementation of Section 309(j) of the Communications Act_Competitive Bidding AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Notice of proposed rule making. SUMMARY: In this Further Notice of Proposed Rule Making , the Commission seeks comment by September 12, 1994 on whether businesses owned by minorities and/or women should be permitted to hold licenses in the broadband personal communications services (``broadband PCS'') that are geographically partitioned from established PCS service areas. A similar plan, allowing geographic partitioning by rural telephone companies, has been adopted to expedite the provision of broadband PCS in rural area. The Commission seeks comment from interested parties on the following issues: whether allowing businesses owned by minorities and/or women to hold partitioned PCS licenses would serve the public interest; if so, what parameters the Commission should provide for these entities to obtain partitioned licenses ( i.e., through what mechanisms should partitioned licenses be granted and what, if any, limitations should apply); and whether any such partitioning should be prohibited for a period of time after initial PCS licensing, and if so, for what period. Commenters should focus on the public interest impact that allowing such partitioning would likely have. The Commission is particularly interested in whether such partitioning could be expected to give rise to benefits corresponding to those that are expected from rural telephone company partitioning. The Commission also seeks comment on whether the potential benefits that may be derived by partitioning in this context outweigh any practical or administrative difficulties that might arise, and whether more rapid and better service will be provided to any areas as a result of the partitioning. The Commission also seeks comment on whether it should restrict the transfer or assignment of partitioned licenses (held by rural telephone companies or by businesses owned by minorities and/or women) for some period of time, and if so, for how long any such transfer restriction period should last. DATES: Comments are to be filed on or before September 12, 1994. Reply comments are to be filed on or before September 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jonathan Cohen, Office of Plans and Policy, (202) 418&hyph;2030. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This Further Notice of Proposed Rule Making is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Dockets Branch, Room 230, 1919 M Street N.W., Washington, D.C. The complete text may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, Inc., 2100 M Street, N.W., Suite 140, Washington, D.C. 20037, telephone (202) 857&hyph;3800. I. Background 1. In the Memorandum Opinion and Order in GEN Docket No. 90&hyph;314, 59 FR 32830 (June 24, 1994), the Commission set forth rules for licensing Personal Communications Services in the 2 GHz band (``broadband PCS''), including specification of geographic service areas. We declined to allow general partitioning of those service areas, stating that such partitioning could be used to circumvent construction requirements, but we also recognized that the public interest may favor a different result ``for particular groups of service providers, such as rural telephone companies, or to create PCS ownership opportunities for companies owned by minorities or women.'' Memorandum Opinion and Order at ¶83.
