FR940720-0-00068 FR940720-0-00006 Since promulgation of the final regulations for the anti-dumping program, the Agency has determined that the valid range limits in the Simple Model for aromatics, which are more restrictive than those for conventional gasoline under the Complex Model, could be widened without any detrimental impacts on either the program or on the environment. Without such a change to the regulations, refiners may be forced to make changes to their refineries by 1995 that are not necessary in 1998 when compliance under the Complex Model is mandatory. Thus the Agency is changing the high end of the valid range for aromatics under the Simple Model from 45 volume percent to 55 volume percent. This change will ensure that the Simple Model can be used for as many conventional fuels as possible to show compliance under the anti-dumping program without the need to extend the valid range. The environment will not be adversely impacted since it was the Agency's intent to allow extensions of the valid range when a refiner's 1990 baseline fuel exceeded the specified valid range limits. The change will not affect RFG compliance, since aromatics are controlled by the reformulated gasoline standards for toxics. Driveability will not be affected since fuels with aromatics levels as high as 55 volume percent currently exist in-use. Also, consistency in the high end of the valid range limits for aromatics will be maintained throughout Phase I of the program. Because the relationship between toxic emissions and fuel aromatics levels is linear in the Simple Model, the change will not result in an inaccurate application of the model to higher aromatics levels. 4. Change to Low End of Aromatics Valid Range in the Simple Model The Agency has also determined that the low end of the valid range for aromatics in the Simple Model may not provide refiners with adequate flexibility under the reformulated gasoline program. For the Complex Model, the Agency determined that the relationships between aromatics and emissions could not be trusted at levels below 10 volume percent. However, the Agency determined that a flat-line extrapolation below 10 volume percent, in which no emission benefits or detriments result from lowering aromatics values below 10 volume percent, would provide greater flexibility without compromising the accuracy of the Complex Model equations in this range. Since promulgation of the final rule, the Agency has determined that the Complex Model approach to low values of aromatics can be appropriately applied to the Simple Model as well. Therefore, the Agency is changing the low end of the valid range for aromatics under the Simple Model from 10 volume percent to 0 volume percent, but will not allow any emission benefits in this range. The Agency did not intend to discourage the production of fuels that had very low levels of aromatics, and were, thus, qualitatively considered to be cleaner burning. If the low end of the valid range for aromatics is left at 10 volume percent, fuels with aromatics values of less than 10 volume percent that would otherwise be complying reformulated gasolines under the Simple Model will not be certifiable, despite the fact that those same fuels may be certifiable under the Complex Model. This change is expected to be environmentally benign, as few refiners will have any incentive to reduce aromatics below 10 volume percent for reformulated gasoline under the Simple Model. 5. Change to High End of Benzene Valid Range in the Simple Model As stated in Section II.A.3, it was and is the intention of the Agency, to the extent possible, not to establish regulations that require the reformulation of conventional gasoline under the anti-dumping program. However, the valid range limits for benzene under the Simple Model may in fact force refiners to reformulate conventional gasoline. The Agency has determined that the valid range limits in the Simple Model for benzene, which are more restrictive than those for conventional gasoline under the Complex Model, can be widened without any detrimental impacts. Without such a change to the regulations, refiners may be forced to make changes to their refineries by 1995 that are not necessary in 1998 when compliance under the Complex Model is mandatory. Thus the Agency is changing the high end of the valid range for benzene under the Simple Model from 2.5 volume percent to 4.9 volume percent. This change ensures that the Simple Model can be used for as many conventional fuels as possible to show compliance under the anti-dumping program without the need to extend the valid range. The change will not affect RFG compliance, since benzene is controlled by the reformulated gasoline standards for fuel benzene content. In like manner to raising the high end of the valid range for aromatics, consistency in the valid range limits will be maintained throughout Phase I of the program. The environment will not be adversely impacted since it was the Agency's intent to allow extensions of the valid range when a refiner's 1990 baseline fuel exceeded the specified valid range limits. As for aromatics, because the relationship between toxic emissions and fuel benzene levels is linear in the Simple Model, the change will not result in an inaccurate application of the model to higher benzene levels.
