FR940412-2-00122 FR940412-2-00090 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration RIN: 0905&hyph;ZA31 The Community Prevention Coalitions Demonstration Grant Program AGENCY: Center for Substance Abuse Prevention, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA), HHS. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and request for applications. SUMMARY: The Center for Substance Abuse Prevention (CSAP) announces the availability of funds to support community prevention coalitions to demonstrate and systematically study approaches to prevent and reduce alcohol, tobacco and other drug abuse and other drug-related problems through the further development of coalitions and partnerships, at the State, regional, and/or local level. This will involve the expansion of long-range, comprehensive, multi-disciplinary community-wide substance abuse prevention programming that reflects the next step in furthering CSAP's mission to support and promote strengthening of comprehensive prevention systems. The Community Prevention Coalitions Demonstration (CPCD) Grant Program is authorized under Sections 501(d)(5) and 516 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Noting the development and strengthening of community partnership programs across the country, CSAP will support, under this announcement, grants to promote the progression of this programmatic concept. The new CPCD grant program will build on the lessons being learned from CSAP's Community Partnership Demonstration Grant Program and similar programs in the field, e.g., Robert Wood Johnson Foundation's ``Fighting Back'' grants. The CSAP model of community-based prevention facilitates the incorporation of substance abuse prevention services into the general health care system. With health care reform, this approach which emphasizes greater integration of services, an elimination of duplication, and the need for community self-sufficiency in responding to substance abuse problems finds particular relevance. The conceptual framework of the Community Partnership Program embraces and operationalizes community empowerment, which is a keystone of the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services goals for the Department_empower communities, emphasize prevention, and value the consumer. This notice consists of three parts: Part I covers information on the legislative authority and the applicable regulations and policies related to the CPCD grant program. Part II provides the program description and model and discusses eligibility, availability of funds, period of support and the receipt date for applications. Part III describes special requirements of the program, the application process, the review and award criteria and lists contacts for additional information. Part I_Legislative Authority and Other Applicable Regulations and Policies Grants awarded under this program announcement are authorized under Sections 501(d)(5) and 516 of the Public Health Service Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 290aa and 42 U.S.C. 290bb-22). Federal regulations at Title 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92, generic requirements concerning the administration of grants, are applicable to these awards. Grants must be administered in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy Statement (Rev. April 1, 1994). The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number for this program is 93.194. Interim progress reports, a final report, and Financial Status Reports (FSRs) will be required and specified to awardees in accord with PHS Grants Policy requirements.
