FR940819-0-00116 FR940819-0-00020 The revised DHHS guidelines modify the temperature range within which a specimen must fall in order to avoid creating a reason to believe that a urine specimen has been altered or substituted. The old range is 32.5&hyph;37.7C/90.5&hyph;99.8F. The new range is 32&hyph;38C/90&hyph;100F. Part 40 references are being changed to conform with the DHHS revision. Clarification of Chain of Custody Requirement Section 40.25 contains a number of references to use of chain of custody documentation in the handling and transportation of urine specimens. Recently, an arbitrator misinterpreted these provisions, determining that a chain of custody was invalid, and that the test must be canceled, because persons involved solely in the transportation of the intact shipping container did not make a chain of custody entry. This interpretation is contrary to Part 40 procedures, wholly unnecessary in order to preserve the integrity of the process, and, if followed, would result in a wholesale disruption of the DOT testing program. As DHHS recently pointed out in its revised drug testing guidelines, ``Since specimens are sealed in packages that would indicate any tampering during transit to the laboratory and couriers, express carriers, and postal service personnel do not have access to the chain of custody forms, there is no requirement that such personnel document chain of custody for the package during transit.'' The Department interprets its existing regulatory provisions as not requiring couriers, postal employees, and other personnel involved in the transportation of urine specimens to make chain of custody form entries. Likewise, the Department interprets its existing rules as not requiring making entries on the chain of custody form when a sealed shipping container is put into or removed from temporary, secure storage. In present ยง40.25(c), for example, handling or transportation of a specimen from one ``place'' to another must be accomplished through chain of custody procedures. The Department interprets this as meaning that as long as there is an entry from an individual authorized to release the specimen from the collection site ( ``Place'' # 1) and another from an individual authorized to receive it on behalf of the laboratory (``Place'' # 2), the persons who perform intervening, ministerial transportation services (e.g., couriers, truck drivers, airplane pilots, postal service employees, mail room employees) need not make such entries. Present paragraph 40.25(h) authorizes chain of custody documentation to be ``enclosed'' in the shipping container for shipment to the laboratory. This container is sealed with tamper-evident tape. As a program matter, the Department recommends enclosing chain of custody documentation in the shipping container, as opposed to attaching it to the exterior of the container, since this minimizes the likelihood of loss of or damage to the documents. Interpreting the rule to require persons performing intervening transportation services to make chain of custody entries would nullify this important provision of the rule. In order to make chain of custody entries, intervening transportation personnel would have to break the tamper-evident seal, dig out the documentation, make an entry, reinsert the documentation, and re-seal the container. Of course, a shipping container with a seal that had been broken and re-sealed a number of times would make it unlikely, if not impossible, for a valid test to be conducted of the specimen it contained. The Department could not interpret its regulations to create such an absurd result. Present ยง40.25 (k) directs the use of a chain of custody form ``from the point of collection to the final disposition of the specimen.'' This provision directs that every individual ``in the chain'' be identified. Unlike authorized collection site and laboratory personnel, who actually handle the specimen, intervening transportation personnel are not, properly speaking, ``in the chain'' at all, a point which the Department has understood to be consistent with long-standing case law in a variety of contexts. Consequently, the Department never understood or intended this language to require that intervening transportation personnel make chain of custody entries. A related issue, raised in the same arbitration decision, concerns temporary secure storage. That is, a collection site person conducts the test, fills out the custody and control form, places the specimen and form in a sealed shipping container, and places the container in secure, temporary storage at the collection site, where a courier picks it up subsequently for transportation to the laboratory. Again, any tampering would be revealed by the tamper-evident seal. Here, too, requiring an entry in the chain of custody for putting the package into and removing it from the temporary secure storage is unnecessary and disruptive. Alternatives, such as not sealing the chain of custody documentation in the shipping container until immediately before pickup, or attaching the chain of custody documentation to the outside of the shipping container when it is ready for pickup, multiply the possibilities for error. We emphasize that the collector should, as a matter of good practice, document in its own records the times at which sealed shipping containers are put into and removed from temporary secure storage. Notwithstanding the Department's reasonable construction of its existing regulatory language, which has been communicated in the past to persons raising the question, at least one arbitrator did misinterpret these provisions. To prevent the possibility of any such mistakes in the future, the Department it taking this opportunity to clarify its regulations. To this end, we are adding language very similar to that of DHHS to ยง40.25 (c), (h), and (k), as well as an additional sentence that strongly emphasizes and underlines that chains of custody need not include entries from such personnel in order to be valid. In addition, the amendments to these paragraphs make clear that the absence of entries in the chain of custody relating to the putting the package into or retrieving it from temporary secure storage of the collection site does not invalidate the chain of custody. The Department is making this amendment effective immediately, because it is essential to protect DOT drug testing procedures from misinterpretations that, if followed, could invalidate virtually all chains of custody for DOT drug tests, even though they follow Part 40 requirements. This necessity constitutes the good cause required by the Administrative Procedure Act to make a regulation effective without the normal 30-day effective date. Untestable, Inadequate, or Unavailable Split Specimens In split sample testing, there could be situations in which the primary specimen reaches the laboratory unscathed, but the split specimen does not. Instead, the split specimen is untestable, inadequate, or unavailable. For example, the split specimen container may have leaked, leaving an inadequate amount of urine for testing. What is a laboratory to do? To answer this question, which the Department has been asked on a number of occasions, we are adding a paragraph to ยง40.29. The paragraph directs the laboratory to go ahead and test the primary specimen in the usual way. The laboratory then sends the result of the test of the primary specimen to the MRO in the usual way. If the test result from the laboratory was a confirmed positive, and the MRO verifies the result as positive, then the employee has 72 hours to request a test of the split specimen. If the employee does so, the MRO will pass the request on to the laboratory. It is only at this point, and not before, that the laboratory informs the MRO that the split specimen is untestable, inadequate, or unavailable. The MRO would then cancel the test. This approach is consistent with existing DOT guidance and the DHHS guidelines.
