FR940516-2-00110 FR940516-2-00073 (b) Statutory Basis The statutory basis for the Series 7B Exam lies in section 6(c)(3)(B) of the Act. Under that section, the Exchange may bar a natural person from becoming a member or person associated with a member, if such natural person does not meet such standards of training, experience and competence as are prescribed by the rules of the Exchange. Pursuant to this statutory obligation, the Exchange has developed examinations that are administered to establish that Exchange floor members and persons associated with such members performing specific functions have attained specific levels of competence and knowledge. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;13 and should be submitted by June 6, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11797 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
