FR940204-0-00047 FR940204-0-00020 The California Coastal Act regulates the approval of developments within the coastal zone. Although a significant slowing in wetland losses has occurred, the continued loss and degradation of coastal wetlands since the California Coastal Act was enacted in 1974 attests to the limitations of this legislation. E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. By far, the most significant natural factor adversely affecting the tidewater goby is drought and resultant deterioration of coastal and riparian habitats. California has recently experienced 5 consecutive years of lower than average rainfall. These drought conditions, when combined with human induced water reductions (i.e., diversions of water from streams, excessive groundwater withdrawals), have degraded coastal and riparian ecosystems and have created extremely stressful conditions for most aquatic species. Formerly large populations of tidewater gobies have declined in numbers because of the reduced availability of suitable lagoon habitats (i.e., San Simeon Creek, Pico Creek), others disappeared when the lagoons dried (i.e., Santa Rosa Creek). In San Luis Obispo County alone, 6 of 20 populations of tidewater gobies were extirpated between 1984 and 1989 because of drought, water diversions, and pollution (K. Worcester, pers. comm., 1991). Habitat degradation and losses of the tidewater goby from weather related phenomena commonly occur due to the restriction of the species to coastal lagoon systems and its dependence on freshwater inflows. Events such as river flooding and heavy rainfall have been reported to destroy goby burrows and wash gobies out to sea. Storm surges that enter a lagoon may also adversely affect entire goby populations by rapidly changing its salinity. The tidewater goby was undoubtedly subjected to such natural flood events even before major human alteration of drainage basins. As mentioned under Factor A, channelization and urbanization have increased the frequency and perhaps the intensity of such flood events. In addition, populations of gobies are becoming more isolated from one another as intervening populations are extirpated, thus further decreasing the likelihood of successfully colonizing and reestablishing a population lost to a ``natural'' flood. Competition with introduced species is a potential threat to the tidewater goby. Although problems have not been documented so far, the spread of two introduced oriental gobies (yellowfin goby ( Acanthogobius flavimanus ) and chameleon goby ( Tridentiger trigonocephalus )) may have a detrimental effect on the tidewater goby. According to Swift et al. (1990), the chameleon goby was recently found in Pyramid Lake, probably imported with central California water. If this goby becomes established in the Santa Clara River as other imported species have (e.g., prickly sculpin ( Cottus asper )), the tidewater goby population at the mouth of the Santa Clara River may be at risk. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to make this rule final. The tidewater goby has been extirpated from nearly 50 percent of the lagoons within its historic range, including 74 percent of the lagoons south of Morro Bay. Forty-three populations remain; however, only six are large in number and reasonably free from immediate threats. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list the tidewater goby as endangered. The tidewater goby has experienced a substantial decline throughout its historic range and faces threats indicating that this downward trend is likely to continue. This species lives within specific habitat zones that have been, and will continue to be, targeted for development and degradation by human activities. The goby is extremely vulnerable to adverse habitat modification and water quality changes. The tidewater goby is in imminent danger of extinction throughout its range and requires the full protection of listing as endangered under the Act to survive. For reasons discussed below, the Service is not proposing to designate critical habitat for this fish species at this time.
