FR940617-0-00212 FR940617-0-00026 (c) Service Accumulation. Prior to performing exhaust emission testing on an SEA test engine, the manufacturer may accumulate on each engine a number of hours of service equal to the greater of 125 hours or the number of hours the manufacturer accumulated during certification on the emission data engine corresponding to the family specified in the test order. (1) Service accumulation must be performed in a manner using good engineering judgment to obtain emission results representative of normal production engines. This service accumulation must be consistent with the new engine break-in instructions contained in the applicable owner's manual. (2) The manufacturer must accumulate service at a minimum rate of 16 hours per engine during each 24-hour period, unless otherwise approved by the Administrator. (i) The first 24-hour period for service begins as soon as authorized checks, inspections, and preparations are completed on each engine. (ii) The minimum service or mileage accumulation rate does not apply on weekends or holidays. (iii) If the manufacturer's service or target is less than the minimum rate specified (16 hours per day), then the minimum daily accumulation rate is equal to the manufacturer's service target. (3) Service accumulation must be completed on a sufficient number of test engines during consecutive 24-hour periods to assure that the number of engines tested per day fulfills the requirements of paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section. (d) The manufacturer may not perform any maintenance on test engines after selection for testing, nor may the Administrator allow deletion of any engine from the test sequence, unless requested by the manufacturer and approved by the Administrator before any engine maintenance or deletion. (e) The manufacturer must expeditiously ship test engines from the point of selection to the test facility. If the test facility is not located at or in close proximity to the point of selection, the manufacturer must assure that test engines arrive at the test facility within 24 hours of selection. The Administrator may approve more time for shipment based upon a request by the manufacturer accompanied by a satisfactory justification. (f) If an engine cannot complete the service accumulation or an emission test because of a malfunction, the manufacturer may request that the Administrator authorize either the repair of that engine or its deletion from the test sequence. (g) Whenever a manufacturer conducts testing pursuant to a test order issued under this subpart, the manufacturer must notify the Administrator within one working day of receipt of the test order as to which test facility will be used to comply with the test order. If no test cells are available at a desired facility, the manufacturer must provide alternate testing capability satisfactory to the Administrator. (1) A manufacturer with projected nonroad engine sales for the United States market for the applicable year of 7,500 or greater must complete emission testing at a minimum rate of two engines per 24-hour period, including each voided test and each smoke test. (2) A manufacturer with projected nonroad engine sales for the United States market for the applicable year of less than 7,500 must complete emission testing at a minimum rate of one engine per 24-hour period, including each voided test and each smoke test. (3) The Administrator may approve a lower daily rate of emission testing based upon a request by a manufacturer accompanied by a satisfactory justification. (h) The manufacturer must perform test engine selection, shipping, preparation, service accumulation, and testing in such a manner as to assure that the audit is performed in an expeditious manner. (i) Retesting. (1) The manufacturer may retest any engines tested during a Selective Enforcement Audit once a fail decision for the audit has been reached in accordance with ยง89.510&hyph;96(e).
