FR940719-2-00169 FR940719-2-00102 Thursday May 19, 1994 Part II Department of the Interior Bureau of Indian Affairs Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe Liquor Control Ordinance; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 96␣/␣Thursday, May 19, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Indian Affairs Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe Liquor Control Ordinance AGENCY: Bureau of Indian Affairs, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This Notice is published in accordance with authority delegated by the Secretary of the Interior to the Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs by 209 DM8, and in accordance with the Act of August 15, 1953, 67 Stat. 586, 18 U.S.C. 1161. I certify that Resolution No. 06&hyph;94, the Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe Liquor Control Ordinance was duly adopted by the Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe on February 22, 1994. The Ordinance provides for the regulation of the activities of the manufacture, distribution, sale, and consumption of liquor in the area of Jamestown S'Klallam Indian Country. DATES: This Ordinance is effective as of May 19, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Chief, Branch of Judicial Services, Division of Tribal Government Services, 1849 C Street NW., MS 2611&hyph;MIB, Washington, DC 20240&hyph;4001; telephone (202) 208&hyph;4400. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe, Resolution No. 06&hyph;94, Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe Liquor Control Ordinance is to read as follows: Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe, Tribal Liquor Control Ordinance, Ordinance # 01&hyph;94. Part I␣Policy and Definitions Section 1.1␣Public Policy Declared This Ordinance shall be cited as the ``Jamestown S'Klallam Tribal Liquor Control Ordinance''. Under the inherent sovereignty of the Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe, this ordinance shall be deemed an exercise of the Tribe's power for the protection of the welfare, health, peace, morals and safety of the people of the Tribe. It is further the tribe's policy to assure that any transaction, importation, sale or consumption involving an alcoholic beverage, while within the Tribe's jurisdiction, shall occur in strict compliance with this Ordinance, the laws of the United States and where applicable, the State of Washington. Section 1.2␣Definitions (a) Alcoholic Beverage: Shall mean any intoxicating liquor, beer, or any wine, as defined under the provisions of this Ordinance or other applicable law. (b) Council: Shall mean the Tribal Council of the Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe. (c) Legal Age: Shall mean the age requirements as defined in part 11, section 2.1. (d) Liquor Store: Shall mean any store established by the Tribe for the sale of alcoholic beverages or any entity licensed by the Tribe to sell alcoholic beverages. (e) On-Site Dealer: Shall mean the Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe or duly authorized licensee when it sells, or keeps for sale, any alcoholic beverage authorized under this Ordinance for consumption on the premises where sold. (f) On-Site Sale: Shall mean the sale of any alcoholic beverage for consumption only upon the premises where sold. (g) Sale: Shall mean the transfer of any bagged, bottled, boxed, canned or kegged alcoholic beverage, or the serving of any contents of any bagged, bottled, boxed, canned or kegged alcoholic beverage by any means whatsoever for a consideration of currency exchange. (h) Transaction: Shall mean any transfer of any bagged, bottled, boxed, canned or kegged alcoholic beverage, or the transfer of any contents of any bagged, bottled, boxed, canned or kegged alcoholic beverage from any liquor store, on-site dealer or vendor to any person. (i) Vendor: Shall mean any person employed or under the supervision by and of a liquor store or on-site dealer who conducts sales or transactions involving alcoholic beverages.
