FR940606-0-00004 FR940606-0-00002 9 CFR Part 92 [Docket No. 94&hyph;032&hyph;1] Importation of Brushtail Possums and Hedgehogs From New Zealand AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Interim rule and request for comments. SUMMARY: We are amending the animal importation regulations to prohibit the importation of brushtail possums and hedgehogs from New Zealand. This action is necessary to prevent the introduction of tuberculous animals into the United States. The intended effect is to protect domestic livestock from this disease. DATES: Interim rule effective May 31, 1994. Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before August 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 94&hyph;032&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Samuel Richeson, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Animals Staff, National Center for Import and Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 764, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8170. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 92 (referred to below as the regulations) prohibit or restrict the importation into the United States of certain animals and birds to prevent the introduction of communicable livestock and poultry diseases, including bovine tuberculosis. Bovine tuberculosis is a serious communicable disease of cattle, bison, and other species, including humans, caused by Mycobacterium bovis. Bovine tuberculosis (referred to below as TB) causes weight loss, general debilitation, and sometimes death. This disease manifests itself as lung disease or draining, nonhealing abscesses, or both. It is generally transmitted by breathing in respiratory excretions from infected animals or drinking infected milk from infected animals. New Zealand has reported that TB is endemic in the brushtail possum ( Trichosurus vulpecula ). These possums are a constant source of disease for the domestic livestock population of New Zealand. Based upon information received from the New Zealand Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries and information available in scientific literature, we recently prepared a risk assessment regarding the importation of brushtail possums from New Zealand into the United States. This risk assessment indicates that 45.8 percent (range 7.2 percent to 67.4 percent) of consignments of imported brushtail possums (generally imported in 4 consignments of 12 animals each) would contain 1 or more possums infected with Mycobacterium bovis. Additionally, there is no recognized test for detecting TB in brushtail possums. These factors present a significant risk that TB-infected brushtail possums from New Zealand could be imported into the United States. Because hedgehogs from New Zealand occupy the same habitat and geographical areas as the brushtail possums, there is some risk that hedgehogs could contract TB from TB-infected possums. Also, as with the brushtail possums, there is no recognized test for detecting TB in hedgehogs. These factors present an unacceptable risk that TB-infected hedgehogs from New Zealand could be imported into the United States. There have been a number of importations of brushtail possums and hedgehogs from New Zealand into the United States. Both these animals could likely survive and thrive in the wild in much of the United States. If infected with Mycobacterium bovis and allowed to roam freely, these animals could disseminate the TB organism over range and pasture land. Consuming grass contaminated with the TB organism by TB-infected brushtail possums is the major mode of TB infection in cattle in New Zealand. To prevent a similar situation in the United States, we are amending the regulations by adding a new subpart G to prohibit the importation of brushtail possums and hedgehogs from New Zealand into the United States. Immediate Action The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that there is good cause for publishing this interim rule without prior opportunity for public comment. Immediate action is necessary to prevent the introduction of TB into the United States. Because prior notice and other public procedures with respect to this action are impracticable and contrary to the public interest under these conditions, we find good cause under 5 U.S.C. 553 to make it effective upon signature. We will consider comments that are received within 60 days of publication of this rule in the Federal Register . After the comment period closes, we will publish another document in the Federal Register . It will include a discussion of any comments we receive and any amendments we are making to the rule as a result of the comments. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This interim rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This rule prohibits the importation of brushtail possums and hedgehogs from New Zealand into the United States. These animals are imported as pets, for animal exhibitions, and for petting zoos. Regulating the importation of certain animals that pose a disease risk to livestock in the United States is a continuing program. Discontinuing the importation of brushtail possums and hedgehogs from New Zealand will have no significant cost impacts, but it will produce a benefit by helping to protect domestic livestock from this disease. The incidence of TB in domestic cattle remains relatively small; however, it has increased slightly in the past several years. Most of the incidences have occurred in States that share a border with Mexico. Mexican-origin cattle accounted for 83 percent of all TB lesions disclosed at slaughter in 1992. There are very few cases of TB in the rest of the country. The inventory of all cattle and calves in the United States is estimated at 101.7 million head, with an estimated value of almost $67 billion. Nationwide, there are approximately 1.2 million operations with cattle and calves, according to USDA data.
