FR940816-1-00010 FR940816-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity 24 CFR Ch. I [Docket No. R&hyph;94&hyph;1743; FR&hyph;3755&hyph;N&hyph;02] (RIN 2529&hyph;AA73) Discrimination in Property Insurance Under the Fair Housing Act; Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, HUD. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: HUD is charged with the administration and enforcement of the Fair Housing Act (the Act), including the promulgation of regulations under the Act. This notice announces HUD's intention (1) to publish regulations concerning nondiscrimination in property insurance practices under the Fair Housing Act, and (2) to solicit public comment on this subject prior to publication of a proposed rule. Issues for which HUD specifically requests comment from the public are set forth in the Supplementary Information section of this notice. DATES: Comment Due Date: October 17, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Peter Kaplan, Director, Office of Regulatory Initiatives and Federal Coordination, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, HUD, Room 5240, 451 Seventh Street SW., Washington DC 20410&hyph;0500, telephone (202) 708&hyph;2904 (not a toll free number). The toll free TDD number is 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments in response to this notice to the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Room 10276, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20410&hyph;0500. Comments should refer to the above docket number and title. A copy of each comment submitted will be available for public inspection during regular business hours at the above address. Facsimile (FAX) comments are not acceptable. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is committed to initiatives that will provide access to capital and economic empowerment for all Americans. HUD has launched several programs to stem disinvestment in cities and disadvantaged communities throughout the country, increase the flow of capital into these communities, and create communities of opportunity throughout the nation. Among HUD's priorities are: (1) Empowerment of local communities by supporting local economic development efforts; (2) expansion of housing opportunities through partnerships with state and local government and private developers and financial institutions; and (3) opening housing markets through vigorous enforcement of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;3619). A critical component of these initiatives is assuring access to capital for homeownership and business development. Assuring fair access to property or hazard insurance is essential to achieve each of these objectives. Insurance is necessary for access to capital. HUD is charged with the administration and enforcement of the Act, including the promulgation of regulations under the Act. HUD is also responsible for receiving and investigating complaints alleging discriminatory practices under the Act and bringing enforcement actions where the Department determines that reasonable cause exists to believe that a violation has occurred or is about to occur. As part of these initiatives, and in furtherance of its responsibilities under the Act, HUD announces its intent to issue regulations concerning property insurance practices that are discriminatory under the Act. As indicated in HUD's current regulations, discriminatory housing practices include ``refusing to provide *␣*␣* property or hazard insurance *␣*␣* or providing such *␣*␣* insurance differently because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin.'' 24 CFR 100.70(d)(4). Case precedents such as Dunn v. Midwestern Indemnity Mid-American Fire & Casualty Co. , 472 F. Supp. 1106 (S.D. Ohio 1979) and McDiarmid v. Economy Fire & Casualty Co. , 604 F. Supp. 105 (S.D. Ohio 1984) established the applicability of the Act to discriminatory insurance practices. But see Mackey v. Nationwide Insurance Co. , 724 F. 2d 419 (4th Cir. 1984). More recent precedents, N.A.A.C.P. v. American Family Mutual Insurance Co. , 978 F.2d 287 (7th Cir. 1992), cert. denied , 113 S. Ct. 2335 (1993) and Nationwide Mutual Insurance Co. v. Cisneros , No. C3&hyph;92&hyph;52 (S.D. Ohio Feb. 24, 1994), reaffirmed this principle, according deference, under standards established in Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. Natural Resources Defense Council, 467 U.S. 837 (1984), to HUD's substantive regulation promulgated in 1989. II. Solicitation of Public Comments HUD is requesting public comment in several areas to be addressed by the regulation. There are several complex issues to be addressed by this regulation. In developing this regulation, HUD will work closely with insurance companies, trade associations, State regulators, civil rights groups and community organizations to ensure that HUD has heard as many viewpoints as possible on the subject of property insurance practices. HUD already has begun informal discussions with representatives of these entities, organizations and individuals to learn more about their views on current property insurance practices and about issues that HUD should address in the regulation. These contacts will continue in the form of group meetings and informal discussions with insurance companies, advocacy groups and trade associations. In addition, HUD will hold several public meetings around the country for industry groups, advocacy groups and private citizens to submit comments and discuss what the regulation should address. Based on the comments that HUD receives in response to this notice and comments presented at the public meetings, as well as any written guidance received from additional communications with industry groups and others, HUD will publish a proposed rule. Following careful consideration of the comments received on the proposed rule, HUD will issue a final regulation. HUD is considering the issues and areas that the regulation should address in order for the regulation: (1) to be effective as guidance to HUD investigators, state and local civil rights agencies and private fair housing groups; (2) to serve as a guidepost for preventive acts by the industry; and (3) to be a clear description of the rights afforded protected classes. To do so, the regulation will address specific practices that are prohibited under the Act, describe the standards to be utilized in determining whether violations of the Act have occurred, and discuss investigative techniques that will be utilized, remedies that will be sought where violations are found, and voluntary affirmative efforts that are appropriate to eliminate discrimination.
