FR940317-1-00002 FR940317-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Part 301 [Docket No. 93&hyph;153&hyph;1] Citrus Canker Regulations; Quarantined Areas and Survey Areas AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to amend the citrus canker regulations by removing the areas in Highlands and Manatee Counties, FL, from the list of quarantined areas and by removing the area in Hillsborough County, FL, from the list of survey areas. No evidence of citrus canker has been found in these areas for at least 2 years. This action appears necessary to relieve regulatory restrictions which are no longer necessary. DATES: Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before April 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 93&hyph;153&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Stephen Poe, Operations Officer, Domestic and Emergency Operations, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 661, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;6365. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Citrus canker is a plant disease caused by strains of the bacterium Xanthomonas campestris pv. citri . The disease is known to affect plants and plant parts, including fresh fruit, of citrus and citrus relatives (Family Rutaceae). It can cause defoliation and other serious damage to the leaves and twigs of susceptible plants. It may also make the fruit of infected plants unmarketable by causing lesions on the fruit. Infected fruit may also drop from trees before reaching maturity. The Asiatic strains of Xanthomonas campestris pv. citri (A strains) are aggressive strains. In the United States, Florida is the only State where citrus canker has been present in recent years. Regulations to prevent the interstate spread of citrus canker from Florida are contained in 7 CFR 301.75&hyph;1 through 301.75&hyph;14, ``Subpart_Citrus Canker'' (referred to below as ``the regulations''). The regulations designate certain areas in Florida as quarantined areas and impose restrictions on the interstate movement of regulated articles from and through quarantined areas. The regulations also designate survey areas, which surround the quarantined areas. Survey areas undergo close monitoring by Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) and State inspectors. The regulations currently designate certain areas in Highlands and Manatee Counties as quarantined for citrus canker. An area in Hillsborough County is also currently designated in the regulations as a survey area. The quarantined area in Highlands County was established in response to the detection of citrus canker caused by the A strains in a commercial grove in October 1990. The area in Manatee County has been quarantined since June 1986 because of the detection of citrus canker caused by the A strains. All the quarantined areas and all the survey areas have been surveyed for citrus canker on a regular basis since the initial detections. No evidence of citrus canker has been observed in the Highlands County quarantined area since June 19, 1991. No citrus canker has been found in the Manatee County quarantined area since January 19, 1992, and no evidence of citrus canker has been observed in the Hillsborough County survey area at any time. APHIS believes, therefore, that it is safe to conclude that citrus canker is not present in any of these areas, and that it is no longer necessary to require any special requirements to be met within these areas or to limit the interstate movement from or through these areas of regulated articles. Based on these facts, we are proposing to remove the areas in Highlands and Manatee Counties from the list of quarantined areas (ยง301.75&hyph;4(a)) and to remove the area in Hillsborough County from the list of survey areas (ยง301.75&hyph;4(d)(1)). The removal of these areas will remove all quarantined areas and survey areas for citrus canker in the United States. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. For this action, the Office of Management and Budget has waived its review process required by Executive Order 12866.
