FR940128-1-00077 FR940128-1-00006 FDA also invites comment on the effect of a small business exemption on the regulation of imports. How would HACCP be applied to imports under a tiered approach? Would it be possible to treat domestic and imported products equally under such an approach? C. Staggered Phase-in The proposed regulations include an effective date of 1 year from the publication of a final rule. FDA has explained the reasoning behind this proposed effective date and has invited comment on it elsewhere in this preamble. In addition, comments are invited on the merits of a staggered phase-in instead of a single implementation date for all affected entities. The two most obvious ways of accomplishing a staggered phase-in would be to differentiate on the basis of size or on the basis of risk. Differentiating on the basis of size would presumably allow small businesses to have a longer time or times for implementation than would be allowed for larger firms. As suggested earlier, large firms are probably much more able to implement a HACCP system than are small firms. Theoretically, the longer lead time for small firms would allow the private sector to develop an infrastructure that could help small firms implement HACCP. Such an infrastructure could include process authorities (see the preamble discussion on cooked, ready-to-eat products), testing facilities, and consulting services from trade associations, academia, and others. As an additional consideration, FDA will likely learn lessons from its experiences in implementing the regulation that it could apply to the benefit of those that would have to implement it at a later date. For example, FDA is considering whether it should make the first review of HACCP plans by agency investigators a nonregulatory evaluation to facilitate plan development by the processor (although the overall inspection of the plant would be regulatory). The agency invites comment on this approach. Presumably, the more experience the agency has, the better this evaluation will be. On the other hand, as noted above, small firms are involved in the processing of higher risk products. How does this fact bear on the possibility of longer implementation times for small firms? Differentiation solely on the basis of risk appears to be more complex than differentiation on the basis of size. If high risk products were to be phased in first, it would appear that those with the most complex plans to develop and implement would receive the shortest lead time, while those with the simplest plans would receive the longest lead time. Also, the criteria for determining risk would have to be carefully considered. FDA asks for comment on whether a staggered start should begin with raw molluscan shellfish and certain species of finfish that can accumulate scombrotoxin and ciguatoxin, or whether other criteria should apply, as discussed previously. FDA invites comment on all these matters. FDA also invites comment on the effect of a phase-in approach on the regulation of imports. How could this approach be applied to imported products? D. Deleting or Modifying Aspects of This Proposal, or Taking Some Other Step, to Reduce the Burden of Implementation As has already been explained in this preamble, FDA has proposed only the basics of HACCP in order to keep the regulatory burden to a minimum. Several features of HACCP included within the NACMCF's seven principles, such as flow charts and the establishment of ``HACCP teams,'' are noted in this preamble, but FDA has not proposed to require them. Nonetheless, FDA acknowledges that, theoretically, there are a number of ways in which this proposal could be scaled back even further. FDA invites comments on whether such scaling back would be desirable, and, if so, how it could be done. Possible areas for scale-back include, but are not limited to: (1) Requiring only negative, rather than positive records. Negative records note only deviations from critical limits and how they are corrected. If a critical control point is under control, no record is made. Admittedly, FDA has reservations about such an approach. For example, it is virtually impossible for firms or for FDA to spot trends that could lead to problems if only negative records are being kept. Nonetheless, FDA invites comment on this approach.
