FR940930-0-00229 FR940930-0-00029 Section 234.231␣Fouling Wires This section is meant to assure the detection of a train operating through turnouts located within the limits of train detection circuits. If one wire or rail plug were broken, a dangerous condition would be prevented if the other wire or rail plug continues to be effective. This section as proposed requires that each set of fouling wires located in a highway-rail grade crossing warning system train detection circuit consist of at least two discrete conductors, and requires that each conductor be of sufficient conductivity and maintained in such condition to ensure proper operation of the train detection apparatus when the circuit is shunted. The labor/management group recommended that the proposal be modified to accord with existing technology. The group stated that ``certain train detection apparatus, particularly motion sensing equipment, is designed to prevent the system from assuming the most restrictive state under certain conditions, including some instances when the train detection circuit is shunted.'' We agree with the comments and, therefore, in lieu of requiring that the train detection apparatus be in its most restrictive state, have revised the section to require that each conductor be maintained in such condition to ensure proper operation of the train detection apparatus when the train detection circuit is shunted. Final Rule This section requires that each set of fouling wires in a highway-rail grade crossing train detection circuit shall consist of at least two discrete conductors. The section requires that each conductor be of sufficient conductivity and be maintained in such condition to ensure proper operation of the train detection apparatus when the train detection circuit is shunted. Section 234.233␣Rail Joints This provision provided that each rail joint located within the limits of a highway-rail grade crossing train detection circuit shall be bonded by means other than joint bars to ensure electrical conductivity. The labor/management group, the only party to comment on this section, recommended that it be modified to reflect maintenance requirements. The group also recommended that this section be changed to reflect that it apply only to non-insulated rail joints. FRA concurs in the recommendations and has revised the section accordingly. Final Rule This section requires that each non-insulated rail joint located within the limits of a highway-rail grade crossing train detection circuit be bonded by means other than joint bars and the bonds shall be maintained in such condition to ensure electrical conductivity.
