FR940916-2-00114 FR940916-2-00088 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard [CGD 94&hyph;068] International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is planning a public meeting to discuss the implementation of the International Maritime Organization (IMO) International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (International Ship Management (ISM) Code). The ISM Code encourages the continuous improvement of safety management skills within the maritime industry. In keeping with the results of a Coast Guard review of its regulatory development process, the Coast Guard will hold a public meeting to provide the public an opportunity to comment and give input into the implementation of the Code. DATES: The public meeting will be held from 9 a.m. until 3 p.m. on October 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: The public meeting will be held in room 2415, Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street, SW., Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LCDR Walter (Bud) Hunt, Project Manager, Oil Pollution Act (OPA 90) Staff, (G&hyph;MS&hyph;A), (202) 267&hyph;6740. This number is equipped to record messages on a 24-hour basis. Anyone wishing to make a presentation is requested to call this number and give the following information: Docket number (CGD 94&hyph;068); name; company or organizational affiliation (if any); and the estimated amount of time needed for the comment. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this Notice are LCDR Walter (Bud) Hunt, Project Manager, (202) 267&hyph;6230; and Jacqueline Sullivan, Project Counsel; OPA 90 Staff. Background and Discussion On November 4, 1993, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) adopted resolution A.741(18) entitled ``International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention (International Safety Management (ISM) Code).'' The objectives of the ISM Code are to improve safety at sea, to reduce the occurrence of human injury or loss of life, and to minimize environmental and property damage attributable to marine casualties. The ISM Code seeks to accomplish these objectives by encouraging the implementation of safety management systems (SMS) by shipping companies with oversight by national administrations, such as the U.S. Coast Guard. Beginning in 1998, the ISM Code will become mandatory for vessels to which the Safety of Life at Sea (SOLAS) convention applies. On July 1, 1998, the ISM Code will become mandatory for passenger ships, passenger high speed craft, oil tankers, chemical tankers, gas carriers, bulk carriers, and cargo high speed craft of 500 gross tons and greater. On July 1, 2002, the ISM Code will become mandatory for other cargo ships and self propelled mobile offshore drilling units of 500 gross tons and greater. Until those dates, compliance with the ISM Code by owners of the various classes of vessels is voluntary. The ISM Code represents the culmination of an evolving recognition within the maritime industry that the ``human element'' is a critical factor in preventing casualty or pollution incidents. Historically, the international maritime community approached maritime safety from an engineering and technology perspective. International standards addressed equipment and design requirements. However, despite these requirements, significant marine casualties continue to occur. The ISM Code attempts to reduce these occurrences by recognizing that ``human factors,'' defined as acts or omissions of personnel which adversely affect the proper functioning of a particular system, or the successful performance of a particular task, must be addressed in order to further reduce marine casualties and pollution. The ISM Code acknowledges that the human element includes both vessel personnel, and the company management infrastructure of the vessel's owner or operator. Decisions made ashore can be as important as those made at sea, and therefore the ISM Code seeks to ensure that every action, taken at any level within a company, is based upon sound understanding of the potential consequences on marine safety and pollution prevention. The IMO, in resolution A.647(16), cited two key elements needed to realize the objectives of the ISM Code. Those elements include a philosophical commitment to safety at the senior management level, and an effective organizational infrastructure to implement and monitor a safety management program. Under the ISM Code, a shipping company's Safety Management System (SMS) must include the following functional requirements: (1) A safety and environmental protection policy; (2) instructions and procedures to ensure safe operation of ships and protection of the environment in compliance with relevant international and flag state legislation; (3) defined levels of authority and lines of communication between, and amongst, shore and shipboard personnel; (4) procedures for reporting accidents and nonconformities with the provisions of the ISM Code; (5) procedures to prepare for and respond to emergency situations; and (6) procedures for internal audits and management reviews.
