FR940602-2-00145 FR940602-2-00090 Any recipient of an award will: 1. Perform an effort in accordance with the application proposal and any incorporation revisions; 2. Contribute any in-kind resources, that might have been specified by the recipient in the application, for the performance of the effort under the agreement; 3. Meet periodically with the NHTSA COTR to promote the exchange of information so as to assure coordination of the cooperative effort and related projects; and 4. Provide the NHTSA COTR with following required reports: a. Data Reports: The dynamic and other data measured in each human surrogate impact test will be provided by the recipient(s) within four (4) weeks after the test is run. For each and every test performed with a human surrogate, a data package shall be submitted to the COTR. For example, were a human subject to be impacted by pendulum to the right femur and later to be impacted by pendulum to the thorax, the two (2) impacts are separate tests even though there was only one (1) human surrogate. A data package consists of (1) high speed film, (2) paper test report, and (3) either magnetic tape or floppy disk complying with the NHTSA Data Tape Reference Guide. The NHTSA, Biomechanics Division, maintains a Biomechanics Data Base which provides information, upon request, to the public, including educational institutions and other research organizations. To facilitate the input of data as well as the exchange of information, any recipient of a cooperative agreement awarded as a result of this notice must provide the magnetic tape in the format specified in the ``NHTSA Data Tape Reference Guide.'' A copy of this document may be obtained from the programmatic information contact designated in this notice. b. Performance Reports: The recipient shall present one (1) hour semiannual technical performance briefings at the NHTSA headquarters building (at 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590) which shall be due 30 days after the reporting period and a final performance report within 90 days after the completion of the research effort. An original and two copies of the final performance report shall be submitted to the COTR. Period of Support The research effort described in this notice will be supported through the award of at least one cooperative agreement. NHTSA reserves the right to make multiple awards depending upon the merit of the applications received. Contingent upon the availability of funds and satisfactory performance, a cooperative agreement(s) will be awarded to an eligible organization(s) for project periods of up to five years. No cooperative agreement awarded as a result of this notice shall exceed $550,000 per year or $2,750,000 for five years. Eligibility Requirements In order to be eligible to participate in this cooperative agreement program, an applicant must be an educational institution or other nonprofit research organization. For profit research organizations may apply; however, no fee or profit will be allowed. Application Procedure Each applicant must submit one original and two copies of their application package to: Cooperative Agreement Program No. DTNH22&hyph;94&hyph;R&hyph;07260, Office of Contracts and Procurement (NAD&hyph;30), NHTSA, 400 Seventh Street, SW., room 5301, Washington, DC 20590, USA. Only complete application packages received on or before the date identified above under DATES: shall be considered. Submission of three additional copies will expedite processing but is not required. Application Contents 1. The application package must be submitted with OMB Standard Form 424 (Rev, 4&hyph;88, including 424A and 424B), Application for Federal Assistance, with the required information filled in and the certified assurances included. While the Form 424&hyph;A deals with budget information, and section B identifies Budget Categories, the available space does not permit a level of detail which is sufficient to provide for a meaningful evaluation of the proposed costs. A supplemental sheet should be provided which represents a detailed breakdown of the proposed costs, as well as any costs which the applicant proposes to contribute in support of this effort.
