FR940919-2-00010 FR940919-2-00009 Department of the Army Privacy Act of 1974; Notice to Add Systems of Records AGENCY: Department of the Army, DoD. ACTION: Notice to add systems of records. SUMMARY: The Department of the Army proposes to add two record systems to its inventory of systems of records notices subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: This action will be effective without further notice on October 19, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Privacy Act Officer, Information Requirements Division, ASOP-MP, Department of the Army, Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613&hyph;5000. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Pat Turner at (602) 538&hyph;6856 or DSN 879-6856. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The complete inventory of the Department of the Army systems of records notices subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the above address. The proposed systems reports, as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(r) of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, were submitted on September 8, 1994, to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to paragraph 4c of Appendix I to OMB Circular No. A&hyph;130, `Federal Agency Responsibilities for Maintaining Records About Individuals,' dated July 25, 1994 (59 FR 37906, July 25, 1994). Dated: September 13, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. A0027&hyph;40CE System name: Corps of Engineers Case Management Information Files. System location: U.S. Army Engineer Division, South Atlantic, CESAD-IM-SO-S, 77 Forsyth Street, SW, Atlanta, GA 30335&hyph;6801, with input and access locations at all Corps of Engineers' Counsel Offices. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Army's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals involved in litigation, contract claims and appeals, procurement fraud, potentially responsible party negotiations under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, and patents and technology transfer with the Corps of Engineers, including parties to the action, attorneys, forum officials, contracting officers, project managers, inventors, witnesses, Corps of Engineers' attorneys and other Federal agency attorneys. Categories of records in the system: Records relating to litigation, contract claims and appeals, procurement fraud, potentially responsible party negotiations under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act and patents and technology transfer, involving the Corps of Engineers; including names, addresses and phone numbers of individuals, case name, the forum, status of the action, summaries of the action, action number, project name and location, remedies or relief requested, milestones and suspense dates, title of invention and royalty information. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301; 10 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.; 15 U.S.C. 1 et seq.; 15 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.; 31 U.S.C. 3729 et seq; and 42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To allow the Corps of Engineers legal offices to monitor, and to contact individuals involved in, litigation, contract claims and appeals, procurement fraud, potentially responsible party negotiations under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act, and patents and technology transfer, involving the Corps of Engineers. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: Litigation, contract and appeal records are disclosed to Department of Justice and U.S. Attorney's offices involved in a particular case, for use in the litigation. Most of this information is filed in the courts and is therefore a public record. Procurement fraud records may be disclosed to Department of Justice and U.S. Attorney's offices for use in litigation. Names of individuals and companies involved in potentially responsible party negotiations may be disclosed to the Environmental Protection Agency, Department of Justice and the involved parties for the purpose of facilitating potentially responsible party negotiations. Patent records may be disclosed to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce; appropriate authorities in foreign countries, for foreign patent filings; parties to a licensing arrangement for specific files involved; and contractors and government agencies, to conduct patent investigations and evaluations. The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of the Army's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Magnetic tapes/disks and printouts. Retrievability: By individual's name, address and telephone number; in conjunction with the forum name; docket or contract number; office symbol; action name; file number; type of action; category of action; disposition of action; date of action and amount of award. Safeguards: Access is restricted to authorized users in Corps of Engineers' legal offices. Computer records are maintained in a building protected by security guards. Access or update of information in automated media is by a system of passwords. Printed records are kept in locked offices. Access to procurement fraud information is further restricted to those having a need therefore in the performance of official duties. Retention and disposal: Records relating to Civil Works litigation, contract claims and appeals and potentially responsible party negotiations are retained for 30 years or indefinitely depending on the specific case. Records for cases and contract claims not involving litigation are retained for 10 years. Records relating to procurement fraud matters are retained for 1 year after the close of the case. Records relating to government patent applications are retained for 25 years. Records relating to technology transfer matters are retained until superseded or obsolete. System manager(s) and address: Chief Counsel, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20314&hyph;1000. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this record system should address written inquiries to the Chief Counsel, ATTN: CECC-ZB, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20314&hyph;1000. Individual must provide full name, current address and telephone number, category of record (litigation, contract claims and appeals, procurement fraud, potentially responsible party negotiations, patents or technology transfer) and signature. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this record system should address written inquiries to the Chief Counsel, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: CECC-ZB, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20314&hyph;1000. Individual must provide full name, current address and telephone number, category of record (litigation, contract claims and appeals, procurement fraud, potentially responsible party negotiations, patents or technology transfer) and signature. Contesting record procedures: The Army's rules for accessing records and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are contained in Department of the Army Regulation 340&hyph;21; 32 CFR part 505; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: From documents provided by the individual, his/her attorney, court records, Army records, investigation reports, other Federal agencies and state and local agencies, the Patent and Trademark Office. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. A1130&hyph;2&hyph;442CE System name: Corps of Engineers Civilian Uniform Record Files. System location: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers District Commands, Water Resources Development Projects and uniform contractors. Segments of this system are also maintained at Engineer Divisions and Corps of Engineers Headquarters. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Army's compilation of systems of records notices, or may be obtained from the system manager. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Corps of Engineers' personnel required to wear uniforms, including Natural Resources Management, Lock and Dam and Floating Plant personnel. Categories of records in the system: Records relating to personal clothing; name, account number, sex, project location, weight, height, clothing measurements, length of employment and type of uniform (ENG Form 4891&hyph;R and uniform contractor's order forms). Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 5901&hyph;5903; Engineer Regulations 1130&hyph;2&hyph;442, 670&hyph;2&hyph;2, and 670&hyph;2&hyph;3; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To facilitate ordering, and to reflect accountability for civilian uniforms issued to the Corps of Engineers' Natural Resources Management, Lock and Dam and Floating Plant personnel. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of the Army's compilation of systems of records notices, apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records in file folders; magnetic tapes/discs. Retrievability: By name and account number in conjunction with, project location, length of employment and type of uniform. Safeguards: Records are maintained in locked buildings, offices and files. Most buildings are also protected by security guards. Access to the system is limited to authorized Corps of Engineers personnel and uniform contractors who have a need therefor in the performance of their official duties. Retention and disposal: Files are destroyed one year after separation of employee. System manager(s) and address: Chief of Engineers, Headquarters U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: CECW-OD, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20314&hyph;1000. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Chief of Engineers, ATTN: CECW-OD, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20314&hyph;1000. Individual must provide full name, current address and telephone number, account number (last four digits of their Social Security Number), project location and signature. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Chief of Engineers, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: CECW-OD, 20 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20314&hyph;1000. Individual must provide full name, current address and telephone number, account number (last four digits of their Social Security Number), project location and signature. Contesting record procedures: The Army's rules for accessing records and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are contained in Department of the Army Regulation 340&hyph;21; 32 CFR part 505; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: From the individual. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23040 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
