FR940128-1-00038 FR940128-1-00006 FDA is proposing in §123.8(e) to exempt tags as defined in §123.3(t) from the recordkeeping requirements of §123.8. While the information on tags must be saved in accordance with the proposed requirements of this section and §123.28(d), the agency has tentatively concluded that it would be burdensome for processors to be required to retain the tags themselves for extended periods of time. NSSP now provides that processors are to retain tags for 90 days. F. Training Proposed §123.9 requires that each processor and importer employ at least one individual who has successfully completed a training course on the application of HACCP to fish and fishery products processing. The agency has tentatively concluded that training is critical to the successful implementation of HACCP systems in the seafood industry. Based on experience obtained during the FDA/NOAA HACCP pilot programs in 1991&hyph;92, the agency believes that a significant portion of the seafood industry will be unprepared to meet the requirements of a mandatory HACCP program without some training. As discussed earlier, the pilot program revealed a general lack of understanding of the preventive nature of HACCP, including misunderstandings about how to establish critical limits, control measures, corrective actions, and recordkeeping procedures (Ref. 40). A similar concern that the industry did not understand the application of HACCP principles formed the basis for the training requirements in the agency's regulations for low acid canned foods. Improvements in canning operations can be attributed in significant measure to the success of the training programs that were established to implement that requirement (Ref. 54). NAS concluded that the successful application of HACCP principles to low acid canned foods was substantially the result of the training requirement in the regulations for those products (Ref. 36, p. 309). The CGMP regulations for foods in part 110 also call for training in appropriate food protection principles (§ 110.10(c)). The often seasonal nature, remote location, and small size of many seafood processors also support the need for formalized training. All of these conditions result in difficulty recruiting highly qualified management and supervisory staff. Thus, FDA has tentatively concluded that proposed §123.9 is necessary to ensure that seafood processors and importers employ at least one person who is familiar with HACCP. These regulations propose to require at §123.9 that the person or persons at each importing and processing establishment who has received training be responsible for reviewing records of critical control point monitoring, recognizing critical limit deficiencies, and assessing the need for corrective actions relative to the product in question and the HACCP plan itself. While it is the intent of the agency to provide as much guidance as possible to assist processors and importers, these activities require specialized training in the principles of HACCP, various aspects of food science, and the criteria of existing regulations and guidelines. The agency anticipates that 2- or 3-day training sessions, modeled after the Better Process Control Schools currently in place for low acid canned food and acidified food manufacturers, will be provided by various public and semiprivate institutions. The uniformity of this training can be assured by a review of their contents and by periodic onsite monitoring by the agency. Thus, FDA is proposing to require that the program of instruction be approved by the agency. While 2- or 3-day courses may well become the norm, FDA invites comment on whether the training requirement could be satisfied by different gradations of training, depending on the complexity or size of the operation, or on the degree of risk posed by the product being produced, without compromising the purposes for which training is proposed to be required. For example, could training for a small business with few hazards be accomplished in a shorter time and at a lower cost through the use of a video? FDA also invites comment on whether training in HACCP received before these proposed regulations become effective as final regulations should be ``grandfathered'' as fulfilling the training requirement.
