FR941212-0-00052 FR941212-0-00015 86. In order to obtain a better record for addressing these issues, we direct each of the BOCs and GTE to file, within ninety days of publication of a summary of the Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration in the Federal Register , a detailed description of the types of CPNI to which it anticipates having access as a provider of video dialtone service. We also direct each to explain how it would plan to use such information in marketing video dialtone services to video programmers or consumers. Other interested parties, including, but not limited to, independent LECs, may also file at that time any information responsive to these issues. After this information is filed, we will issue a public notice establishing a supplemental pleading cycle that will give all interested parties the opportunity to comment. Based on this record, we will then reassess whether the public interest would be served by modifying existing CPNI rules for video dialtone service and propose any changes in those rules that may be warranted. K. Preferential Access to Video Dialtone 87. In the Second Report and Order, we decided not to mandate preferential treatment for certain classes of video programmers largely because we concluded that mandatory preferential treatment is generally inconsistent with a Title II common carrier regime, the cornerstone of which is the provision of service to the public on the basis of rates, terms, and conditions that are not unreasonably discriminatory. We still have concerns about this issue. A system of discounts or free access for certain video programmers could also introduce economic distortions that would restrict demand for video dialtone service. For these and other legal and policy reasons, mandating preferential rates for any specific class of programmer may not be compatible with the public interest. On the other hand, however, the continued availability of diverse sources of programming clearly serves the public interest. 88. We have recognized exceptions to the general principle of nondiscrimination in the provision of common carrier services. These exceptions have been based upon a compelling showing of need and strong public policy concerns. Based on our review of the record, we conclude that we do not currently have a sound basis for determining whether a similar exception should be made here, and if so, for which programmers, and to what extent. In the Third Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, we seek comment on these issues. We also seek comment on whether a proposal by Bell Atlantic that seeks to permit LECs voluntarily to provide preferential rates to certain classes of programmers is or could be lawful. L. Special Incentives 89. The petitioners have not presented any persuasive basis for the Commission to modify its decision in the Second Report and Order, regarding special incentives. In particular, they have not persuaded us that our existing practices for prescribing depreciation rates pose an impediment to the deployment of new technologies. Under our existing rules, the Commission reviews the depreciation rates of each carrier on a three year rotating cycle. Carriers may also seek interim updates of their depreciation rates. Based on a review of a variety of service life indicators, the Commission establishes depreciation rates for each major category of plant designed to recover the carrier's investment over the plant's projected remaining life. In the case of telephone plant, based on the most recent (1993) depreciation represcription order, the average remaining life is 9 years and approximately 40 percent of the original cost of those facilities has already been taken as depreciation expense. We believe that our existing practices are adequate to respond to any acceleration in the rate of technological change in the provision of loop facilities. We also note that to date we have received more than thirty video dialtone applications proposing use of advanced broadband networks. These applications provide evidence that the measures we have taken in this proceeding to eliminate artificial regulatory constraints will by themselves promote investment in broadband networks and that special incentives are unnecessary. M. Recommendation to Congress 90. Although petitions for reconsideration do not lie against reports to Congress, we nevertheless take this opportunity to affirm our recommendation that Congress amend the 1984 Cable Act to permit LECs to provide video programming directly to subscribers in their telephone service areas, subject to appropriate safeguards. As we noted in the Second Report and Order, the 1984 Cable Act's ban on LEC provision of video programming was originally enacted to prevent LECs from establishing a monopoly position in the provision of video services. Given the enormous growth of the cable industry during the past decade, the risk of telephone companies preemptively eliminating competition in the video marketplace has lessened significantly. While there remains some risk of anticompetitive behavior by the LECs, we affirm our finding that this risk can and should instead be addressed through our video dialtone framework and other appropriate regulatory safeguards. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Statement 91. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612, the Commission considered whether this decision could disadvantage small non-vertically integrated cable systems, wireless cable systems, and broadcasters because it could supplant these video distribution mechanisms. The Commission also considered whether this decision could threaten small businesses involved in the video rental market by eliminating the current video distribution chain. On the basis of the record, however, the Commission determined that the public interest in a competitive video marketplace, increased opportunities for development of an advanced infrastructure and the promotion of a diversity of video services, would be best served by permitting local telephone companies to offer video dialtone.
