FR941021-0-00115 FR941021-0-00020 Termination means the cancellation of DOE sponsorship, in whole or in part, under an agreement at any time prior to the date of completion. Third party in-kind contributions means the value of non-cash contributions provided by non-Federal third parties. Third party in-kind contributions may be in the form of real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, and the value of goods and services directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to the project or program. Unliquidated obligations, for financial reports prepared on a cash basis, means the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient that have not been paid. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, they represent the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient for which an outlay has not been recorded. Unobligated balance means the portion of the funds authorized by DOE that has not been obligated by the recipient and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized. Unrecovered indirect cost means the difference between the amount awarded and the amount which could have been awarded under the recipient's approved negotiated indirect cost rate. Working capital advance means a procedure whereby funds are advanced to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for a given initial period. §600.102 Effect on other issuances. For awards subject to this Subpart, all administrative requirements of codified program regulations, program manuals, handbooks and other nonregulatory materials which are inconsistent with the requirements of this Subpart shall be superseded, except to the extent they are required by statute, or authorized in accordance with the deviations provision in §600.4. §600.103 Deviations. The deviation provisions of §600.4 apply to this Subpart. §600.104 Subawards. Unless sections of this Subpart specifically exclude subrecipients from coverage, all DOE recipients, including State, local and Indian tribal governments, shall apply the provisions of this Subpart to subrecipients performing work under awards if such subrecipients are institutions of higher education, hospitals, other non-profit organizations or commercial organizations. Thus, this Subpart is applicable to those types of organizations regardless of the type of recipient receiving the primary award. State and local government subrecipients are subject to the provisions of 10 CFR part 600, Subpart C, ``Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.'' Pre-Award Requirements §600.110 Purpose. Sections 600.111 through 600.117 prescribe forms and instructions and other pre-award matters to be used in applying for DOE awards. §600.111 Pre-award policies. (a) Use of Grants and Cooperative Agreements, and Contracts. In each instance, the DOE shall decide on the appropriate award instrument (i.e., grant, cooperative agreement, or contract). The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. 6301&hyph;08) governs the use of grants, cooperative agreements and contracts. A grant or cooperative agreement shall be used only when the principal purpose of a transaction is to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute. The statutory criterion for choosing between grants and cooperative agreements is that for the latter, ``substantial involvement is expected between the executive agency and the State, local government, or other recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated in the agreement.'' Contracts shall be used when the principal purpose is acquisition of property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government. (b) Public Notice and Priority Setting. DOE will, whenever practical, notify the public of its intended funding priorities for discretionary grant programs, unless funding priorities are established by Federal statute. §600.112 Forms for applying for Federal assistance. (a) General. An application for an award shall be on the form or in the format specified in a program rule, in the solicitation, or in these regulations (see Section 600.10). When the SF&hyph;424 form is not used, DOE shall indicate whether the application is subject to review by the State under E.O. 12372. DOE may also require applicants to complete_ (1) The Notice of Energy RD&D Project (DOE Form 538) if the application is for a research, development, or demonstration project; or (2) The Federal Assistance Management Summary Report (DOE F 4600.5) or the Federal Assistance Milestone Plan (DOE F 4600.3) as a baseline plan in accordance with the terms and conditions of award if required by program rule or the solicitation. If a solicitation other than a program rule requires the use of one or both of these forms, the solicitation shall contain an explanation of how the information to be provided relates to the objectives of the program.
