FR940722-0-00141 FR940722-0-00019 (iii) Certify that the personal net worth of the applicant (if an individual), each affiliates and each person that hold an interest in the applicant is less than $100 million. (d) Audits. Applicants and licensees claiming eligibility under this section shall be subject to random audits by the Commission. (e) Definitions. The terms affiliate, business owned by members of minority groups and women, consortium of small businesses, control group, gross revenues, members of minority groups, passive equity, personal net worth, publicly traded corporation, and total assets used in this section are defined in §24.720. §24.710 Limitation on licenses won at auction for frequency Blocks C and F. (a) No applicant may be deemed the winning bidder of more than 98 of the licenses available for frequency Blocks C and F. Any applicant who is the high bidder for more than 98 of the licenses available for frequency Blocks C and F shall be required to withdraw its bid(s) for a sufficient number of licenses to achieve compliance with this section and may be subject to bid withdrawal penalties under §24.704. (b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, licenses will be deemed to be won by the same bidder if an entity that controls or has the power to control any applicant that wins licenses at the auction, has the power to control any other applicant that wins licenses at the auction. §24.711 Installment payments for licenses for frequency Blocks C and F. (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of this section, an applicant that has $75 million or less in gross revenues in each of the preceding two calendar years and that is a winning bidder for frequency Blocks C or F in a BTA market other than the fifty largest markets and any eligible applicant that is a winning bidder for frequency Blocks C or F in one of the fifty largest BTA markets, may pay the full amount of its winning bid in installments as follows: (1) Each eligible bidder shall pay an upfront payment of $0.015 per MHz per pop for the maximum number of licenses (in terms of MHz-pops) on which it intends to bid. (2) Each winning bidder shall make a down payment equal to ten percent of their winning bids; a winning bidder shall bring its total amount on deposit with the Commission (including upfront payment) to five percent of its winning bids within five business days after the auction closes and the remainder of the down payment (five percent) shall be paid within five business days after the application required by §24.809(b) is granted. (3) Each eligible licensee shall pay the remainder of its winning bids in installment payments with interest imposed based on the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted, plus 2.5 percent; interest-only payments for the first year; and principal and interest payments amortized over the remaining nine years of the license. (4) For purposes of determining whether an applicant has $75 million or less in gross revenues, gross revenues shall be attributed to the applicant and aggregated as provided in §24.709(b), except that §24.709(b)(4)(iii) shall not apply. (b) An applicant that qualifies as a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women may pay the full amount of its winning bid in installments in the same manner as in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, except that interest-only payments may be paid for the first three years and interest shall be paid at the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted. (c) An applicant that qualifies as a small business or as a consortium of small businesses may pay the full amount of its winning bid in installments in the same manner as in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, except that interest-only payments may be paid for the first two years. (d) An applicant that qualifies as a small business owned by members of minority groups and/or women or as a consortium of small businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women may pay the full amount of its winning bid in installments in the same manner as in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, except that interest-only payments may be paid for the first five years and interest shall be paid at the rate for ten-year U.S. Treasury obligations applicable on the date the license is granted. (e) Unjust Enrichment. (1) If a licensee that utilizes installment financing under this section seeks to assign or transfer control of its license to an entity not meeting the eligibility standards for installment payments, the licensee must make full payment of the remaining unpaid principal and any unpaid interest accrued through the date of assignment or transfer as a condition of approval. (2) If a licensee that utilizes installment financing under this section seeks to make any change in ownership structure that would result in the licensee losing eligibility for installment payments, the licensee shall first seek Commission approval and must make full payment of the remaining unpaid principal and any unpaid interest accrued through the date of assignment or transfer as a condition of approval. Increases in gross revenues or total assets that result from equity investments that are not attributable to the licensee under §24.709(b)(4), revenues from operations, business development or expanded service shall not be considered changes in ownership structure under this paragraph. (3) If a licensee seeks to make any change in ownership that would result in the licensee qualifying for a less favorable installment plan under paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this section, the licensee shall seek Commission approval and must adjust its payment plan to reflect its new eligibility status under paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this section. A licensee may not switch its payment plan to a more favorable plan. §24.712 Bidding credits for licenses for frequency Blocks C and F. (a) A winning bidder that qualifies as a small business or a consortium of small businesses may use a bidding credit of ten percent to lower the cost of its winning bid. (b) A winning bidder that qualifies as a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women may use a bidding credit of fifteen percent to lower the cost of its winning bid. (c) A winning bidder that qualifies as a small business owned by members of minority groups and/or women or a consortium of small business owned by members of minority groups and/or women may use a bidding credit of twenty-five percent to lower the cost of its winning bid.
