FR940727-0-00140 FR940727-0-00027 Both the proposed and the final rules contain significantly more guidance relating to cabin management than existing regulations. However, only minor changes are made in permit application procedures. The existing requirement that individuals apply for nontransferable renewable five year special use permits is retained. However, this final rule requires two additional items (date of construction or acquisition of the cabin and the dimensions of the cabin and related structures) to be submitted in the application. In addition to the increased application requirements, the rule has additional requirements of permittees such as getting permission from the refuge manager before major modification or rehabilitation is conducted on existing cabins. Summary of Public Comments Four persons presented oral comments at the public hearings and the Service received an additional eight letters providing written comments from the public. A number of changes were made in the final rule from the proposed rule after consideration of all public comments received. Some comments requested changes that were not made, however, and the Service first addresses these comments as noted below. (a) Exemptions for Certain Types of Facilities Comment: The regulations should exempt facilities such as headquarters sites, visitor centers, and state facilities used to support fish and wildlife related management. Response: It is the Service's position that cabins used by the State for support of fish and wildlife related management are administrative cabins and should not be exempted from the regulations. Visitor centers and headquarters sites do not need to be exempted since they are not within the scope of the cabin regulations. (b) Access Comment: The final cabin regulations should address rights of access. Response: The Service does not believe it is necessary to repeat such language in the cabin regulations since the intent of ANILCA Section 1110(a) regarding access is already articulated in 50 CFR 36.12 and 43 CFR Part 36. (c) Definition of Family and Immediate Family Comment: The definition of ``family'' should be broadened and the definition of ``immediate family'' should be deleted. Response: The definitions, as proposed, fully meet the intent of ANILCA Section 1303(c)(1) regarding permit renewal for the life of claimants and immediate family. The definition of ``immediate family'' was broadened by deleting ``legal'' from the term ``legal spouse.'' (d) Public Use of Seasonally Permitted Cabins Comment: The definition of ``public use cabin'' should be revised to allow seasonally permitted cabins to also be used as public use cabins during the other parts of the year. Response: The Service does not have the authority to allow use of ``existing'' cabins which are privately owned. Although ``new'' cabins are government property, the permittees usually have a considerable amount of private property in and around the cabin. The Service does not believe it is reasonable to make the permittees' private belongings accessible to the public or require the permittees to seasonally remove all of their property. (e) Permits for New Cabins Generally Only for Subsistence Purposes Comment: The language ``In general, new cabin permits will be given only to local residents to pursue a legitimate subsistence activity[.]'' should be deleted. Response: This statement meets the intent of ANILCA and the Service believes it is appropriate to include in the regulations. (f) Construction and Use of Cabins in Wilderness Areas Comment: The language which only allows new cabins to be constructed in wilderness areas that are built specifically for the administration of the area, for public safety, or for trapping where trapping has been a traditional and customary use should be deleted. Response: The language as proposed meets the intent of the Wilderness Act, as well as ANILCA, and is appropriate to include in the regulations. (g) Guests in Cabins Comment: There was some objection to the requirement that guests occupying a cabin during the absence of the permittee are required to obtain a letter of authorization from the permittee. Response: Unauthorized use and vandalism of permitted cabins has been a problem in the past. The Service believes this is a reasonable requirement to reduce the problem. (h) Recreational Use Comment: One commenter recommended revising the language ``No special use permit will be issued for the construction of a cabin for private recreational use or for the private recreational use of an existing cabin'' in order to comply with a recent court case. Response: The language as proposed does comply with the decision of the court. The case simply made it clear that permittees and their guests have the right to recreate while occupying cabins for which permits were issued for purposes other than recreation.
