FR940418-2-00024 FR940418-2-00005 Finally, while indicators of past performance may be less important, we do not believe that a private investor would ignore them entirely. As explained in our discussion of Terni's equityworthiness above, that company had performed poorly. Similarly, Italsider, another company that was restructured into ILVA, had performed poorly (see Certain Steel from Italy). Therefore, the past performance of companies that became ILVA offered no basis to believe that the 1988 investment in ILVA was consistent with commercial considerations. Comment 7 Respondents argue that the Department only countervails worker assistance when a company is relieved of an obligation it would otherwise incur. According to respondents, because it confirmed at verification that Italian companies have no obligation to retrain their workers, the Department should conclude that ECSC Article 56 worker training is not countervailable. DOC Position First, it should be noted that we did not countervail the portion of Article 56 retraining grants funded by the ECSC. With respect to the portion funded by the GOI under Law 181/89, we disagree that the workers assistance provision of the Proposed Regulations is applicable in this situation. There is a distinction between funds which cover the cost of upgrading the skills of workers remaining at ILVA (which is a cost normally born by the company to improve the efficiency of its work force), and funds provided to train workers leaving ILVA, which we consider a benefit solely to the worker. Only the former is properly categorized as countervailable ``worker assistance'' under section 355.44(j) of the Proposed Regulations, to the extent that it relieves the company of the cost of improving its workers' skills. Since the GOI's contributions to match the ECSC Article 56 payments were only available to steel companies and these funds were used to cover part of ILVA's costs of training workers who remained at ILVA, we find that a countervailable benefit is being provided. Comment 8 The GOI states that, based on the clearer understanding gained by the Department at verification regarding the types of loans eligible for Law 796/76 exchange rate guarantees, this program should be found not countervailable. DOC Position We note that the Department failed to send the GOI a deficiency questionnaire indicating that more information was needed to demonstrate the de facto use of Law 796/76. When it became evident at verification that such information was needed, we attempted to gather it. However, the information could not be provided in the form necessary in the limited time available during verification. Accordingly, we have not made the adverse inference that this program is de facto specific to the steel industry. However, we note that this finding of non-countervailability only relates to this investigation and is subject to revision at the first administrative review if a countervailing duty order is issued. Comment 9 The GOI notes that exports of the subject merchandise to the U.S. were not financed using Law 227/77. According to the GOI, this financing should not be considered countervailable because it is not limited to a particular industry and is also consistent with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Understanding on official export credits. The GOI argues that since this financing is permitted by a multilateral agreement binding both the U.S. and Italy, it should not be considered countervailable. DOC Position We found no countervailable benefits under this program because ILVA did not use this financing for exports to the United States. With respect to the other arguments raised by the GOI, since this program provided export financing, its availability to a large number of industries is not relevant. For export subsidies, we need only find, pursuant to 355.43(a)(1) of the Proposed Regulations, that the financing for exports is provided at preferential rates. Second, although the U.S. and Italy participate in the OECD arrangement which establishes the interest rates that can be charged on export loans, nothing in that arrangement would preclude the application of countervailing duties on merchandise entering the U.S. which received subsidized financing.
