FR940414-1-00011 FR940414-1-00001 (d) Any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative or any other entity which is engaged in the production, first handling or importing of watermelons is considered a person and as such is entitled to only one vote, except that such person may cast proxy votes as provided in section 1210.404(e)(1) of this subpart. (e) Nomination Conventions. If nominations are made by nomination conventions, the Board shall widely publicize such conventions and provide importers and the Secretary at least 10 days notice prior to each convention. (1) Proxy voting by importers shall be permitted at all conventions. Any person wanting to cast proxy votes must demonstrate authorization to do so. Authority to cast a proxy vote on behalf of another person shall be demonstrated through documentation containing: (i) The proxy voter's name, address, and telephone number; (ii) Signature and date signed; (iii) A certification identifying the proxy voter as an importer; and (iv) A statement identifying the person being given authority by the proxy voter to cast the proxy vote. (2) The Board shall provide to the Secretary a typed copy of each convention's minutes and shall arrange for completion of qualification statements and other specified information by each nominee and forward such to the Secretary within 14 calendar days of completion of a convention. (f) Mail balloting. If nominations are conducted by mail ballot, the Board shall request importers to submit nominations of eligible importers. It is the importer's responsibility to prove the individual's eligibility. After the names of nominees are received, the Board shall print ballots and ask eligible importers to vote to nominate their candidates. After the vote is received, the Board shall tabulate the results and shall send to the Department the nominees in order of preference. The Board shall provide the Secretary with a report on the results, number of importers participating in the vote, and the volume of imports, and shall arrange for completion of qualification statements and other specified information by each nominee and forward such to the Secretary within 14 calendar days of receiving the ballots. (g) Any individual who both imports and handles watermelons will be considered an importer if that person imports 50 percent or more of the combined total volume of watermelons handled and imported by that person. 33. Section 1210.503 is redesignated as ยง1210.405, paragraph (a) is revised, and new undesignated center heading is added to read as follows: Public Member ยง1210.405 Public member nominations and selection. (a) The public member shall be nominated by the other members of the Board. * * *
