FR940906-0-00063 FR940906-0-00019 Figures_Part 677 Figure 1_Federal Processing Permit Application (Form FPP&hyph;1). Figure 2_Observer Coverage Payment Receipt (Form FPP&hyph;2). Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. Subpart A_General Provisions of the North Pacific Fisheries Research Plan §677.1 Purpose and scope. (a) These regulations implement the North Pacific Fisheries Research Plan developed by the North Pacific Fishery Management Council under the Magnuson Act. (b) Regulations in this part govern elements of the Research Plan for the following fisheries under the Council's authority: Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area groundfish, Gulf of Alaska groundfish, and Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab in the exclusive economic zone; and halibut from convention waters off Alaska. §677.2 Definitions. In addition to the definitions in the Magnuson Act and in 50 CFR part 620, the terms used in this part have the following meanings: ADF&G means the Alaska Department of Fish and Game. Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area is defined at §671.2 of this chapter. Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area is defined at §675.2 of this chapter. Bimonthly refers to a time period equal to 2 calendar months. Six consecutive bimonthly periods are established each year, as follows: January 1&hyph;February 29; March 1&hyph;April 30; May 1&hyph;June 30; July 1&hyph;August 31; September 1&hyph;October 31; and November 1&hyph;December 31. Catcher/processor means a processor vessel that is used for, or equipped to be used for, catching fish and processing that fish. Catcher vessel means a vessel that is used for catching fish and does not process fish on board. Commissioner of ADF&G means the principal executive officer of ADF&G. Convention waters off Alaska means all waters off Alaska in halibut regulatory areas 2C, 3A, 3B, 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, and 4E as defined in part 301 of this title. Exvessel price means the price in dollars received by a harvester for fish from Research Plan fisheries. Exvessel price excludes any value added by processing. Fee percentage means the annually calculated assessment rate, in percent of exvessel value of Research Plan fisheries, used to determine fee assessments under the Research Plan. Fishermen means persons who catch, take, or harvest fish. Fishing day means a 24-hour period, from 0001 A.l.t. through 2400 A.l.t., in which fishing gear is retrieved and groundfish, halibut, or king or Tanner crab are retained. Days during which a vessel only delivers unsorted codends to a processor are not fishing days. Fishing trip means one of the following time periods: (1) For a vessel used to process groundfish or a catcher vessel used to deliver groundfish to a mothership processor vessel _a weekly reporting period, as defined at §672.2 or §675.2 of this chapter, during which one or more fishing days occur. (2) For a catcher vessel used to deliver fish to other than a mothership processor vessel _the time period during which one or more fishing days occur that starts on the day when fishing gear is first deployed and ends on the day the vessel: Offloads groundfish, halibut, or king or Tanner crab; returns to an Alaskan port; or leaves the EEZ off Alaska and adjacent waters of the State of Alaska. Groundfish is defined at §672.2 or §675.2 of this chapter. Gulf of Alaska is defined at §672.2 of this chapter. Halibut means Pacific halibut ( Hippoglossus stenolepis ). King crab means red king crab ( Paralithodes camtschatica ), blue king crab ( P. platypus ), brown (or golden) king crab ( Lithodes aequispina ), and scarlet (or deep sea) king crab ( Lithodes couesi ). Landing is defined at §672.2 of this chapter. Length overall (LOA) is defined at §672.2 of this chapter. Mothership processor vessel means a processor vessel that receives and processes fish from other vessels and is not used for, or equipped to be used for, catching fish. Processing or to process means the preparation of fish to render it suitable for human consumption, industrial uses, or long term storage, including, but not limited to, cooking, canning, smoking, salting, drying, freezing, and rendering into meal or oil, but does not mean icing, bleeding, heading, or gutting. Processor means any facility or vessel that processes fish for commercial use or consumption, any person except a restaurant who receives fish from fishermen for commercial purposes, and fishermen who sell fish directly to a restaurant or to another individual for use as bait or personal consumption. Regional Director means the Director, Alaska Region, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802. Research Plan means the North Pacific Fisheries Research Plan developed by the North Pacific Fishery Management Council under the Magnuson Act. Research Plan fisheries means the following fisheries: Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area groundfish, Gulf of Alaska groundfish, Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab, and halibut from convention waters off Alaska. Retained catch means the catch retained by a processor, in round weight or round-weight equivalents, from Research Plan fisheries.
