FR940505-1-00259 FR940505-1-00012 Packaging rotogravure printing means rotogravure printing upon paper, paper board, metal foil, plastic film, and other substrates which are, in subsequent operations, formed into packaging products or labels for articles to be sold. Packaging rotogravure printing press means a rotogravure printing press in which surface coatings are applied to paper, paperboard, metal foil, plastic film, or other substrates which are to be used to produce containers, packaging products, or labels for articles. Paper coating facility means a facility that includes one or more paper coating unit(s). Paper coating unit means a web coating unit where coating is applied to paper. Printing presses are not considered paper coating units. Products produced on a paper coating unit include, but are not limited to, adhesive tapes and labels, book covers, post cards, office copier paper, drafting paper, and pressure sensitive tapes. Paper coating units include, but are not limited to, application by impregnation or saturation or by the use of roll, knife, or rotogravure coating. Printing unit means an operation consisting of a series of one or more roll printers and any associated roll coaters, drying areas, and/or ovens wherein one or more surface coatings are applied, dried, and/or cured. It is not necessary for an operation to have an oven, or flashoff area, or drying area to be included in this definition. Publication rotogravure printing unit means a rotogravure printing unit in which surface coatings are applied to paper which is subsequently formed into books, magazines, catalogues, brochures, directories, newspaper supplements, or other types of printed material. Refinish means to restore or replace coatings on Group I vehicles (large-sized trucks, buses, and mobile equipment) and Group II vehicles (passenger cars, small-sized trucks and vans, medium-sized trucks and vans, and motorcycles) and equipment, or their parts and components, except Original Equipment Manufacturer coatings applied at motor vehicle or mobile equipment assembly line coating facilities. Roll coater means an apparatus in which a uniform layer of coating material is applied by means of a roll or rolls across the entire width of a moving substrate which is fed from an unwinding roll. Roll printer means an apparatus in which a surface coating is applied by means of a roll or rolls with only partial coverage across the width of a moving substrate which is fed from an unwinding roll. The partial coverage results in the formation of words, designs, or pictures on the substrate. Rotogravure printing means the application of words, designs, and pictures to a substrate using a gravure cylinder by means of a roll printing technique in which the pattern to be applied is recessed relative to the nonimage area. Rotogravure printing unit means a printing unit in which each roll printer uses a roll with recessed areas for applying an image to a substrate. Screen printing unit means a printing unit in which the printing ink passes through a web or a fabric to which a refined form of stencil has been applied. The stencil openings determine the form and dimensions of the imprint. Solvent means a substance that is liquid at standard conditions that is used to dissolve or dilute another substance; this term includes, but is not limited to, organic materials used as dissolvers, viscosity reducers, degreasing agents, or cleaning agents. Solvent cleaning means the process of cleaning soils from surfaces by cold cleaning, open-top vapor degreasing, or conveyorized degreasing. Space vehicle means any vehicle designed to travel beyond the earth's atmosphere. Street means a public road in a town or city. Substrate means the surface to which a coating is applied on, saturated into, or impregnated into. Vinyl coating facility means a facility that includes one or more vinyl coating unit(s). Vinyl coating unit means a web coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating or printing ink is applied onto a continuous web of vinyl-coated fabric or vinyl sheets.
