FR940503-1-00051 FR940503-1-00010 §59.17 Subpoenas. (a) The Presiding Officer may, on his own initiative or at the request of either party, subpoena the testimony of witnesses or the production of documents, or both, for a hearing conducted pursuant to §59.16. (b) The Presiding Officer shall serve the subpoena upon its recipient in the manner prescribed for the service of a field citation pursuant to §59.7(d). (c) The Presiding Officer shall file a copy of the subpoena with the Hearing Clerk. §59.18 Hearing procedures. (a) The Presiding Officer shall conduct a fair and impartial proceeding in which each party has a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present evidence. Each witness shall testify in the form determined by the Presiding Officer to be most efficient in resolving an issue. Forms of testimony include oral testimony provided in person or by other means, and written or otherwise recorded testimony. The Presiding Officer may limit the number of witnesses and the scope and extent of any direct examination or cross-examination as necessary to protect the interests of justice and conduct a reasonably expeditious hearing. (b) The Agency representative shall present the field citation and the evidence supporting its issuance, and any other material that is pertinent to the issues to be determined by the Presiding Officer. The respondent has the right to examine, and to respond to or rebut, the field citation and any proffered evidence and material. The respondent may offer any facts, documents, testimony or other exculpatory evidence which bears on appropriate issues, or which may be relevant to the size of an appropriate penalty. Any opposing party has a right of crossexamination after the introduction of a witness' direct testimony. A party shall not cross-examine regarding a matter that is outside of the scope of the direct examination. The Presiding Officer may require the authentication of any written exhibit or statement. (c) At the close of the respondent's presentation of evidence, the Presiding Officer may allow the introduction of rebuttal evidence by the Agency representative. The Presiding Officer may allow the respondent to respond to any such evidence submitted by the Agency. (d) In receiving evidence, the Presiding Officer is not bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. In evaluating the evidence presented, the Presiding Officer shall give due consideration to the reliability and relevance of each item of evidence. (e) The Presiding Officer may take notice of matters which are not subject to reasonable dispute and are commonly known in the community, or are capable of accurate and ready determination by resort to sources whose accuracy cannot reasonably be questioned. Prior to taking notice of a matter, the Presiding Officer shall give each party an opportunity to show why notice should not be taken. In any case in which notice is taken, the Presiding Officer shall place in the record a written statement of the matter as to which notice was taken with the basis for such notice, including either a statement that the parties consented to notice being taken or a summary of any party's objections. §59.19 Penalty assessment criteria. (a) The Presiding Officer shall consider the following criteria in reviewing the penalty proposed in the field citation: (1) The size of the business; (2) The economic impact of the penalty on the business; (3) The respondent's full compliance history, and good faith efforts by the respondent to comply; (4) The duration of the violation as established by any credible evidence (including evidence other than the applicable test method); (5) Payment by the respondent of penalties previously assessed for the same violation; (6) The economic benefit of noncompliance; (7) The seriousness of the violation; and (8) Such other factors as justice may require. (b) The burden of going forward with respect to criteria in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (3), (5), and (6) of this section, is on the respondent. The burden of going forward with respect to criteria in paragraphs (a)(4) and (7) of this section is on the Agency. The burden of going forward with respect to criterion in paragraph (a)(8) of this section is on the party proffering such factors. Failure of the respondent to meet its burden with respect to any applicable criterion shall mean that a penalty amount that is appropriate in light of other criteria shall also be appropriate in light of such criterion for which the respondent failed to meet its burden. §59.20 Transcript or recording of hearing. (a) The hearing shall be tape recorded unless the parties agree and the Presiding Officer directs otherwise. A verbatim transcript will not normally be prepared, but may be ordered by the Presiding Officer if deemed necessary to permit a full and fair review and resolution of the case. If not so ordered by the Presiding Officer, a party may, at its own expense, cause a verbatim transcript to be made. The party causing the verbatim transcript to be made shall submit one (1) copy to the Presiding Officer and one (1) copy to the other party. (b) The transcript or recording of the hearing, together with all written submissions made by the parties, shall become part of the administrative record for the proceeding. §59.21 Post-hearing submissions. The Presiding Officer may request, within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the hearing, that the parties submit a written statement for his consideration including, but not limited to, proposed recommended findings of fact and conclusions of law. Such written statement shall be limited to the matters raised at the hearing. §59.22 Recommended decision. (a) Within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, the Presiding Officer shall: (1) Certify the administrative record as complete; (2) Make the administrative record available to the Regional Administrator; and (3) Prepare and transmit a recommended decision to the Regional Administrator. The recommended decision shall address all material issues of fact or law properly raised by the respondent, and shall recommend that the field citation be affirmed, modified or withdrawn. The recommended decision shall be based on substantial evidence in the administrative record, taken as a whole, and shall provide citations to relevant material contained in that record. (b) The Presiding Officer shall file a copy of the recommended decision with the Hearing Clerk at the time of its transmittal to the Regional Administrator. The Hearing Clerk shall immediately serve each party with a copy of the recommended decision.
