FR941012-0-00063 FR941012-0-00011 Third, there is evidence in the record that employees do use their logging boots away from work. Employees come to and leave work wearing their logging boots, suggesting that the boots are used away from the workplace. In addition, commenters cited specific activities where logging boots are used away from the logging work site. The commenters did not provide any comparable evidence that other items of PPE required by the final rule are also used by employees away from the workplace. Based on the above, OSHA has decided in the final rule not to require the employer to provide logging boots. The Agency emphasizes that it is the totality of the special circumstances in the logging industry that justify this determination. Of the reasons discussed above, none of them standing alone would provide sufficient justification for departing from the general requirement that employers provide PPE. Rather, it is the combination of these reasons and special circumstances in the logging industry that make it appropriate to allow employees to provide their own logging boots. OSHA also emphasizes that regardless of who provides the logging boots, the final rule makes the employer responsible for assuring that logging boots are used by the employee and are maintained in a serviceable condition. In addition, in the final rule the employer is responsible for assuring that logging boots are inspected before initial use during a workshift. Attendant to this requirement, the employer is also responsible for assuring that damaged and defective equipment is either repaired or replaced before work is commenced. With regard to the other items of PPE required by the final rule, OSHA does not believe there is sufficient evidence in the record to justify a departure from OSHA's long-established policy. Neither industry practice nor turnover rates compel the Agency to relieve employers of the obligation to pay for the other items of PPE for loggers. Indeed, evidence in the record shows that many employers are currently providing these other items of PPE (Ex. 5&hyph;32, 9&hyph;15; Tr. W1 177). The record shows that, unlike logging boots, these items of PPE tend to remain at the workplace and are amenable for use by other employees. Further, there is no evidence in the record of an established practice of employees using such PPE away from the workplace. Also, there is no evidence of established and uniform industry practice of transporting such PPE from job to job. Therefore, in the final rule, OSHA is requiring, except for logging boots, that the employer provide PPE at no cost to the employee. 3. Leg protection. In the hearing notice OSHA raised three issues concerning leg protection for chain-saw operators: specifications for leg protection, the area to be protected, and potential disadvantages of leg protection. a. Specifications. The proposed rule would have required that chain-saw operators wear leg protection made of ballistic nylon or other material that provides at least equivalent protection. Many commenters supported the leg protection requirement for chain-saw operators (Ex. 5&hyph;5, 5&hyph;7, 5&hyph;17, 5&hyph;30, 5&hyph;33, 5&hyph;42, 5&hyph;45, 5&hyph;51, 5&hyph;60, 5&hyph;68, 5&hyph;73, 9&hyph;9&hyph;11; Tr. W2 126&hyph;28). Several commenters and hearing participants also supported OSHA's position that leg protection meet certain criteria (Ex. 5&hyph;30, 5&hyph;60, 5&hyph;68, 5&hyph;73; Tr. W2 126&hyph;28). Two commenters suggested that OSHA require leg protection made with KEVLAR because they believe KEVLAR provides more protection than ballistic nylon (Ex. 5&hyph;5, 5&hyph;30). One of these commenters said KEVLAR leg protection provides 50 percent more protection than ballistic nylon with a fraction of the weight and bulk, thus allowing easier movement and reducing fatigue (Ex. 5&hyph;30). This commenter also said that the U.S. Forest Service specifications call for KEVLAR leg protection. Other commenters stated that a testing protocol for leg protection should be adopted rather than specifying that leg protection be comprised of any certain type of material (Ex. 5&hyph;60, 5&hyph;68, 5&hyph;72). One commenter said OSHA should adopt the ISO or Canadian testing standards for leg protection (Ex. 9&hyph;16). However, other commenters said there was no consensus in this country regarding an appropriate testing standard (Ex. 5&hyph;60, 5&hyph;68, 5&hyph;72). One commenter proposed that the following testing standard be adopted: [T]he protective garment must have a minimum ``Threshold Chain Speed'' of 2500 feet per minute for operators using chain saws with an engine displacement of under 65 cc and 3000 feet per minute for operators using chain saws with an engine displacement of over 65 cc. Further the test procedure developed and currently used by the US Forest Service [should] be adopted and defined as the test method used to measure the ``Threshold Chain Speed'' of safety material (Ex. 5&hyph;68).
