FR940318-0-00120 FR940318-0-00023 EPA believes that the statutory language included in section 612 is written broadly to allow for a reasonably comprehensive evaluation of substitutes that will be introduced as replacements for ozone-depleting chemicals. However, additional clarification is presented below to further explain the Agency's definition of a ``substitute'' in specific circumstances based on section 612. a. Chemicals already listed under TSCA. Section 612(e) explicitly requires producers of chemicals, both new and existing, to notify the Agency before introducing such chemicals into interstate commerce for significant new uses as class I alternatives. In addition, section 612(c) requires the Agency to produce lists of acceptable and unacceptable substitutes, without regard to the status of each chemical alternative, whether new or existing. These interrelated provisions of section 612 serve as the basis for the Agency's belief that all substitutes, whether ``new or existing'' chemicals, should be subject to SNAP review. This regulatory purview would thus necessarily extend to those chemicals already listed on the TSCA inventory of existing chemicals. EPA believes SNAP review is critical for such chemicals given the differing statutory objectives of TSCA and the CAA, and the new and expanded applications of many existing chemicals as class I and II replacements, which could alter existing release and exposure profiles. b. Significant new use of existing alternatives. There has also been some question regarding whether an existing alternative already being sold commercially within a SNAP sector (e.g., use of semi-aqueous cleaners in the electronics industry) would be subject to review under section 612. The Agency believes that it should be subject to review under SNAP. Because of the phaseout, uses of existing substitutes can reasonably be expected to increase significantly beyond current consumption, which could translate into greater releases and risks from use of a substitute. Existing substitutes are therefore subject to SNAP review because EPA believes that their use can be expected to significantly expand to new users or product lines. Users should note that the SNAP determinations discussed in section IX of this final rule demonstrate that with few exceptions, all substitutes already on the market meet the conditions for acceptability under the SNAP program. c. Authority to review substitutes for class II compounds. Section 612(c) authorizes the Administrator to prohibit the use of substitutes for class II, as well as class I substances, and requires the Agency to compile lists of substitutes for class II as well as class I compounds upon making the requisite findings. EPA believes that this is in part because of the considerable overlap in sectors that use class I and II substances. More importantly, this mirrors the statute's general emphasis on moving away from class I compounds in a way that does not create new and unintended environmental problems. Clearly, for the same reasons class I substitutes require review under the SNAP program, class II substitutes should also be reviewed. To obtain the data necessary to analyze class II substitutes, the Agency is using statutory authority provided in sections 114 and 301 of the CAA in conjunction with 612(c). As explained in the NPRM, these sections, when read together, authorize the Administrator to promulgate such regulations as needed to require companies to provide information EPA may reasonably need to identify acceptable and unacceptable substitutes for class II substances. EPA is exercising this authority to subject class I and II substitutes to the same information reporting requirements and listing process. d. Designation of class I and II chemicals as substitutes. EPA believes that review authority under section 612 extends also to use of class I and II chemicals as substitutes, even though these chemicals are subject to the phaseout provisions of the CAA. While one comment received by the Agency in response to the NPRM questions EPA's authority under section 612 to review class I and II chemicals as substitutes (e.g., methyl chloroform used to replace CFC&hyph;113), it is clear that these compounds can be used as substitutes for other class I and II substances in certain applications. Since section 612 authority extends to ``any'' substitutes, both class I and II substances are subject to review under the SNAP program just as any other substitute. Given the potential for the class I and II chemicals used as substitutes for other ozone-depleting chemicals to continue depleting stratospheric ozone and thus affect human health and the environment, a close examination of these alternatives in the context of both their effect on the environment and the availability of other substitutes for particular uses is especially warranted under section 612. e. Alternative products and manufacturing processes. EPA believes that section 612(c) broadly charges EPA to identify alternatives to ozone-depleting substances. For example, EPA believes that alternative products can include no-clean fluxes in electronics manufacturing processes that currently use class I or II compounds as cleaning solvents. EPA believes it appropriate to consider substitute processes and products for review under the SNAP program, since many of these alternatives are viable substitutes and could reduce overall risks to human health and the environment. EPA believes that such alternative products and processes, therefore, fall within the definition of substitutes under section 612. Similarly, new production techniques and/or processing equipment are important developments that can minimize environmental releases. Accordingly, alternative manufacturing processes will also be examined under section 612 in the context of use and emissions of substitutes. EPA believes that section 612's reference to ``alternative,'' instead of ``alternative substance,'' or ``alternative chemical,'' implies a statutory intent that ``alternative'' be read broadly. This furthers the statutory desire to shift use to alternatives that reduce overall risk.
