FR940426-0-00007 FR940426-0-00003 Subpart D_Delegations of Authority; General §1700.40 Exercise of delegated authority. (a) Unless specifically reserved, or otherwise delegated, the delegations of authority contained in subparts D through L of this part include the authority to take any action or execute any document deemed necessary and proper to the discharge of such responsibilities. In the exercise of authority delegated in subparts D through L of this part, all applicable REA policies, regulations, and procedures should be followed. All delegations previously made are superseded. (b) No delegation of authority by the Administrator or other person shall preclude the Administrator or other person from exercising any of the authority so delegated. §1700.41 Persons serving in acting capacities. Incumbents delegated authority in subparts D through L of this part are authorized to designate a person to act for them as necessary, except that a Regional Director or the Director, Power Supply Division may not redelegate authority to approve loans, loan guarantees or lien accommodations, and related actions as set forth in §§1700.124(a), 1700.127(a) and 1700.145(a). If an incumbent of a position to whom delegations are made in subparts D through L of this part is absent or is unable to carry out such delegations, the person designated authority to act for the incumbent and exercise the authority conferred by such delegations. Such designations shall be in accordance with any instruction issued by the incumbent's supervisor. §1700.42 Persons serving as acting Administrator. The following persons are authorized, in descending order, to act for the Administrator only in his or her absence, sickness, resignation, or death: Deputy Administrator, Assistant Administrator_Electric, Assistant Administrator_Telephone, Assistant Administrator_Economic Development and Technical Services. That is, if the first person on the list is also absent, sick, has resigned, or is dead, the second person on the list is authorized to act for the Administrator and so on down the list. Persons on this list may not redelegate the authority to act for the Administrator. The Administrator may in his/her discretion in writing, on a case-by-case basis, delegate authority to act as Administrator in his/her absence outside of this specified order. §1700.43 Persons serving as acting Assistant Administrator. (a) Electric and telephone programs. The Deputy Assistant Administrator in each program is authorized to act for the respective Assistant Administrator in the absence, sickness, resignation or death of that Assistant Administrator. The Deputy Assistant Administrators may not redelegate this authority. (b) Assistant Administrator_Economic Development and Technical Services. (1) The Directors of the Rural Development Assistance Staff, Borrower Accounting Division and the Program Support Staff are authorized to act for the Assistant Administrator_Economic Development and Technical Services in his or her absence according to the following schedule: ␣ 1Director of 1Months Rural Development Assistance Staff January, April, July, October. Borrowers Accounting Division February, May, August, November. Program Support Staff March, June, September, December. (2) If a particular Director is absent, sick, has resigned or is dead during a scheduled month, the delegation will revolve back to the preceding month. These Directors may not redelegate this authority. §1700.44 Contracts approved on behalf of the Administrator. (a) Nonstandard contracts. Prior to the approval or the execution of the following documents, the Office of the General Counsel (OGC) shall comment as to any legal matters concerning such nonstandard contracts: (1) Contracts for engineering services, architectural services, construction, and power supply that include a substantive deviation from the standard form contract approved by OGC; and (2) Other documents involving legal matters of concern to the approving official. (b) Signature. All contract approvals shall be signed: (Name and Title) For the Administrator §§1700.45&hyph;1700.59 [Reserved]
