FR940223-1-00075 FR940223-1-00016 2. Section 625.8, paragraphs (a)(6), (a)(7), and (c)(9) are revised and a new paragraph (e) is added to read as follows: §625.8 Prohibitions. (a)␣*␣*␣* (6) fish with or possess nets or netting that do not meet the minimum mesh requirement, or that are modified, obstructed or constricted, if subject to the minimum mesh requirement specified in §625.24, unless the nets or netting are stowed in accordance with §625.24(f); (7) fish with or possess nets or netting that do not meet the minimum mesh requirement, or that are modified, obstructed or constricted, if fishing with an exempted net described in §625.24, unless the nets or netting are stowed in accordance with §625.24(f); * * * * * (c)␣*␣*␣* (9) Assault, resist, oppose, impede, harass, intimidate, or interfere with or bar by command, impediment, threat, coercion or refusal of reasonable assistance of an observer or sea sampler conducting his or her duties aboard a vessel; or * * * * * (e) It is unlawful for any person to violate any terms of a letter authorizing experimental fishing pursuant to §625.28 or to fail to keep such letter aboard the vessel during the time period of the experimental fishing. 3. Section 625.20, paragraph (c) is revised to read as follows: §625.20 Catch quotas and other restrictions. * * * * * (c) Annual fishing measures. The Demersal Species Committee shall review the recommendations of the Summer Flounder Monitoring Committee. Based on these recommendations and any public comment, the Demersal Species Committee shall make its recommendations to the Council with respect to the measures necessary to assure that the applicable fishing mortality rate specified in paragraph (a) of this sectio is not exceeded. The Council shall review these recommendations. Based on these recommendations, and any public comment, the Council shall make recommendations to the Regional Director with respect to the measures necessary to assure that the fishing mortality rates specified in paragraph (a) of this section are not exceeded. Included in the recommendation will be supporting documents as appropriate, concerning the environmental and economic impacts of the proposed action. The Regional Director will review these recommendations and any recommendations of the Commission. After such review, the Regional Director will publish in the Federal Register a proposed rule on or before October 15 to implement a coastwide commercial quota and recreational harvest limit and additional management measures for the commercial fishery, and will publish in the Federal Register a proposed rule on or before February 15 to implement additional management measures for the recreational fishery, if he determines that these measures are necessary to assure that the fishing mortality rates specified in paragraph (a) of this section are not exceeded. After considering public comment on a proposed rule, the Regional Director will publish a final rule in the Federal Register to implement the measures necessary to assure that the fishing mortality rates specified in paragraph (a) of this section are not exceeded. * * * * * 4. Section 625.24, is amended by removing paragraph (c), by redesignating paragraphs (d) and (e) as paragraphs (c) and (d), and by adding new paragraphs (e) and (f) to read as follows: §625.24 Gear restrictions. * * * * *
