FR940228-1-00084 FR940228-1-00010 General Standards of Financial Responsibility In paragraph (b) of proposed ยง668.15, the Secretary would list general standards of financial responsibility. The first six standards are applicable to all institutions. Section 498(c)(1) of the HEA specifies that an institution's financial responsibility must be determined based on whether the institution is able to provide the services that the institution claims to provide, to provide administrative resources necessary to comply with Title IV, HEA program requirements, and to meet all of the institution's financial obligations, including refunds and liabilities and debts incurred in programs administered by the Secretary. These standards were adopted from current regulations and the Secretary proposes to continue to use them unchanged. The Secretary proposes to add to the list of proposed financial responsibility requirements for all institutions the requirement that an institution be current on any debt service payments. An institution normally has variable costs that fluctuate to meet the demand created by increasing or decreasing volume in those costs such as those for educational supplies and expenses and instructor salaries associated with educating an increasing or decreasing number of students. Debt service represents a fixed cost, such as mortgage or lease payments, to the institution that generally does not fluctuate with that volume. Thus, in a situation in which an institution is experiencing a decline in revenue due to a decrease in new enrollments, debt service would remain unchanged. The institution's flexibility to deal financially with the decline is reduced because management typically is unable to adjust the amount of payment for debt service without the consent of the creditor to whom the debt is owed. This situation places some degree of control outside the institution and beyond the scope of management's ability to deal with a deteriorating situation by reducing costs. Furthermore, a failure to meet debt service payments might precipitate collective action on the part of creditors to place the institution in an involuntary liquidation situation under Federal bankruptcy laws. Alternatively, a growing institution usually must take on more debt to fund its operations. Should the growth fail to continue, the institution might be unable to service the increasing debt service associated with its expansion. Thus, the Secretary believes an institution's failure to remain current on its debt service payments would be a strong indicator of the institution's inability to meet its financial obligations. Section 498(c)(5) of the HEA provides that the Secretary must establish requirements for an institution to maintain sufficient cash reserves to ensure repayment of any required refunds. Section 498(c)(5) of the HEA also provides for an exemption to this requirement which is discussed below under exceptions to the general standards of financial responsibility. The Secretary proposes to require an institution to maintain, at all times, a minimum cash reserve of at least 10 percent of the institution's total deferred tuition income at the end of the institution's most recent fiscal year for repayment of refunds. The cash reserve would have to be maintained in a cash reserve account and would have to consist of cash or cash equivalents, as those terms are defined in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles. The Secretary believes that it would be unreasonable and unduly burdensome to require an institution to calculate the percentage of its cash reserve on a continual basis. Accordingly, the Secretary would require an institution to determine its total deferred income at the end of the institution's fiscal year and calculate the percentage based on that total. Once that percentage is determined, the institution would have to maintain that amount of cash reserve at all times until a new calculation is performed at the end of the institution's subsequent fiscal year. The calculation would be based on the institution's total deferred tuition income because deferred tuition income is an indicator of the value of services that the institution will provide for the coming year. The Secretary requests comment on a comparable way to determine the appropriate level for the cash reserve. Ten percent of this amount represents roughly the equivalent of a month's worth of an institution's revenue. The Secretary considers this amount a reasonable amount for an institution to have available to pay refunds in the event of the institution's precipitous closure. Generally, under this proposal, an institution would demonstrate its compliance with this provision once a year with the submission of the institution's audited financial statements. However, because an institution would be expected to maintain this cash reserve at all times, the Secretary would reserve the right to evaluate an institution's compliance with the requirement at any time. Finally, the proposal to allow cash equivalents to be included in the cash reserve is consistent with generally accepted accounting principles.
