FR941007-0-00014 FR941007-0-00003 Certificates of Privilege The committee recommended changing an incorrect citation in the first sentence of §966.120 Application for Certificate of Privilege which incorrectly refers to §966.53 of the order. The committee states that the intent of the section is to require Certificates of Privilege for special purpose shipments authorized in §966.54 Shipments for special purposes. Thus, §966.54 is referenced in the first sentence of the paragraph. This adjustment does not change current practices as the committee's use of Certificates of Privilege is consistent with §966.54 of the order. This rule also changes §966.120 to be consistent with the outlets specified in §966.323 Handling regulations. One outlet currently specified in §966.120 is changed and three new outlets are added. The term ``processing'' replaces the term ``canning'' to make the regulations consistent with current industry practice. Pickling, experimental purposes and export, which are currently specified in §966.323(b), are added to §966.120. The committee also proposed that it have the authority, with the Secretary's approval, to add other outlets to meet changing food technologies and services which could benefit from receiving tomatoes shipped under Certificate of Privilege. This authority is added to §966.120. The Department makes conforming changes to paragraph (b) of §966.323 to make that paragraph consistent with the changes to §966.120. The term ``canning'' is changed to ``processing'' and committee authority to add special purpose outlets, with the Secretary's approval, is added as conforming changes. The Department also adds a definition for ``processing'' to paragraph (e) §966.323 Definitions. ``Processing'' is defined as the manufacture of any tomato product which has been converted into juice, or preserved by any commercial process, including canning, dehydrating, drying, and the addition of chemical substances. Also, paragraph (e) of §966.323, as provided herein, is redesignated as paragraph (g). Packout Reports The committee also recommended that all handlers be required to present daily packout reports to the inspection service. The inspection service currently collects these reports from most handlers for inspection billing purposes and sends a daily packout report to the committee. Currently, all handlers maintain records of their daily packout activity based on the grade, size, and containers of tomatoes handled. The inspection service collects this data at the end of each work day for inspection billing purposes. As a service to the committee and tomato handlers, the inspection service compiles this information (received from its various inspectors) and reports it to the committee at the end of the day or the following morning. The committee compiles this data into a daily, industry-wide, packout report. The report is considered an indispensable tool for handlers to assess daily tomato market conditions and is disseminated, upon request, to registered handlers. However, some handlers fail to provide their packout data to the inspection service on a timely basis to allow inclusion of the handler's data in each daily, industry-wide report. To be a useful tool, the industry-wide report must be accurate and include, to the extent possible, the total industry packout. Because the report is such a valuable marketing tool for handlers, the committee voted unanimously to propose that each registered handler be required to report the handler's daily packout data to the inspection service in a timely manner. The packout data that handlers provide to the inspection service, to the committee directly, or to another agent of the committee is data that is routinely compiled by each handler as part of the handler's normal, daily operating records. The reporting deadline of the end of the working day, as designated by the committee, will not present an undue burden on handlers because the data requested is routinely recorded by handlers at the end of each working day. Individual handler data collated and disseminated in an industry-wide report will not disclose confidential information or the business position of individual handlers. The committee recommended that this change be added to the rules and regulations as a separate, new number, title and paragraph. However, because the new provision establishes a reporting requirement on handlers, the Department inserts the provision as a separate, new paragraph under current §966.323. Thus, a new paragraph (e) is added to the handling regulation and current paragraph (e) Definitions is redesignated as paragraph (g). Assessments Finally, the committee recommended that a clarification be added to the rules and regulations to clearly state that handlers must pay assessments to maintain their certification as registered handlers. Failure of some handlers to pay their assessments places an unfair burden upon those handlers who comply with order requirements. The Department adds that this clarification to §966.323 handling regulation because payment of assessments is a requirement of handlers under the order. A new paragraph (f) Assessments is added to §966.323. This paragraph stated that failure of a registered handler to pay assessments in a timely manner will result in cancellation of the registered handler's status, thus, making that handler ineligible to ship tomatoes outside of the regulated area. Current committee collection procedures are: (1) Weekly assessment billings during the harvest season; (2) payment within 30 days; (3) followed by a demand letter specifying the end of a 15 day extended notice period; and (4) referral to the Department for legal action. Under this rule, a handler who has not paid assessments after expiration of the extended notice period provided in the demand letter will be considered out of compliance and will be reported to the inspection service as a non-registered handler. Based on the above, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this interim rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. In accordance with the Paper Work Reduction Act of 1980, [44 U.S.C. Chapter 35], the information collection requirement contained in this rule has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval and has been assigned OMB No. 0581&hyph;0073. Because handlers currently complete a form to be certified as a registered handler, no additional OMB approval is needed for such registration. However, this rule provides that each registered handler, at the end of each day in which tomatoes are handled by the registered handler, furnish the committee or it's designated agent an accurate accounting of the number of tomato containers packed that day. This report provides the grade, size, and containers of tomatoes packed by the handler each packing day. Because the information is readily available from each day's packout, the report takes five minutes to complete. The committee needs this information to compile a daily packout report which is used by handlers in their marketing efforts. This provision is consistent with current industry practice. It is estimated that 50 handlers currently submit daily reports and receive marketing assistance during the marketing period October 10, through June 15 each year. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, it is found and determined, upon good cause, that it is impracticable, unnecessary and contrary to the public interest to give preliminary notice prior to putting this rule into effect, and that good cause exists for not postponing the effective date of this rule until 30 days after publication in the Federal Register because this rule: (1) clarifies order regulations and makes those regulations consistent with current conditions in the industry; (2) is expected to improve compliance with order requirements; (3) needs to be in effect as soon as possible because the marketing season begins on October 10, 1994; (4) was unanimously recommended by the committee at a public meeting; and (5) provides a 30-day comment period and all comments timely received will be considered prior to the finalization of this rule.
