FR940512-2-00176 FR940512-2-00078 Legislation authorizing each of the Federal Runaway and Homeless Youth Programs requires that priority for funding be given to agencies with experience in providing direct services to runaway and homeless youth. In line with this requirement, applicants which have three (3) or more years of continuous effort serving runaway and homeless youth in one or more areas set forth in section 312 of the Act are eligible to receive an additional five (5) points in this criterion. Applications claiming credit for this preference must include a statement of no more than one page documenting the relevant experience. Empirical or applied research experience is not considered direct service. Program purpose, goals and objectives: The Administration on Children, Youth and Families will award approximately 20 new grants to support services within a community to maintain, improve and/or expand drug abuse prevention, early intervention, and reduction of drug dependency services to runaway and homeless youth and their families. Applications are solicited under this priority area to carry out direct service projects designed to address the issue of drug abuse among runaway and homeless youth in the applicant's community as required by the goals and objectives set forth in the legislation and specified in Part I, section C.2 of this announcement. Activities that may be maintained, improved and/or expanded through a DAPP grant include but are not necessarily limited to: 1. Improving networking and service coordination to increase the availability of services to runaway and homeless youth; 2. Expanding outreach activities, particularly street-based outreach programs; 3. Providing individual, family, group, and/or peer prevention and intervention counseling related to alcohol and other drug use; 4. Strengthening intake and assessment procedures for substance abuse at runaway and homeless youth shelters; 5. Coordinating services with drug treatment facilities and making referrals to treatment that are geared to the runaway and homeless youth population; 6. Providing aftercare and follow-up services to runaway and homeless youth with substance abuse problems who have received shelter and/or non-residential services; 7. Increasing staff knowledge and skills related to working with runaway and homeless youth with substance abuse problems by improving or accessing training opportunities; 8. Improving programming to address the unique cultural needs and concerns of minority runaway and homeless youth; 9. Involving and educating parents, siblings and peers of runaway and homeless youth receiving drug abuse prevention services; 10. Developing and implementing programs designed to reduce drug involvement among the target population by improving coping skills and reducing stress factors arising from such problems as homelessness, family dysfunction, and peer pressure; and 11. Establishing linkages with community mental health programs that will provide comprehensive substance abuse counseling and/or treatment to runaway and homeless youth. Efforts that will not be funded under this priority area include research and demonstration projects on illicit drug use by runaway and homeless youth, and the direct provision of drug treatment services such as those services provided in a medical setting or by medical personnel. This priority area is specifically targeted to runaway and homeless youth. Potential applicants interested in providing drug abuse prevention services to high-risk youth other than those who are runaways or homeless are encouraged to contact the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention (CSAP). For information on CSAP grant programs and other drug abuse prevention resources, applicants should contact the National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information, P.O. Box 2345, Rockville, Maryland 20847&hyph;2345; telephone: 1&hyph;800&hyph;729&hyph;6686. Background: The abuse of drugs has had an increasingly severe impact on runaway and homeless youth. Reports from shelters which serve this client population indicate a growing drug abuse problem. In 1988, 15.4 percent of the youth entering shelters indicated a personal drug abuse problem. In addition, 16.6 percent of the youth entering shelters reported that their reason for running away was parental drug and/or alcohol abuse. A 1990 survey, conducted by the National Network of Runaway and Youth Services, of 185 community-based agencies that serve runaway and homeless youth found substance abuse to be the leading health problem among the youth served. Several other studies reveal that the incidence of substance abuse among runaway and homeless youth in large urban areas is significantly greater than the rate of abuse among other adolescents. The prevalence of the problem is underscored by the fact that not only are youth-serving agencies in major urban areas reporting an increase in drug use among their client population, but that providers in small towns and rural communities also are finding that more than half of their clients are reporting drug abuse as a primary problem.
