FR940418-0-00050 FR940418-0-00012 (b) Appointment, term of service, and removal of the Deputy Postmaster General (by the Governors and the Postmaster General, 39 U.S.C. 202(d)); pay of the Deputy Postmaster General, 39 U.S.C. 202(d). (c) Election of the Chairman of the Board of Governors, 39 U.S.C. 202(a). (d) Approval of the budget of the Postal Rate Commission, or adjustment of the total amount of the budget (by unanimous written vote of the Governors in office, 39 U.S.C. 3604(d)). (e) Action upon a recommended decision of the Postal Rate Commission, including action to approve, allow under protest, reject, or modify that decision, 39 U.S.C. 3625. (f) Concurrence of the Governors with the Postmaster General in the removal or transfer of the Chief Postal Inspector under 5 U.S.C. App. 8E(f). (g) The Governors shall meet annually in closed session to discuss compensation, term of service, and appointment/removal of the Secretary and other necessary staff. ยง3.5 Delegation of authority by Board. As authorized by 39 U.S.C. 402, these bylaws delegate to the Postmaster General the authority to exercise the powers of the Postal Service to the extent that this delegation of authority does not conflict with powers reserved to the Governors or to the Board by law, these bylaws, or resolutions adopted by the Board. Any of the powers delegated to the Postmaster General by these bylaws may be redelegated by the Postmaster General to any officer, employee, or agency of the Postal Service. ยง3.6 Information furnished to Board_financial and operating reports. To enable the Board to monitor the performance of the Postal Service during the most recent accounting periods for which data are available, postal management shall furnish the Board (on a monthly basis) financial and operating statements for the fiscal year to date, addressing the following categories: (a) Mail volume by class; (b) income and expense by principal categories; (c) balance sheet information; (d) service quality measurements; (e) productivity measurements (reflecting workload and resource utilization); and (f) changes in postal costs. These statements shall include, where applicable, comparable figures for the previous year and the current year's plan. ยง3.7 Information furnished to Board_program review. (a) To enable the Board to review the Postal Service operating program, postal management shall furnish the Board information on all aspects of the Postal Service budget plan, including: (1) The tentative and final annual budgets submitted to the Office of Management and Budget and the Congress, and amendments to the budget; (2) Five-year plans, annual operating and investment plans, and significant departures from estimates upon which the plans were based; (3) The need for rate increases or decreases and the progress of any pending rate cases and related litigation; and (4) Debt financing needs, including a review of all borrowings of the Postal Service from the U.S. Treasury and private sources. (b) To enable the Board to review the effectiveness of the Postal Service's equal employment opportunity program, performance data relating to this program shall be furnished to the Board at least quarterly. This data shall be categorized in such manner as the Board, from time to time, specifies. (c) Postal management shall also regularly furnish the Board information regarding major programs for improving postal service or reducing the cost of postal operations. (d) Management shall furnish to the Board information regarding any significant new program, major modification or initiative; any plan to offer a significant, new or unique product or system implementation; or any significant, new project not related directly to the core business function of the Postal Service. For the purposes of this paragraph, ``significant'' means a project anticipated to have a notable or conspicuous impact on (1) corporate visibility or (2) the operating budget or capital investment budget. ยง3.8 Information furnished to Board_special reports. To insure that the Board receives significant information of developments meriting its attention, postal management shall bring to the Board's attention the following matters: (a) Major developments in personnel areas, including but not limited to equal employment opportunity, career development and training, and grade and salary structures.
