FR940512-2-00106 FR940512-2-00055 Knoxville Surgical Group Profit Sharing Plan (the Plan) Located in Knoxville, Tennessee, Proposed Exemption [Application No. D&hyph;9486] The Department is considering granting an exemption under the authority of section 408(a) of the Act and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 2570, subpart B (55 FR 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990.) If the exemption is granted, the restrictions of sections 406(a), 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1)(A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to the: (1) The proposed lease (the Lease) of certain real property (the Condominium) by the Plan to Knoxville Surgical Group, P.C. (the Employer), the Plan sponsor and a party in interest with respect to the Plan, following the exchange (the Swap) of real property owned by the Plan for the Condominium owned by Fort Sanders Medical Center, an unrelated party; and (2) a future exercise of (a) a certain indemnity agreement (the Indemnity Agreement) between the Employer and the Plan; and (b) a certain guarantee (the Guarantee) of Lease payments to the Plan by the principals of the Employer; provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (1) All terms and conditions of the Swap, the Lease, the Indemnity Agreement, and the Guarantee are at least as favorable to the Plan as those the Plan could obtain in an arm's-length transaction with an unrelated party; (2) The fair market value of the Condominium will be determined by an independent qualified appraiser at the time the Swap transaction is consummated; (3) With respect to the Lease, the fair market rental amount (the Rental Amount) has been determined by an independent qualified appraiser, and will never be below the initial fair market annual rental amount of $75,000; (4) The Condominium will be appraised by an independent qualified appraiser each time that the Renewal option (the Renewal) on the Lease is exercised. (5) The fair market value of the Condominium will at no time exceed 25% of the Plan's total assets; (6) The Lease is a triple net lease under which the Employer is obligated for all costs of maintenance and repair, and all taxes, insurance, utilities and condominium fees related to the Condominium; (7) The fees received by the independent fiduciary for serving in such capacity, combined with any other fees derived from the Employer or related parties, will not exceed 1% of his annual income for each fiscal year that he continues to serve in the independent fiduciary capacity with respect to the transactions described herein; (8) The independent fiduciary evaluated the proposed transactions described herein and deemed them to be administratively feasible, protective and in the interest of the Plan; (9) The independent fiduciary will monitor the terms and the conditions of the exemption and the Lease throughout its initial term plus the two Renewal terms and will take whatever action is necessary to protect the Plan's rights; (10) The Plan will bear no costs or expenses with respect to the proposed transactions described herein; and (11) The Employer will file form 5330 and pay the appropriate excise taxes for the period beginning June 9, 1989, to the date this proposed exemption, if granted, is published in the Federal Register , within ninety (90) days of the publication date. Summary of Facts and Representations 1. In 1991, a pension plan (the Pension Plan) sponsored by the Employer was terminated, and a form 5310 (Application for Determination upon Termination) was filed with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and a favorable IRS determination was received. At that time the assets of the Pension Plan were merged into the Plan, including the 1/2 interest in the property located at 1831 West Clinch Avenue, Knoxville, Tennessee (the Clinch Property). The Plan is a profit sharing plan, currently with 16 participants. As of February 18, 1994, the Plan had total assets of $3,716,331. The Employer is a Tennessee subchapter ``C'' corporation engaged in the practice of medicine. The owners and officers of the Employer are the following doctors: Dr. Richard A. Brinner, Dr. Randal O. Graham, Dr. Hugh C. Hyatt, Dr. Michael D. Kropilak and Dr. P. Kevin Zirkle. The Trust Company of Knoxville is the trustee and the named fiduciary for the Plan. 2. The Employer was granted an individual exemption by the Department in 1982 (PTE 82&hyph;162), for the Plan and the Pension Plan to purchase (the Past Purchase) the Clinch Property from a certain partnership which was a party in interest with respect to the Plans, and for a subsequent lease (the Past Lease) of the Clinch Property by the Plans to the Employer. The Past Lease was for a term of five years with an option to renew for an additional five years. PTE 82&hyph;162 also required an annual appraisal of the Clinch Property, and for the rentals to be adjusted to reflect the fair market rental value of the Clinch Property. Valley Fidelity Bank and Trust Company (Valley Bank) of Knoxville, Tennessee was the independent fiduciary which monitored the Past Purchase and the Past Lease for the Plans. PTE 82&hyph;162 also provided for an Employer guarantee that if the Clinch Property was ever sold during the initial five year term of the Lease and the five year renewal of the Lease for below the original purchase price, the Employer would indemnify the Plans for the difference between the original purchase price of the Property and the selling price.
