FR940721-2-00073 FR940721-2-00037 DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3798; FR&hyph;3755&hyph;N&hyph;01] Discrimination in Property Insurance Under the Fair Housing Act; Public Meetings AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, HUD. ACTION: Notice of Public Meetings. SUMMARY: HUD is charged with the administration and enforcement of the Fair Housing Act, including the promulgation of Fair Housing Act, including the promulgation of Fair Housing Act regulations. Prior to promulgation of a regulation on nondiscrimination in property insurance practices, HUD is seeking public comment on property insurance practices that may or may not be discrimantory, as well as other comments related to subject of property insurance. This notice announces, the dates, and locations of public meetings that will address the subject of discrimination in property insurance under the Fair Housing Act. DATES: See the Supplementary Information section of this notice for the dates, locations and times of the meetings. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND REQUESTS TO MAKE ORAL PRESENTATION CONTACT: Peter Kaplan, Director, Office of Regulatory Initiatives an Federal Coordination, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, HUD, Room 5240, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington DC 20410&hyph;0500, telephone (202) 708&hyph;2904 (not a toll free number). The toll free TDD number is 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background HUD is committed to initiatives that will provide access to capital and economic empowerment for all Americans. HUD has launched creative programs to stem disinvestment in cities and disadvantaged communities throughout the country, increase the flow of capital into these communities, and create communities of opportunity throughout the nation. Among HUD's priorities are: (1) Empowerment of local communities by supporting local economic development efforts; (2) expansion of housing opportunities through partnerships with State and local government and private developers and financial institutions; and (3) opening housing markets through vigorous enforcement of the Federal Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;3619). A critical component of these initiatives is assuring access to capital for homeownership and business development. Assuring fair access to property insurance is essential. Insurance is necessary for access to capital. HUD is charged with the administration and enforcement of the Fair Housing Act, including the promulgation of regulations. Prior to promulgation of a regulation on nondiscrimination in property insurance under the Fair Housing Act, HUD is seeking public comment on: property insurance practices that may or may not be discriminatory; specific provisions within the regulation; disclosure requirements and best practices. This notice announces four public meetings to be conducted by the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity of HUD (Assistant Secretary) to hear oral presentations from interested parties on discrimination in property insurance under the Fair Housing Act. II. Dates, Locations and Times of Public Meetings First Meeting The first meeting will be held in Chicago, Illinois, on Thursday, August 18, 1994, in Court Room 2721 of the Everert Dirksen Federal Building, 219 S. Dearborn St. Chicago, Illinois 60604. Second Meeting The second meeting will be held in San Francisco, California, on Thursday, September 22, 1994, at the Philip Burton Federal Building and U.S. Court House, 450 Golden Gate Avenue, San Francisco, California 36003. The room will be announced. Third Meeting The third meeting will be held in Atlanta, Georgia, on Tuesday, October 18, 1994, in Room 1707 of the Richard B. Russell Federal Building, 75 Spring St. SW, Atlanta, Georgia 30303. The room will be announced. Fourth Meeting The fourth meeting will be held in Boston, Massachusetts, on Thursday, October 27, 1994 at the Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr. Federal Building, 10 Causeway St. Boston, Massachusetts 02222. The room will be announced. The meeting will convene at 9 a.m. and adjourn at 4 p.m. unless otherwise extended by the Assistant Secretary or duly designated presiding officer. III. Meeting Procedures Attendance is open to the public but limited space is available. The meetings facilities are accessible to persons with mobility impairments. Sign language interpreters and assistive listeners will be available for individuals with hearing impairments. Individuals, groups and organizations that wish to make an oral statement at a meeting should make a written request to do so and should forward their oral statement five work days in advance of the meeting to HUD as indicated below. Opportunity for oral statements at the meetings will include, but not be limited to, those who have submitted written remarks. To the extent that time permits and within the discretion of the Assistant Secretary of the presiding officer, other members of the public who wish to present oral statements will be allowed to do so. Dated: July 15, 1994. Roberta Achtenberg, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17716 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;28&hyph;M
