FR941222-1-00062 FR941222-1-00008 As discussed earlier under Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, the plausible management scenario selected for wastewaters usually is treatment in surface impoundments. The risks associated with disposing these wastewaters in surface impoundments would be very high. Two hazardous constituents (aniline and benzidine) are present in the waste at concentrations that would pose substantial risks to human health and the environment ( i.e. , greater than 1E&hyph;4 for carcinogens) for treatment in a surface impoundment. Large quantities of aniline, used in excess, are used as a raw material in this process. As a result, very high concentrations of aniline are present in the process waters. Even after recovery operations, EPA found high concentrations of aniline (in this case, an average of 200 ppm) remaining in the wastewater effluent discharged to the POTW. Benzidine was found to be present in several wastestreams from the manufacture of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock, and is believed to be either a raw material contaminant or a reaction by-product. The risks posed by benzidine at the concentrations present in these wastewaters are 3E&hyph;4, using a surface impoundment management scenario. The coeluting constituents, 1,2-diphenylhydrazine and azobenzene, which are likely by-products arising from the oxidation of aniline are present in the waste at a concentration resulting in a calculated risk level of 1E&hyph;5, based on the toxicity of 1,2-diphenylhydrazine (see Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, for a discussion on the Agency's approach to risk assessment for coeluting compounds). The mass spectrum representing these two coeluting compounds was identified in all three wastewater samples collected from triarylmethane pigment operations. However, based on the insignificant risks associated with the current and plausible management practice for this wastestream (treatment in tanks), EPA is proposing not to list wastewaters from the production of TAM pigments as hazardous. Although this wastestream would be hazardous if used for spray irrigation or handled in surface impoundments, the Agency does not believe that such management is plausible. The facilities generating the wastewater already are 100% invested in treating the waste in tanks prior to sending it to a POTW. In addition, this is not a strongly expanding segment of the industry, so the Agency does not anticipate more facilities starting up similar operations. Further, there is a general bias under most State industrial waste programs against allowing surface impoundments to be built. Thus, based on the risk associated with treatment in tanks, the Agency is proposing not to list this wastestream as hazardous. c. Still bottoms or heavy ends from the production of triarylmethane dyes or pigments (K166). Summary The Agency is proposing to list still bottoms or heavy ends from the production of triarylmethane dyes or pigments as hazardous. This wastestream meets the criteria set out at 40 CFR 261.11(a)(3) for listing a waste as hazardous and is capable of posing a substantial present or potential risk to human health or the environment. Based on ingestion of contaminated ground water, EPA calculated high-end individual risk levels (greater than 1E&hyph;4) for carcinogens under both the baseline and plausible management scenarios. Two carcinogens pose high-end risks exceeding 9E&hyph;3 for the plausible management scenario of disposal in an on-site monofill. These two constituents pose very high levels of risk (greater than 1E&hyph;3) for the baseline management practice of disposal in a municipal landfill. In addition, one of these constituents has an HQ of 6 for the air pathway associated with management in an on-site boiler, a practice which is both a baseline management practice and a plausible management scenario. Discussion This wastestream includes distillation bottoms from the production of triarylmethane dye and pigments, which are generated from solvent and raw material recovery operations ( i.e., recovery of aniline, dimethylaniline, or other solvents).
