FR940214-0-00086 FR940214-0-00012 Nevertheless, the agency has decided that the supply line pressure requirements are relevant to air-applied, mechanically held brake systems on towing trailers used in double and triple trailer combinations. 3 The agency is not convinced by ITI's argument that trailers equipped with their system should not have to comply with the 70 psi requirement because there are older spring brake-equipped trailers that will pose similar compatibility problems. The agency believes that there would be a safety problem if it were to apply the supply line pressure requirements to certain vehicles in double or triple combinations but not others. Specifically, if ITI's request were adopted, a trailer being towed by a trailer equipped with air-applied, mechanically held brakes would not necessarily receive adequate air pressure and therefore could experience brake drag. The agency's decision to apply these requirements to towing trailers is consistent with recent legislation and the efforts of the agency, manufacturers, and end-users to standardize operating conditions to improve compatibility. Specifically, section 4012 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) directs the agency to initiate rulemaking to improve compatibility of truck tractors, trailers, and their dollies. The agency further notes that a specialized trailer protection valve could be developed for ITI's system that would permit compliance with the requirements of S5.8.2 and S5.8.3. 3 A towing trailer is one that is equipped with a pintle hook and air line connections at the rear to tow another air braked trailer. In doubles and triples operations, nearly all trailers are so equipped, regardless of the position they may occupy in any particular trailer train. With respect to concerns expressed by ATA and Allied about the 70 psi supply line pressure requirement, NHTSA notes that it is reviewing this provision in the context of a rulemaking petition submitted by the California Highway Patrol. The agency anticipates issuing another notice addressing the supply line pressure requirements in 1994. IV. Leadtime Section 103(c) of the Vehicle Safety Act requires that each order shall take effect no sooner than 180 days from the date the order is issued unless ``good cause'' is shown that an earlier effective date is in the public interest. NHTSA has determined that there would be ``good cause'' not to provide the 180 day lead-in period given that this amendment will not impose any mandatory requirements on manufacturers. The public interest will also be served by not delaying the introduction of the requirement. Based on the above, the agency has determined that there is good cause to have an effective date 30 days after publication in the final rule. V. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices 1. Executive Order 12688 (Federal Regulation) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures NHTSA has analyzed this rulemaking and determined that it is neither ``significant'' within the meaning of the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures nor ``significant'' within the meaning of Executive Order 12688. This rulemaking document was not reviewed under E.O. 12688, ``Regulatory Planning, and Review.'' A full regulatory evaluation is not required because the rule will have no mandatory effects. Rather, the rule will provide regulatory relief to facilitate the introduction of alternative brake systems. Therefore, the agency does not believe that this rulemaking will result in significant additional costs or cost savings. 2. Regulatory Flexibility Act In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, NHTSA has evaluated the effects of this action on small entities. Based upon this evaluation, I certify that the amendments will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Vehicle and brake manufacturers typically will not qualify as small entities. This amendment will also affect small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental units to the extent that these entities purchase air-braked vehicles. As discussed above, the agency's assessment is that this amendment will have no significant cost impact to the industry. For these reasons, vehicle manufacturers, small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental units which purchase motor vehicles will not be significantly affected by the requirements. Accordingly, no regulatory flexibility analysis has been prepared. 3. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the rule will not have sufficient Federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. No State laws will be affected. 4. National Environmental Policy Act The agency has considered the environmental implications of this rule in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and determined that the rule will not significantly affect the human environment.
