FR940527-0-00083 FR940527-0-00024 44. Alascom further argues that the employment of Overland Consulting, Inc. (Overland) by the Alaska Public Utilities Commission (APUC) was tantamount to according the private consultants of other parties to the proceeding the status of Joint Board staff. There is no basis for this contention. At the outset, we note that just because the State of Alaska is responsible for the APUC's funding does not mean that the APUC stands in the shoes of the State, which is a party to this proceeding. Likewise, the APUC's payment of Overland's fees does not establish that Overland is acting on behalf of the state commission. Therefore, even assuming arguendo that the APUC filed comments in this docket, we do not think that, in the unique context of a Joint Board proceeding, such ``advocacy'' makes a difference. 68 All of the state decision-makers on the Board are members of, and paid by, state commissions. The fact that a state commission may also act as a party on matters within its interest ( e.g., jurisdictional issues) does not mandate disqualification of the Joint Board member from that state. In contrast to its attack on Overland, Alascom does not argue, for example, that Commissioner Knowles or other members of her staff paid by the APUC should have been removed from the Board. For the purposes discussed herein, we see no distinction between Overland and Commissioner Knowles and her staff. This is especially the case when Alascom fails to point to any evidence demonstrating that the APUC controlled the activities of Overland or that Overland's actions were in any way distinguishable from those of other persons advising Commissioner Knowles. Indeed, one of the APUC submissions cited by Alascom shows just the opposite. In that letter, the APUC Chairman pointed out to Alascom that Overland was hired to assist Commissioner Knowles and staff member Lorraine Kenyon in their official Joint Board duties, and that Alascom's request for Overland's help in preparing data filings was a matter to be decided by the state members who issued the data requests, not by the APUC. The contents of this submission establish that Commissioner Knowles, in her Joint Board capacity, rather than the APUC or the State of Alaska, directed the activities of Overland. 69 We agree with the Final Recommended Decision that Overland was not representing an interested party to the proceeding and, therefore, its participation was not improper and did not, for example, constitute an impermissible ex parte contact. 68 The joint APUC/State of Alaska pleadings referred to by Alascom all were filed in 1984&hyph;85, before the matters involved in this proceeding were referred to the Joint Board. And, while the APUC Chairman did make three submissions to the record in 1992 and 1993, these letters do not support Alascom's theory that the APUC acted as an advocate on the merits in this proceeding. The first two simply deal with matters of overlapping state/federal jurisdiction, and request that the Commission refrain from acting on matters under the APUC's authority. See Ex Parte Letters to Alfred C. Sikes, Chairman, FCC, to Don Schroer, Chairman, APUC, dated July 17, 1992 and December 18, 1992. The last letter answers a request from Alascom that the APUC Chairman intervene in the operations of the Joint Board to direct Overland to assist Alascom in responding to certain data requests. See Ex Parte Letter to John R. Ayers, Executive Vice President and General Manager, Alascom, to Don Schroer, Chairman, APUC, dated July 22, 1993. Finally, we note that the recent letter from the APUC Chairman, concerning the Commission's consideration of the Joint Board's recommendations, represents under Alaskan regulations, Mr. Schroer's position, not that of the APUC. Ex Parte Letter from Mr. Schroer to Mr. Reed Hundt, dated May 10, 1994; Alaska Stat. ยง42.05.071; 3 Alaska Admin. Code 48.020(f). In any event, this letter was filed long after the Overland involvement of which Alascom complains. 69 Id. See also Final Recommended Decision, FCC 93J&hyph;2 at para. 166 and n. 200. 45. Likewise, Alascom's analysis of the relevant law is faulty when it asserts that the use of Overland's services was impermissible because the FCC itself lacks authority to hire the consultant. In fact, a number of statutory provisions grant the Commission explicit authority for such purposes. Indeed, section 410(b) of the Communications Act permits the FCC to accept services from a state commission. 47 U.S.C. 410(b). Likewise, section 3109 of Title 5 of the U.S. Code (which is incorrectly cited by Alascom for the opposite proposition) often is used by the Commission to hire experts and consultants. Moreover, the Office of Personnel Management guidelines construing section 3109 allow the Commission to accept such services, with or without payment. 70 Thus, we reject Alascom's argument that the use of Overland's services was impermissible. 70 Federal Personnel Manual, Chapter 304. 46. Finally, we conclude that there was no harm to the Alaska public as a result of the July 1, 1993 public hearing in Anchorage. As stated in the Final Recommended Decision, it is not apparent that the FCC rule regarding notice for public hearings applies to this situation since it was a Joint Board, rather than Commission, meeting. But, even if the rule is applicable, it is hard to see how anyone was injured. Reply comments to the hearing were accepted for almost two weeks after the meeting, and ex parte presentations were permitted thereafter. Indeed, Alascom acknowledges that this opportunity to file comments elicited 39 submissions from the Alaska public. 71 Moreover, this proceeding has been ongoing for more than eight years, with ample opportunity for public comment at every stage. It appears that any person with an interest in the Alaska telephone market would have had more than adequate notice and the occasion to present his or her views on the subject long before the Final Recommended Decision was adopted by the Joint Board. 71 It is well settled that the Commission is not required to respond to, or to address, all pleadings. The fact that the Joint Board may not have explicitly referred to the Alaska public's reply comments in the Final Recommended Decision has no bearing on the sufficiency of notice before the hearing. In any event, in reaching our decision herein, we have considered the entire record. 47. Accordingly, for the reasons stated above, we reject Alascom's substantive and procedural arguments. VI. Ordering Clauses 48. Accordingly, pursuant to the authority contained in Sections 1, 4(i)&hyph;(j), 201&hyph;203, 214, and 220 of the Communications Act of 1934 As Amended, it is ordered that AT&T and Alascom must comply with the recommendations of the Alaska Joint Board in the Final Recommended Decision, which is incorporated herein by reference and clarified and modified in this Order. 49. It is further ordered that the JSA is terminated effective January 1, 1996. 50. It is further ordered that AT&T must file its section 214 application consistent with the requirements of this Order no later than March 1, 1995. 72 72 The Final Recommended Decision did not establish a date for AT&T to file a section 214 application to serve Alaska. In this order we establish a date to ensure that AT&T is prepared to serve Alaska consistent with the requirements and time schedule of the Final Recommended Decision as modified in this order. Because we require in this order that AT&T file a section 214 application consistent with the requirements of the Final Recommended Decision as clarified and modified herein, we reject Alascom's arguments regarding the effect of AT&T's withdrawal of its earlier filed section 214 application to serve Alaska. See Response of Alascom, January 12, 1994.
