FR940919-2-00069 FR940919-2-00043 (F) to assess the impact of medical school curriculum, including the availability of clinical training in ambulatory care settings, on the percentage of physicians selecting primary care residencies and selecting primary care as a medical career; and (G) to assess the extent to which current physician payment policies under resource based relative value scale are sufficient to encourage physicians graduating from medical school to enter and remain in primary care careers. In conducting research relative to effect of programs for minority and disadvantaged individuals, the applicant will make findings specific to the following categories of health professions schools: (A) Health professions schools of historically black colleges and universities. (B) Other health professions schools attended by a substantial number of minority individuals. (C) Health professions schools generally. Eligibility Eligible applicants include public and non-profit private entities. This program was announced in the Federal Register at 59 FR 32444, dated June 23, 1994. The program requirements and review criteria were proposed for public comment. No comments were received during the 30 day comment period. Therefore, the program requirements and review criteria remain as proposed. Final Program Requirements The award recipient shall participate in the cost of the program as follows: For each year funds are awarded under this program, the matching contribution shall be at least one-third of the amount of the Federal award for that year. Up to 50% of the recipient's matching contribution may be in the form of in-kind donations of faculty time, staff time, use of computers or other shared resources. In addition, each applicant shall evidence that training related to medical education research is occurring or is planned by the organization. Final Review Criteria The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: (1) The qualifications and achievements of the proposed center's principal investigator and senior researchers, including level of productivity and quality of research in medical education; (2) Demonstration of an understanding of the particular subject areas of medical education research that are relevant to Federal policies and evidence of ability to manage research in such areas; (3) The appropriateness of the time commitments of the principal investigator and senior researchers; (4) The strength of the applicant's plan to actively promote dissemination of research findings to all health professionals involved in education and training_including those whom are primarily practitioners, and to relevant policy makers; (5) The appropriateness of the proposed budget; (6) The planned level of commitment to the center from the applicant institution, as evidenced by specific plans for the type of financial support that will be offered, and for support of the organizational structure of the center. Evidence of a prior institutional commitment to generalizable research in medical education will also be sought; (7) The past success and future potential of the proposed center's researchers in receiving funding from other sources; and (8) The likely effectiveness of the organizational and management arrangements to operate the proposed center. Additional Information: If additional programmatic information is needed, please contact: Dr. Brian Goldstein, Office of Health Professions Analysis and Research, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 8&hyph;47, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, Telephone: (301) 443&hyph;6936, FAX: (301) 443&hyph;0463. This program, Cooperative Agreements for Centers for Medical Education Research, is listed at 93.222 in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance . It is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs (as implemented through 45 CFR part 100). This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Dated: September 13, 1994. James A. Walsh, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23094 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
