FR941028-2-00179 FR941028-2-00109 Table 4._ Examples of Potential Problems That Can Occur When Identifying or Isolating Patients Who May Have Infectious Tuberculosis (TB) 1Situation 1Potential problem 1Intervention Patient identification during triage Patient with signs or symptoms not identified Review triage procedures, facilities, and practices. ␣ Patient had no symptoms listed in triage protocol Revaluate triage protocol. During review of laboratory results Positive smear: results available >24 hours* after submitted Change laboratory practices. Assess potential barriers. Explore alternatives. ␣ Positive smear: results available but action not taken promptly Educate appropriate personnel. Review protocol for management of positive smear results. ␣ Positive culture: results not available for >3 weeks* Change laboratory practices. Assess potential barriers. Explore alternatives. ␣ Postive culture: results available but action not taken promptly Educate appropriate personnel. Review protocol for management of positive culture results. ␣ Positive culture: susceptibility results not available for >6 weeks* Change laboratory practices. Assess potential barriers. Explore alternatives. ␣ Positive culture: susceptibility results available but action not taken promptly Educate appropriate personnel. Review protocol for management of positive culture susceptibility results. At time of diagnosis and during isolation Patient with signs/symptoms of TB: appropriate tests not ordered promptly Educate appropriate personnel. Evaluate protocols for TB detection. ␣ Isolation room unavailable Reassess need for number of isolation rooms. ␣ Isolation not ordered or discontinued too soon, or isolation policy not followed properly (e.g., patients going outside of room) Educate patients and appropriate personnel. Evaluate institutional barriers to implementation of isolation policy. ␣ Personnel not properly using respiratory protection Educate appropriate personnel. Evaluate regularly scheduled re-education. Evaluate institutional barriers to use of respiratory protection. ␣ Isolation room or procedure room not at negative pressure reslative to surrounding areas Make appropriate engineering modifications. Establish protocols for regularly monitoring and maintaining negative pressure. ␣ Inadequate air circulation Make appropriate engineering modifications. ␣ Door left open Educate appropriate personnel and patients. Evaluate self-closing doors, comfort levels in the room, and other measures to promote door closing. *These time intervals are used as examples and should not be considered absolute standards.
