FR940505-1-00222 FR940505-1-00012 EPA believes that the enhanced heavy-duty vehicle program that would be applicable to vehicles and engines in California under the proposed FIP would satisfy the section 209 waiver criteria. Thus, California could undertake the enhanced vehicle program described below, and, therefore, EPA has authority under section 110(c) to undertake the proposed programs. With respect to the protectiveness of the standards, all of the proposed standards are at least as protective as the otherwise applicable federal standards (e.g., the generally applicable NO X and NMHC standards in the case of the vehicles and engines covered by the enhanced heavy-duty vehicle program). Indeed, these standards are at least as stringent as the comparable standards that California has already adopted and for which waivers have already been granted. With respect to the need to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions, EPA has repeatedly found that California's air quality problems satisfy the need criterion of section 209(b) (see, e.g., 49 FR 18887 and 18890 (May 3, 1984), 58 FR 4144 (January 13, 1993)). Moreover, the magnitude of the reductions in emissions needed to reach attainment in the FIP areas, including mobile source emissions (discussed in Preamble section III.H), provides ample evidence of the need for more stringent motor vehicle emission standards in California. Finally, with respect to the criterion of consistency with section 202(a), EPA believes that its proposed enhanced vehicle program is consistent with both the technological feasibility and certification elements of that criterion. For the reasons explained below, EPA believes that the various elements of the enhanced vehicle program are technologically feasible within the leadtime provided, taking into account the cost of compliance. Moreover, no aspect of the enhanced vehicle program establishes any new certification test procedures that are inconsistent with either existing federal or California test procedure requirements. Consequently, EPA believes that its proposed enhanced vehicle programs satisfy this prong of section 209 as well. EPA also notes that its proposed rebuild requirements for heavy-duty vehicles and its use restrictions on heavy-duty vehicles need not satisfy the section 209(b) criteria since those requirements, being in-use regulation of vehicles directed at vehicle owners, and not the original manufacturers, are not preempted by section 209(a). Thus, EPA has the authority to promulgate those requirements just as any other requirements not subject to preemption under section 209. 3. Emissions Standards a. Oxides of Nitrogen Standard. As mentioned earlier, heavy-duty engines are a major source of NO X emissions in the FIP areas. Because of this, EPA proposes to establish lower exhaust emission standards for heavy-duty engines in California vehicles beginning with the 1999 model year. The emission standard for NO X is proposed to be 1.5 g/bhp-hr for all heavy-duty engines used in vehicles of GVWR above 8,500 pounds, except those optionally certified to chassis- based standards as discussed in previous sections. The Agency is proposing this standard because this level of control is necessary in order to meet the FIP air quality goals and because this level represents a comparable reduction relative to other vehicle classes. As discussed further below, EPA recognizes that this standard presents a significant feasibility challenge for diesel engines. However, other fuel technologies such as natural gas and alcohol fuels have demonstrated the potential to achieve these stringent levels, as well as other engine designs. Given this, the Agency believes that the 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard is appropriate. At the same time, EPA recognizes that implementing a 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard may present limitations that may be unacceptable for some unique heavy-duty vehicle applications. Therefore, the Agency is considering an additional, economic incentive program that allows the sale of higher emitting engines. The Agency solicits comments on a plan that would allow engines to be sold at a relaxed level of 2.5 g/bhp-hr NO X , if a new vehicle emissions surcharge is paid. The program would begin with the 1999 model year and would apply to all engines subject to the 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard and their associated vehicles. The surcharge would be assessed also for an engine bought separately to be installed in an existing chassis.
