FR940202-2-00081 FR940202-2-00060 [Release No. 34&hyph;33531; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;49] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Bond Listing Standards January 27, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 22, 1993, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change would enable the Exchange to simplify and relax its standards for the listing and delisting of debt securities. The complete text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, NYSE, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Exchange is proposing to revise its standards for the listing and delisting of debt securities. In particular, the Exchange seeks to clarify and simplify its debt security listing standards. The Exchange hopes to make an Exchange listing more accessible for issuers of debt securities and to facilitate the listing of debt securities. The Exchange's goal in both cases is to augment the number of listed debt securities. The Exchange believes that this will serve the public interest because it will subject a greater number of debt securities to the Exchange's trading and disclosure systems. In order to accomplish these goals, the Exchange proposes to rely upon the Exchange's equity listing and maintenance standards in determining whether issues can adequately demonstrate that they can meet interest obligations on debt securities. That is, where an issuer has common stock listed on the Exchange and is in good standing, the Exchange would normally list the issuer's debt security issues of $5 million or more. Because the debt security enjoys seniority over the equity issue, the ``good standing'' test warrants listing the debt security. Where the issuer of a debt security does not list its common stock on the Exchange, the Exchange proposes to rely upon the analyses of nationality recognized securities rating organizations (``NRSRO'') for the interest-coverage determination. For those purposes, the Exchange proposes to make the following changes to Paragraphs 102.03, 103.05, 703.06, 801.00 and 802.00 of the Exchange's Listed Company Manual: Under Paragraph 102.03: •As at present, the Exchange would require the issue to have a market value or principal amount of $5 million. •The Exchange would no longer require the issuer to demonstrate on a pro forma basis interest coverage on all debt securities. 1 1 Currently, Paragraph 802.00 deems coverage to be ``inadequate'' if interest charges on all debt issued by the company, its parent or a subsidiary exceed pro forma earnings (before or after taxes) as reported in a filing to the Commission. •The Exchange would no longer evaluate the anticipated distribution of a debt security. (The proposed rule change proposes a conforming change to Paragraph 703.06 to remove a mention of the distribution requirement.) •The Exchange would not longer require convertible debt securities to be convertible only into common stock listed on the Exchange, although the Exchange would require that equity securities underlying convertible securities be subject to a real-time last sale reporting obligation. •I the case of debt securities proposed to be listed by ``unaffiliated'' issuers:
