FR940603-1-00218 FR940603-1-00009 Group A. Structures. A Construction Unit consists of a structure, or structures, with bus supports including insulators and fittings, buses, conductors and overhead ground wires to adjacent structures within the substation, grounding material to connect equipment with the ground bus, and associated material including mounting brackets, supports for equipment, clamps and connectors, all as specified in the drawings. Group B. Three-pole group operated air break switches. A Construction Unit consists of one 3-pole group operated air break switch with all accessories and operating mechanisms as specified in the drawings. Group C. Lightning arresters. A Construction Unit consists of one single-phase lightning arrester. Group D. Single pole disconnecting switches. A Construction Unit consists of one single pole disconnecting or by-pass switch as specified in the drawings. If a fuse disconnect switch is specified, the fuse is included with the switch. Group E. Oil Circuit Breakers. A Construction Unit consists of one complete three-phase power circuit breaker complete with supporting frame and control cabinet, unless shown otherwise in the drawings, mounted as specified in the drawings. Group F. Oil circuit reclosers. A Construction Unit consists of a complete single-phase or three-phase oil circuit recloser as specified in the drawings. Group G. Meters, relays and instrument transformers. A Construction Unit consists of one meter, relay, potential transformer or current transformer. Group H. Transformers. A Construction Unit consists of one power transformer or one station service transformer either single-phase or three-phase as specified in the drawings. Group I. Voltage regulators. A Construction Unit consists of one single-phase or three-phase voltage regulator as specified in the drawings. Group J. Communications and supervisory control equipment. A Construction Unit consists of carrier current equipment, microwave, or other types of communications and supervisory control equipment as specified in the drawings. Group K. Conduit and cable. A Construction Unit consists of the wire, cable, conduit and accessories necessary to complete the installation of equipment in accordance with the specifications and drawings, where such installation has not been included in other Groups. Group L. foundations. A Construction Unit consists of concrete footings and foundations except for the fence, as specified in the drawings. Group M. Site preparation. A Construction Unit consists of clearing, grading, drainage work, and surfacing, as specified in the drawings. Group N. Fence. A Construction Unit consists of the complete installation of the fence, gates, etc., as specified in the drawings. Group O. Station grounding. A Construction Unit consists of the complete ground bus including ground rods, grounding mats or platforms, except as otherwise provided in other Groups, with connections to structures, equipment, and fence as specified in the drawings. Group P. building. A Construction Unit consists of a control building or cabinet, on a foundation of Group L and the facilities and equipment installed therein as specified in the drawings, except as otherwise provided in other Groups. Other Groups. The Engineer shall specify such additional Groups as may be necessary for the completion of the Project. Description of these Groups shall be provided by an addition to this Section of the Specifications for Construction. XXXX Station Construction Units Unit No. XXXX Name and Description of Construction Unit XXXX No. of Units XXXX Unit Prices Labor XXXX Materials XXXX Labor and Materials XXXX Extended Price_Labor and Materials XXXX Total Price XXXX Proposal Summary Recapitulation of Sections: Section_1 XXXX $ XXXX Section_2 XXXX $ XXXX Section_3 XXXX $ XXXX Section_4 XXXX $ XXXX Section_5 XXXX $ XXXX
