FR940930-0-00234 FR940930-0-00029 Section 234.265␣Timing Relays and Timing Devices The labor/management group supported the proposed rule. There was no opposition. The final rule will remain as proposed. Final Rule This section requires that each timing relay and timing device be tested at least once every twelve months. The timing shall be maintained at not less than 90 percent nor more than 110 percent of the predetermined time interval, which shall be shown on the plans or marked on the timing relay or timing device. Timing relays and timing devices are essential components of time-out circuits which are primarily used for train switching movements at warning system installations. A time-out circuit de-activates a crossing warning system after a predetermined amount of time after a train movement has occupied the detection circuit in approach to the grade crossing. Section 234.267␣Insulation Resistance Tests, Wires in Trunking and Cables The labor/management group supported the proposed rule. There was no opposition. The final rule will remain as proposed. Final Rule Paragraph (a) of this section requires that insulation resistance tests be made when wires or cables are installed and at least once every ten years thereafter. Paragraph (b) requires that insulation resistance tests be made between all conductors and ground, between conductors in each multiple conductor cable, and between conductors in trunking. Such tests must be performed when wires, cables, and insulation are dry. Paragraph (c) provides that, subject to the requirements of paragraph (d), when insulation resistance of wire or cable is found to be less than 500,000 ohms, prompt action must be taken to repair or replace the defective wire or cable. Until such defective wire or cable is replaced, insulation resistance tests must be made annually. Paragraph (d) provides that a circuit with a conductor having an insulation resistance of less than 200,000 ohms shall not be used. Section 234.269␣Cut-Out Circuits The proposed rule requires that each cut-out circuit be tested at least once every three months to determine that the circuit functions as intended. Labor/management group commented that the rule should be clarified by changing all references of cut-out circuits to ``switch'' cut-out circuits. They asked for clarification concerning the type of cut-out circuits this provision applies to. For purposes of this section, a cut-out circuit is any circuit which overrides the operation of automatic warning systems. This includes both switch cut-out circuits and devices which enable personnel to manually override the operation of automatic warning systems.
