FR940810-0-00119 FR940810-0-00021 For Class I asbestos work, OSHA has further determined, based on its consideration of the rulemaking record, that there are 3 exceptions to the requirement that the shower facility be located immediately contiguous to the work area. These include, outdoor work (See Ex. 7&hyph;21, 7&hyph;99, 7&hyph;145), shipboard work (Ex. 7&hyph;77 and see discussion below), and situations where the employer shows such an arrangement is infeasible. OSHA will again allow in these limited circumstances the workers to enter the equipment room, remove contamination from their worksuits using a portable HEPA vacuum or change to a clean non-contaminated workclothing, and then proceed to the non-contiguous shower area. Outdoor work affected by this requirement will occur mainly in industrial facilities such as refineries and electrical power plants when specified work practices are employed and following outdoor asbestos work. OSHA intends that HEPA-vacuuming procedures be performed carefully and completely remove any visible ACM/PACM from the surface of the worker's work suit, including foot and head coverings, skin, hair and any material adhering to the respirator. Also for Class I work involving less than 10 square feet or 25 linear feet of TSI or surfacing ACM (the thresholds referenced above), during which exposures are unlikely to exceed the PELs for which there is a negative exposure assessment, OSHA is allowing less burdensome decontamination procedures which it believes are compatible with the scheme to classify asbestos work according to risk potential. In these operation, an equipment room or area must be set up adjacent to the work area for decontamination use. The floor of the area/room must be covered with an impermeable (e.g., plastic) dropcloth and be large enough to accommodate equipment cleaning and removal of PPE without spread of fibers beyond the area. The worker must HEPA vacuum workclothing, hair, head covering as described above and dispose of clothing and waste properly. Thus, only if the employer shows that for these smaller dimension jobs that the PEL is unlikely to be exceed may the decontamination procedure be abbreviated. For asbestos operations which are Class II and III which are likely to exceed the PELs and for which a negative exposure assessment is not produced, showering is required, but may be performed in a facility which is non-contiguous to the work area. Use of dropcloths, HEPA vacuuming of workclothing and surfaces as above or the donning of clean workclothing prior to moving to a non-contiguous shower is required. Following those Class II, III and IV jobs which the employer demonstrates are unlikely to exceed the PELs and for which a negative exposure assessment has been produced, the worker must HEPA vacuum his clothing on an impermeable dropcloth and perform other clean-up on the dropcloth avoiding the spread of any contamination. However, showering is not required. OSHA is also concerned that workers performing clean-up (Class IV work) following larger abatement work receive appropriate decontamination. Therefore, employees who perform Class IV work in a regulated area must comply with the hygiene practice which the higher classification of work being performed in the regulated area requires. Shipyard Employment Standards; Paragraph (i) In other comments the Shipyards Employment Standards Advisory Committee objected to the requirement in the 1986 standard that showers be located contiguous to the work area. They said that this was not a part of the general industry standard and that they wished to continue to provide showers in fixed facilities on shore; that although contiguous showers may not be technologically infeasible, it was impractical. They further stated that change rooms required under the general industry asbestos standard cannot be provided on ships and that the worker must be allowed to remove contaminated clothing in an equipment room as in the construction standard (Ex. 7&hyph;77). The Committee suggested several specific steps to the decontamination process required of workers following work in a shipboard asbestos activity. According to these recommendations, the employer shall ensure that employees who work within regulated area exit as follows: Remove asbestos from their protective clothing using a HEPA vacuum as they move into the equipment room; Enter the equipment room and remove their decontaminated outer layer of protective clothing and place them in the receptacles provided for that purpose; Enter the decontamination room and perform personal HEPA vacuuming; Remove respirator after exiting decontamination room; Wash their face and hands prior to eating or drinking; If they are not going to make another entry into the regulated area that day, proceed to the shower area and change room; and, Don street clothing (Ex. 7&hyph;77). OSHA believes these are reasonable suggestions. The final standard permits this approach based on the flexibility permitted by the language. Those who shower at remote facilities are required to decontaminate their protective clothing prior to proceeding to the remote showers. The Committee also recommended that, for the sake of modesty, the worker must be allowed to continue to wear the underwear which he had worn under his protective clothing during the process of decontaminating his clothing_removing them when entering the shower. The 1986 standards are silent on this point and it seems reasonable that persons would be allowed to continue to wear his/her underwear during HEPA vacuuming and removal of protective clothing.
