FR941221-2-00084 FR941221-2-00066 H. Replicability Include a description of how the applicant will provide information on their activities to allow for possible replication of the project. I. Definitions Unless otherwise indicated in this announcement, definitions of terms used herein shall be those definitions found in the Job Training Partnership Act, as amended, particularly at Section 4 and Section 301. J. Allowable Activities Grant funds awarded under this demonstration may be used to provide basic readjustment and retraining services. These services are described in JTPA Section 314(c) and Section 314(d). Skills training to eligible workers to qualify for new jobs with their current employer or for new jobs in the health care system is an allowable activity under these grants. Employers must agree to hire workers who successfully compete training under this project into new or different positions, and the old positions must be eliminated. Training to upgrade the skills of incumbent workers to maintain their current jobs, or training for workers whose jobs are not scheduled for elimination is not authorized under current legislation or under these grants. Part IV. Evaluation Criteria Prospective offerors are advised that the selection of grantee(s) for award is to be made after careful evaluation of proposals by a panel of specialists selected by DOL. Panelists will evaluate the proposals for acceptability based on the various factors enumerated below. Evaluations will be made on the basis of both what the proposed offeror intends to do during the grant period, and on the usefulness of the demonstration after the end of the grant period. Special consideration will be given to applicants who demonstrate coordination efforts between employer(s) and workers, such as a labor-management committee to oversee the implementation of the project. The Department relies on applicants for grants to comply with all Federal and State laws in setting up their programs. For example, we expect that grantees shall comply with requirements for licensing and that they shall obtain necessary union concurrence when working within a labor agreement. A. Technical Evaluation (80 percent) 1. Services and Target Group. (20 percent) Must identify the eligible population, the process for selecting participants, the process that will assure placement for workers who successfully complete training, and the management structure and procedures that will ensure appropriate training and support for each participant from enrollment to 90 days following placement. 2. Health Care Workers Retraining Project Design. (20 percent) Must identify the jobs being eliminating due to restructuring, the jobs that will be available for participants who successfully complete the program, the restructuring goal that this project will help accomplish, and include the program specifications and planned outcomes that will be used to monitor and measure performance. 3. Management and Continuity. (20 percent) Must include a description of the management structure and the process for monitoring performance and customer satisfaction. Must include an explanation of how this project, if successful, can be continued or expanded, including an assessment of the availability of funds from other sources. 4. Utilization of Resources (10 percent) Must include a commitment to hire completers into different jobs and to eliminate vacated positions. Must include a commitment to continue staff development and training without reduction as a result of this project.
