FR940630-0-00030 FR940630-0-00010 OSHA has reviewed EEI's petition for delay in the effective date and has found it justified, in part. With respect to EEI's petition regarding requirements that necessitate the purchase of equipment that is in short supply, the Agency finds that it is unnecessary to provide any delay in enforcement of these requirements. It is OSHA policy to accept purchase orders dated before the effective date of a standard to be evidence of intent to comply with that standard. In such cases, the Agency does not issue citations or impose penalties on companies that have ordered but not yet received goods that are intended for compliance with OSHA requirements. A stay will be necessary for provisions requiring significant modifications in equipment or installations. If an alteration is necessary, these requirements will force an employer to plan and design the modification, purchase any necessary materials, and then install the appropriate modification. These adjustments will normally take more than the 120 days given in the notice of rulemaking to put into place. EEI has identified one provision requiring modifications to existing coal-handling installations that will take up to 2 years for employers to effectuate. Paragraph (v)(11)(xii) of §1910.269 requires sources of ignition to be eliminated or controlled so as to prevent the ignition of combustible atmospheres associated with coal-handling operations. EEI argues that extensive modifications will be necessary at many older power plants and that these changes will take up to 2 years to put into place. Therefore, a stay of enforcement of §1910.269(v)(11)(xii) is granted until February 1, 1996, and a stay of enforcement of the following paragraphs of §1910.269 is granted until November 1, 1994: ␣ 1Paragraph 1Description (e)(3) Rescue equipment for enclosed spaces. (u)(1) Access and working space for electric equipment in substations. (u)(4) Guarding of rooms containing electric supply equipment in substations. (u)(5) Guarding of energized parts in substations. With respect to provisions that entail extensive changes in work practices or procedures necessitating substantial retraining of employees, OSHA agrees to delay enforcement until the training for any new practices or procedures can be completed for all affected employees. Having some employees, who have been trained in a new procedure, use that procedure while other employees, who are not familiar with the new procedure, use other work methods could provide less safety. For example, the lockout and tagging requirements of §1910.269(d) necessitate the adoption of specific procedures for the control of hazardous energy sources. OSHA anticipates that some employers will need to modify existing lockout and tagging procedures to effect compliance with paragraph (d). Although the Agency believes that most affected employers are already using programs for the control of hazardous energy sources, some employers may need to modify their practices to comply with the final rule and to protect their employees fully. However, if those modifications are put into effect before all employees have been trained in their use, errors and injuries could result. Additionally, some of the provisions that EEI identified as requiring substantial training efforts are specific training requirements. For example, §1910.269(e)(2) requires employees to be trained in the hazards of enclosed space entry, in enclosed space entry procedures, and in enclosed space rescue procedures. These provisions will also take longer than 120 days to implement. Therefore, for this reason, OSHA is staying the enforcement of the following paragraphs of §1910.269 until November 1, 1994:
