FR940328-0-00061 FR940328-0-00013 FSIS agrees that comminuted products present a greater potential threat to public health than whole muscle cuts. For this reason, FSIS is requiring that comminuted products be labeled with safe handling instructions within 60 days after publication of this final rule. As cited elsewhere in this preamble, many outbreaks of E. coli 0157:H7 food poisoning in the past year have been epidemiologically linked to the consumption of comminuted products. However, E. coli 0157:H7 is not the only pathogen targeted in this rulemaking proceeding. The proposed rule also cited statistics relating to illness, death, and medical and productivity cost due to other bacteria, including Salmonella, Camphylobacter jejuni or coli, Listeria monocytogenes, and parasites, including Toxoplasma gondii, Trichinella spiralis, Taenia saginata, and Taenia solium. The safe handling instructions were designed to cover the four broad parameters of food safety and to prevent outbreaks of foodborne illness resulting from all sources, not just E. coli 0157:H7 in ground beef. Meat and poultry products are known carriers of the pathogenic bacteria and parasites identified in the proposed rule and compliance with the safe handling instructions will prevent some foodborne illnesses and deaths. To require safe handling instructions exclusively on ground meat and poultry might lead consumers to mistakenly believe that other raw or partially cooked meat and poultry products are without risk, and ignores the concern for public health arising from the presence of pathogenic organisms on all types of raw and partially cooked meat and poultry products. It is important to remember that the safe handling instructions include parameters of safe handling beyond cooking instructions. In addition, the scope of the proposed regulation is supported by one official establishment which stated that all types of meat and poultry products should be required to have safe handling instructions since bacterial contamination can take place on any cut or type of meat and one meat trade association which stated that even products traditionally well cooked in the home need to carry safe handling instructions due to the possibility of cross contamination. Regarding the inclusion of certain pork products in 9 CFR 318.10(a), these products have not suddenly been drawn into the safe handling regulation. These products were included in the interim rule as products needing safe handling instructions. The commenter misinterpreted this section. One meat trade association questioned the fact that FSIS has taken no initiative to seek FDA efforts to have foods under FDA jurisdiction similarly labeled. FSIS will advise the Food and Drug Administration of the concerns expressed by commenters. Nine commenters recommended that safe handling instructions not be required for products such as frozen dinners and entrees. Several reasons were given as to why such products do not need safe handling instructions. Commenters stated that FSIS has provided no evidence that such products present a meaningful health risk to consumers. In addition, they state that the four safe handling instructions either appear on the labels already or are unnecessary for frozen dinners and entrees. The commenters state that other regulations require a handling statement on the label, thus the refrigeration statement is redundant and unnecessary. Most of the products are not handled directly by consumers and there is no contact between the products and working surfaces, making the cross contamination statement unnecessary. Frozen dinners and entrees already contain very specific cooking instructions which are far superior to ``cook thoroughly.'' Lastly, most products are single serve items making the statement on leftovers inapplicable, however, many manufacturers currently include statements such as ``Promptly refrigerate any unused portion'' on their labels. FSIS disagrees with these comments. While frozen dinners and entrees probably pose a relatively lower risk of foodborne illness than fresh meat and poultry products, these products are vulnerable to the same mishandling risks associated with fresh product. Freezing is not considered a pathogen destruction step, but will only slow their growth. The Agency believes it is prudent to require the safe handling instructions on these types of frozen products if the meat portion is either uncooked or partially cooked. Since current instructions for handling frozen dinners and entrees varies from manufacturer to manufacturer the safe handling instructions will provide a consistent and uniform message. In addition, none of the current handling instructions include a rationale statement which explains to consumers why it is important to follow the prescribed instructions and the focus-study research indicated that the rationale statement was an integral part of the safe handling instructions. The Texas Department of Health recommended that the exemption for custom slaughter products be eliminated. They state that these products are as likely to contain harmful or pathogenic bacteria that could cause illness if mishandled. However, they suggest that labeling each individual package is not necessary since the product goes back to the owner for use. One meat trade association suggested that we retain the custom exemption since elimination of the exemption could cause more owners to do their own farm slaughter and processing which would result in a greater danger of meat and poultry contamination. FSIS is not persuaded by the comments to eliminate the exemption of custom slaughtered products. While the Agency encourages the distribution of safe handling information with products slaughtered under the exemption, labeling is not required for such products if they are marked ``not for sale.''
