FR940324-2-00158 FR940324-2-00090 Other Requirements Federal Policies and Procedures Recipients and sub-recipients are subject to all applicable Federal laws and Federal and Department of Commerce policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. Past Performance Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal financial assistance awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. Pre-Award Activities If applicants incur any costs prior to the awarding of funds, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the government. Applicants are hereby notified that, notwithstanding any verbal or written assurance that they may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce or NTIA to cover pre-award costs. No Obligation for Future Funding If an application is selected for funding, the Department of Commerce has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of the Department of Commerce. Delinquent Federal Debts No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: 1. The delinquent account is paid in full; 2. A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received; or 3. Other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. Name Check Review All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters that significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Primary Applicant Certifications All primary applicants must submit a completed Form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying.'' The following explanations are hereby provided: •Non-procurement Debarment and Suspension. Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, §26.105) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, ``Non-procurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; •Drug-Free Workplace. Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, §26.605) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, Subpart F, ``Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants) and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; •Anti-Lobbying. Persons (as defined at 15 CFR part 28, §28.105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000, and loans and loan guarantees for more than $150,000 or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater; and •Anti-Lobbying Disclosure. Any applicant that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR part 28, appendix B. Lower Tier Certifications Grant recipients shall require applicants/bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure from SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to DOC. SF&hyph;LLL submitted by any tier recipient or sub-recipient should be submitted to DOC in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. False Statements A false statement on an application is grounds for denial or termination of funds and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. Intergovernmental Review Applications under this program are subject to Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' Requirement To Buy American-Made Equipment or Products Applicants are hereby notified that any equipment or products authorized to be purchased with funding provided under this program must be American-made to the maximum extent feasible in accordance with Public Law 103&hyph;121, sections 606 (a) and (b). Adequate justification will be required for any proposed purchases of equipment or products that are not American-made. Paperwork Reduction Act The standard forms have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act under OMB Approval Nos. 0348&hyph;0043, 0348&hyph;0044, 0348&hyph;0040 and 0348&hyph;0046. Executive Order 12866 This Notice was not subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866. Dated: March 18, 1994. Larry Irving, Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6875 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;60&hyph;M
