FR940817-2-00247 FR940817-2-00113 4.2.1. Type of Test Tests designed to measure the presence or absence of an effect are usually different from those used to assess the degree of toxicity or the lowest exposure level required to produce an effect (Tilson, 1990a). Screening procedures are first-tier tests that typically permit the testing of many groups of animals. Such procedures may not require extensive resources and are usually simple to perform. However, these techniques may be labor intensive, provide subjective measures, yield semiquantitative data, and may not be as sensitive to subtle effects as those designed to characterize neurotoxic effects or second-tier tests. Specialized tests are usually more sensitive and employed in studies concerning mechanisms of action or the estimation of the lowest effective dose. Such testing procedures are usually referred to as secondary tests and may require special equipment and more extensive resources. Secondary tests are usually quantitative and yield graded or continuous data amenable to routine parametric statistical analyses. Testing at the first tier is used to determine if a chemical might produce neurotoxicity following exposure, i.e., hazard detection. In this case, there may be little existing information concerning the neurotoxic potential of an agent. Examples of first-tier tests include functional observational batteries (FOB), including an evaluation of motor activity and routine neurohistopathology. For some chemicals or types of chemicals, there may be a specific interest in screening for a particular presumed mechanism of toxicity (e.g., inhibition of cholinesterase or neurotoxic esterase) or neurobiological response (e.g., a site-specific neuronal degeneration). In these cases, specific neurochemical or neuropathological endpoints can be used in conjunction with first-tier tests. It is desirable that tests selected for use in hazard detection provide a suitable level of sensitivity using the smallest number of animals necessary. A decision to test at the next tier is based on data suggesting that an agent produces neurotoxicity. The information used to make a decision to test a chemical at the secondary level can come from a variety of sources, including neurotoxicological data already in the literature, structure-activity relationships, data from first-tier testing, or following reports of specific neurotoxic effects in humans exposed to the agent. Testing at the secondary level includes detailed neuropathological evaluation as well as specific behavioral tests, e.g., procedures to assess learning and memory, or sensory function. Tests at the second tier usually measure the most sensitive endpoints of neurotoxicity, and are the most suitable for determining the no observable adverse effect level or benchmark dose. At this stage of testing, the use of a second species is considered to address the issue of cross-species extrapolation. At the present time, tiered testing approaches in neurotoxicology rely heavily on functional endpoints. It is possible that future testing protocols will employ a different strategy as more information concerning neurotoxic mechanisms of action become available and biologically based dose-response models are developed. 4.2.2. Dosing Regimen Goldberg and Frazier (1989) have indicated that first-tier evaluations identify effects of substances following acute or repeated exposure over a wide range of doses. Measures are simple, focused on detection of effects, and results are used to help establish parameters for the second tier of testing. The subsequent stage(s) of tier testing are designed to characterize more fully the toxicity of repeated dosing. In this case, animals are exposed repeatedly or continuously to define the scope of toxicity, including latent or delayed effects, development of tolerance, and the reversibility of adverse effects. The subsequent stage(s) of testing also provide information about specific effects or study mechanisms of neurotoxicity. This tier uses methods appropriate to characterize the effects observed in the first tier of testing. 4.3. Endpoints of Neurotoxicity 4.3.1. Introduction As applied to the safety assessment of chemical substances, neurotoxicity is any adverse change in the development, structure, or function of the central and peripheral nervous system following exposure to a chemical agent (Tilson, 1990b). Measures used in animal neurotoxicological studies are designed to assess these changes. Neurotoxicity can be described at multiple levels of organization, including chemical, anatomical, physiological, or behavioral levels. At the chemical level, for example, a neurotoxic substance might inhibit protein or transmitter synthesis, alter the flow of ions across cellular membranes, or prevent release of neurotransmitter from nerve terminals. Anatomical changes may include destruction of the neuron, axon, or myelin sheath. At the physiological level, neuronal responsiveness to stimulation might be enhanced by a decrease of inhibitory thresholds in the nervous system. Chemical-induced effects at the behavioral level can involve a variety of alterations in motor, sensory, or cognitive function, including increases or decreases in frequency or accuracy of responding. Although behavioral and neurophysiological endpoints may be very sensitive indicators of neurotoxicity, they can be influenced by other factors. The uncertainties associated with data from functional endpoints can be reduced if interpreted within the context of other neurotoxicological measures (neurochemical or neuropathological) and systemic toxicity endpoints, particularly if such measures are taken concurrently. Behavioral effects that reflect an indirect effect secondary to systemic toxicities may also be considered adverse. Table 4&hyph;1 provides examples of potential endpoints of neurotoxicity at the behavioral, physiological, chemical, and structural levels.
