FR941207-2-00044 FR941207-2-00034 At the Eighth Conference of the Parties in 1992, in Kyoto, Japan, CITES parties adopted a resolution developed by the CITES Animals Committee which recognized that substantial trade in wild-caught animals was still going on contrary to the provisions of Article IV, and that necessary remedial measures were not being properly implemented. This resolution, Conf. 8.9, established a formal process for the Animals Committee to develop remedial measures, including ``zero quotas'' (that is, temporary trade bans) when appropriate; for the Secretariat to communicate these recommendations to the exporting countries; and, where exporting countries do not satisfactorily implement the measures, for the CITES Standing Committee to call on parties to suspend imports of these species from the offending countries until they are in compliance. During meetings of the Animals Committee in 1992 and 1993, attended by representatives of the Service, remedial measures were developed and subsequently communicated to exporting countries by the Secretariat. The Standing Committee reviewed reports from the Secretariat of compliance and noncompliance with these remedial measures during three meetings in 1993 and 1994. The Service represented the United States in these meetings, with the Department of State. During the last of these meetings, held in Geneva, Switzerland, in March, 1994, the Standing Committee directed the Secretariat to issue a formal notice calling for a suspension of trade in particular Appendix II species from twelve CITES parties. Accordingly, on April 21, 1994, the Secretariat issued Notification to the Parties number 800, calling for a suspension of imports of these species from the affected countries. Implementation of these restrictions is necessary to stop trade considered to be detrimental to the survival of the species and thus in contravention of the requirements of CITES Article IV. CITES parties failing to implement these trade suspensions would be contributing to the decline of the affected species, and would be subject to formal citation in the CITES Infractions Report and possible censure by the CITES Conference of the Parties. Pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531&hyph;1544), the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is granted the authority to detain, refuse clearance of, or seize any fish or wildlife or plants that are imported into the United States in violation of CITES. Regulations contained in 50 CFR 14.53(c) indicate that refusal of clearance of imported wildlife is warranted if there are reasonable grounds to believe that documentation for the clearance of such wildlife is not valid. Similarly, regulations contained in 50 CFR 23.12(a)(2) require that all imports of Appendix II wildlife into the United States be accompanied by a valid foreign export permit or re-export certificate, unless an exemption applies. The Service agrees with notification to the Parties number 800 and believes that any permits issued for the indicated species by the affected countries are not valid because required findings of ``non-detriment'' and/or lawful acquisition have not been credibly demonstrated by the exporting countries in light of the significant trade level in particular Appendix II species. The subjects of this notice are as follows: A. Subject Argentina: ban on imports of specimens of guanaco ( Lama guanicoe ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Lama guanicoe specimens from Argentina. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, Argentina has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the Management Authority of Argentina must advise the CITES Secretariat of the following: the biological basis for its management program for Lama guanicoe , the procedures used for controlling exports of Lama guanicoe , and the results of an investigation on reports of undocumented trade in Lama guanicoe meat. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Lama guanicoe may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from Argentina, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies.
