FR941216-2-00068 FR941216-2-00043 Comment 9: MOC stated that there was no advantage to static-renewal versus the static procedure for these discharges and recommended the static procedure for these WET tests. Response: Regarding Mobil's comment that static tests only be conducted, the EPA acute WET protocol manual (EPA/600/4&hyph;90/027F) cited in the Federal Register notice above mandates the use of static renewal tests for all tests exceeding 48 hr (pg. 57, 61, 65, 69). Because the acute WET tests specified in this notice are 96-hrs. in duration, static renewals tests must be conducted. Comment 10: MOC also recommended that the mandatory requirement that recommended concurrent standard reference toxicant (SRT) testing be removed, since this provides limited information on the quality of the testing laboratory. MOC mentioned that requiring facilities to pay for these studies, when they receive no benefit is inappropriate. Response: Regarding Mobil's comment on the required concurrent standard reference toxicant (SRT) testing with each WET test, the September 19,1994 Federal Register notice does allow for monthly SRT results to be submitted in lieu of such concurrent tests. Regarding Mobil's comment on requiring contract laboratories to conduct such SRT testing, EPA does not currently have a national laboratory certification program for WET. EPA does acknowledge that some states do have such a certification program. Until a national certification program is established, EPA must have some means to assess the quality of a given laboratory's performance. The use of SRTs is one way of making that assessment. EPA notes that permittees have the option of using in-house capabilities to conduct such WET tests. However, when permittees rely on outside laboratories to conduct WET tests for NPDES compliance purposes, the use of SRTs is required. EPA disagrees with Mobil's comment that such SRT tests have no benefit for the permittee. On the contrary, such SRT testing serves to validate the quality and precision of the WET tests conducted by the contract laboratory on behalf of the permittee that are submitted to the permitting authority. Comment 11: MOC mentioned that facilities covered by the existing, but expired general permit may be required to perform another testing requirement, such a EPA 624 and 625 although this sampling was performed for the existing general permit. Response: EPA does not agree that facilities already discharging under the general permit be excluded from performing an additional test analysis on the effluent using EPA methods 624 or 625 priority pollutant scan. This requirement conforms with the reapplication data necessary for individual permits in which a permittee is required to retest the effluent to obtain accurate information which determine possible changes in effluent characteristics. This priority pollutant scan shall be performed within 60 days of startup of the produced water discharge, or within 60 days after receipt of notification of coverage from EPA for facilities currently discharging under the previous general permit. Comment 12: Exxon Company (EC), by letter dated October 20, 1994, stated that some risk-based analysis is an important element in establishing water quality criteria for certain processes, and that the proposed 1.0 ug/l benzene effluent limit appears to be absent of any risk-based approach. EC stated that scientific data does not warrant the restrictive 1.0 ug/l benzene effluent limit for release into surface water and is even more stringent than that required under Florida Administrative Code (FAC) 17&hyph;302.530 for Class I potable water supplies and recommended that the national limit of 5.0 ug/l be substituted as the benzene effluent limit.
