FR941227-2-00072 FR941227-2-00051 5. Applicability. All Federal Supply Service schedule contracting activities must implement the provisions of this acquisition letter. All basic schedule solicitations issued on or after the effective date of this letter must contain the new clause and notice shown in the attachment. Schedule solicitations that have been issued, but not opened/closed, must be amended to include the new schedule payment and billing procedures. Appropriate solicitation extensions should be provided to allow offerors sufficient time to consider the new provisions. In addition, multiple award solicitations which have closed, but have no awards against them yet, should be amended to incorporate the new provisions. Offerors should be requested to acknowledge, in writing, their acceptance of the new provisions within the terms of their offer, prior to the award of a contract. If an offeror is unwilling to accept the new single payment arrangements, he/she will be allowed to withdraw his/her offer. 6. Reference to Regulations. HB, Supply Operations ch. 38, (FSS P 2901.2A.) 7. Instructions/procedures. a. Promoting the advantages of a ``one-stop'' payment office will be the responsibility of all persons involved with schedule contracting. Benefits are realized by customer agencies, schedule contractors, GSA, and the taxpayers. Every effort should be made to inform contractors and agencies of the advantages of designating GSA as the single payment point. Equally important is the need to encourage both agencies and contractors to maximize their use of Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) to transmit purchase/delivery orders and invoices. Contractors may also receive Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) payments, whether they submit paper or electronic invoices. b. In order to facilitate the payment and billing process by Finance, agencies will be required to include the Activity Address Code (AAC) to be billed, and a two digit Fund Code to be charged on each purchase/delivery order submitted to contractors. These codes will expedite GSA's process for billing the agencies for reimbursement of monies paid by GSA to the contractors. Inclusion of the AAC and Fund code on all purchase/delivery orders is required before invoicing GSA. c. (1) The Catalogs and/or Pricelists clauses will be revised to instruct schedule contractors to adjust the awarded schedule prices upward by 1%. Purchase/delivery orders will show this adjusted price. Contractors, on the other hand will invoice GSA at the awarded (unadjusted) prices.) For example: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ A retail price for a schedule item is $100.00 GSA negotiated a discount of 10% The GSA awarded contract price is $90.00 The adjusted price published in the schedule pricelist is $90.90 The purchase/delivery order shows $90.90 The contractor invoices GSA at the awarded contract price of $90.90 GSA pays the contractor $90.00 GSA bills and collects from the agency $90.90 (2) Contractors will also be instructed to include a statement substantially as follows on the cover page, or in order instructions on the pricelist: ``Agencies are reminded to include the Activity Address Code (AAC) to be billed and the Fund code to be charged on each purchase/delivery order. These codes are needed to expedite payment of invoices and billings by GSA to agencies.'' Contractors may also include a sample order form for informational purposes to assist agencies in including all pertinent information. d. In addition to the AAC and Fund code and other standard information included on the purchase/delivery order, agencies should provide the following with each order:
