FR940727-1-00019 FR940727-1-00008 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;87&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;9&hyph;80 Series Airplanes and Model MD&hyph;88 Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Model DC&hyph;9&hyph;80 series airplanes and Model MD&hyph;88 airplanes. This proposal would require modification of the engine nose cowl. This proposal is prompted by several in-flight incidents in which the engine nose cowl separated or nearly separated from the airplane. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent separation of the engine nose cowl from the airplane during severe vibration of the engine. DATES: Comments must be received by September 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;87&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from McDonnell Douglas Corporation, P.O. Box 1771, Long Beach, California 90801&hyph;1771, Attention: Business Unit Manager, Technical Administrative Support, Dept. L51, M.C. 2&hyph;98. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Baitoo, Aerospace Engineer, Propulsion Branch, ANM&hyph;141L, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425; telephone (310) 988&hyph;5245; fax (310) 988&hyph;5210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;87&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;87&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The FAA has received reports of several in-flight incidents that have occurred on McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;9&hyph;80 series airplanes in which the engine nose cowl separated or nearly separated from these airplanes. Investigation revealed that these separations occurred following severe vibration of the engine due to failures of the first stage fan blade. The cause of these separations has been attributed to loose or missing attachment bolts of the engine nose cowl. This condition, if not corrected, could result in separation of the engine nose cowl from the airplane during severe vibration of the engine. The FAA has reviewed and approved McDonnell Douglas MD&hyph;80 Alert Service Bulletin A71&hyph;61, dated May 18, 1994, which describes procedures for modification of the left and right engine nose cowls. This modification entails removal of attachment bolts and nutplates, replacement of nutplates with self-locking nuts and washers on the engine ``A'' flange, and reversal of attachment bolt direction (bolthead facing forward). This modification will ensure the integrity of the nose cowl attachment assembly so as to minimize the possibility of separation of the engine nose cowl from the airplane during severe vibration of the engine. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would require modification of the left and right engine nose cowls. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletin described previously. There are approximately 1,062 McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;9&hyph;80 series airplanes and Model MD&hyph;88 airplanes of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 540 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 6 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed actions, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Required parts would cost approximately $100 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $232,200, or $430 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety.
