FR940114-0-00053 FR940114-0-00020 Response: The Department appreciates the difficulties of enforcing the standards when multiple zones exist in a single State. Accordingly, the Department has specifically listed those local governments in the higher wind zones in each State. Depending on the facts surrounding the sale of a manufactured home, both the manufacturer and the dealer will be responsible for assuring that the home will be in compliance with the standards by siting the home in the proper zone. The State Administrative Agencies (SAAs) will be informed of the changes resulting from this rule and will assist the Department in discovering homes that are sited in noncompliance with these standards. Anchoring and Tie-Downs Comment: The change in lease communities could be revolutionary, as homes become more permanent in nature (122) and homes are taxed more as real, rather than personal, property. Generally, lessors are required to restore the site to its original condition when they move. This requirement, and the relocation of utility connections, would be made more difficult with more permanent foundations. In addition, the FHA Title II allowance for installation would not be sufficient for the additional costs of permanent foundations (146, and others). Response: The Department has evaluated these comments and has removed the design requirement for a permanent foundation. However, the Department remains concerned that some form of strengthened tiedown system may be necessary to protect homes adequately in high wind areas. Thus, the Department will be reviewing the issue of permanent foundations and other strengthened anchoring systems in conjunction with regulatory action on wind resistant design and construction requirements for the remainder of the country. Comment: The impact of the new Wind Standards can be adversely effected if there is inadequate enforcement and monitoring of the placement of homes to assure that only homes that have been designed for the wind load requirements of the Zone are permitted to be sited. There is a need for better local inspection; the home is only as good as its anchoring system (149). There is compelling evidence that much of the damage from Hurricane Andrew was attributable to the lax enforcement of State and local building codes, including anchoring requirements, rather than to inadequate standards (80, 122). Similarly, the main problem with manufactured homes is the proper installation of anchoring equipment, which the Department cannot regulate (100). Response: Although the use of tiedowns was widespread in the areas affected by Hurricane Andrew, indicating some attempt to comply with codes, the tiedowns generally performed very poorly. None of the tiedowns observed was certified in accordance with code requirements. The Department is reviewing the authority to regulate installation of manufactured homes and is exploring ways to encourage States and localities to adopt and enforce more stringent anchoring requirements. The Department also is reviewing appropriate methods, including a disclosure requirement, to inform consumers about the installation of the home in a manner that achieves the highest wind protection performance for the home's design. Meanwhile, the Department will be contacting the Governors of all States, and in particular States where the wind risk is the greatest, to advise the Governors of the changes in the wind standards and the need for each State to establish installation standards and a system of enforcement and monitoring. Comment: Typical ground anchors performed adequately in Hurricane Andrew (14 (2) -17 (2) , 73 (2) , 88 (2) , and others). If given enough time, ground anchor manufacturers can develop an anchoring system that is comparable to a permanent foundation system (29). Response: With very few exceptions, manufactured homes in the path of Hurricane Andrew were destroyed by the resulting wind forces. The lack of adequate attachment of single or double-wide units to ground anchors was a major factor in loss of units. The chassis of some units could be found some distance away from their original site. However, in some cases the anchors did hold the floor of the unit down while the ``box'' of the structure was torn away by the high winds. For this reason, there is justification for increasing the strength of the structure by this final rule. The effective date of these new requirements will now be at least 180 days from today. The Department agrees that innovative anchoring systems comparable to permanent foundations systems can be developed; however, anchor manufacturers are cautioned regarding the resistance capacity of auger-type anchors presently used for installing manufactured homes, when those anchors are subject to high winds and ensuing saturated soil conditions. The Department's tests show substantially less resistance than required by 24 CFR 3280.306(f), even when tested under dry soil conditions. Comment: Substantially increased siting requirements would be a problem especially for retirees in land-lease communities and for minority owners who reside on ``heir property'' and cannot secure clear title to their site (672). Response: Alternative anchoring systems that are expected to provide the required resistance to high wind forces are already available in the market. The Department believes that if siting requirements are increased by State and local governments, the manufactured housing industry will likely develop ways to accommodate siting in land-lease communities.
