FR941012-0-00180 FR941012-0-00013 Section 5112(b) of title 49, United States Code, requires the Secretary to establish by regulation standards for States and Indian tribes to use in establishing, maintaining, and enforcing these routing designations. These Federal standards shall provide for enhancement of safety; public participation; transportation of hazardous materials between adjacent areas; consultation with other States, Indian tribal and local governments; through highway routing; reasonable time to reach agreement between affected States or Indian tribes; avoidance of unreasonable burden on commerce; timely establishment of State and Indian tribe routing; reasonable routes to terminals and other facilities; State responsibility for local compliance; and a number of ``factors'' for States and Indian tribes to consider. Section 5112(b)(2) prohibits the Secretary from assigning specific weights to the ``factors to consider'' in the Federal standards, but Sections 5125(c) and 5112(d) do provide for Federal preemption and dispute resolution of State and Indian tribe routing designations to allow for consistent application of the Federal standards among adjacent jurisdictions. Section 5112(c) also requires the Secretary, in coordination with the States, to periodically update and publish a list of currently effective hazardous materials highway route designations. The FHWA recognizes that 49 CFR 177.810 exempts State and local regulations and ordinances regarding the kind, character, or quantity of any hazardous material, except radioactive materials, transported through urban tunnels used for mass transportation from parts 170 to 189 of the hazardous materials regulations. However, this section does not exempt State, Indian tribes and local governments from having to comply with the routing regulations applicable to the transportation of Class 7 (radioactive) materials (49 CFR 397, subpart D) or the routing regulations established herein. Therefore, tunnel routing designations are now subject to the same Federal standards and procedures as are other highway routing designations. To assist the States and local governments in the development of routes, the DOT published ``Guidelines for Selecting Preferred Highway Routes for Highway Route Controlled Quantity Shipments of Radioactive Materials'' (latest edition DOT/RSPA/OHMT&hyph;89/01 dated August 1992) and ``Guidelines for Applying Criteria to Designate Routes for Transporting Hazardous Materials'' (latest edition DOT/RSPA/OHMT&hyph;89&hyph;02 dated July 1989). The latter publication is being updated to provide guidance on the Federal standards in this regulation. Both guides are useful in developing highway routing requirements for hazardous materials. These documents are available to the public through the National Technical Information Service, Springfield, Virginia 21661. The FHWA published a notice of proposed rulemaking and a notice of public hearings entitled ``Transportation of Hazardous Materials; Highway Routing'' in the Federal Register on August 31, 1992 (57 FR 39522). The FHWA requested comments from any interested parties to be submitted to Docket MC&hyph;92&hyph;6 by October 30, 1992. In addition, the FHWA held four public hearings to solicit comments from interested parties in October at Washington, D.C.; Dallas, Texas; San Francisco, California; and Rosemont, Illinois. Discussion of Comments A total of fifty-six commenters responded to this proposed regulation by written submission to the docket and/or presentation at the public hearings. The commenters represented a total of fifty-two organizations, including twenty-seven commercial/trade affiliated organizations representing shippers and carriers, fourteen State government organizations, five local governments, three Federal agencies, one Indian tribe, one citizens' group, and one consulting firm. Nineteen commenters supported and eight opposed the overall format and/or intent of the proposed regulations. The remaining commenters did not express overall opposition or support for the regulation but did comment on specific parts of the regulation. Fifty-four commenters discussed details of the proposed rule, and many recommended changes to various aspects of the rule. The following topics were of main concern.
