FR940826-2-00098 FR940826-2-00055 The Department's investigation indicated that cellular subscribers value the choice that equal access gives them. This is particularly true for larger businesses, which seek to connect their cellular services to private networks offered by interexchange carriers. By doing so, the business user obtains not only access to the features of the private network, but also the very substantial discounts on long distance prices that are sold as part of the service. 28 These are the very discounts that the BOCs seek to obtain (BOC Mem. 26, June 20, 1994); today they can be obtained by customers of equal access systems, but generally not by others. Indeed the availability of equal access from BOC systems has pressured non- BOCs (notably McCaw) to offer connections to large customers' private networks, in order to retain their business. Businesses that do not obtain cellular service from equal access cellular systems have no access to these discounts and services, and have been frustrated in their efforts to reduce their cellular long distance costs. 29 While the largest businesses might have the leverage with their cellular providers to gain access for their private interexchange services, smaller businesses and individuals cannot get those benefits_except where equal access requires it. 28 ``The one segment of the long-distance market that appears most competitive is the market for large customers.'' P. Huber, M. Kellogg & J. Thorne, The Geodesic Network II: 1993 Report on Competition in the Telephone Industry 3.17, see id. 3.39&hyph;44 (describing means whereby interexchange carriers discount rates to large users); see also Kelly Aff. 26&hyph;27 (Apr. 29, 1993). Submitted with Letter to Richard L. Rosen from Michael H. Salsbury (MCI). Apr. 30, 1993. 29 For example, Dow Chemical pays 25 to 50 percent more for cellular long distance than for landline long distance because its cellular carrier does not provide equal access. Dow chose to pay these higher prices rather than have its sales people change cellular telephone numbers, which they would have to do if Dow changed carriers. Jacobs Aff. 3&hyph;5 (Exh. 8 hereto) ``Dow Chemical believes that when cellular providers offer Dow Chemical the option to select the carrier from whom the company purchases long distance cellular service, Dow Chemical benefits in the form of lower cellular long distance prices.'' Id. at 5. Southwestern also argues that, even if it has market power, it would have no incentive to raise prices of long distance. ``[A] hypothetical provider of mobile services that enjoyed real market power would simply exploit that market power directly; there would be no advantage in attempting to leverage that power into ancillary services such as mobile long distance service or mobile information services.'' (Southwestern Mem. 8; see also BOC Mem. 28) This attempt to argue that there is only ``one monopoly rent'' 30 is contrary to fact and well reasoned theory. 30 Southwestern quotes AT&T's economists, who made the same argument in support of AT&T's efforts to acquire McCaw: ``Since the monopolist can only charge the monopoly rent once, it has no generally applicable incentive to favor its affiliate if another competitor can provide the good or service more efficiently.'' Southwestern Bell Mem. 9, quoting Willig & Bernheim Aff. 9. The argument that vertical integration cannot increase a monopolist's profits is often attributed to Robert Bork, who expanded upon economic theory and popularized this argument among antitrust lawyers. R. Bork. The Antitrust Paradox 229 (1978); see Scherer & Ross at 522. The fact, as indicated in Southwestern Bell's own documents, is that a successful strategy for raising prices is to focus on ancillary services. See pp. 16&hyph;18 above. Southwestern Bell has found that it can ``aggressively change(e) elements of subscriber revenue to mitigate the effect of lower customer usage'' by raising the costs of ancillary services, for example, by ``increased monthly access charges *␣*␣* slightly higher roaming *␣*␣* eliminating `night hours' and extending peak hours in many of the markets.'' [SWB 203136&hyph;37] If Southwestern Bell finds that the best method of increasing revenue is to raise the price of roaming rates and access charges, it stand to reason that it would find it equally feasible and attractive to rise the rates of long distance charges. Southwestern's ``one monopoly rent'' argument is contrary to theory as well as fact. The theoretical model on which Southwestern relies depends, in general, on the presence of many key and restrictive conditions, at least four of which are not present here. First, as Southwestern Bell acknowledges, the theory is limited to unregulated monopolists. Cellular duopolists are not universally unregulated: in California, home of 20 percent of the nation's population, cellular prices are regulated. 31 Second, the theory requires that the two inputs (here, cellular service and long distance service) be used in fixed proportions; if the integrator or user can vary the proportions (by making more or fewer long distance calls) the general argument fails. Third, the argument does not apply where the firm cannot price discriminate in the downstream market_the long distance market_without vertical integration. Fourth, and most important, the argument applies only to the situation in which a monopolist is integrating with a firm in a competitive market; here we have decidedly imperfect competition in cellular, and (as the BOCs acknowledge) imperfect competition in long distance. The ``one monopoly rent'' model does not speak to the situation of integrating oligopolists. 32 31 Cal Pub. Util. Code §401 et seq.; 17 CPUC 2d 499 (1985) In California, ``the Public Utilities Commission has jurisdiction over rates charged for cellular service.'' Cellular Plus, Inc. c. Superior Court, 18 Cal. Rptr. 308, 311 (1993). Cellular carriers must file financial statements, receive approval for wholesale rate increases, and receive approval to install new transmitter sites. See also BOC Mem. 28 (``half of the States do not regulate cellular or paging providers at all''; the other half presumably do, even if they ``typically impos[e] no price regulation at the retail ( i.e., reseller) level''). Regulation of BOC landline exchanges further distorts the ``one monopoly rent'' argument. 32 Carlton & Perloff 517, 510. The theory embraced by Southwestern argues that there are no means (except efficiency means ) by which monopolists can vertically integrate and increase their monopoly profits. See R. Bork, The Antitrust Paradox, at 229. That theory has been rejected by economists of all persuasions, who recognize that there are conditions under which a monopolist or oligopolist can vertically integrate and increase its monopoly profits. 33 And it is directly contrary to the observable facts here: Southwestern has raised prices of ``ancillary'' services, such as roaming, rather than raise more visible prices ( see SWB 203136&hyph;37), and the BOCs all observe that non- equal access carriers, such as McCaw, charge top dollar for long distance services that are ``ancillary'' to their cellular service, rather than simply raising the price of cellular service. 33 Carlton & Perloff 510; R. Warren-Bolton, Vertical Control of Markets 64, 80 (1978); J. Tirole, Theory of Industrial Organization 179&hyph;80 (1988); Scherer & Ross at 521&hyph;22. D. The Movants Have Not Demonstrated any Significant Changed Circumstances Warranting Relief. Under Rufo, the party seeking modification ``bears the burden of establishing that a significant change in circumstances warrants revision of the decree.'' 112 S.Ct. at 760. As this Court noted, a significant change is a ``significant change in factual conditions or in law'' that could not have been anticipated at the time the Decree was entered. AT&T/McCaw Decision, 154 F.R.D. at 7&hyph;8, quoting Rufo, 112 S. Ct. at 760. Since the Court rejected the BOC's application to provide interexchange service from cellular exchanges without equal access in 1987, Triennial Review, 673 F. Supp. at 551, the BOCs must show that a significant change since then would warrant their instant motion to provide such service. The changed circumstance necessary, and which has not occurred, would be a substantial increase in competition in wireless services, so that cellular carriers would not have significant market power. See Decree Opinion, 552 F. Supp. at 195. They have not established that there has been such a change.
