FR940202-0-00061 FR940202-0-00006 (4) Special rule for interest holidays, teaser rates, and other interest shortfalls _(i) In general. This paragraph (d)(4) provides a special rule to determine whether a debt instrument with a teaser rate (or rates), an interest holiday, or any other interest shortfall has de minimis OID. This rule applies if_ (A) The amount of OID on the debt instrument is more than the de minimis amount as otherwise determined under paragraph (d) of this section; and (B) All stated interest provided for in the debt instrument would be qualified stated interest under paragraph (c) of this section except that for 1 or more accrual periods the interest rate is below the rate applicable for the remainder of the instrument's term (e.g., if as a result of an interest holiday, none of the stated interest is qualified stated interest). (ii) Redetermination of OID for purposes of the de minimis test. For purposes of determining whether a debt instrument described in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section has de minimis OID, the instrument's stated redemption price at maturity is treated as equal to the instrument's issue price plus the greater of the amount of foregone interest or the excess (if any) of the instrument's stated principal amount over its issue price. The amount of foregone interest is the amount of additional stated interest that would be required to be payable on the debt instrument during the period of the teaser rate, holiday, or shortfall so that all stated interest would be qualified stated interest under paragraph (c) of this section. See Example 5 and Example 6 of paragraph (f) of this section. In addition, for purposes of computing the de minimis amount of OID, the weighted average maturity of the debt instrument is determined by treating all stated interest payments as qualified stated interest payments. (5) Treatment of de minimis OID by holders_ (i) Allocation of de minimis OID to principal payments. The holder of a debt instrument includes any de minimis OID (other than de minimis OID treated as qualified stated interest under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, such as de minimis OID attributable to a teaser rate or interest holiday) in income as stated principal payments are made. The amount includible in income with respect to each principal payment equals the product of the total amount of de minimis OID on the debt instrument and a fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of the principal payment made and the denominator of which is the stated principal amount of the instrument. (ii) Character of de minimis OID _(A) De minimis OID treated as gain recognized on retirement. Any amount of de minimis OID includible in income under this paragraph (d)(5) is treated as gain recognized on retirement of the debt instrument. See section 1271 to determine whether a retirement is treated as an exchange of the debt instrument. (B) Treatment of de minimis OID on sale or exchange. Any gain attributable to de minimis OID that is recognized on the sale or exchange of a debt instrument is capital gain if the debt instrument is a capital asset in the hands of the seller. (iii) Treatment of subsequent holders. If a subsequent holder purchases a debt instrument issued with de minimis OID at a premium (as defined in ยง1.1272&hyph;2(b)(2)), the subsequent holder does not include the de minimis OID in income. Otherwise, a subsequent holder includes any discount in income under the market discount rules (sections 1276 through 1278) rather than under the rules of this paragraph (d)(5). (iv) Cross-reference. See ยง1.1272&hyph;3 for an election by a holder to treat de minimis OID as OID. (e) Definitions _(1) Installment obligation. An installment obligation is a debt instrument that provides for the payment of any amount other than qualified stated interest before maturity. (2) Self-amortizing installment obligation. A self-amortizing installment obligation is an obligation that provides for equal payments composed of principal and qualified stated interest that are unconditionally payable at least annually during the entire term of the debt instrument with no significant additional payment required at maturity. (3) Weighted average maturity. The weighted average maturity of a debt instrument is the sum of the following amounts determined for each payment under the instrument (other than a payment of qualified stated interest)_ (i) The number of complete years from the issue date until the payment is made; multiplied by (ii) A fraction, the numerator of which is the amount of the payment and the denominator of which is the debt instrument's stated redemption price at maturity.
