FR940407-1-00024 FR940407-1-00011 JAMES MADISON MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP FOUNDATION 45 CFR Chapter XXIV Fellowship Program Requirements AGENCY: James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The following are proposed revised regulations governing the annual competition for James Madison Fellowships and the obligations of James Madison Fellows. They propose alterations and additions to the existing regulations implementing the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Act of 1986. These regulations govern the qualifications and applications of candidates for fellowships; the selection of Fellows by the Foundation; the graduate programs Fellows must pursue; the conditions attached to awards; the Foundation's annual Summer Institute on the Constitution; and related requirements and expectations regarding fellowships. DATES: Comments must be submitted in writing on or before May 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to: James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation, 2000 K Street, NW., suite 303, Washington, DC 20006. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James M. Banner, Jr., (202) 653&hyph;8700. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposed revised rule indicates changes in various activities of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation warranted by experience gained during the Foundation's first two annual fellowship competitions. While representing no alteration in the Foundation's mission, nor any major changes in the original rule governing the Foundation's operations, the proposed revisions embody some changes in eligibility requirements and application procedures whose intended consequences are to enlarge the pool of potential fellowship applicants, reduce complications attendant upon applying for fellowships, and make clearer certain matters under the previous rule. The principal ones of these revisions are: (1) The elimination of procedures for the nomination of candidates for fellowships; (2) the enlargement of the pool of eligible applicants to include experienced teachers in grades 7 and 8 as well as in grades 9&hyph;12; (3) a reduction in the teaching experience required of applicants for senior fellowships; (4) the elimination of the limit on the number of years following receipt of the baccalaureate degree in which candidates for junior fellowships may apply; and (5) a change in the closing date for applications to March 1 annually. In addition, this proposed revised rule sets forth for the first time information regarding the Foundation's annual Summer Institute on the Constitution. The James Madison Memorial Fellowship Act authorizes fellowship support for graduate study by teachers of American history and social studies and by college seniors or college graduates who wish to become teachers of the same subjects. However, in order not to exclude from consideration for James Madison Fellowships those teachers or would-be teachers whose current or future secondary school instruction, while concerning the usual subjects covered by courses in American history and social studies, may be carried on in courses entitled ``government'' or similar names, this rule, like the former rule, goes beyond the Act to apply to those teachers and would-be teachers who do or will offer secondary school instruction in American government. The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., does not apply to this rule because it will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small businesses. Consequently, an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis need not be performed. Section 610 of the Act provides for periodic review of rules which have or will have a significant economic impact upon a substantial number of small businesses. In accordance with this provision, comments from small entities concerning these rules will be considered. Such comments must be submitted separately and cite 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. in correspondence. Sections 2400.11, 2400.21, 2400.53&hyph;54, and 2400.61&hyph;63 contain information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation has submitted a copy of forms required under these sections to the Office of Management and Budget for its review (40 U.S.C. 3540(h)). Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on these information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. The annual public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 5 hours per response for an anticipated 750 applicants. List of Subjects in 45 CFR Part 2400
