FR940603-2-00153 FR940603-2-00091 Eligible Applicants: Public and private organizations, including institutions of higher education and Indian tribes and tribal organizations, are eligible to apply for awards under this program. Program Authority: 29 U.S.C. 762. Program Title: Special Projects and Demonstrations for Spinal Cord Injuries. CFDA Number: 84.133N Purpose: The Special Projects and Demonstrations for Spinal Cord Injuries program provides assistance to establish innovative projects for the delivery, demonstration, and evaluation of comprehensive medical, vocational, and other rehabilitation services to meet the wide range of needs of individuals with spinal cord injuries. As described more fully in 34 CFR 359.11, recipients of awards under this program must establish a multidisciplinary service system, demonstrate and evaluate both the services and the costs and benefits of those services, establish a research environment within the system, demonstrate and evaluate the application of improved methods and equipment, demonstrate methods of community outreach and education, and participate as directed by the Secretary in national studies of the benefits of a spinal cord injury service system. Invitational Priorities: The Secretary is particularly interested in applications that address one of the following invitational priorities within the scope of model demonstration systems for SCI. However, under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(1) an application that meets an invitational priority does not receive competitive or absolute preference over other applications. The invitational priorities are to address one or more of the following problems within the research, demonstration, services, or data collection aspects of the model SCI system project. (1) Violence-related spinal cord injuries; (2) Techniques to maximize the benefits of interactions with independent living programs to achieve community reintegration; (3) Substance abuse among individuals with SCI; (4) Disability and rehabilitation-related problems of persons with SCI from minority backgrounds; (5) The role of families and personal advocacy in successful community reintegration; and (6) Techniques to facilitate the adoption of the SCI systems model of care into regular health care delivery practices. Selection Criteria: The Secretary uses the following criteria to evaluate an application under this model SCI Systems program. (a) Project Design (20 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) There is a clear description of how the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program; (2) The research is likely to produce new and useful information; (3) The need and target population are adequately defined; (4) The outcomes are likely to benefit the defined target population; (5) The research hypotheses are sound; and (6) The research methodology is sound in the sample design and selection, the data collection plan, the measurement instruments, and the data analysis plan. (b) Service Comprehensiveness (20 points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The services to be provided within the project are comprehensive in scope and include emergency medical services, intensive and acute medical care, rehabilitation management, psychosocial and community reintegration, and follow up; (2) A broad range of vocational and other rehabilitation services will be available to persons with severe disabilities within the project; and (3) Services will be coordinated with those services provided by other appropriate community resources. (c) Plan of Operation (15 Points). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) There is an effective plan of operation that ensures proper and efficient administration of the project; (2) The applicant's planned use of its resources and personnel is likely to achieve each objective; (3) Collaboration between institutions, if proposed, is likely to be effective; and (4) There is a clear description of how the applicant will include eligible project participants who have been traditionally underrepresented, such as_ (i) Members of racial or ethnic minority groups; (ii) Women; (iii) Persons with disabilities; and (iv) The elderly.
