FR940727-0-00149 FR940727-0-00028 Comment: One commenter suggested that a waiver of the threshold requirement regarding performance deficiencies described at §953.302(a)(2)(ii)(A) be permitted. Response: The subject provision appears to contain sufficient flexibility as written. Section 953.7 sets forth the conditions where a waiver of this interim rule would be permissible. A specific waiver provision for threshold requirements in the interim rule does not seem warranted. Section 953.303␣Housing Rating Category Comment: The first paragraph of this section states that the applicant shall provide assistance only to tenants/homeowners whose payments are current, or who are current in a repayment agreement with HUD. One commenter noted the difficulty in obtaining current payment information. Response: The Department expects the applicant to obtain the most recent payment information it can from the Indian Housing Authority (IHA). Note that the field office may grant exceptions to this requirement on a case-by-case basis. Section 953.304␣Community Facilities Comment: Two commenters proposed that the regulations include museums, ecomuseums, cultural centers and archeological sites as appropriate, eligible community facilities. Response: These are eligible activities under the current regulations. Comment: One commenter requested a reconsideration of the portions of this section that relate to the definition of ``neediest segment of the population'' in the rating factors for community buildings. This rating factor required that more than 80% of the beneficiaries be very low income to receive the maximum points. Fifty-one to 79.9 percent of the beneficiaries must be very low income to receive moderate points. Response: This section of the regulation has been revised to remove this definition of ``neediest segment of the population''. Section 953.305␣Economic Development Rating Category Comment: One commenter suggested that the regulation is unfair in providing special opportunities for federally assisted housing residents. Response: While this specific language has been removed from the regulation, it in no way diminishes HUD commitment to empower the poor residing in federally assisted housing. This factor remains in the NOFA to encourage applicants to provide opportunities for residents of federally assisted housing to improve their economic situation while possibly improving their units. Comment: Two commenters stated that HUD should specifically allow tribes to apply for offices and other buildings that are not eligible as community facilities as economic development activities. While this activity would not appear to be prohibited by the regulations, there is not sufficient information provided to make a determination of eligibility. Response: Because of the wide range of activities that are potentially eligible under this program, it is not possible to list them all in this interim rule. The ONAP field office should be provided with specific information so that a determination can be made.
