FR940405-0-00033 FR940405-0-00004 In order to implement the section on ``Quality Assurance Requirements,'' it is necessary to also issue the final rules on the generally applicable provisions of part 830, §§830.1 through 830.7 and §830.100, ``Scope of subpart.'' Seventy-eight comments were received on the ``Quality Assurance Requirements'' section. II. Response to Comments DOE has analyzed the comments on the December Notice as they relate to: (A) Part 830, general comments; (B) the general provisions; and (C) the quality assurance requirements. Section II.A. summarizes the general comments and DOE's responses; Section II.B. summarizes comments and the Department's responses to the general provisions in §§830.1 through 830.7; and Section II.C. summarizes comments and the Department's responses to the quality assurance requirements in §830.120. DOE will provide its responses to comments on other proposed sections in the December Notice when it issues those sections as final rules. A. Part 830, General Comments 1. Several comments concerned the statutory authority for part 830. These concerns related to the authority for adopting the proposed rules and especially to the authority for imposing civil penalties for violations of part 830. Some of the comments implied that the authority to adopt rules on the safe management of DOE nuclear facilities was related to the authority to impose civil penalties. Response: Section 161 of the Atomic Energy Act (AEA) of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2201) provides DOE with broad authority to carry out its responsibilities under the AEA, including the safe management of facilities authorized by the AEA. This authority is the basis for all the rules concerning the safe management of nuclear facilities that DOE intends to adopt in Part 830. The exercise of this authority is not dependent on whether a civil penalty can be imposed under section 234A of the AEA (42 U.S.C. 2282a) if the rule is violated after its adoption. As discussed in the preamble to the final rule on part 820 published on August 17, 1993 (58 FR 43680), DOE has determined that Part 830 contains the type of requirements relating to nuclear safety that Section 234A contemplated would form a basis for civil penalties if violated. 2. Several of the comments stated that the proposed rules would impose excessive costs on DOE contractors. Response: DOE does not agree with these statements. For the most part, part 830 will codify requirements in existing DOE Orders with which DOE contractors already are obligated contractually to comply. Accordingly, adoption of the proposed rules should impose little or no additional costs on contractors. In order to confirm this premise, the December Notice requested contractors to ``address the specific nature and scope of [any] additional costs to which contractors would be subjected and explain why these concerns are not already addressed.'' None of the comments identified any specific additional costs. Finally, DOE believes that the imposition of requirements through rules will add predictability and stability to the DOE complex and, therefore, result in potentially lower operating costs to contractors. B. General Provisions 1. Several comments addressed proposed §830.1 (Scope). In general, these comments questioned what facilities would be subject to part 830. One comment suggested that a list of the facilities covered by part 830 should be agreed upon between Management and Operating (M&O) contractors and DOE to prevent confusion and unnecessary expenditures of limited resources. Response: Part 830 applies to all ``nuclear facilities.'' DOE believes that the definition in §830.3 is sufficient to determine the applicability of part 830 to any particular facility. If there is uncertainty concerning a particular facility, then an interpretation may be requested under part 820. 2. Several comments suggested alternative wording relative to the Nuclear Explosives and Weapons Safety Programs exclusion in proposed §830.2. Response: DOE does not find the suggested alternatives more clear. This exclusion, as worded, applies to activities related to the prevention of accidental or unauthorized detonation of nuclear weapon devices. 3. Many of the comments addressed one or more of the definitions in proposed §830.3. Response: DOE is responding to the substantive comments on those definitions that are being adopted in this final rule. DOE will respond to the comments on other definitions when they are adopted in connection with the substantive sections to which they apply. 4. One comment suggested that in order to make the definition of ``contractor'' more complete, the phrase ``laboratory or program'' be added at the end of the definition after the term ``nuclear facility.''
