FR941110-0-00034 FR941110-0-00016 The new system also proposed changes in the enforcement authority for dually participating (Medicare and Medicaid) facilities. OBRA '89 provided the basis for decisions as to whether the State's or the Secretary's determination of compliance or noncompliance or choice of remedies is binding in the case of a dually participating facility. Moreover, the statute at section 1919(h)(8), provides that whether certification decisions and enforcement actions, as applied to Medicaid, are those of the Secretary or the State, the same certification decision and enforcement actions will also apply to Medicare in a dually participating facility. In addition, the statute specifies whether the Secretary's or State's certification decision and enforcement remedies will prevail in the case of Federal validation surveys. Our August 28, 1992 proposed rule reflected these changes. II. Provisions of the Proposed Rule In the proposed rule published on August 28, 1992 in the Federal Register , we proposed to implement the provisions of OBRA '87, as further amended by subsequent 1988, 1989, and 1990 legislation. The specific proposals were as follows: A. Routine Process of Certification and Enforcement 1. State-Operated Facilities We proposed at §488.155 and §488.180 that in all State-operated facilities, the State survey agency conduct the survey, recommend to HCFA a certification of compliance or noncompliance and recommend appropriate enforcement action(s). After the survey agency forwards its survey findings and recommended certification and enforcement action(s) to HCFA, HCFA in turn would certify facility compliance or noncompliance and impose any enforcement action(s). 2. Non-State Operated Facilities At §§488.155 and 488.180, we proposed the following: •For non-State operated SNFs, to continue to use the process in effect before October 1, 1990, whereby the State survey agency conducts the survey and certifies compliance or noncompliance with Federal requirements subject to HCFA approval. We also proposed that the survey agency recommend appropriate remedies, and that, after the survey agency forwards its survey findings and recommended enforcement action(s) to HCFA for review, HCFA determines the compliance or noncompliance of the facility and imposes any enforcement action(s). •For non-State operated NFs, to continue to use the process in effect before October 1, 1990, whereby the survey agency conducts the survey, certifies compliance or noncompliance with Federal requirements, and recommends appropriate enforcement actions to HCFA and the Medicaid State agency. The certification of compliance or noncompliance by the State is final except in the case of a complaint or validation survey, or review of the State's findings by HCFA in which the Secretary substitutes her judgment for that of the State. Except where the Secretary intervenes, the State makes all enforcement decisions and imposes remedies after consideration of the survey findings and recommended enforcement remedies. Regardless of which agency of the State exercises certification and enforcement authority, however, we look to the Medicaid State agency to assure compliance with Federal requirements. •For dually participating facilities, the survey agency would conduct the survey, certify compliance or noncompliance with Federal requirements, and recommend appropriate enforcement actions. The certification of compliance or noncompliance and recommended enforcement action(s) by the State would be sent to both HCFA and the Medicaid State agency for review. In a new subpart F (Remedies for Long-Term Care Facilities with Deficiencies), we proposed to add a new §488.234, to set forth procedures for occasions when there are State and Federal disagreements involving findings when there is no immediate and serious threat to the residents. We view section 1919(h)(8) of the Act as calling for the application of the decision for Medicaid NFs to Medicare SNFs when a facility is dually participating.
