FR940907-1-00035 FR940907-1-00014 C. Disease or Predation Erigeron maguirei is vulnerable to livestock grazing and trampling. The effect of livestock grazing on the condition of the desert vegetation needs to be evaluated to determine if there are any impacts on the E. maguirei populations. D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms The Act currently provides protection to E. maguirei var. maguirei as an endangered species. This protection would also continue for E. maguirei as a threatened species. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence There are few threats to populations of E. maguirei on Bureau lands because of their inaccessibility. The known populations are remote and it would require maximum effort by individuals in vehicles or on foot to gain access to these plant locales. Off road vehicles could pose a remote threat to this daisy. But due to its low numbers (about 3,000 specimens), the species could be vulnerable to any human disturbance. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to propose this rule. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list E. maguirei as a threatened species. With less than 3,000 plants remaining in only five known populations, the Service has determined that the species remains vulnerable to habitat destruction. A portion of the species' population is protected from some threats within Capitol Reef National Park, but even within the Park there are significant threats. The Service finds that E. maguirei is not in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range, and therefore does not meet the requirements to be listed as endangered. However, the plant is likely to become an endangered species in the foreseeable future if the present threats and declines continue. Threatened status is an accurate assessment of the species' present condition. For the reasons given below, it is not prudent at this time to propose critical habitat. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that to the maximum extent possible, the Secretary propose critical habitat at the time a species is proposed to be endangered or threatened. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not prudent at this time for E. maguirei because this designation might result in increased taking of the species. Designation of critical habitat would entail publication of a detailed description and map of its habitat in the Federal Register , thus exposing the species to the threat of vandalism. A person could easily vandalize the small populations of this daisy with aid of an off-road vehicle. Moreover, few additional benefits would be provided to the species by the critical habitat designation which are not already provided by listing the species. Also most of the plants are located on lands under Federal jurisdiction. Any Federal action that would impact the plant or its habitat would be addressed through Section 7 consultation. Section 9(a)(2)(B) of the Act makes it unlawful to remove and reduce to possession any threatened species of plant from areas under Federal jurisdiction. The National Park Service and the Bureau are aware of the occurrence of E. maguirei on Federal lands and what their obligations for protection of this plant are under the Act. Protection of this species' habitat also will be accomplished through the recovery process. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, citizens groups, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and joint cooperation with the States, and it requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal Agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR Part 402. Section 7(a)(4) requires Federal agencies to confer informally with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a proposed species or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a species is subsequently listed, Section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. Most of these daisies occur on Federal lands managed by the Bureau with remainder on Capitol Reef National Park. Both of these Federal Agencies are responsible for ensuring that all activities and actions on lands they manage are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of this daisy. The Act and its implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.71 and 17.72 for threatened species set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all threatened plants. All prohibitions of Section 9(a)(2) of the Act, implemented by 50 CFR 17.71, apply. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to import or export, transport in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of a commercial activity, sell or offer for sale this species in interstate or foreign commerce, or to remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction. Seeds from cultivated specimens of threatened plants are exempt from these prohibitions provided that a statement of ``cultivated origin'' appears on their containers. The Act and 50 CFR 17.72 provide for the issuance of permits to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving threatened species under certain circumstances. Because of limited horticultural interest in wild daisies, including E. maguirei , trade permits may be sought, but few, if any, trade permits for plants of wild origin ever would be issued since the species is not common in the wild. If plants of cultivated origin are available, permits may, under certain circumstances, be issued for trade in them. Requests for copies of the regulations on plants and inquiries regarding them may be addressed to the Office of Management Authority, Fish and Wildlife Service, P.O. Box 3507, Arlington, Virginia 22203&hyph;3507 (703/358&hyph;2104). Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions concerning this proposed rule are hereby sought from the public, other governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party. Comments are particularly sought concerning:
