FR940404-2-00085 FR940404-2-00059 3. Books, records, reports, dockets and lists relating to the PayLess Pharmacy Business; 4. Lists of stock keeping units (``SKUs''), i.e., all forms, package sizes and other units in which prescription drugs are sold and which are used in records of sales and inventories; 5. Lists of all customers, including but not limited to third party insurers, including all files of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the individual customer contacts, and the unit and dollar amounts of sales, by product, to each customer; 6. All names of prescription drug manufacturers and distributors under contract with PayLess; 7. All price lists for prescription drugs, operating manuals, and advertising and promotional materials, at the Acquirer's option, but only if the divestiture is to an Acquirer that does not already operate a pharmacy in any location; and 8. Goodwill, tangible and intangible, utilized in the sale of prescription drugs. J. ``Thrifty and Bi-Mart Pharmacy Business'' means Thrifty's business of selling prescription drugs at retail stores located in any of the cities or towns listed in Paragraph I.L. of this Order, but does not include Thrifty's business of selling other products in those retail stores. K. ``Thrifty and Bi-Mart Pharmacy Assets'' means all assets constituting the Thrifty and Bi-Mart Pharmacy Business, excluding those assets pertaining to the Thrifty and Bi-Mart trade names, trade dress, trade marks and service marks, and including but not limited to: 1. Leases and properties, at the Acquirer's option; 2. Zoning approvals and registrations, at the Acquirer's option; 3. Books, records, manuals, dockets and lists, relating to the Thrifty and Bi-Mart Pharmacy Business; 4. Lists of SKUs, i.e., all forms, package sizes and other units in which prescription drugs are sold and which are used in records of sales and inventories; 5. Lists of all customers, including but not limited to third party insurers, including all files of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the individual customer contacts, and the unit and dollar amounts of sales, by product, to each customer; 6. All names of prescription drug manufacturers and distributors under contract with Thrifty; 7. All price lists for prescription drugs, operating manuals, and advertising and promotional materials, at the Acquirer's option, but only if the divestiture is to an Acquirer that does not already operate a pharmacy in any location; and
