FR941013-1-00089 FR941013-1-00012 Discussion We established transition treatment for small operators pending completion of our cost studies, and have established administrative relief for independent small systems and small systems owned by small multiple system operators (``MSOs''). Under our interim cost-of-service rules, independent small systems and small systems owned by small MSOs also may use special forms for cost-of-service showings. When cost studies are completed, we may make permanent, eliminate, or modify our transition rate treatment of small operators. When we develop average equipment cost schedules, we may terminate or modify our provisions for streamlined rate reductions for independent small systems and small systems owned by small MSOs. In our final cost proceeding, we may modify our requirements for cost showings by independent small systems and small systems owned by small MSOs. We believe that it would establish a more complete record for purposes of promulgating final rate rules applicable to small operators, independent small systems, and small systems owned by small MSOs if we obtain comment on possible alternative definitions that we could use for purposes of determining eligibility for special rate or administrative treatment provisions that could apply to small businesses. We are initiating the instant Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for purposes of obtaining this comment. Accordingly, we solicit comment on whether we should retain current definitions or use different definitions for purposes of establishing special rate or administrative treatment for small operators and small MSOs that could be small businesses. We specifically seek comment on these issues in light of Section 3(a) of the Small Business Act, and on whether we should employ the current SBA definition of a small cable company in our cable rules. Administrative Matters Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Pursuant to Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Commission has prepared the following initial regulatory flexibility analysis (IRFA) of the expected impact of these proposed policies and rules on small entities. Written public comments are requested on the IRFA. These comments must be filed in accordance with the same filing deadlines as comments on the rest of the Notice, but they must have a separate and distinct heading designating them as responses to the regulatory flexibility analysis. The Secretary shall cause a copy of the Notice, including the initial regulatory flexibility analysis, to be sent to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration in accordance with Section 603(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;354, 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. Section 601 et seq. (1981). Reason for action. The Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 requires the Commission to prescribe rules and regulations for determining reasonable rates for basic tier cable service and to establish criteria for identifying unreasonable rates for cable programming services. The Commission has adopted rate regulations that require a comparison to the rates of cable systems subject to effective competition, as defined in the Cable Act of 1992 and represented in the revised benchmark formula. This Notice proposes to review and determine appropriate definitions of small systems, small operators, and small MSOs for the purpose of determining rate regulation applicable to these categories of companies. Objectives. To propose rules to implement Section 3 of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992. We also desire to adopt rules that will be easily interpreted and readily applicable and, whenever possible, minimize the regulatory burden on affected parties. Legal Basis. Action as proposed for this rulemaking is contained in Sections 4(i), 4(j), 303(r) and 623 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. Description, potential impact and number of small entities affected. We anticipate a possible impact on small entities because the Notice addresses the definitions of small systems, small operators and small MSOs for use in determining rate rules affecting these classes of cable operators. Reporting, recordkeeping and other compliance requirements. None. Federal rules which overlap, duplicate or conflict with this rule. None. Any significant alternatives minimizing impact on small entities and consistent with stated objectives. None.
