FR941202-0-00038 FR941202-0-00002 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Part 205 [Regulation E; Docket No. R&hyph;0859] Electronic Fund Transfers AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Interim rule with request for comments. SUMMARY: The Board is publishing an interim rule amending Regulation E (Electronic Fund Transfers). The amendment eliminates the requirement that an electronic terminal receipt disclose a number or code that uniquely identifies the consumer, the consumer's account, or the access device. This requirement currently poses a significant security risk for consumers and financial institutions by making information accessible to criminals that they then use to withdraw funds from consumers' accounts. The Board has adopted an interim rule that deletes the requirement for a unique identification, thus enabling institutions to truncate card or account numbers. The Board seeks public comment on the interim rule, which the Board will adopt in final following the close of the comment period. DATES: Interim rule effective December 1, 1994; comments must be received on or before February 1, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to Docket No. R&hyph;0859 and be sent to William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551. They may also be delivered to Room B&hyph;2222 of the Eccles Building between 8:45 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. weekdays, or to the guard station in the Eccles Building courtyard on 20th Street, N.W. (between Constitution Avenue and C Street) at any time. Comments received will be available for inspection in Room MP&hyph;500 of the Martin Building between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. weekdays, except as provided in 12 CFR 261.8 of the Board's rules regarding availability of information. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jane Jensen Gell or Kyung Cho-Miller, Staff Attorneys, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, at (202) 452&hyph;2412 or (202) 452&hyph;3667. For the hearing impaired only, contact Dorothea Thompson, Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD), at (202) 452&hyph;3544. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Board's Regulation E implements the Electronic Fund Transfer Act (EFTA). The EFTA provides a basic framework establishing the rights, liabilities, and responsibilities of participants in electronic fund transfer (EFT) systems. Types of transfers covered by the act and regulation include transfers initiated through an automated teller machine (ATM), point-of-sale terminal, automated clearinghouse, telephone bill-payment system, or home banking program. Regulation E establishes restrictions on the unsolicited issuance of ATM cards and other access devices; requires disclosure of terms and conditions of an EFT service; calls for documentation of EFTs through terminal receipts and periodic account statements; provides limitations on consumer liability for unauthorized transfers; and establishes procedures for error resolution. II. Summary of Amendment Section 205.9_Documentation of Transfers Paragraph (a)_Receipts at Electronic Terminals Under the EFTA, when a consumer initiates an EFT at an electronic terminal, the financial institution must make a written receipt available to the consumer. The receipt must identify in some way the consumer's account with the financial institution from or to which funds are transferred. Under the Board's Regulation E, institutions can comply with this identification requirement by including a number or code on the receipt that identifies the access device used to initiate the transfer, the consumer initiating the transaction, or the consumer's accounts. To ensure adequate identification, the Board's regulation specifies that the number or code should be ``unique.'' This identification requirement was adopted in 1979, and over the years many financial institutions have met the requirement by disclosing consumers' card or account numbers on the receipt; until recently, doing so did not appear to represent a security risk for financial institutions. Now, a large number of institutions are reporting that the requirement for a unique identification poses a significant security risk for consumers and financial institutions. These institutions, together with trade associations, have asked that the Board revise the rule to prevent ATM fraud by persons who observe_and often videotape_a consumer entering a personal identification number (PIN) on the ATM keypad. These persons retrieve terminal receipts that have been discarded at ATM locations to obtain the consumer's account or ATM card number. They then manufacture a counterfeit ATM card and use the combination of PIN and card withdraw funds from the consumer's account. One estimate places the industry losses at an annual cost between 25 and 40 million dollars, and climbing; others believe this estimate is understated. Data verifying the extent of institutions' fraud losses due to this problem are publicly unavailable because the data are proprietary in nature. But several large financial institutions indicate they have sustained losses of as much as a million dollars in one week. Institutions say that truncating the consumer's account or card number on the receipt would help to counter the problem. Under the current receipt provision in Regulation E, however, they cannot readily do so because of the likelihood that the identification number on the receipt no longer would be ``unique'' among the institution's customers. Institutions have considered other ways to reduce risk, including retrofitting terminals to uniquely identify a consumer by a means other than a card or account number. Another approach would be for the terminal to give customers the option not to receive a receipt, for customers who might otherwise tend to discard their receipts at the ATM. While these approaches could help reduce fraud, they would be extremely costly to implement. Educational efforts to encourage consumers not to discard their receipts at the ATM site generally have been unsuccessful.
