FR940425-1-00023 FR940425-1-00007 3. Should the treadwear test procedure be changed? What specific changes should be made? Why? What data are available to support such changes? How should such changes be implemented? 4. Should the test course calibration procedure be changed? What changes should be made? 5. How should traction grades be determined or improved? Does traction change significantly with wear for any tire lines? 6. Should the traction grades be upgraded? By raising the minimum values for each category (A, B, C)? By creating a new category, such as ``AA''? By other means? 7. Should the UTQGS include peak tire traction ratings? Does peak tire traction correlate with stopping distance on ABS-equipped vehicles? Can the peak tire traction coefficient be measured reliably? How could/should it be expressed? 8. What would be the cost of measuring peak traction? In addition to sliding traction? Instead of sliding traction? 9. Are the characteristics related to a tire's ability to dissipate heat and to withstand higher operating temperatures that affect a tire's temperature resistance rating directly related to a tire's rolling resistance? 10. Should the temperature resistance grade be deleted from the UTQGS? Is it adequately represented by the voluntary tire industry speed ratings? 11. Should a rolling resistance grade replace temperature resistance? How would such a grade be expressed? How would it be labeled on the tire? 12. Should a rolling resistance grade be added to the UTQGS as a fourth category? 13. How would the agency explain to consumers the correlation between rolling resistance and fuel economy? 14. Can rolling resistance be improved without detracting from the other graded characteristics? What is the additional cost per tire? Do you agree with the costs projected in The Climate Change Action Plan? 15. Can tires of the same size, construction, and load carrying capacity which have the same rolling resistance, exhibit significantly different temperature resistance performance? 16. Would any safety values be affected if rolling resistance replaced temperature resistance? 17. How should data based on the test procedures of SAE&hyph;J1269 and SAE&hyph;J1270 be utilized to compare the rolling resistance performance of different tires? 18. What data regarding rolling resistance of different tire designs currently exist? 19. What is the range of rolling resistance performance available both to OEM and aftermarket passenger car tires today? What is the potential for further reductions in rolling resistance for tires of various types, such as all-season, mud/snow, rain, and conventional? 20. Are there improvements that should be made in the current procedures for measuring rolling resistance? If so, please describe how those measures could be improved, and at what additional cost. 21. What should be done about tires already graded? 22. What would be the most effective campaign to publicize the low rolling resistance/fuel efficiency program? 23. What procedures would be most effective in monitoring the low rolling resistance/fuel efficiency program to assure maximum results? 24. What is the estimated incremental consumer cost increase for low rolling resistance tires of various types? 25. What is the estimated cost effectiveness for low rolling resistance tires of various types? How cost effective would low rolling resistance tires have to be to motivate consumers to buy them? 26. What is the current cost of tire labeling for treadwear, traction, and temperature resistance combined on a per tire basis, assuming a high volume production line? How would this cost change if rolling resistance replaced temperature resistance? If it were added, without replacing any of the existing UTQGS requirements?
