FR941012-2-00127 FR941012-2-00083 [Release No. 34&hyph;34798; International Series Release No. 726; File No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;47] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Amendment to Foreign Currency Option Trading Hours October 6, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on September 22, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PHLX'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' OR ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change Currently, PHLX Rule 101, ``Hours of Business,'' provides that the foreign currency option (``FCO'') trading session will be conducted between 1:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. each business day. The PHLX proposes to amend PHLX Rule 101 to provide that FCO trading will be conducted between 2:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. each business day. Thus, the PHLX will move the opening of FCO trading from 1:30 a.m. to 2:30 a.m. Eastern time (``ET'') for all PHLX-listed FCOs except the Canadian dollar, which will continue to commence trading at 7:00 a.m. ET each business day. The text of the proposal is available at the Office of the Secretary, PHLX, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change According to the PHLX, the Exchange's FCO trading hours for the last nine months have commenced at 1:30 a.m. ET each Monday through Friday and terminated at 2:30 p.m. ET on the afternoon of each trading day. The PHLX states that over the past nine months, less than one percent of the PHLX's FCO volume was generated during the 1:30 a.m. ET to 2:30 a.m. ET time period. Upon the recommendation of the Exchange's FCO Committee, a standing committee of the Board of Governors (``Board''), the Board approved the proposed adjustment in trading hours to change the commencement of FCO trading from 1:30 a.m. ET to 2:30 a.m. ET. The proposal is designed to ease the staffing burden on current registered FCO specialist units as well as floor brokerage units and registered option trader firms. The PHLX proposes to implement the adjusted 2:30 a.m. ET commencement of FCO trading on October 31, 1994, to coordinate with the resumption of trading during Eastern Standard time, as October 30, 1994, will mark the end of Eastern Daylight savings time. The PHLX believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and, in particular, with Section 6(b)(5), in that it is designed to further promote the mechanism of a free and open market and to protect investors and the public interest. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The PHLX does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No written comments were either solicited or received at the time of the filing. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reason for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) by order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by November 2, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 1 1 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25254 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
