FR941212-0-00122 FR941212-0-00019 (b) All other commissions will be appointed by the Commander, USARCS, to act on any claims referred to the commission regardless of where the claim arose. Commissions appointed by the Commander, USARCS, for units based on CONUS may act on any claim arising out of the operations of their unit. Any claims commission operating in or adjudicating claims arising out of an area within the jurisdiction of a command claims service will comply with the legal and procedural guidance of that service. (c) A commission may operate as an integral part of a command claims service that will determine the cases to be assigned to it, furnish necessary administrative services, and establish and maintain its records. Where a commission does not operate as a part of a command claims service, it may operate as a part of the office of a division, corps or higher command SJA, who will perform the foregoing functions. (d) Any appointing authority may relieve a commission appointed by him or her. One copy of each order concerning appointment, relief, or change of responsibility of a commission will be forwarded without delay to the Commander, USARCS. (e) Normally, the claims commission is responsible for the investigation of all claims referred to it, using the procedures in subpart B, Investigation, and any local procedures established by the appointing authority or command claims service responsible for the area in which the claim arose. The chief of a command claims service can request assistance on claims investigation in their geographical areas from units or organizations other than the claims commission. The Commander, USARCS can do likewise for any claim referred to a commission appointed under his authority. (f) When a foreign claims commission intends to deny a claim, award less than the amount claimed, or recommend an award less that the amount claimed but in excess of its authority, it will notify the claimant, the claimant's authorized agent, or the claimant's legal representative, in writing by the means most likely to ensure receipt by the claimant, of its intended action on the claim and the legal and factual basis for that action. The purpose of this notice is to give the claimant an opportunity to object to the commission's action and state the reasons for the objection before final action on the claim. Where the commission intends to award the amount claimed or to recommend to higher authority an award equal to the amount claimed, this procedure is not necessary. (1) This notice should be given at least 30 days prior to final action by the commission, except for small claims processed under the provisions of Subpart B, Small Claims. (2) If the commission proposes to make a partial award or to recommend a partial award to higher authority, a settlement agreement should be enclosed with the notice. If the commission is recommending an award in excess of its authority, the agreement should indicate that the recommendation is contingent upon approval by higher authority. Claimants will be advised they may either accept the commission's action by returning the signed settlement agreement or, if they are dissatisfied with the commission's action or recommendation, they may submit a response in writing stating the factual or legal reasons why they believe the commissions proposed action is incorrect. (3) A commission may alter its initial decision based on the claimant's response or proceed with its intended action. If the claimant's response raises a general policy issue, the commission may request an advisory opinion from the Commander, USARCS while retaining the claim for final action at its level. (4) Upon completion of its evaluation of the claimant's response, the commission will notify the claimant of its final decision and advise the claimant that its action is final and conclusive by law (10 U.S.C. 2735), unless the final decision is a recommendation for payment above its authority. In that case, the commission will forward any response submitted by the claimant along with the commission's claims memorandum of opinion to the approval authority and will notify the claimant accordingly. (5) Every reasonable effort should be made to negotiate a mutually agreeable settlement on meritorious claims. When an agreement can be reached, the notice and response provisions above are not necessary. If the commission recommends an award in excess of it authority, the settlement agreement should indicate that its recommendation is contingent upon approval by higher authority. §536.157 Composition. A foreign claims commission normally will be composed of either one or three members. Alternate members of three-member commissions may be appointed where circumstances require and be substituted for regular members for specific cases by order of the appointing authority. The appointing orders will clearly state who is to designate the president of a three-member commission. Two members of a three-member commission will constitute a quorum, and the commission decision will be determined by majority vote. §536.158 Qualification of members. A member of a foreign claims commission normally will be either a commissioned officer or a claims attorney. At least two members of a three-member commission must be JAs or claims attorneys. In exigent circumstances, a qualified non-lawyer employee of the armed forces may be appointed to a foreign claims commission subject to prior approval by the Commander, USARCS. Such approval may be granted only upon a showing of the employee's status and qualifications and adequate justification of the need for such appointment (for example, lack of legally qualified personnel). The commission will be limited to employees who are citizens of the United States. An officer, claims attorney, or employee of another armed force will be appointed a member of an Army foreign claims commission only if approved by the Commander, USARCS. §536.159 Delegation of authority. (a) One-member commission. Unless otherwise restricted by the appointing authority, a one-member foreign claims commission that is a JA or a claims attorney may consider and pay appropriate claims presented in any amount provided a mutually agreed settlement can be reached in an amount not over $15,000 or disapprove any claim presented in an amount not over $15,000. In no case will the jurisdictional limit of $15,000 be used to unfairly reduce payment of a claim meritorious in an amount over $15,000. Any other one-member foreign claims commission may consider and pay, in full or in part, claims presented in an amount not exceeding $2,500 that it considers meritorious. (b) Three-member commission. A three-member commission may take the following actions on a claim properly before the commission, unless otherwise restricted by the appointing authority. (1) Disapprove a claim presented in any amount. Where a claim presented in any amount over $50,000 is disapproved, the commission, after final action has been taken, will forward to the appointing authority the written notice to the claimant required by §536.157(f), any response by the claimant and its notice of final action on the claim. (2) Approve and pay, in full or in part, a claim filed in any amount which is adjudicated by the commission as meritorious in an amount not exceeding $50,000. For claims in excess of $50,000 in which the commission approves payment of an award for $50,000 or less, the commission, after taking final action, will forward to the appointing authority the written notice to the claimant required by §536.157(f), any response by the claimant and its notice of final action. (3) Recommend an award in excess of $50,000. The commission will comply with the notice and comment provisions of §536.157(f), and forward the claim to the approval authority under cover of a claims memorandum of opinion. Recommendations for awards in excess of the commissions authority will be sent through any command claims service responsible for the area in which the claim arose and, in the case of recommendations for awards in excess of $100,000, through the Commander, USARCS. (4) In any case where no claim exceeds $50,000 but the total amount to be awarded on all claims arising out of the same incident exceeds $100,000, no action will be taken to make payment until a claims memorandum of opinion (see §536.22) on the incident has been forwarded and reviewed by the Commander, USARCS or his designee. (c) TJAG, TAJAG and the Commander, USARCS or his designee at USARCS may approve and pay, in whole or in part, any claims so long as the amount of the award does not exceed $100,000; may disapprove any claims, regardless of either the amount claimed or the recommendation of the commission forwarding the claim; or, if a claim is forwarded to USARCS for approval of payment in excess of $50,000, may refer the claim back to the commission or to another commission for further action. (d) Payments in excess of $100,000 will be approved by the Secretary of the Army, the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management) as designee of the Secretary or other designee. (e) Following approval, where required, and receipt of an agreement by the claimant accepting the specific sum awarded by the commission, the claim will be processed for payment in the appropriate currency. The first $100,000 of any award will be paid from Army claims funds. The excess will be reported to the Claims Division, GAO, 441 G Street, NW., WASH DC 20548&hyph;9100, together with the documents listed in 536.35(b). (f) The chief of an overseas command claims service may delegate to a one-member commission the responsibility for the receipt, processing, and investigation of any claim, regardless of amount, except those required to be referred to a receiving state office for adjudication under the provisions of a treaty concerning the status of our forces in the country where the claim arose. If, after investigation, it appears that action by a three-member commission is appropriate, the one-member commission should send the claim to the three-member commission with a complete investigation report to include a discussion of the applicable local law and a recommendation for disposition. §536.160 Advance payments. (a) Advance payments pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2736, as amended, in partial payment of meritorious claims to alleviate hardship are authorized under the conditions and procedures provided in subpart B, advance payments. However, no advance payment is authorized if the incident occurs in a foreign country which, pursuant to the NATO&hyph;SOFA or other similar threat or agreement, is responsible for the settlement of claims arising therein. An advance payment may be made in a nonscope claim. (b) The SJA of a command having a command claims service, or chief of a command claims service, is authorized to approve an advance payment under this section. Subpart K_Personnel Claims and Related Recovery Actions General §536.161 Authority.
