FR941017-2-00135 FR941017-2-00078 A. Purpose of the MMCOF The MMCOF is a monthly index published by the OTS that can be used to adjust the interest rate on ARMs. The FHLBB first published the MMCOF in December, 1982. Before the MMCOF, the only national COF index available to savings associations to adjust interest rates on ARMs was the semiannual cost of funds index the FHLBB introduced in 1979, when ARMs first began to be used by the thrift industry to help manage interest-rate risks. Because this COF was only published semiannually, many mortgagors would wait until the rate was published to make their refinancing decisions. The result was a semiannual surge in the number of refinancings. The FHLBB and the savings and loan industry believed that creating a monthly cost of funds index, the MMCOF, would help disperse throughout the calendar year the number of refinancings associated with both fixed rate mortgages and ARMs that use COF indices. Since that time, other monthly indices have been developed and have become far more widely used than the MMCOF. B. Current Usage of the MMCOF The Federal Housing Finance Board's (FHFB) Conventional Mortgage Interest Rate Survey (MIRS), indicates that the MMCOF is currently of minor importance to the mortgage lending industry. This survey showed that instruments used to adjust the interest rate on ARMs included: 1.␣Treasury bills with maturities of less than one year; 2.␣One-year Treasury bills; 3.␣Treasury notes/bonds with maturities greater than one year; 4.␣Eleventh District Cost of Funds; 5.␣Federal Housing Finance Board contract rate series on previously occupied homes; and 6.␣Other cost of funds indices, including the MMCOF. According to the March 1994 MIRS, of ARMs closed in March 1994, 57.7 percent were adjusted by the one-year Treasury constant maturity index, while 21.3 percent of the ARMs were tied to the Eleventh District COFI. Combined, these two indices controlled 79.0% of the new ARM business. Only 1.8% of ARMs closed in March 1994 were adjusted with indices included in the ``Other Cost of Funds Indexes,'' which includes mortgages adjusted with the MMCOF. When both fixed rate mortgages and ARMs were considered, the ``Other Cost of Funds'' mortgages were less than one percent of all loans closed. While the OTS has no data that explain why the MMCOF has been used by such a small percentage of the ARM market, it notes that the universe of reporting institutions providing the data from which the MMCOF is calculated has declined dramatically since its inception. In August 1989, the MMCOF was calculated from data reported by approximately 3,350 FHLBB-regulated, Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation-insured institutions. The then relatively small universe of FHLBB-regulated, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)-insured federal savings banks was not included in calculating the MMCOF. Although these institutions were few in number, they then represented, and continue to represent, approximately 9&hyph;10% of the industry's assets. The number and aggregate assets of OTS-regulated, Savings Association Insurance Fund (SAIF)-insured institutions declined rapidly after FIRREA, with the result that the MMCOF was being prepared from an increasingly smaller universe. Only 1,614 institutions were reporting as of March 1994. This reporting universe includes only OTS-regulated, SAIF members. It no longer includes approximately 221 FDIC-regulated, private sector SAIF-insured institutions. C. Current Costs of the MMCOF
