FR940720-2-00094 FR940720-2-00068 Northern States Power Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;263, Monticello Nuclear Generating Plant, Wright County, Minnesota Date of amendment request: June 8, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise sections 3.7/4.7, which pertain to the Standby Gas Treatment System (SGTS) and Secondary Containment. The proposed amendment would revise the surveillance requirements for both SGTS and secondary containment and revise the performance requirements for the SGTS filters and process stream electric heaters. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed amendment will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The function of the SGTS and secondary containment is to mitigate the consequences of a loss of coolant accident and fuel handling accidents. The proposed changes maintain or improve this capability. Therefore, this amendment will not cause a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated for the Monticello plant. 2. The proposed amendment will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously analyzed. The proposed changes to Technical Specifications for the standby gas treatment system and secondary containment do not alter the function of the systems or its interrelationships with other systems. The proposed changes provide requirements to ensure the systems are capable of performing the required functions or that actions are taken to minimize the potential for its function being required consistent with regulatory guidance; therefore, this amendment will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously analyzed. 3. The proposed amendment will not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. Improvements in the margin of safety are provided via the permanent elimination of a potential single failure which could adversely affect both standby gas treatment systems by deleting the reference to the standby gas system room heaters in the technical specification bases and providing appropriate surveillance requirements to assure system operability. A review of the performance history of the Standby Gas Treatment System and licensing basis assumptions has determined that the proposed changes do not adversely affect plant safety. Changes to the SGTS performance requirements provide greater assurance of SGTS operability. The proposed change for the completion time to place the plant in a cold shutdown condition if limiting conditions for operation can not be satisfied is consistent with the time frame specified in the current specification and is consistent with Standard Technical Specifications. The proposed amendment will not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Minneapolis Public Library, Technology and Science Department, 300 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55401. Attorney for licensee: Gerald Charnoff, Esq., Shaw, Pittman, Potts and Trowbridge, 2300 N Street NW, Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: Ledyard B. Marsh. Omaha Public Power District, Docket No. 50&hyph;285, Fort Calhoun Station, Unit No. 1, Washington County, Nebraska Date of amendment request: February 12, 1993, as supplemented by letters dated August 20, 1993 and June 6, 1994. Description of amendment request: This amendment request was previously noticed in the Federal Register on April 14, 1993 (58 FR 19485). The June 6, 1994, submittal supplements the February 12, 1993, application for amendment, and includes and incorporates the NRC staff comments. The proposed amendment would modify the Technical Specifications (TS) to implement the reactor coolant system (RCS) leak before break (LBB) methodology detection criteria, in accordance with the recommendations listed in Generic Letter (GL) 84&hyph;04. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: (1) Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes will require additional leak detection instruments be operable to close Unresolved Safety Issue A&hyph;2, ``Asymmetrical Blowdown Loads on Reactor Primary Coolant System,'' for the Fort Calhoun Station. Requiring additional instruments to be operable does not increase the probability or consequences of an accident since the safety function of the instruments is not being altered. The proposed changes require at least two different types of RCS leak detection instruments, of diverse monitoring principles, be operable or corrective actions be taken to restore the instrumentation to operable status. Currently the Technical Specifications require only one RCS leak detection instrument to be operable. The probability of leaks occurring due to thermal or normal fatigue is not affected as indicated in the fracture mechanics analysis referenced in Generic Letter 84&hyph;04. No changes are proposed to primary RCS piping systems or supports as a result of the proposed revision. The proposed changes will ensure that a potential significant failure does not go undetected within the Regulatory Guide 1.45 criteria as noted in Generic Letter 84&hyph;04. The Loss of Coolant Accident (LOCA) analysis will not be impacted by the proposed change. The results of the current Fort Calhoun LOCA analyses cited in Section 14.15 of the Updated Safety Analysis Report (USAR) will not be impacted as a result of these changes. (2) Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. It has been determined that a new or different kind of accident will not be created due to the proposed changes since no new or different modes of operation are created by this change. The existing operating procedures were established to support an enhanced RCS leak detection program. Operation of RCS leak detection instruments will not differ from existing conditions. (3) Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The margin of safety as defined in the basis for the Technical Specifications is not changed or reduced by this proposed change. Defining adequate RCS LBB monitoring is required to meet recommendations provided in Generic Letter 84&hyph;04. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: W. Dale Clark Library, 215 South 15th Street, Omaha, Nebraska 68102. Attorney for licensee: LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby, and MacRae, 1875 Connecticut Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20009&hyph;5728.
