FR940725-0-00158 FR940725-0-00019 Paragraph (b)(7) of the final rule requires that a competent person test ventilation discharge for possible accumulation in concentrations that may be hazardous to employees. Paragraph (b)(8) requires that when the test required in paragraph (b)(7) above indicates that concentrations of exhaust vapors that are hazardous to employees are accumulating, all work in the contaminated area shall be stopped and the employees evacuated until the vapors have dissipated or been removed. These two requirements are the same as the existing requirements in §1915.13(a)(5). OSHA has separated these two requirements for clarity, redesignating them as proposed paragraphs (b)(9) and (b)(10) and as paragraphs (b)(7) and (b)(8) of the final rule. Paragraph (b)(9) of the final rule requires that only approved explosion-proof, self-contained portable lamps shall be used in spaces described in paragraph (a) of this section before the spaces have been certified as ``Safe for Workers.'' The previous rule, §1915.13(b), had the same requirement. Paragraphs (b)(7), (b)(8) and (b)(9) of the final rule are being promulgated with several editorial changes for clarity. Paragraph (b)(10) of the final rule requires that signs that can be understood by all employees and that prohibit sources of ignition be posted. Sources of ignition include smoking and open flames that were specified in the previous §1915.13(c). This requirement merely states what was implicit before; that is, that signs must be clearly understood by all employees. Numerous comments were received on the subject of signs (Ex. 6&hyph;3, 6&hyph;4, 6&hyph;6, 6&hyph;8, 6&hyph;10, 6&hyph;12, 6&hyph;15). A common concern was expressed by the U.S. Coast Guard who said that in their area, most shipyard workers possessed a limited command of the English language. They noted that these workers tended to avoid reading long or confusing documents and that for them, a simple statement at each space would be most effective (Ex. 6&hyph;4). OSHA is addressing this problem by requiring that the sign be understood by all employees. The previous standards required signs prohibiting smoking and the use of open flames to be posted on the open deck adjacent to the access to spaces described in §1915.14(a). With the expansion of the scope to include land-side operations, the final rule deletes the reference to decks and substitutes directions for posting that apply to the entire shipyard. Signs must now be prominently posted at the entrance to those spaces, in adjacent spaces, and in the open area adjacent to those spaces. Signs must be ``prominently posted,'' i.e., clearly visible to affected employees. For example, signs posted behind a door do not effectively advise or warn employees of the working conditions. The purpose and intent of the language in paragraph (b)(10) of the final rule is to ensure that all employees are made aware of the danger of ignition sources in the workplace. Paragraph (b)(11) of the final rule requires that all air moving equipment and component parts that are capable of generating a static electrical charge of sufficient energy to create a source of ignition be bonded electrically to the structure of a vessel or vessel section or, in the case of land-side spaces, grounded to prevent unintentional discharge of a static charge. This requirement is the same as the previous rule, §1915.13(d), except that land-side operations are now covered. Paragraph (b)(12) of the final rule requires that fans have non-sparking blades and that portable air ducts be of non-sparking materials. This requirement is unchanged from the previous rule, §1915.13(e). In its effort to make regulatory text more concise, OSHA has combined proposed paragraphs §1915.13(b)(14) and (15) as paragraph (b)(12) of the final rule. The Note OSHA proposed to include at the end of this section has been rewritten in note format and is carried forward into this final rule as follows: Note: See §1915.12(c) of this part and applicable requirements of 29 CFR part 1915, subpart Z for other provisions affecting cleaning or cold work. By including this final note in §1915.13, OSHA is reminding employers of other Subparts of part 1915 as well as paragraphs of this Subpart that may apply. 4. §1915.14␣Hot Work This section addresses the safety precautions that must be taken prior to starting hot work in or on spaces and adjacent spaces that contain or have contained combustible or flammable liquids or gases, related piping and accessories. The requirement that certain spaces must be certified ``Safe for Hot Work'' by a Marine Chemist or a Coast Guard authorized person before hot work is permitted is retained from the previous standard. This section also clearly identifies those locations within shipyard employment where a shipyard competent person is allowed to approve hot work.
