FR940617-2-00116 FR940617-2-00073 Indian Health Service Research Program Grants Application Announcement AGENCY: Indian Health Service, HHS. ACTION: Notice of final funding emphases for competitive grant applications for the Indian Health Service (IHS) Research Program. SUMMARY: The IHS announces the final funding emphases for fiscal year (FY) 1995 IHS Research Program authorized by Section 208 of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 1621g. There will be only one funding cycle during FY 1995. Grants shall be administered in accordance with applicable Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars and HHS polices. This program is described at 93.905 in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. Executive Order 12372 requiring intergovernmental review is not applicable to this program. General Program Goals 1. To support practice and community-based research projects likely to improve the health of American Indians and Alaska Natives (AI/AN) served by the IHS. Projects that are basic science or laboratory research are not considered as conforming to the program goals, and will be returned to the applicant. 2. To develop research skills among IHS and tribal health professional. The applicant, as the direct and primary recipient of PHS funds, must perform a substantive role in carrying out project activities and not merely serve as a conduit for an award to another party, or to provide funds to another party. 3. These grants will be awarded and administered in accordance with the published program announcement in the Federal Register of March 18, 1994 (59 FR 12964) and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, as amended, 25 U.S.C. 1621g. Research Funding Emphases Proposed funding emphases were published in the Federal Register of March 18, 1994 (59 FR 12964) for public comment. No comments were received during the 30-day comment period. Therefore, as proposed, the following funding emphases will be retained as listed below. 1. Studies of documented high importance to the community in which the research is to be done. 2. Studies with high relevance for the AI/AN populations. (The series ``The Research Agenda for Indian Health'' in the IHS Primary Care Provider, lists many relevant research subjects. Reprints are available from the IHS Research Program and the Area Research Offices.) 3. For studies that involve problems that are both social and medical (e.g, dysfunctional families), research on factors that enable the community or individuals to overcome the problems. 4. Competing continuations of previously-funded research projects. Review Process Applications meeting eligibility requirements that are complete and conform to the published program announcement in the Federal Register of March 18, 1994 (59 FR 12964) will be reviewed in accordance with the following process. 1. Review by authorized Institutional Review Boards (IRB). All applications involving human subjects will be reviewed by the authorized Area or National IRBs in the IHS for compliance with requirements to protect human subjects contained in 45 CFR 46, and as specified in the IHS Multiple Project Assurance (MPA). It is suggested but not required that the application be sent to the appropriate Area IRB(s) two months before the deadline, for the IRB review of the proposal to permit making the changes before the final submission. The IRB will review only IRB issues, not purely technical methods. Any applications involving investigators from institutions with IRBs with MPAs and involving human subjects must also be reviewed by the IRBs of the respective institution(s). The researcher should contact non-IHS IRBs for their deadline requirements. No research project can be funded by IHS unless it has been approved by, and has met the conditions of, all applicable IRBs. 2. Review by the Indian Health Research Study Section (IHRSS). Applications meeting eligibility requirements that are complete, responsive, and conform to this program announcement will be reviewed for merit by the IHRSS appointed by the IHS to review these applications. The IHRSS review will be conducted in accordance with the IHS objective review procedures. The technical review process ensures selection of quality research projects in a national competition for limited funding. The IHRSS will include at least 60 percent non-IHS, Federal or non-Federal, individuals, all experts in research. For each application, the IHRSS will decide to disapprove, or to defer pending more information, or to approve the project. If the IHRSS decides to approve the project, it will review the application against established criteria, and will assign a numerical score to the application. The members of the IHRSS will use the following criteria and weights to make the score. Weights (Criteria ``a'' through ``f'' refer to section I. Research Plan.) 4a. Specific Aims: Statement of study question(s) and objective(s).
