FR940406-2-00038 FR940406-2-00019 (7) Coordination with community agencies that furnish transitional supportive services to criminal offenders such as individual and family counseling, housing assistance, transportation, and social and cultural activities; (8) Coordination with the State Occupational Information Coordinating Committee or State Labor Market Information Unit in determining State and local labor shortages; and (9) Adequate and appropriate involvement and cooperation of the public and private sectors in the projects, including_ (i) A clear identification of the public and private sector involvement in the planning of the project; (ii) A description of public and private sector involvement in the planning of the project including letters of commitment; and (iii) A description of public and private sector involvement in the operation of the project. (b) Educational significance. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the applicant proposes_ (1) Project objectives that contribute to the improvement of education for criminal offenders; (2) To use unique and innovative techniques to produce benefits that address educational problems and needs that are of national significance; and (3) To base the proposed project on successfully designed, established, and operated model vocational education programs that include components similar to the components required by this program, as evidenced by empirical data that demonstrate impact from those programs in factors such as_ (i) Student performance and achievement; (ii) GED completion; and (iii) Post-sentence employment or enrollment in education or training programs or both. Other Requirements Purchase of Equipment The projects funded under this competition may expend up to 10 percent of Federal funds for equipment as defined in 34 CFR 74.132 and 80.3. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 This priority contains information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of the proposed priority to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. (44 U.S.C. 350(h)). This priority would affect the following types of entities eligible to apply for a grant under this program: State boards of vocational education, State or local corrections or correctional education agencies, State or local educational agencies, postsecondary educational institutions, institutions of higher education, area vocational education schools, intermediate educational agencies, community correctional education agencies, other public or private non-profit agencies, institutions, or organizations, and the private sector (including employers, labor organizations, building trade councils, and private agencies, organizations, and institutions). The Secretary needs and uses the information to determine whether proposed projects are likely to meet identified national needs. The annual public reporting burden for the collection of information is estimated to average 90 hours per response for 130 respondents, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, Room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503, Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed priorities. All comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period in 330 C Street, SW., room 4529, Mary E. Switzer Building, Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week, except Federal holidays. APPLICABLE PROGRAM REGULATIONS: 34 CFR parts 400 and 426. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 2420a. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.199D Cooperative Demonstration Program) Dated: March 30, 1994. Augusta Souza Kappner, Assistant Secretary, Office of Vocational and Adult Education. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8166 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
