FR940613-1-00009 FR940613-1-00002 Paragraph A. The proposal includes a change in the reporting deadline from March 1 to February 1; paragraph III. A. in the instructions would be revised accordingly. See the discussion on this proposed change under ยง203.5(a), above. Paragraphs B and C._ Requirement to report total HMDA&hyph;LAR entries on transmittal sheet. The regulation requires that a transmittal sheet accompany an institution's HMDA&hyph;LAR data submission, containing general information such as the name, address, and identifying numbers of the institution. Currently, the transmittal sheet does not ask for the total number of transaction line entries contained in the HMDA submission, although the instructions encourage institutions to provide this record count in a cover letter. The Board proposes to amend Regulation C to require financial institutions to report on the transmittal sheet (in both the paper-copy and machine-readable versions) the total number of line entries included in the data submission. Respondents also will be asked to send a transmittal sheet with any subsequent submission of data, rather than only with the initial submission. An institution will sometimes send HMDA data to its supervisory agency in more than one submission when revisions to the initial submission are necessary, for example, or because transactions were found to have been inadvertently omitted. The count on the transmittal sheet for each submission will help the agencies verify the number of line entries submitted by the institution at that time. This change would help reduce the likelihood of any data being lost during the collection process. Paragraph G. Posters. The Board is providing suggested language for the notice of availability that lenders are required to post in their home and branch offices in metropolitan areas. The revised notice reflects the fact that HMDA data besides disclosure statements are now available from financial institutions. See the discussion of proposed changes to ยง203.5(e), above. V. Instructions for Completion of Loan/Application Register A. Application or loan information. 5. Explanation of purpose codes. Code 2: Home improvement. The proposal includes changes in the definition of home improvement loans for HMDA reporting purposes. The HMDA&hyph;LAR instructions would be revised to reflect the proposed changes. See the discussion of home improvement loan issues under ยง203.2(f), above. 8. Loan amount. f. Reporting counteroffers. The proposal clarifies that counteroffers are to be reported as loan denials if the applicant does not accept the counteroffer, not as applications withdrawn or approved but not accepted. This clarification conforms with the treatment of counteroffers in Regulation B (Equal Credit Opportunity). C. Property location. 5. Outside MSA. Financial institutions are encouraged but not required to enter geographic information for loans on property located outside the MSAs in which they have a home or branch office (or outside any MSA). The proposed rule clarifies that, if a lender enters data in the property location fields of the HMDA&hyph;LAR for these loans, the data must accurately reflect the location of the property in question. (3) Other Matters on Which the Board Solicits Comment. In addition to seeking comment on the proposed amendments, the Board solicits comment on other matters related to HMDA reporting: prequalification programs, refinancing transactions, and the collection of racial or ethnic information, as discussed below. Prequalification programs. Regulation C requires lenders to compile and report data on applications for loans as well as on loan originations. The Board has received questions about mortgage lenders' prequalification programs, asking whether and when a request for prequalification must be treated as a credit application for purposes of HMDA reporting. The answer depends on the outcome of the prequalification decision. The definition of application under HMDA is virtually identical to the definition established by the Board's Regulation B (Equal Credit Opportunity). Accordingly, lenders are directed to the guidance provided in the Official Staff Commentary to Regulation B, comments 2(f)&hyph;1 through &hyph;4, on differentiating between applications and inquiries. The commentary states that if a lender_in giving information to a consumer_evaluates information about the consumer, decides to decline a credit request, and communicates this to the consumer, the creditor has treated that inquiry as an application for credit (by virtue of having made a credit decision). In the case of Regulation B, the creditor must then comply with the notification rules on adverse action. In regard to HMDA reporting, the same rule applies, and a lender that turns down a prequalification request (because of the homebuyer's poor credit history, for example) must report it as a loan denial on its HMDA&hyph;LAR.
