FR940504-1-00041 FR940504-1-00017 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Parts 672 and 675 [Docket No. 940413&hyph;4113; I.D. 032394C] RIN 0648&hyph;AG59 Groundfish of the Gulf of Alaska; Groundfish Fishery of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Proposed rule; proposed 1994 specification of Pacific halibut bycatch allowances; request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS proposes regulations to implement several management measures designed to prevent some Gulf of Alaska (GOA) trawl fisheries from taking an unnecessarily large share of the GOA halibut bycatch limit; amend the directed fishing standards to prohibit using retained amounts of arrowtooth flounder, or groundfish species that are closed to directed fishing, as a basis for calculating retainable amounts of other, more valuable groundfish species that are closed to directed fishing; change the opening date of the yellowfin sole and ``other flatfish'' fisheries in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area (BSAI) from May 1 to January 1; and implement changes pertaining to the annual specification and management of GOA halibut prohibited species catch (PSC) limits. This action is necessary to reduce the likelihood that one sector of the Alaska trawl fleet will preempt others for a share of the Pacific halibut bycatch limit established for vessels using trawl gear in the GOA, and provide greater opportunity to harvest available groundfish under halibut bycatch restrictions in both the GOA and BSAI fisheries. This action is intended to further the objectives of the fishery management plans for the groundfish fisheries off Alaska. DATES: Comments must be received by May 31, 1994 . ADDRESSES: Comments may be sent to Ronald J. Berg, Chief, Fisheries Management Division, Alaska Region, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802 (Attn: Lori Gravel). Individual copies of the environmental assessment/regulatory impact review (EA/RIR) prepared for this action may be obtained from the same address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kaja Brix, Fisheries Management Division, Alaska Region, NMFS, at 907&hyph;586&hyph;7228. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The domestic groundfish fisheries in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of the GOA and the BSAI are managed by the Secretary of Commerce in accordance with the Fishery Management Plan (FMP) for Groundfish of the GOA and the FMP for the Groundfish Fishery of the BSAI. The FMPs were prepared by the North Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council) under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act). Regulations authorized under the FMP that pertain to the U.S. groundfish fisheries appear at 50 CFR parts 672 and 675. At its September 1993 meeting, the Council requested NMFS to prepare a rulemaking that would implement several management measures that are intended to prevent some GOA trawl fisheries from taking an unnecessarily large share of the halibut bycatch limit relative to other groundfish trawl fisheries. This results in the attainment of the halibut bycatch cap before some groundfish total allowable catches (TACs) have been taken, causing a closure of trawling operations in the GOA even though the full groundfish harvest amount has not been taken in some fisheries. These measures were presented to the Council in September 1993 by GOA and BSAI trawl industry representatives as an alternative to FMP amendments under consideration by the Council that would establish a super-exclusive registration program for vessels participating in the GOA and BSAI groundfish fisheries. Three measures were proposed to address the preemption of one trawl fishery sector by another:
