FR940203-0-00044 FR940203-0-00009 (ii) Specify the issues upon which review is sought, including a statement as to whether review is sought of the initial determination regarding the commitment of a prohibited act, or of the initial determination regarding sanctions; (iii) Set forth a concise statement of the relevant law or material facts necessary for consideration of the stated issues; and (iv) Present a concise argument setting forth the reasons why review is necessary or appropriate. (4) Any issue not raised in the petition for review filed under this section will be deemed to have been abandoned and may be disregarded by the Commission. (5) Any party may file a response to the petition within seven (7) days after service of the petition, except that a party who has defaulted may not file a response to any issue regarding which the party is in default. (b) Grant or denial of review. (1) The Commission shall decide whether to grant a petition for review, in whole or in part, within forty-five (45) days of the service of the initial determination on the parties, or by such other time as the Commission may order. (2) The Commission shall base its decision whether to grant a petition for review upon the petition and response thereto, without oral argument or further written submissions, unless the Commission shall order otherwise. (3) The Commission shall grant a petition for review of an initial determination or certain issues therein when at least one of the participating Commissioners votes for ordering review. In its notice, the Commission shall establish the scope of the review and the issues that will be considered and make provisions for the filing of briefs and oral argument if deemed appropriate by the Commission. The notice that the Commission has granted the petition shall be served by the Commission Secretary on all parties. §207.116 Commission review on its own motion. Within forty-five (45) days of the date of service of the initial determination, the Commission on its own initiative shall order review of an initial determination or certain issues therein upon request of any Commissioner. §207.117 Review by Commission. On review, the parties may not present argument on any issue that is not set forth in the notice of review; and the Commission may affirm, reverse, modify, set aside or remand for further proceedings, in whole or in part, the initial determination of the administrative law judge. The Commission may make any findings or conclusions that in its judgment are proper based on the record in the proceeding. §207.118 Role of the General Counsel in advising the Commission. The Assistant General Counsel for Section 337 Investigations shall serve as Acting General Counsel for the purpose of advising the Commission on proceedings brought under this subpart if the prohibited act described in the charging letter involves a protective order issued in connection with a panel review that was pending when the letter was issued, and the General Counsel participated in the panel review. No other Commission attorney shall advise the Commission on proceedings under this Subpart concerning a protective order issued during a panel review in which the attorney participated. §207.119 Reconsideration. (a) Motion for reconsideration. Within fourteen (14) days after service of a Commission determination, any party may file with the Commission a motion for reconsideration, setting forth the relief desired and the grounds in support thereof. Any motion filed under this section must be confined to new questions raised by the determination or action ordered to be taken thereunder and upon which the moving party had no opportunity to submit arguments. (b) Disposition of motion for reconsideration. The Commission shall grant or deny the motion for reconsideration. No response to a motion for reconsideration will be received unless requested by the Commission, but a motion for reconsideration will not be granted in the absence of such a request. If the motion to reconsider is granted, the Commission may affirm, set aside, or modify its determination, including any action ordered by it to be taken thereunder. When appropriate, the Commission may order the administrative law judge to take additional evidence. §207.120 Public notice of sanctions. If the final Commission decision is that there has been a prohibited act, and that public sanctions are to be imposed, notice of the decision will be published in the Federal Register and forwarded to the Secretariat. Such publication will occur no sooner than fourteen (14) days after issuance of a final decision or after any motion for reconsideration has been denied. The Commission Secretary shall also serve notice of the Commission decision upon such departments and agencies of the United States, Canadian and Mexican governments as the Commission deems appropriate. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2341 Filed 2&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7020&hyph;02&hyph;P
