FR940128-1-00059 FR940128-1-00006 Temperature-recording devices are easily jarred and rendered inaccurate. They can be calibrated and corrected against a temperature-indicating device (e.g., a thermometer) quite easily, however. Processors should do so at least at the beginning and end of each production day in order to determine whether the instrument was accurate throughout the day's production. In this situation, the temperature-indicating device serves as reference instrument since it is much more reliable. Consequently, the temperature-recording device should never show a higher temperature than the temperature-indicating device. Temperature-indicating devices are generally reliable and need only be calibrated upon installation and annually thereafter. Calibration should be against a standardized (i.e., traceable to the National Bureau of Standards) thermometer that is not subject to the rigors of the processing environment (Ref. 85). Temperature-indicating devices must often be read under less than ideal plant conditions, so they should be installed in a location that facilitates easy reading. As with the temperature-recording device, the sensor on the temperature-indicating device should be installed so as to accurately represent the temperature of the heating or cooling medium. 5. Corrective Actions Appendix A, section 8. advises processors about corrective action steps that they should consider to comply with the proposed corrective action requirements in ยง123.7 of subpart A. Because the evaluation of critical limit failures relating to the cooking step and the terminal heat treatment step of cooked, ready-to-eat products may well require an understanding of the technical aspects of thermal process calculations, Appendix A, section 8. recommends additional controls to those required by ยง123.7 in this regard. Of primary importance is the recommendation that any corrective action other than processing to eliminate the hazard or destruction must be assessed by a competent process authority. For this purpose, a process authority may be a representative of the firm or may be an outside source, so long as the process authority has a scientific background that is adequate to make the assessment. 6. Sanitary Zones Section 123.10 of subpart A establishes requirements for all processors for sanitation within the processing environment. In addition to these requirements, this guideline recommends in Appendix A, section 8. that processors of cooked, ready-to-eat products establish sanitary zones in their facilities. The agency invites comments on the merits of this concept and on whether it should be codified in the regulations. The importance of good sanitation in the processing of cooked, ready-to-eat products cannot be overemphasized. While, as has been stated earlier, plant sanitation has no real bearing on human food safety for many foods, the safety of cooked, ready-to-eat products can be easily jeopardized by pathogens that are introduced through poor sanitation practices. Consequently, FDA is recommending that processors establish sanitary zones around areas where products that have already been cooked are being handled or stored. The primary purpose of a sanitary zone is to physically separate insanitary objects from cooked products. Sanitary zones can also minimize the likelihood of airborne contamination through proper filtration and positive air pressure in the zone. A sanitary zone is a separation of operations by location, partition, air flow, or enclosed systems. In most cases, it requires procedural changes to minimize the risk of contamination but not large-scale structural changes. Canada has successfully incorporated the concept of sanitary zones for seafood processing as part of its HACCP-based inspection program (Ref. 116). K. Guideline For Scombroid Toxin Forming Species FDA is proposing a guideline in Appendix B for handling of the species in which scombroid toxin can form. This problem is primarily, but not exclusively, associated with members of the family Scombridae. The fish involved contain significant levels of naturally occurring free histidine in their flesh, which certain bacteria can decarboxylate into histamine. Significant histamine levels occur when the fish are exposed after death to times and temperatures that permit the growth of these bacteria. Histamine can result in a mild to severe allergic response in humans. Scombrotoxin poisoning is one of the three most common seafood-related illnesses (Ref. 5, p. 24). The scombrotoxic species that have been associated with foodborne illness include tuna, bluefish, mahi, mackerel, sardines, herring, kahawai, anchovies, and marlin. This HACCP guidance is intended to maximize the use of controls to ensure proper handling of scombrotoxic species and thus to minimize the possibility of a problem. It also recognizes the often complex pathways of movement and ownership through which such fish may pass. Failure to ensure safe handling at any point in the chain may render the fish injurious to health. There is a basis for concern about the safety of the fish as soon as histamine begins to form. Once the histamine-forming process has begun, it is like a chain reaction. Lowering the temperature of, or freezing, the fish will slow or arrest the process, but only cooking and prevention of recontamination can stop it (Refs. 9 and 117). The guideline describes a HACCP system that emphasizes reliance upon accurate recordkeeping to show continuity of proper handling. Accurate knowledge of the time/temperature history of the fish is very important in determining the likelihood that the fish are unsafe or may become unsafe. The guideline also calls for more stringent processor controls to be applied to lots for which records are inadequate. While this guideline is designed to prevent problems, nothing in it should be construed as meaning that the agency will not take regulatory action if it finds decomposed fish. The guideline in Appendix B, section 2. identifies receipt of raw materials, which include imported shipments, as a critical control point for processors of scombroid toxin forming species. Time/temperature abuse by the fisherman can result in decomposition and the resultant production of histamine.
