FR941206-2-00110 FR941206-2-00075 [Release No. 34&hyph;35019; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;38] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Amendments to Exchange Rule 104.13 November 29, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on October 26, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change consists of amendments to NYSE Rule 104.13 regarding investment account transactions of specialists and related parties. The text of the proposed rule change is as follows, with language to be deleted in brackets and language to be added in italics: Rule 104 .13 Investment Transactions (a) Any transactions effected for the benefit of any of the following [accounts] persons in stocks in which a specialist is registered must be for investment purposes: * * * * * (d) [Specialists should not originate orders in the stocks in which they are registered for any accounts over which they exercise investment discretion.] No specialist, and no member, allied member, approved person (other than an approved person entitled to an exemption from this rule pursuant to Rule 98) affiliated with such specialist, officer, employee or person active in the business of the specialist shall originate orders in stocks in which such specialist is registered for any account over which they exercise investment discretion. (e) Transactions in a stock in which a specialist is registered effected for trust accounts, including ``blind'' accounts, for the benefit of such specialist or any person specified in paragraph (a) shall be subject to the provisions of this rule. Transactions in a fund which invests broadly in securities and which may from time to time invest in a securities in which a specialist is registered, shall not be subject to this rule. Rule 98 Guidelines (a)␣*␣** The Exchange Rules listed below impose certain restrictions on an approved person who is associated with the specialist member organization. * * * * * •Rule 104.13 provides that any transaction for the [account] benefit of an approved person associated with a specialist member organization, in any stock in which a specialist in the specialist member organization is registered, must be for investment purposes and effected in a stabilizing manner , and precludes an approved person from originating an order in such stock for any account over which such approved person exercises investment discretion. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose Rule 104.13 requires that transactions effected in speciality stocks for the accounts of specified persons affiliated with or related to a specialist must be for investment purposes and executed in accordance with certain restrictions relating to the price at which transactions may take place, known as ``tick'' restrictions. The accounts specified in the rule include accounts of employees or parties active in the business of the specialist, the spouse or children residing in the same household as a specialist or persons active in the specialist business, and any approved person (individual or entity in a control relationship) of the specialist, other than an approved person entitled to an exemption pursuant to Exchange Rule 98. 1 1 NYSE Rule 98 and its Guidelines provide exemptions from various Exchange rules affecting approved persons affiliated with specialists, including Rule 104.13. The exemption is predicated on the existence of procedures to achieve a functional separation between the specialist organization and the approved person. The Exchange believes it is appropriate to amend Rule 104.13 to make it clear that the investment account transaction requirements contained in the rule apply to transactions effected ``for the benefit of'' the parties specified in the rule, rather than simply to transactions effected for the ``account'' of such parties. This would apply, for example, to situations where transactions may not be effected directly for the ``account'' of one of the parties specified in the rule, but may be effected for an account in which one of these specified parties has a beneficial interest. The rule would also make it clear that specialists, and persons associated with specialists, may not originate orders in specialty stocks for any accounts over which they exercise investment discretion.
