FR940926-0-00057 FR940926-0-00011 These factors and their application to Asplenium fragile Presl var. insulare Morton (no common name (NCN)), Ctenitis squamigera (Hook. & Arnott) Copel. (pauoa), Diplazium molokaiense W. J. Robinson (NCN), and Pteris lidgatei (Baker) Christ (NCN) are as follows: A. The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of their habitat or range. Native vegetation on all of the main Hawaiian Islands has undergone extreme alteration because of past and present land management practices including ranching, deliberate animal and alien plant introductions, and agricultural development (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Wagner et al. 1985). Military operations threaten at least one population of Asplenium fragile var. insulare (L. Mehrhoff, pers. comm., 1993). Habitat disturbance caused by human activities such as military construction and road building could detrimentally impact Asplenium fragile var. insulare at Pohakuloa Training Area (Shaw 1992). The primary threats facing the four endangered taxa include ongoing and threatened destruction and modification of habitat by feral animals and competition with alien plants. All four taxa are threatened by feral animals. Pigs, goats, sheep and cattle were introduced either by the early Hawaiians or more recently by European settlers for food and commercial ranching activities. Over the 200 years following their introduction, their numbers increased and the adverse impacts of these ungulates on native vegetation have become increasingly apparent. First introduced to Maui in 1793 (Stone and Loope 1987), goats became established on other Hawaiian islands by the 1820s (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Culliney 1988). Far from controlling their numbers, the era of trade in goatskins (mid-1800s) saw the feral goat population increase into the millions (Culliney 1988). As a result of their agility, they were able to reach more remote areas than other ungulates (Culliney 1988). Feral goats now occupy a wide variety of habitats, from dry lowland forests to alpine grasslands, where they consume native vegetation, trample roots and seedlings, accelerate erosion, and promote the invasion of alien plants (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Stone 1985, Stone and Loope 1987). Three of the endangered fern taxa are threatened by habitat degradation caused by goats. On Oahu, goats are contributing to the decline of a population of Ctenitis squamigera at East Makaleha/Kaawa in the Mokuleia region of the Waianae Mountains (HHP 1991). On Maui, large populations of feral goats persist on the south slope of Haleakala, outside of Haleakala National Park, where they threaten the population of Diplazium molokaiense at Waiopai (R. Hobdy, pers. comm., 1992). Goats have reduced the species' habitat there to small remnants. On the island of Hawaii, feral goats are also present in large numbers within Pohakuloa Training Area in the saddle between Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, where they threaten Asplenium fragile var. insulare through habitat degradation as well as direct browsing on the plants (R. Shaw, in litt ., 1993; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). Feral sheep have become firmly established on the island of Hawaii (Tomich 1986) since their introduction almost 200 years ago (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). Like feral goats, sheep roam the upper elevation dry forests of Mauna Kea (above 1,000 m (3,300 ft)), including Pohakuloa Training Area, causing damage similar to that of goats (Stone 1985). The presence of sheep at Pohakuloa Training Area is contributing to the degradation of the habitat of Asplenium fragile var. insulare. Large-scale cattle ranching in the Hawaiian Islands began in the middle of the 19th century on the islands of Kauai, Oahu, Maui, and Hawaii. Ranches, tens of thousands of acres in size, developed on East Maui and Hawaii (Cuddihy and Stone 1990), where most of the State's large ranches still exist. Degradation of native forests used for ranching activities became evident soon after full-scale ranching began. The negative impact of cattle on Hawaii's ecosystems is similar to that described for goats and sheep (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Stone 1985). Cattle ranching is the primary economic activity on the west and southwest slopes of East Maui, where a population of Diplazium molokaiense exists at Waiopai (R. Hobdy, pers. comm., 1992). Habitat degradation caused by axis deer ( Axis axis ) is now considered to be a major threat to the forests of Lanai (Culliney 1988). Deer browse on native vegetation, destroying or damaging the habitat. Their trampling removes ground cover, compacts the soil, promotes erosion, and opens areas, allowing alien plants to invade (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Culliney 1988, Scott et al. 1986, Tomich 1986). Extensive red erosional scars caused by decades of deer activity are evident on Lanai. Axis deer are presently actively managed for recreational hunting by the State Department of Land and Natural Resources. All three of the Lanai populations of Ctenitis squamigera are negatively affected to some extent by axis deer (HHP 1991). Feral pigs have invaded primarily wet and mesic forests and grasslands of Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Maui, and Hawaii. Pigs damage the native vegetation by rooting and trampling the forest floor, and encourage the expansion of alien plants in the newly tilled soil (Stone 1985). Pigs also disseminate alien plant seeds through their feces and on their bodies, accelerating the spread of alien plants through native forest (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Stone 1985). On Oahu, populations of Ctenitis squamigera , Diplazium molokaiense , and Pteris lidgatei have already sustained loss of individual plants and/or habitat as a result of feral pig activities. The following Oahu populations are threatened by pigs: Ctenitis squamigera at Schofield Barracks and nearby East Makaleha-Kaawa; Diplazium molokaiense at Schofield Barracks (HHP 1991; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992); and, in Kaluanui Valley, the only extant population of Pteris lidgatei (HHP 1992d3; W. Wagner, pers. comm., 1992). On East Maui, feral pigs threaten the populations of Diplazium molokaiense at both Ainahou and Waiopai (R. Hobdy and J. Lau, pers. comms., 1992).
