FR941206-1-00113 FR941206-1-00008 2. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements The proposed rule would require affected sources to maintain adequate records to verify the compliance status of the source on a monthly basis. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the general provisions in §§63.10 (a)&hyph;(b) and (f) of subpart A would apply to all affected sources. The source category-specific requirements in the proposed rule also apply. Sections 63.10 (c)&hyph;(e) of subpart A would not apply unless an affected source installs an add-on control. Affected sources would be required to keep records for 5 years of all VOC content certifications, VOHAP content certifications, maximum allowable dilution ratios, quantities of coatings and thinner consumed, and compliance calculations needed to determine compliance with the standards. These records would vary slightly depending on the method(s) of determining compliance under §63.784 that the source chooses to use. Records of any Method 24 tests (or VOHAP tests) conducted on individual coatings, as applied, would also be maintained. These records are required in case the results of any such test conflicts with the results of any compliance determination conducted in accordance with the other allowable methods. The Administrator believes that the records required under the proposed rule are necessary for a regulatory agency to determine the compliance status of an affected source efficiently and effectively. All records would be compiled each calendar month and maintained for a minimum of 5 years. H. Operating Permit Program Under the operating permit regulations codified at 40 CFR part 70, any source that is considered major under the Act or any nonmajor source subject to a standard under sections 111 or 112 of the Act must obtain an operating permit [see §70.3(a)(1)]. Often, emission limits, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements are scattered among numerous provisions of State implementation plans or Federal regulations. As discussed in the promulgated regulation for the operating permit program published on July 21, 1992 (57 FR 32250), this new permit program includes all of the air pollution control requirements that pertain to a single major stationary source in a single document. Sources subject to the program are required to submit complete permit applications within a year after a State operating permit program is approved by the EPA; if a State program is not approved, sources will submit applications to the EPA within a year after the Federal program is promulgated. I. Solicitation of Comments The Administrator solicits comments on all aspects of this proposal. However, the Administrator is specifically requesting comment on the topics discussed in this section. Commenters should provide available data and rationale to support their comments on each topic.
