FR941020-2-00128 FR941020-2-00078 Under the current requirements of rule A&hyph;13, if a syndicate or similar account is formed for the purpose of purchasing securities from an issuer, the managing underwriter is responsible to pay the assessment fee on behalf of each participant in the syndicate. Payment by the managing underwriter, rather than by individual syndicate members, is solely an administrative convenience for underwriters and the Board. Rule A&hyph;13 is intended to provide a dealer assessment that roughly reflects each dealer's underwriting activity in the municipal securities market. 7 Since rule A&hyph;13 fees are assessments on dealers for the operation of the Board, a dealer's obligation under rule A&hyph;13 should not be charged or otherwise passed through to an issuer as an expense to the issuer of bringing a new issue to market. As such, the proposal would add paragraph (e) to rule A&hyph;13 which states: 7 In opposing the adoption of the proposed amendment, a commenter argued that the proposal would cause a disproportionate allocation of the MSRB costs to be born by a relatively small number of dealers that underwrite new issues, instead of being borne by all dealers (including dealers in the secondary market). Letter from Robert E. Aherne, supra note 3. Participation in new issue offerings may not be a perfect means to measure a dealer's involvement in the market because the assessment does not, among other things, reflect secondary market transactions and activity. In the Commission's view, however, a fee based on underwriting participation is the best available means to create verifiable assessments generally reflecting a dealer's involvement in the market. *␣*␣* (e) Prohibition on Charging Fees Required Under this Rule to Issuers. No broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer shall charge or otherwise pass through the fee required under this rule to an issuer of municipal securities. A commenter supported the Board's perception that, in negotiated underwritings, the subject of rule A&hyph;13 fees sometimes is raised in the context of discussions of expenses to be paid by the issuer of the securities. 8 The Commission supports the Board's view that it is misleading for underwriters to characterize rule A&hyph;13 fees in this fashion. 9 In this respect, the fees paid to the Board by dealers under rule A&hyph;13 should be characterized by dealers to issuers no differently than the annual fees paid to the Board under rule A&hyph;14 and any other ``overhead'' expenses that are incurred by virtue of the dealer engaging in municipal securities business. 8 Letter from Robert A. Aherne, supra note 3, at 3, stating that the rule A&hyph;13 fee ``has generally been viewed by the industry *␣*␣* as allocable to the Issuer's expenses in bringing the issue to market.'' 9 This position is further supported by a commenter that states ``[t]he underwriting fee is more appropriately categorized as part of the dealer's overhead cost of operation.'' Letter from Catherine L. Spain, supra note 3.
