FR940913-0-00002 FR940913-0-00001 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Parts 213 and 316 RIN 3206&hyph;AF55 Temporary and Excepted Service Employment AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Final regulations. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is revising its regulations governing use of temporary appointments (i.e., appointments limited to 1 year or less) to set a uniform service limit for such appointments in both the competitive and the excepted service at 1 year with no more than one 1-year extension (24 months total service). This change is intended to ensure that temporary appointments, under which employees receive no benefits, are used to meet truly short-term needs. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tracy E. Spencer, (202) 606&hyph;0960, or fax (202) 606&hyph;2329. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On February 1, 1994 (59 FR 4601), OPM published proposed regulations to reduce the time limit for temporary appointments, curtail use of temporary hiring for extended seasonal work, and prohibit successive temporary appointments to the same or successor jobs. We developed those regulations in response to Congressional and employee concerns and evidence that some employees were, indeed, serving for years under a succession of temporary appointments with no benefits and no job security. The proposed regulations generated numerous comments from agencies, individual managers and employees, and local employee organizations. Many of the commenters took opposite positions. Many anticipated changes that will be proposed in legislation implementing the recommendations of the National Performance Review (NPR). We could not adopt all of their suggestions, which are summarized below. We have, however, attempted to balance their various concerns and to provide reasonable operating flexibility. Relationship to NPR Many of the commenters felt that the proposal did not go far enough. They stated that the issue of benefits for temporary employees should be addressed directly by affording benefits and within-grade increases to temporary employees, that long-term temporaries who have demonstrated their abilities on the job should not have to compete with the public for permanent vacancies, and that agencies should be able to set the length of temporary appointments based on mission needs, not arbitrary regulations. OPM supports all of those goals. These regulations are not intended to be the final solution to all of the problems of temporary employment. Rather, they are an interim measure to address those issues within our control pending more comprehensive reform. We expect that legislation implementing the human resource recommendations of the NPR will be proposed within the next few months. Until such legislation is passed, however, OPM has no authority to establish those provisions by regulation.
