FR941230-2-00059 FR941230-2-00046 21. The defendant hospitals purchase substantial amounts of supplies and equipment from out-of-state vendors that are shipped across state lines. The United States government sends from outside the State of New York substantial amounts of funds to the defendant hospitals to pay for the treatment of Medicare and Medicaid recipients residing in New York. The defendant hospitals also sell hospital services that are paid for by insurers, managed care plans and HMOs that are headquartered outside of New York State. 22. The general business activities of the defendant hospitals and Classic Care, and the violations and practices described herein are within the flow of, or have a substantial effect upon interstate commerce. IV Violation Alleged 23. Beginning at least as early as April of 1991, and continuing at least until January of 1992, defendants engaged in a continuing combination and conspiracy in unreasonable restraint of interstate trade and commerce in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1. This offense is likely to recur unless the relief prayed for is granted. 24. The combination and conspiracy consisted of an agreement among defendants to form a joint sales agency to coordinate contracting with HMOs, the purpose and effect of which was to prevent discounting off any defendant hospital's inpatient hospital rates and to limit discounting on outpatient rates to HMOs and managed care payers. 25. In furtherance of this combination and conspiracy, defendant hospitals, Classic Care and others did the following things, among others: (a) Agreed to refrain from contracting with HMOs that sought to convert DRG rates on inpatient hospital services to per diem rates for those same services; (b) Agreed to prohibit discounts off any defendant hospital's inpatient hospital rates in connection with any negotiated contract between a defendant hospital and any HMO; (c) Agreed on the terms and conditions upon which a most favored nation clause proposed by a third-party payer for prices on outpatient rates would be accepted by the defendant hospitals; and (d) Agreed to limit discounts on outpatient services in contracts between the defendant hospitals and any HMO or managed care payer to no more than 10% off any defendant hospital's existing outpatient rates. V Effects 26. The combination and conspiracy has had the following effects, among others: (a) unreasonably restrained price competition between the defendant hospitals for the sale of inpatient hospital services to HMOs; (b) unreasonably restrained price competition between the defendant hospitals for the sale of outpatient services to HMOs and managed care payers; and (c) deprived HMOs and managed care payers of the benefits of free and open competition in connection with the purchase of hospital services by those entities. VI Prayer Wherefore, Plaintiff prays: 1. That the court adjudge and decree that the defendants have engaged in an unlawful combination and conspiracy in unreasonable restraint of interstate trade and commerce in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act.
