FR940414-2-00098 FR940414-2-00069 III. Commission Findings The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of section 6(b)(5), 4 and, therefore, approves the Exchange's proposal. 5 Specifically, the Commission believes that the capped options are an innovative financial product that will provide investors with additional choice and flexibility in their use of derivatives. In addition, capped options offer both holders and writers of options a means to participate in the options markets at a predetermined maximum gain or loss. Under the terms of the capped options, the option writer's (holder's) maximum loss (gain) is established at the time of the investment by the option's cap interval. Once the option's cap price (the strike price plus the cap interval for a call or the strike price minus the cap interval for a put) has been reached, the option is exercised automatically. The option writer's maximum potential liability is the amount of the cap interval, and, conversely, the option holder's maximum gain is the amount of the cap interval. Thus, capped options permit investors to participate in the options market at a known and limited cost. By limiting some of the risks associated with spread positions in American-style and European-style options, capped options likely will make the options markets more attractive to a broad range of investors. In addition, the Commission notes that capped options, which are the equivalent of vertical bull and bear spreads traded as a single security, likely will benefit investors by providing them with a more efficient and cost-effective method of executing spread transactions. 4 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1984). 5 The PSE proposal is nearly identical to separate proposals to list and trade capped-style index options submitted by the CBOE and Amex and subsequently approved by the Commission. See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 29865, 56 FR 56255 (November 1, 1991) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;91&hyph;24) and 29934, 56 FR 58593 (November 20, 1991) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;91&hyph;24). The Commission also finds that the specific rules proposed by the PSE to accommodate capped options are consistent with the Act. 6 Specifically, the Commission believes it is reasonable for the Exchange to set a cap interval of $20.00 in that the cap price is placed sufficiently far from the exercise price so that the capped options will not be exercised automatically on a frequent basis. 7 6 The Commission notes that PSE Rule 7.1(q) defines capped-style options and PSE 7.1(r) defines capped-style index options. Because the current Exchange proposal, as the Commission's approval order herein, is limited to capped options on the Wilshire Small Cap Index and the PSE Technology Index, should the PSE decide to list capped-style options on other indexes, including a foreign broad-based stock index, a narrow-based stock index, or an individual security, then the Commission believes an Exchange rule filing made pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act would be necessary. 7 The Commission notes that a rule filing pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act would be necessary if the PSE decided to change the present cap interval. In addition, the Commission believes that the Exchange's proposal to bring up new at-the-money series of capped options every other month and after significant market moves is consistent with the Act because it will not result in a proliferation of options series. The Commission also finds that it is consistent with the Act to exclude capped options from exercise limit calculations because holders of capped options have no control over when their positions will be exercised, except on the last business day before expiration of the options. Moreover, the Commission notes that capped options are not excluded from position limit calculations, in that capped options are aggregated with non-capped-style index options for position limit purposes. Finally, the Commission believes that the proposed margin treatment for capped options in cash and margin accounts is consistent with the Act. Specifically, the Commission believes that it is consistent with the Act to permit short capped options positions in a cash account so long as the maximum exposure (the difference between the exercise price and the cap price times the index multiplier) is deposited. This position is the equivalent of a completely covered position, because the maximum risk of loss is already on deposit. In addition, the Commission believes the proposed margin requirements for capped options positions maintained in margin accounts are consistent with the Act because they are virtually identical to the margin requirements for short stock index options positions in non-capped style stock index options held in margin accounts, except for the fact that a limit equal to the maximum exposure to the option writer is placed on the margin requirement. It is reasonable to limit the margin in this fashion because, if the limit is invoked, the margin covers 100% of the exposure to the writer and no additional margin calls need be made.
