FR941110-0-00039 FR941110-0-00016 Sections 1819(g)(5)(B) and 1919(g)(5)(B) of the Act require State survey agencies to notify the State's long-term care ombudsman of any adverse actions imposed against a facility. We proposed at 488.175(e) that the State survey agency be required to provide the State's long-term care ombudsman with the report of noncompliance of a facility, report of any adverse actions imposed, any written response by the SNF or NF, and the results of any appeals. As a result of sections 4008(h)(2)(E) and 4801(e)(5)(D) of OBRA '90, sections 1819(b)(4)(C)(ii)(IV) and 1919(b)(4)(C)(ii)(IV) of the Act require the Secretary and the State, respectively, to provide notice to the State long-term care ombudsman and the State protection and advocacy system for the mentally ill and mentally retarded of SNF and NF waivers. Sections 1819(b)(4)(C)(ii)(V) and 1919(b)(4)(C)(ii)(V), as added by OBRA '90, require the facility receiving such nursing waivers to notify the residents of the facility (or, when appropriate, the guardians or legal representatives of such residents) and a resident's immediate family of the waiver. We proposed, at section 488.175 (f) and (g), that facilities give this notice within 10 days from the date the SNF or NF is granted the waiver. Under sections 1819(g)(5)(C) and 1919(g)(5)(C) of the Act, the State is required to notify each attending physician and the State board responsible for licensing nursing home administrators when a facility has provided substandard quality of care. We proposed requiring each SNF or NF to provide either HCFA or the State, no later than 10 days after receiving a notice of substandard care, with a list of each Medicare and Medicaid resident in the facility and the name and address of his or her attending physician. We also proposed at ยง488.175 requiring the State to notify the attending physicians and the State licensing board within 30 days of the date the SNF or NF is notified of a finding of substandard care. We recognized that this and the notification requirement related to nurse waivers were the only provisions in our proposed regulation which set forth requirements for nursing homes. All other provisions in the proposed rule set forth requirements for the Secretary and the State in the enforcement of nursing homes requirements. We included these facility requirements in the proposed rule because they directly or indirectly pertain to the enforcement process. The same sections of the Act also required the State survey agency to provide access to any information incidental to a facility's participation in Medicare or Medicaid upon request by the State Medicaid fraud control unit established under 42 CFR part 1002, subpart C. We proposed incorporating this provision under paragraph (j) of ยง488.175. J. Enforcement Options 1. Overview As stated earlier, before the passage of OBRA '87, the only adverse actions available to HCFA and the States for imposition against long term care facilities that were out of compliance with Federal requirements were termination of participation, nonrenewal and automatic cancellation, and denial of participation for prospective providers. In addition, HCFA and the States had authority, in cases of long-term care facilities, to deny payment for new admissions to facilities rather than to terminate the provider agreements when deficiencies did not present an immediate and serious threat to the health and safety of residents of the facilities. The denial of payment provision was considered both an alternative to the more severe measures, as well as an intermediate step that HCFA or the State could take prior to and possibly in lieu of termination from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The sanction afforded HCFA and the States the opportunity to defer the decision to terminate. Thus, the terms ``alternative sanction'' and ``intermediate sanction'' came into use to designate denial of payment for new admissions to facilities for a period of up to 11 months after the month in which the sanction was imposed. Former sections 1866(f) and 1902(i) of the Act were the authority for the alternative sanction under Medicare and Medicaid respectively. The Family Support Act of 1988, Public Law 100&hyph;345, repealed the Medicare provision and MCCA made the Medicaid provision applicable only to ICFs/MR.
