FR940920-2-00061 FR940920-2-00027 The following reporting and discharge monitoring requirements are based on Section 308 of the Act and 40 CFR 122.44(i). These requirements serve to determine compliance with, or the possible future need for, effluent limitations in the permit. _Chemical analysis _Chemical inventory _Monitoring volume discharged _Mud plan The requirement of a mud plan is new and is explained below. The first three requirements have been present in previous NPDES general permits for all coastal and offshore operations in Region 10. The chemical analysis requirement has been expanded to require analysis of total recoverable metal concentration, in addition to total metal concentration. Analyses are to be conducted on split samples. This requirement has been included to enable the Agency to better evaluate the impact of metals in the mud discharges. Mud Plans: As previously noted, Region 10 plans to discontinue authorization of mud/additive systems. Instead EPA is shifting the responsibility of case-by-case evaluations from the Region to the operator. Resources do not allow Region 10 to continue to perform case-by-case evaluations or to issue discharge authorizations for each drilling mud/additive system. Hence, the proposed permit contains a requirement that the permittee develop, have on-site, and available upon request a plan for discharge of drilling muds and additives (hereafter called ``mud plan''). This requirement is analogous to analyses that the region has been performing in development of drilling mud authorizations. The basis for the mud plan requirement is Section 308(a)(A) of the Act which provides that EPA may require the permittee to establish and maintain records and/or reports that will assist the Region to determine compliance with other requirements and effluent limitations of the permit. The mud plan is one component of the Best Management Practices Plan (see Part II.F.4.d.(4) of the permit). The mud plan requirement is also based upon the Pollution Prevention Act and its policy of prevention, reduction, recycling, and treatment of wastes (PPA Section 102(b)) through measures which include process modification, materials substitution, and improvement of management (PPA Section 107(b)(3)). The goal of requiring development of a mud plan is to ensure that personnel on-site are knowledgeable about the information needed and the methods required to formulate the mud/additive systems in order to meet the effluent toxicity limit. Simply put, the mud plan is intended to be a written guide to planning for, and using, a mud/additive system in compliance with the permit. Region 10's case-by-case approach to evaluating discharge of mud/additive systems coupled with use of worst case cumulative toxicity estimates as bases for authorization, has been conducive to the discharge of muds with lower toxicity than elsewhere in the OCS. To date Alaskan operators have demonstrated that thorough planning and evaluation of mud/additive systems with respect to possible cumulative toxicity does consistently result in discharge of muds that are less toxic than the 30,000 ppm SPP limit. The mud plan is intended to demonstrate that the discharged mud/additive system for the well in question will meet the effluent limit of 30,000 ppm SPP based on the following decision criteria: _Estimates of worst case cumulative discharge toxicity (either calculated or actual toxicity test results); _Estimates of toxicity of discharged mud when a mineral oil pill has been used; and _Use of less toxic alternatives where possible. The mud plan shall also include a clearly stated procedure for dealing with situations in which additives not originally planned for are needed at the ``last minute.'' This procedure should enable drilling and mud personnel to determine whether an additive or mud component may be added to the circulating mud system without significant effect upon the discharge toxicity. Criteria for reaching this type of ``last minute'' additive decision shall be clearly specified in the mud plan. In addition to developing the mud plan, the operator is also required to certify that the mud plan is complete, on-site, and available upon request (see Part II.A.1.f. of the permit). Certification is due no later than submission of their written notice of intent to commence discharge (see Part I.C. of the permit). 4. Section 403(c) Requirements for Muds and Cuttings Depth-related Restrictions: Additional restrictions on these discharges are necessary to ensure no unreasonable degradation of the environment. The area of coverage includes water depths from 5 to about 3,000 meters deep. Discharge rate limitations on total muds and cuttings have been established in the ocean discharge criteria evaluation process in order to allow adequate dispersion of the discharges. These maximum rates are: _No discharge in waters less than 5 meters deep, _500 bbl/hr for discharges into waters greater than 5 meters but not more than 20 meters in depth, _750 bbl/hr for discharges into waters greater than 20 meters but not more than 40 meters in depth, and _1,000 bbl/hr for discharges into waters greater than 40 meters in depth.
