FR941216-1-00136 FR941216-1-00012 (d) Glass, acrylic, or polycarbonate materials required for transparent shielding shall be periodically coated with an anti-static material to prevent buildup of static electricity. (e) The sounding of a static electricity alarm, installed with the setting best able to provide ample warning, signals that work shall stop until the problem has been located and corrective action taken. (f) Work shall not start in air-conditioned areas until relative humidity and temperature have been checked (see ยง184.162(h)). (g) No metal surface subjected to rubbing or friction shall be painted. If a lubricant is necessary, it should be of a composition that shall not increase the metal's surface resistance above 25 ohms. (h) Work on or with initiators shall be performed in areas equipped with conductive floors and table tops. Exceptions may be made with the initiators are in their original packaging, or are in part of a finished metallic end item affording them complete protection from electromagnetic or electrostatic energy. (i) Work shall not be done in the vicinity of actual or potential electromagnetic or electrostatic fields. Sources of static electricity and electromagnetic energy include radio transmission, electrical storms, transformer stations, high voltage transmission lines, improperly grounded electric circuitry, rotating equipment, belts, etc. Adequate lightning protection and grounding and adequate resistances for fixed sources of energy shall be established for locations with low-energy initiator operations. These shall be shielded to afford protection against local mobile radio transmission. (j) Electrical equipment shall be located out of the range of an operator working with a low-energy initiator. With soldering irons, it may be advisable to ground and limit energy to levels below initiating thresholds. (k) When not part of an end item or end item subassembly, initiators shall be transported only when packed according to the latest packing specifications for low-energy initiators. ยง184.167 Laboratory operations. (a) Research and development laboratories and testing facilities constitute a separate category involving guidance, restrictions, and relief from certain requirements prescribed in this part. (b) Each operation at facilities designed for blast and fragment confinement shall be reviewed to ensure that the explosives limits are within the laboratory or test area capability. Explosives limits and safe separation distances shall be adjusted as the capability to confine fragment and blast decreases. (c) A total-confinement facility shall be inspected after a detonation to ensure structural integrity, possibly reducing the explosives limits to prevent future blasts from exceeding the retention capability. (d) Each proposed program for the laboratory or test facility shall be reviewed to determine all potential hazards. Considerations shall include: (1) Structural limitations of the facility. (2) Remote control viewing and operating equipment, if required. (3) Special safety precautions for personnel elsewhere in the building. (4) Safe separation distances. (5) Required deviations from other sections of this part. (6) SOPs, which shall at a minimum include the following: (i) Protective clothing. (ii) Warning signals. (iii) Fire and other emergency procedures. (iv) Special testing of equipment needed before operations (such as stray voltage and calibration checks). (v) Removal of all explosives not needed for the operation. (vi) Arrangements for overnight storage of necessary explosives. (vii) Inspection and cleanup procedures after a test or detonation.
