FR940728-2-00051 FR940728-2-00041 C. EPA Activities Related to Auditing Standards EPA is currently participating in two major non-regulatory efforts to develop voluntary standards for auditing and environmental management systems. First, the International Organization of Standards (ISO), based in Geneva, Switzerland, established in 1993 a Technical Committee for Environmental Management Standards (ISO&hyph;TC&hyph;207). Subcommittee Two of TC&hyph;207 is in the process of developing environmental auditing standards. The standards fall into three groups: Auditing Principles, Auditing Procedures, and Auditor Qualifications. Second, in the U.S., the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) in Ann Arbor, Michigan, is developing environmental auditing standards that are intended to be compatible with and augment the ISO standards. Work is proceeding rapidly within ISO and NSF, with draft standards expected by the end of the year. The proposed NSF and ISO auditing standards are being developed within the framework of overall environmental management systems standards. Neither ISO nor NSF intends to establish specific environmental standards; instead both are seeking to provide management tools that include auditing schemes and standards. The EPA 1986 Policy has been a central reference document for both the ISO and NSF work. As these new documents develop, issues of auditor qualifications and explicit management commitment to audit follow-up will be of particular interest to EPA. IV. Review of EPA Policy on Specific Environmental Auditing Issues A. Agency Requests for Audit Reports EPA's 1986 Policy clearly states that: .␣.␣. EPA believes routine Agency requests for audit reports could inhibit auditing in the long run, decreasing both the quantity and quality of audits conducted. Therefore, as a matter of policy EPA will not routinely request environmental audit reports. The 1986 policy also acknowledges regulated entities' need to self-evaluate environmental performance with some measure of privacy. However, audit reports may not shield monitoring, compliance or other information that would otherwise be reportable and/or accessible to EPA even if there is no explicit requirement to generate that data. Thus, the 1986 Policy does not alter regulated entities' existing or future obligations to monitor, record or report information required under environmental statutes, regulations or permits, or to allow EPA access to that information. Nor does the 1986 Policy alter EPA's authority to request and receive any relevant information_including that contained in audit reports_under various environmental statutes or in other administrative or judicial proceedings. EPA's authority to request an audit report, or relevant portions thereof, will be exercised on a case-by-case basis where the Agency determines it is needed to accomplish a statutory mission, or where the Government deems it to be material to a criminal investigation. EPA expects such requests to be limited, most likely focused on particular information needs rather than the entire report, and usually made where the information needed cannot be obtained from monitoring, reporting, or other data otherwise available to the Agency. Examples would likely include situations where: audits are conducted under consent decrees or other settlement agreements; a company has placed its management practices at issue by raising them as a defense; or state of mind or intent are a relevant element of inquiry, such as during a criminal investigation. This list is illustrative rather than exhaustive, since there doubtless will be other situations, not subject to prediction, in which audit reports rather than information may be required .␣.␣. B. EPA Response to Environmental Auditing 1. General Policy The 1986 Policy states that ``EPA will not promise to forgo inspections, reduce enforcement responses, or offer other such incentives in exchange for implementation of environmental auditing or other sound environmental management practices.'' EPA is required by law to independently assess compliance status of facilities, and cannot eliminate inspections for particular firms or classes of firms. Certain statutes (e.g. RCRA) and Agency policies establish minimum facility inspection frequencies to which EPA will adhere. Environmental audits are in no way a substitute for regulatory oversight. As explained in the 1986 Policy, however, EPA will take into account a facility's efforts to audit in setting inspection priorities and in fashioning enforcement responses to violations: .␣.␣. EPA will continue to address environmental problems on a priority basis and will consequently inspect facilities with poor environmental records and practices more frequently. Since effective environmental auditing helps management identify and promptly correct actual or potential problems, audited facilities' environmental performance should improve. Thus, while EPA inspections of self-audited facilities will continue, to the extent that compliance performance is considered in setting inspection priorities, facilities with a good compliance history may be subject to fewer inspections. In fashioning enforcement responses to violations, EPA policy is to take into account, on a case-by-case basis, the honest and genuine efforts of regulated entities to avoid and promptly correct violations and underlying environmental problems. When regulated entities take reasonable precautions to avoid noncompliance, expeditiously correct underlying environmental problems discovered through audits or other means, and implement measures to prevent their recurrence, EPA may exercise its discretion to consider such actions as honest and genuine efforts to assure compliance. Such consideration applies particularly when a regulated entity promptly reports violations or compliance data that otherwise were not required to be recorded or reported to EPA. These principles have been incorporated into the Agency's enforcement response and civil penalty policies. 2. Audit Provisions as Remedies in Enforcement Settlements The 1986 Policy includes the following language on audit provisions as remedies in enforcement settlements: EPA may propose environmental auditing provisions in consent decrees and in other settlement negotiations where auditing could provide a remedy for identified problems and reduce the likelihood of similar problems recurring in the future. Environmental auditing provisions are most likely to be proposed in settlement negotiations when: •A pattern of violations can be attributed, at least in part, to the absence or poor functioning of an environmental management system; or •The type of nature of violations indicates a likelihood that similar noncompliance problems may exist or occur elsewhere in the facility or at other facilities operated by the regulated entity. EPA's enforcement office issued further guidance on this issue in 1986 in a document entitled ``EPA Policy on the Inclusion of Environmental Auditing Provisions in Enforcement Settlements.'' This guidance has been consistently applied in enforcement actions as appropriate, and has formed the basis for the inclusion of audit agreements or provisions in numerous consent decrees. Selected text from this document, also still in effect, is included here: In recent years, Agency negotiators have achieved numerous settlements that require regulated entities to audit their operations. These innovative settlements have been highly successful in enabling the Agency to accomplish more effectively its primary mission, namely, to secure environmental compliance. Indeed, auditing provisions in enforcement settlements have provided several important benefits to the Agency by enhancing its ability to: •Address compliance at an entire facility or at all facilities owned or operated by a party, rather than just the violations discovered during inspections; and identify and correct violations that may have gone undetected (and uncorrected) otherwise; •Focus the attention of a regulated party's top-level management on environmental compliance; produce corporate policies and procedures that enable a party to achieve and maintain compliance; and help a party to manage pollution control affirmatively over time instead of reacting to crises; •Provide a quality assurance check by verifying that existing environmental management practices are in place, functioning and adequate. * * * * * It is the policy of EPA to settle its judicial and administrative enforcement cases only where violators can assure the Agency that their noncompliance will be (or has been) corrected. EPA .␣.␣. considers auditing an appropriate part of a settlement where heightened management attention could lower the potential for noncompliance to recur. * * * * *
