FR941110-0-00210 FR941110-0-00016 Many commenters were not aware that most of the provisions in this section are required by the Act. Most of the comments we received concerned proposed ยง488.234 as a whole; therefore, we have grouped the comments under generic headings, rather than under specific subsections. HCFA's Role in Enforcement Decisions. Comment: Some commenters stated that the proposed regulations give HCFA too large of a role in enforcement decisions. Response: The regulations reflect the statutory role given to the Secretary by the Congress in the enforcement provisions of the Act. Specifically, sections 1919(h) (5), (6), and (7) require the Secretary's involvement in enforcement decisions with respect to Medicaid NFs should the Secretary find facility noncompliance and seek to impose either alternative sanctions or termination or both. Comment: Several commenters stated that the Congress did not intend HCFA to make all compliance decisions on dually certified SNF/NFs. Response: HCFA does not make ``all the decisions'' on a dually certified SNF/NF. The Act itself prescribes that a finding of noncompliance, by either the State or the Secretary, will prevail over the other agency's finding of compliance. Therefore, the Congress decided that in cases where the agencies disagree, the finding of noncompliance becomes the effective finding regardless of whether it is the Secretary or the State that has made the finding. In addition, the Act provides that a State's decision to terminate prevails over HCFA's decision not to terminate, and the State's timing of a termination also prevails over HCFA's. Comment: Some commenters stated that the Congress did not intend that HCFA ``second guess'' States' decisions on every survey. Response: We have no intention of second guessing the results of every State survey. Sections 1819(g)(3) and 1919(g)(3) of the Act, however, require the Secretary to conduct validation surveys of a representative sample of SNFs and NFs in each State within 2 months of surveys by the State survey agency. Section 1919(h)(3)(B) of the Act provides for the Secretary's general validation authority exclusive of actual on-site validation surveys. As we stated in the proposed rule, prior to the effective date of OBRA '87, HCFA, acting for the Secretary, monitored State surveys. OBRA '87 formalized this process. The Congress also made explicit provision for whose enforcement approach would prevail in the case of a disagreement between the State and HCFA. Sections 1919(h) (6) and (7) of the Act, as implemented by redesignated ยง488.452, specify situations in which the State rather than the Federal government prevails, with regard to the choice of a remedy or the timing of an enforcement action. Comment: A few commenters stated that HCFA should take enforcement action against a Medicaid provider only after a validation survey or other on-site survey. Some wanted to change the above regulation by inserting the phrase: ``on the basis of a validation survey'' after ``HCFA finds.'' Some commenters wanted a State's enforcement decision to be the controlling decision because the States understand local conditions better than HCFA does. Response: We are not adopting these proposals to act only on the basis of an on-site validation survey, because they would limit HCFA's oversight responsibility and limit HCFA's ability to protect residents' health, safety and rights. Federal surveyors are able to review a State-prepared Statement of Deficiencies and come to an independent conclusion about whether the deficiencies cited indicate substantial compliance or noncompliance with the statutory and regulatory requirements. This has been a routine part of HCFA's monitoring of State survey agencies in the past. We do not think the Congress intended to reduce these monitoring responsibilities.
