FR940825-1-00015 FR940825-1-00002 g. Interior Finishes 1. Interior Finish and Trim. (a) All materials used for interior finish and trim shall be classified in accordance with ASTM E84. The classifications of interior finishes referred to in this section correspond to flame spread ratings on the flame spread test scale determined by ASTM E84 as follows: Class A flame spread, 0&hyph;25; Class B flame spread, 26&hyph;75; Class C flame spread, 76&hyph;200. (1) Foam plastics shall not be installed as interior trim or finish. (2) Interior wall and ceiling finish materials that have a smoke-developed rating greater than 450 when tested in accordance with ASTM E84 shall not be permitted. (b) All materials used inside an exit stairway shall have fire hazard ratings of not more than 25 for flame spread and not more than 50 for smoke development. (c) Other than in sprinklered ATCTs, all materials used for interior finish shall have fire hazard ratings of not more than 25 for flame spread and not more than 450 for smoke development and fuel contribution (Class A). Exception: Carpeting may be used as wall covering in non-sprinklered areas provided the carpet type meets the requirements of the 8×12×8 ft room/corner fire test procedure described in NFPA 101, Section A&hyph;6&hyph;5.2.3 (1991 edition). (d) In sprinklered ATCTs, all materials used for interior finish in enclosed rooms and spaces and in means of egress shall have fire hazard ratings of not more than 75 for flame spread and not more than 450 for smoke development. Exception: Carpeting with a Class A flame spread classification may be used as wall covering provided it is used only in rooms protected by an approved automatic fire suppression system. (e) Baseboards, chair rails, moldings, trim around openings and other interior trim, not in excess of 10 percent of the aggregate wall and ceiling areas of any room or space, shall be of Class A, B, or C materials. (f) Paint, veneer, and other thin final finishing materials not over 0.035-inch thick and applied directly to a noncombustible base are permitted and may be used provided that such materials do not significantly increase the fire hazard ratings of the base material involved. (g) Fire retardant paints. Fire retardant paints or solutions shall be re-applied as necessary to maintain the required flame retardant properties. 2. Interior Floor Finish. (a) Finished floors or floor covering materials of a traditional type, such as wood, vinyl, linoleum, terrazzo, and other resilient floor covering materials, are exempt from the requirements of this section. Floor coverings judged by the authority having jurisdiction to represent an unusual hazard, such as carpet, shall meet the requirements of this section. (b) Interior floor finish in means of egress shall be of not less than Class B materials in accordance with ASTM E648. Class B corresponds to a critical radiant flux of 0.22 watts/cm2 as defined in ASTM E648. In all other areas the interior floor finish shall comply with the Department of Commerce FF&hyph;1 ``pill test'' (CPSC 16 CFR 1630). (c) The requirement for rooms or enclosed spaces is based on the condition that the areas have partitions which extend from the floor to the ceiling. Where partitions do not satisfy this criterion, the room or space is considered part of the corridor. 3. Furnishings and Decorations. (a) No furnishings, decorations, or other objects shall be so placed as to obstruct exits, access thereto, egress therefrom, or visibility thereof. (b) No furnishings or decorations of an explosive or highly flammable character shall be used in any occupancy. h. ATCT Console Construction Consoles in the ATCT which are not constructed entirely of noncombustible materials shall comply with National Electrical Manufacturers Association Standard LD3, which incorporates a ``Radiant Heat Resistance'' test which measures the ability of the surface of high pressure decorative laminate to resist spot damage when subjected to a radiant heat source. i. Electrical Requirements All electrical wiring and equipment shall comply with the National Electrical Code, NFPA 70, 1993, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, Massachusetts. j. Means of Egress 1. General. Every ATCT shall be provided with exits of kinds, number, location, protective features, and capacity appropriate to the individual building or structure, with due regard to the unique character of ATCTs, the number of persons exposed, the fire protection available, and the height and type of construction of the building or structure, to afford all occupants convenient facilities for escape. 2. Occupancy and Use Requirements. (a) ATCT structures are occupied by personnel and contain equipment and supplies necessary for aircraft control operations. ATCTs are designed to provide 360 ○ visibility from the cab level. (b) ATCTs may not be used for living or sleeping purposes.
