FR940228-1-00069 FR940228-1-00010 Undergraduate Student The Secretary proposes to add a definition of undergraduate student to this section. Because the proposed definition of a full-time student makes reference to an undergraduate student and because the term undergraduate student is used in other places in part 668, the Secretary believes it is now necessary to define undergraduate student in this part. The proposed definition is the definition currently found in the Federal Pell Grant and campus-based program regulations. The Secretary proposes to define an undergraduate student as a student enrolled in an undergraduate educational program at an institution who has not earned a baccalaureate or first professional degree. The student would have to be enrolled in an undergraduate educational program that usually does not exceed 4 academic years, or a 4- to 5-academic-year program designed to lead to a first degree. A student enrolled in a program of any other length would be considered an undergraduate student for only the first four academic years of that program. Section 668.8␣Eligible Program Admission Requirements These proposed regulations would remove the current provisions in §668.8(a)(1) (i) through (iv), which govern the educational qualifications of persons admitted into an eligible program. These qualifications are appropriately addressed in 34 CFR 600.4 through 600.6, which govern the types of institutions that may be eligible to apply to participate in HEA programs. The educational qualifications of eligible students under the Title IV, HEA programs are also addressed in §668.7(a) (3) and (b). Therefore, these provisions are no longer needed for purposes of defining an eligible program. Note that other provisions governing the admission requirements needed for certain educational programs to qualify as an eligible program are discussed further below. Definitions These regulations would clarify a number of the terms used to determine an eligible program. Proposed §668.8(b)(1) would define the equivalent of an associate degree as either an associate degree, or the successful completion of at least a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor's degree and qualifies a student for admission into the third year of a bachelor's degree program. This definition is needed because educational programs offered by a proprietary institution of higher education or a postsecondary vocational institution may qualify as eligible programs depending, in part, on whether the programs admit students with the equivalent of an associate degree (see the discussion on minimum program lengths). The definition is based on the provision in section 1201(a)(3) of the HEA that qualifies institutions offering 2-year transfer programs for institutional eligibility. For the same reason (that the terms are needed to establish the eligibility of programs offered by proprietary institutions of higher education and postsecondary vocational institutions_ see the discussion on minimum program lengths) the Secretary proposes to define week and week of instruction. For consistency, these terms would be the same as those proposed to be used in §668.2 for the definition of academic year. The terms are discussed in detail there. It is important to note that short-term programs (those offering less than 600 clock hours) that are eligible under current regulations because they met the definition of vocational school that used to be in section 435 of the HEA, will cease to be eligible when the final regulations governing programs become effective, unless those short-term programs are able to satisfy these regulations. Short-term programs that were not offered or were not eligible before July 23, 1992 can only become eligible when final regulations become effective.
