FR940428-2-00024 FR940428-2-00015 h. Certificate of Environmental Safety and Health. 2. Volume II_Technical Proposal: (Original and 5 Copies) The offeror shall identify the specific area(s) of research the proposed project addresses. These areas are defined in the section titled, ``Areas of Research in Which Contracts May be Awarded''. a. Technical Approach and Understanding This section shall describe the offeror's technical approach to accomplish the work. The offeror shall provide a description of the technology, its intended use(s), and the need(s) or problem(s) the technology will address. The offeror shall provide a clear description of the project objective(s) and deliverables (e.g. reports, device(s)). The offeror shall provide a statement of work (SOW) which shall be divided into logical tasks and subtasks necessary to accomplish the project objective(s). The SOW shall include, where applicable, key go/no-go decision points (it is understood that because of the nature of the work proposed that some, though few, will not lend themselves to go/no-go decision points) which will be used to evaluate project success. These decision points may be identified as options in any resulting contract. The offeror shall identify specific success criteria which must be satisfied to demonstrate success for each key go/no-go decision point. Note: The statement of work will contain Task 1 which will require the preparation of documentation and submission of information necessary for DOE to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act requirements if the project does not qualify as a categorical exclusion. Offerors may receive the Statement of Work format, which includes Task 1, from the individual identified in Article 9, as part of the information package. Where applicable the offer should provide a preliminary test plan which shall include, but not be limited to, objectives of the test, description of test equipment and experimental setup, test procedures, test conditions, number of tests, duration of tests, data to be collected, and criteria to determine success of a test. Also where applicable, the offeror shall provide a preliminary process flow diagram and material balance for the proposed technology. The proposer shall provide a PERT (Program Evaluation and Review Technique) chart or equivalent depicting the project schedule, milestones, and interrelationship of the project tasks. The offeror shall identify the critical path which identifies the sequential tasks which, if not completed on time, will result in a delay in the overall project schedule. The offeror shall provide a table listing the estimated labor hours and labor categories (e.g., management, engineering, scientific, technician, analytical, clerical) required for each task. The offeror shall include a table showing labor hours and labor categories for any proposed subcontracting or consulting effort for each task, including Task 1. The offeror shall discuss the rationale used to develop estimates for labor hours, labor categories, subcontracting effort, consulting effort, and travel. Cost information is not to be included in the technical proposal volume. The offeror shall describe the proposed travel. The purpose of the trip, number of trips, the origin and destination, trip duration, and the number of personnel shall be included in the explanation. b. Merit of the Technology
