FR941031-2-00007 FR941031-2-00005 SUMMARY: The Corps of Engineers published in the Federal Register , on June 17, 1993, its intent to prepare a supplemental draft Environmental Impact Statement (sdEIS) relevant to an application for a Section 404 permit to place fill material into wetlands adjacent to East Brush Creek, Eagle County, Colorado, for the construction of commercial/residential development attendant to a four-season resort. This sdEIS is a prelude for preparing a Final EIS prior to a permit decision on the proposed development. The applicant, Kummer Development Corporation dba Adam's Rib Recreation Area, has applied for a permit to fill approximately 25 acres of montane wetlands pursuant to the development which would include 250,000 square feet of commercial space, 4,281 residential units, and 1,440 lodging rooms, employee housing, golfing and skiing for 9,000 skiers-at-one-time on Adam Mountain and Mount Eve. The USDA-Forest Service, as a Cooperating Agency, through this Notice, intends to directly participate with the Corps of Engineers to include analyses for impacts to wetlands and waters of the U.S. for the ski mountain and a potential Federal land exchange with the applicant for NEPA compliance. Any additional analyses shall tier into this sdEIS. Also, the sdEIS will disclose environmental effects to public lands regarding development of the ski area portion of the Adam's Rib Recreation Area. Kummer Development Corporation dba Adam's Rib Recreation Area was issued a special use permit by the Forest Supervisor, White River National Forest, December 15, 1983 to occupy approximately 2,920 acres of National Forest System lands. The special use permit authorities construction of the ski area portion of the Adam's Rib Recreation Area upon acceptance of a detailed development plan. The impacts of the detailed development plan will be disclosed in the sdEIS. The existing special use permit is still in effect and will not be available in the sdEIS. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about the proposed action and sdEIS should be directed to either, Larry Vinzant at U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Regulatory Section-Room 1444, 1325 J Street, Sacramento, California 95814&hyph;2972, telephone (916) 557&hyph;5263 or Kit Buell, Project Coordinator, U.S. Forest Service, White River National Forest, P.O. Box 948, Glenwood Springs, Colorado 81601, telephone (303) 945&hyph;2521. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The applicant proposes to fill approximately 25 acres of montane wetlands dominated by various species of willow, sledge and rush. Nearly all wetland fill would be located on private land in Vassar Meadow; additional development would occur in Joe Goode Meadow, Woodrun, No Name drainage, adjacent to Brush Creek (i.e., golf course and residences) and on the ski mountain. The U.S. Forest Service issued a special use permit for the ski mountain in 1983. On March 3, 1987, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers published a Notice of Intent in the Federal Register to prepare a draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). A draft titled ``Adam's Rib Recreation Area, Eagle, Colorado'' was published in October 1989. A Notice of Availability for this document was published in the Federal Register on November 3, 1989. The applicant's preferred alternative resulted in a request for a permit to fill approximately 70 acres of wetlands in the project area. This acreage of wetland fill was later reduced to approximately 46 acres. This permit was denied in February 1993. The applicant has since modified the proposal to fill approximately 25 acres of wetland. To avoid wetlands, the applicant's preferred alternative has resulted in a relocation of the base area to the west. A lateral moraine known as Adam's Rib would be excavated, with the excavated material placed in the adjacent No Name drainage and portions of Vassar meadow. The reduced Adam's Rib and the No Name drainage would be the location of the base area. Part of the applicant's preferred alternative includes a land exchange with the Forest Service. This sdEIS will supplement and supplant information currently available in the draft EIS. Alternatives (Section 404 Permit and Federal Land Exchange) Alternatives that will be considered for detailed evaluation will include: (1) Base area development on Adam's Rib and No Name drainage with a land exchange with the Forest Service (applicant's preferred alternative). (2) Same as alternative 1, but no land exchange. (3) Base area development in Vassar Meadow. (4) Reasonable variations to the applicant's preferred alternative that would reduce adverse impacts, for example, to wetlands. (5) No Action. Alternatives (Ski Mountain Development) (1) Ski Area Master Development Plan as proposed to the Forest Service, December, 1993. (2) Reasonable variations to the applicant's proposal that would reduce adverse impacts to natural resources on National Forest System lands. Scoping (Section 404 permitting) The Corps issued a scoping notice in conjunction with the Notice of Intent to prepare the draft EIS in 1987. Additionally, the Corps accepted comments on the draft EIS, conducted a Public Hearing in February, 1990 in Gypsum, Colorado, and has coordinated closely with resource agencies and the interested public. The Corps believes that additional scoping concerning wetlands is unnecessary at this time. However, any additional substantive information and new issues arising from comments to the sdEIS shall be thoroughly addressed in the Final EIS.
