FR940622-1-00077 FR940622-1-00029 (5) For an institution that has a change in ownership that results in a change in control, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable award year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable award years from the institution under both the old and new control. (e) Loan rehabilitation . (1) A loan is considered rehabilitated only after the borrower has executed a new written repayment agreement and has made one payment each month for 12 consecutive months. (2) The institution shall report to any one national credit bureau organization with which the Secretary has an agreement within 30 days of the date the loan was rehabilitated that the loan is no longer in default. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087bb) 5. A new §674.6 is added to read as follows: §674.6 Default reduction plan. (a) General . An institution with a cohort default rate that equals or exceeds 15 percent shall establish and implement a plan designed to reduce defaults by its students in the future. The institution shall submit to the Secretary by December 31 of the calendar year in which the cohort default rate was calculated_ (1) A written description of the default reduction plan; (2) A statement indicating that the institution agrees to comply with the required measures in paragraph (b) of this section; or (3) For an institution that is participating in the Federal Family Education Loan Program and has in place a default reduction plan for that program, a statement indicating that the institution agrees to apply that plan to the Federal Perkins Loan program. (b) Required measures . The default reduction plan required under this section must include a description of the measures to be taken by the institution to reduce defaults. The institution shall explain how it plans to implement the following measures: (1) Revise admission policies and screening practices, consistent with applicable State law, to ensure that students enrolled in the institution, especially those who are not high school graduates or those who are in need of substantial remedial work, have a reasonable expectation of succeeding in their programs of study. (2) Improve the availability and effectiveness of academic counseling and other support services to decrease withdrawal rates, including_ (i) Providing academic counseling and other support services to students on a regular basis, at a time and location that is convenient for the students involved; (ii) Publicizing the availability of the academic counseling and other support services; (iii) Establishing procedures to identify academically high-risk students and schedule those students for immediate counseling services; and (iv) Maintaining records identifying those students who receive academic counseling. (3) Attempt to reduce its withdrawal rate by conforming with that accrediting agency's standards of satisfactory progress and with those described in 34 CFR 668.14, and improving its curricula, facilities, materials, equipment, qualifications and size of faculty, and other aspects of its educational program in consultation with its academic accrediting agency. (4) Increase the frequency of reviews of in-school status of borrowers to ensure the institution's prompt recognition of instances in which borrowers withdraw without notice to the institution. Reviews must be conducted each month. (5) Expand its job placement program for its students by_ (i) Increasing contacts with local employers, counseling students in job search skills, and exploring with local employers the feasibility of establishing internship and cooperative education programs; (ii) Attempting to improve its job placement rate and licensing examination pass rate by improving its curricula, facilities, materials, equipment, qualifications and size of faculty, and other aspects of its educational program in consultation with the cognizant accrediting body; and (iii) Establishing a liaison for job information and placement assistance with the local office of the United States Employment Service and the Private Industry Council supported by the U.S. Department of Labor. (6) Remind the borrower of the importance of the repayment obligation and of the consequences of default and update the institution's records regarding the borrower's employer and employer's address as part of the contacts with the borrower under §674.42(b). (7) Obtain information from the borrower regarding references and family members beyond those provided on the loan application to provide the institution or its agent with a variety of ways to locate a borrower who later relocates without notifying the institution at the time of a borrower's admission to the institution. (8) Explain to a prospective student that the student's dissatisfaction with, or nonreceipt of, the educational services being offered by the institution does not excuse the borrower from repayment of any Federal Perkins Loan. (9) Use a written test and intensive additional counseling for those borrowers who fail the test to ensure the borrower's comprehension of the terms and conditions of the loan including those described in §§674.16 and 674.42(a) as part of the initial loan counseling and the exit interview. (10) During the exit interview provided to a Federal Perkins Loan borrower_
