FR941017-2-00065 FR941017-2-00048 NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION General Records Schedule 20, Electronic Records; Request for Comments AGENCY: National Archives and Records Administration, Office of Records Administration. ACTION: Notice of proposed records schedule; request for comments. SUMMARY: As required by statute (44 U.S.C. 3303a(d)), the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) issues General Records Schedules (GRS) to provide disposal authority for temporary records common to several or all agencies. NARA has revised GRS 20, Electronic Records, by adding an item on electronic mail records, by moving selected items from GRS 23 to GRS 20 to consolidate coverage of electronic records, and by updating several other items. General Records Schedules, as well as schedules submitted by agencies, are subject to public review and comment before approval, as required by 44 USC 3303a(a). Normally, NARA publishes notices of Federal agency requests for records disposition authority (records schedules) that contain an identifying number and a brief description of the records to be covered by the schedule. This allows interested parties to request copies of pending schedules and submit comments. Because of the widespread interest in electronic records, however, NARA has chosen in this instance to publish the full text of the schedule with revisions indicated. DATES: Comments must be received in writing on or before December 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Records Appraisal and Disposition Division (NIR), National Archives at College Park, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740&hyph;6001. Comments may be faxed to (301) 713&hyph;6852 or (301) 713&hyph;6850. Comments also may be sent to the following Internet address: jhasting@nara.gov. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James J. Hastings, Director, Records Appraisal and Disposition Division, (301) 713&hyph;7110, extension 229. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: For the convenience of reviewers, the text of GRS 20 is provided in full in this notice, including items that are unchanged from the current GRS 20 (items 2, 6, 7, and 9&hyph;12) or contain only editorial changes (items 1, 4, and 5). The title of item 1 was amended to remove the reference to the locations where the files described by item 1 are maintained, and the wording of the disposition instructions for items 4 and 5 was edited for consistency with other items. Comments will be accepted only on the items in GRS 20 that have been substantively changed or added, specifically, items 3, 8, 13, 14, and 15. Also for the convenience of reviewers, the text of GRS 23 is being published although no comments are being solicited. Introduction. Because the distinction between central data processing applications and end-user computer applications have become blurred by the proliferation of local and wide area networks, and end-user applications have become more sophisticated since they were added to GRS 23 in 1987, end-user applications have been moved to GRS 20. The introduction to GRS 20 is revised to reflect its expanded coverage and explain some of the changes made to the schedule, as follows: General Records Schedule 20 Electronic Records This schedule provides disposal authorization for certain electronic records and specified hard-copy (paper) or microform records that are integrally related to the electronic records. This schedule applies to disposable electronic records created or received by Federal agencies including those managed for agencies by contractors. It covers records created by computer operators, programmers, analysts, systems administrators, and all personnel with access to a computer. Disposition authority is provided for certain master files, including some that are components of database management systems, certain files created from master files for specific purposes, and certain disposable electronic records produced by end users in office automation applications (e.g., word processing files, electronic mail messages, calendars, spreadsheets, and databases developed on personal computers in support of administrative functions). These disposition authorities apply to the categories of electronic records described in GRS 20, regardless of the type of computer used to create or store these records. GRS 20 does not cover all electronic records. Electronic records not covered by GRS 20 may not be destroyed unless authorized by a Standard Form 115 that has been approved by the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Security backup copies of files as defined in item 8 of this schedule do not equate to system backups. System backups are copies on off-line storage media of software and data stored on direct access storage devices in a computer system. They are used to recreate a system or its data in case of unintentional loss from on-line storage. System backups are merely mirror images of storage disks on which data and documents may be scattered randomly as they are on the disks themselves. Therefore, system backups are not records and are suitable for safeguarding against the loss of records only when the record copy is maintained elsewhere. Electronic mail records described in item 14 are documents which: (1) Are created or received on an electronic mail system, and (2) meet the definition of Federal records. E-mail records must include the identity of the sender and the recipient(s), and the date, and any other data deemed by the agency to be necessary to understand the contents or to interpret the structure of the e-mail record. Receipt data that the agency determines is needed for complete and accurate documentation must also be maintained with e-mail messages that are Federal records. The records covered by several items in this schedule are authorized for erasure or deletion when no longer needed. NARA could not establish a more specific retention that would be appropriate in all applications. Each agency should, when appropriate, determine a more specific disposition instruction, such as ``Delete after X update cycles'' or ``Delete when X years old,'' for inclusion in its records disposition directives or manual. NARA approval is not needed to set retention periods for records in the GRS that are authorized for destruction when no longer needed. Items 2a and 1a (in part) of this schedule apply to hard-copy or microform records used in conjunction with electronic files. Item 1 also covers printouts produced to test, use, and maintain master files. Items 10 and 11 of this schedule should be applied to special purpose programs and documentation for disposable electronic records whatever the medium in which such documentation and programs exist. This schedule has been revised to include electronically-generated records previously covered in General Records Schedule 23, Records Common to Most Offices. The original numbering of the items in GRS 20 has been preserved. The items moved from GRS 23 have been added at the end, except the item covering administrative databases that has been incorporated into item 3. Electronic versions of records authorized for disposal in the remaining items in GRS 23, as for other records in the GRS, may be deleted under the provisions of item 3 of GRS 20. See also 36 CFR part 1234 for NARA regulations on electronic records management.
