FR941205-1-00057 FR941205-1-00014 Part II Part II requires the filing party to list all effective agreements covering all or part of the geographic scope of the filed agreement, whose parties include one or more of the parties to the filed agreement. Part III Part III is concerned with the level of service at each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement. The filing party is required to state the number of calls at each port by each of the parties over the most recent 12-month period for which complete data are available, and also to indicate any change in the nature or type of service to be effected immediately by the agreement. Part IV(A) Part IV(A) requires the filing party to provide the name, title, address, telephone number and cable address of a person the Commission may contact regarding the Information Form and any information provided therein. Part IV(B) Part IV(B) requires the filing party to provide the name, title, address, telephone number and cable address of a person the Commission may contact regarding a request for additional information or documents. Part IV(C) Part IV(C) requires that the filing party sign the Information Form and certify that the information in the Form and all attachments and appendices are, to the best of the filing party's knowledge, true, correct and complete. The filing party is also required to indicate his or her relationship with the parties to the agreement. Federal Maritime Commission Information Form For Certain Agreements By or Among Ocean Common Carriers Agreement Number (Assigned by FMC) Part I Agreement Name: Part II Other Agreements List all effective agreements covering all or part of the geographic scope of this agreement, whose parties include one or more of the parties to this agreement. Part III Port Service For each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, state the number of port calls by each of the parties over the most recent 12-month period for which complete data are available. The information should be provided in the format below. Time Period 1␣ 1Port 1Port 1Port 1Port 1Port Carrier A ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Carrier B ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Carrier C ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Etc. ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Also, for each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, indicate any change in the nature or type of service to be effected immediately by the agreement, including base port designation and frequency of vessel calls.
