FR940916-1-00030 FR940916-1-00011 II. Application for Certification Engelhard Corporation has applied for certification of equipment applicable to petroleum fueled diesel engines used in urban buses for the 1993 and earlier model years. The application states that the candidate equipment provides a 25% or greater reduction in emissions of particulate matter (PM). Life cycle costs for operators are stated to be less than $2000 (in 1992 dollars) for all affected operators. The use of the equipment by transit operators to meet program requirements is discussed further below. The equipment being certified is a catalytic converter that also functions as the muffler and takes the place of the original muffler installed in the engine exhaust system. The application indicates that the equipment is applicable to all 1993 and earlier model year 2-stroke and 4-stroke petroleum fueled diesel engines that are used in urban buses and are not equipped with after treatment devices. Engelhard Corporation presents data from testing the equipment on a 2-stroke 1985 model year Detroit Diesel 6V92TA engine documenting PM emissions reduction under two different scenarios. In the first case, the baseline test was performed on the engine prior to rebuild. Then the catalytic converter was added to the exhaust system and another test was performed. When the results of the two tests were evaluated, the test on the engine which was equipped with the catalytic converter indicated a 41% decrease in PM emissions compared to the baseline test. This test also showed that hydrocarbon (HC), carbon monoxide (CO), and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) emissions were within the applicable emission standards. In the second test sequence, the baseline test was performed on the engine after rebuild. Then, as in the first test sequence, the catalytic converter was added and a comparison test was performed. When the results of these tests were evaluated, the test on the engine with the catalytic converter installed indicated a 29% reduction in PM emissions when compared with the test results for the baseline engine. The HC, CO, and NOx emissions for this test were also within the applicable emission standards. Engelhard would like to certify this equipment for use on all 2-stroke and 4-stroke heavy duty urban bus engines. The test data presented in the certification application are from tests on the DDC model 6V92TA heavy duty engine only. Additionally, some data from tests run on a 4-stroke medium duty engine are also included. If the application is approved as written it would apply to all 2-stroke and 4-stroke urban bus engines manufactured by all manufacturers during the affected model years. Engelhard Corporation provided smoke emission measurements for this engine in the rebuilt condition with the catalytic converter installed. These measurements indicated that the engine complied with the applicable smoke standards when rebuilt with the Engelhard catalytic converter installed. The information submitted by Engelhard Corporation shows that this equipment achieves a 25% or greater reduction in PM emissions within the $2,000 life cycle cost ceiling. If EPA approves the request for certification of this equipment, urban bus operators will be required to use this equipment or other equipment certified to provide 25% or greater equivalent reductions to comply with Option 1 of this regulation beginning six months after certification approval. This requirement will continue unless other equipment which reduces PM emissions to 0.10 g/bhp-hr is certified at or below the $7,940 life cycle cost ceiling. Engelhard's application does not indicate that urban bus operators in any part of the country would be unable to retrofit their urban buses for less than the cost ceiling. Therefore, this application would apply to all urban bus operators nationwide that are subject to the urban bus rebuild/retrofit program. If EPA approves Engelhard's certification request, urban bus operators who choose to comply under Option 2 of this regulation may also use the Engelhard equipment. If certification is approved by EPA, the emission levels of the Engelhard rebuild kit will be used to modify the Option 2 post rebuild levels in July 1996 for engine rebuilds scheduled for 1997 and thereafter, unless other rebuild kits with life cycle costs below the life cycle cost ceiling and lower PM emission levels are certified before July 1996. The date of this notice initiates a 45 day period during which EPA will accept written comments relevant to whether or not the equipment described in this application should be certified. Interested parties are encouraged to review this application, and provide comments related to whether or not the equipment described in it should be certified pursuant to the urban bus retrofit/rebuild program. Comments should be provided in writing to the address listed under ADDRESSES . The Agency will review this application, along with comments received from the interested parties, and attempt to resolve or clarify issues as necessary. During the review process, EPA may add additional documents to the docket as a result of the review process. These documents will also be available for public review and comment within the 45 day period. Dated: September 8, 1994. Mary Nichols, Assistant Administrator for Office of Air and Radiation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22976 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
