FR940302-0-00025 FR940302-0-00012 40 CFR Part 233 [FRL&hyph;4834&hyph;2] New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy Section 404 Permit Program Approval AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Final rule; approval of State program. SUMMARY: The State of New Jersey has submitted an application under section 404(g) of the Clean Water Act for the approval of a program to regulate the discharge of dredged or fill material into certain waters of the United States within the State. After careful review of the application and comments received from the public, the Agency has determined that the State's program to regulate discharges of dredged or fill material meets the requirements of section 404(h) of the Act. Therefore, this application is approved. EFFECTIVE DATE: This approval will become effective at 1 p.m. eastern daylight time on March 2, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in this approval is approved by the Director of the Federal Register, as of 1 p.m. on March 2, 1994, in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mario Del Vicario, Chief, Marine & Wetlands Protection Branch, Water Management Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region II, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10278 or by telephone at (212) 264&hyph;5170. Copies of EPA's responsiveness summary are available from the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq., hereinafter the ``CWA'') established the section 404 Permit Program, under which the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), may issue permits for the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States at specified disposal sites. Section 404(g) of the CWA provides that the Governor of any state desiring to administer its own individual and general permit program for the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States (other than those waters which are presently used, or are susceptible for use in their natural condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to transport interstate or foreign commerce shoreward to the ordinary high water mark, including all waters which are subject to the ebb and flow of the tide shoreward to their mean high water mark, or mean higher high water mark on the west coast, including wetlands adjacent thereto) within its jurisdiction may submit to the Administrator of the USEPA a full and complete description of the program it proposes to establish and administer under State law, including a statement from the State Attorney General that the laws of the State provide adequate authority to carry out the described program. The Administrator is required to approve such submitted program unless the program does not meet the requirements of Section 404(h) of the CWA. Among other authorities, the State must have: (1) Adequate authority to issue permits which comply with all pertinent requirements of the CWA, including the guidelines developed under section 404(b)(1); (2) adequate authority, including civil and criminal penalties, to abate violations of the permit or the permit program; and (3) authority to ensure that the Administrator, the public, any other affected State, and other affected agencies, are given notice of each application for permit and are provided an opportunity for a public hearing before a ruling on each such application. The regulations establishing the requirements for the approval of the 404 Permit Programs were published at 53 FR 20764 on June 6, 1988 (40 CFR parts 232 and 233). On June 15, 1993 the State of New Jersey completed the submission of an application under section 404(g) for EPA approval of a program administered by the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection and Energy (NJDEPE) to regulate the discharge of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States within the State. On July 9, 1993 EPA published notice of its receipt of the application, requested public comments, and scheduled three public hearings on the State's submission (FR Doc. 93&hyph;16307). The public hearings were held throughout the state on August 10, 11, and 12, 1993. After careful review of this application, I have determined that the State of New Jersey's Program submitted by the NJDEPE to regulate discharges of dredged or fill material meets the requirements of section 404(h) of the CWA, and hereby approve it. The effect of this approval is to establish this program as the applicable regulatory program under the CWA for discharges of dredged or fill material into waters of the United States in New Jersey that are not presently used, or susceptible for use in their natural condition or by reasonable improvement as a means to transport commerce shoreward to the ordinary high water mark, including wetlands adjacent thereto. Since this approval, in large part, simply ratifies State regulations and requirements already in effect under State law, EPA is publishing this approval, effective immediately. This will enable New Jersey to begin immediately regulating discharges of dredged or fill material under the Federally approved program. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 233 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Water pollution control.
