FR940707-0-00017 FR940707-0-00008 §552.165 Responsibilities. (a) Commander, Yakima Training Center: (1) Schedule the Yakima Training Center range complex per FL Reg 350&hyph;31 and FL PS 350&hyph;2. (2) Process requests for non-military, non-commercial use per §552.166. (b) Commander, Vancouver Barracks: (1) Schedule the Camp Bonneville range complex per FL Reg 350&hyph;32 and FL PS 350&hyph;2. (2) Process requests for non-military, non-commercial use per Paragraph 6c. (c) Fort Lewis DPTM. (1) Schedule the Fort Lewis range complex per FL Reg 350&hyph;30 and FL PS 350&hyph;2, including allocation of and for recreational use. (2) Operate the Fort Lewis Area Access Section. (3) Respond to DEH coordination on timber sales and other commercial use of the range complex. (d) Law Enforcement Agency (LEC). Provide law enforcement and game warden patrols on the range complexes. (e) Director of Engineering and Housing (DEH). (1) Coordinate with DPTM and the appropriate Sub-Installation Commander on Real Estate Agreements, timber sales, wildlife management, construction, forest management, Installation Training Area Management (ITAM), and other DEH or Corps of Engineers managed actions occurring on the range complex (2) Ensure that Real Estate Agreement holders are required to notify Fort Lewis Area Access, YTC DPCA, or Camp Bonneville Range Control, as appropriate, of range complex entry. (f) DPCA. With DEH, manage Installation hunting, fishing, and trapping programs. Manage picnic and recreation sites located in the Fort Lewis range complex, as listed in Appendix A to this part. Advise DPTM on private organizations requesting use of the Fort Lewis range complex for fundraisers. (g) Public Affairs Office (PAO). (1) Act as interface to resolve community relations issues related to land use. (2) Coordinate equipment and special assistance requests per §552.165, and advise DPTM or the appropriate Sub-Installation Commander if permit requirements have been waived by the Command Group for a particular event or activity. (3) Inform DPTM or the appropriate Sub-Installation Commander of public response to policy execution. §552.166 Recreational use. (a) Fort Lewis: (1) Individuals or organizations, military or civilian, desiring access to the Fort Lewis range complex for recreation must obtain a Fort Lewis Area Access permit, composed of HFL Form 652 and HFL Form 653. Exceptions are outlined below. (2) Exception 1: DoD ID card holders enroute to or using DPCA recreational areas listed in Appendix A to this subpart need no permit other than the ID card. However, travel to and from DPCA areas is restricted to the most direct paved or improved two lane roads. DoD personnel participating in non-commercial recreational activities listed in Appendix C to this subpart must have an Area Access permit. (3) Exception 2: Organizations or groups whose activity requires advanced commitment of a specific site or area, such as Scout Camporees, seasonal or one-time regional meets, and so on, must apply to the Fort Lewis DPTM, ATTN: Range Division, in writing. At least 30 days are required to process these requests. If the requested use is allowable and an appropriate area is available, DPTM may approve the request. Groups with approved land commitments will be scheduled onto the Range Complex using HFL 473. Actual commitments of land will not be made until after the Quarterly Range Scheduling Conference that covers the time period in question. Groups who need military equipment or other special support from Fort Lewis must apply in writing directly to the I Corps Public Affairs Office (PAO). (b) Yakima Training Center: Access to the Yakima Training Center range complex for recreation requires application in writing to the Commander, Yakima Training Center, Yakima WA 98901&hyph;9399. Camping is normally not permitted on Yakima Training Center. Exceptions may be granted by the Yakima Training Center Commander for special events. (c) Camp Bonneville: Access to the Camp Bonneville range complex for recreation requires a call to Range Control, telephone (206) 892&hyph;5800, the day before or the day of the activity. Access will be permitted if no military maneuver or live fire training is scheduled for the day requested. §552.167 Activities. (a) Authorized activities are listed in Appendix C to this subpart. (b) Prohibited activities are listed in Appendix D to this subpart. §552.168 Fort Lewis area access office. (a) DPTM Range Division operates the Area Access Section to issue permits and grant non-training access to the range complex. (b) Area Access is located in Range Control, Building T&hyph;6127, 19th and Tacoma Streets, Main Post Fort Lewis. Telephone numbers are (206) 967&hyph;4686/6277. Fax extension is 967&hyph;4520. E-mail is ``rangeflw.'' Business hours vary dependent on personnel fill, and are available by calling the above numbers. (c) Individuals desiring access for authorized activities must register in person at Area Access during business hours. Minimum age is 18 years, except for active duty military personnel. Persons under 18 years of age must be sponsored and accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. Individual registration requires:
