FR940304-0-00081 FR940304-0-00019 Service Response: At the time the proposed rule was written, the number of Silene hawaiiensis was thought to be between 2,600 and 2,700 individuals in 17 populations. Despite extensive surveys in the area of PTA, the total number of known plants is still fewer than 4,000 individuals (R. Shaw, in litt., 1993). While small populations of this taxon are found throughout the area between Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, most populations are still threatened by fire, grazing, and disturbances. Fewer than 1,000 plants are known from well protected areas (Hawaii Volcanoes National Park). The most authoritative taxonomic treatment of Hawaiian Silene maintains this taxon as a valid species (Wagner et al. 1990). No published taxonomic studies since then have questioned the validity of Silene hawaiiensis. Based on the above information, the Service determines that Silene hawaiiensis is not now in danger of extinction, but that Silene hawaiiensis is likely to become endangered in the foreseeable future if the threats posed by fire, competition from alien plant species, and feral goats, pigs, and sheep are not curbed. Thus, this taxon is designated a threatened species. Issue 4: Status of Zanthoxylum hawaiiense: One respondent questioned if it was possible to list this taxon as endangered only on the islands of Kauai, Molokai, Lanai, and Maui and not list it on the island of Hawaii because it is more common on Hawaii (possibly between 750 and 3,750 plants). Service Response: The Act does not allow for the listing of plants in only a portion of their ranges. Consequently, a plant species is listed as endangered if it is in danger of extinction over all or a significant portion of its range. At the time the proposed rule was written, the number of Zanthoxylum hawaiiense was thought to be fewer than 75 individuals. Extensive surveys in the area of PTA have located approximately 150 individuals (R. Shaw, pers. comm., 1993). The respondent's figures of between 750 and 3,750 plants is based upon an extrapolation of plant densities on PTA to lower elevation areas which, in general, have been more affected by cattle grazing, goats, pigs, and fires. This type of extrapolation is not warranted, given the potential differences between the two areas. However, even if these estimates were correct, the species would still be in danger of extinction due to the presence, throughout its entire range, of uncontrolled threats such as fire; competition from alien plant species; and susceptibility to grazing, browsing, trampling, and habitat disturbance by feral goats and sheep. For these reasons, Zanthoxylum hawaiiense is determined to be an endangered species. Summary of Factors Affecting the Species After thorough review and consideration of all information available, the Service has determined that 20 plant taxa from the island of Hawaii should be classified as endangered species and 1 taxon from the island of Hawaii should be classified as threatened. One taxon has been withdrawn from consideration. Procedures found at section 4 of the Endangered Species Act and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act were followed. A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). The threats facing these 21 taxa are summarized in Tables 1 and 2.
