FR940513-1-00080 FR940513-1-00017 (3). New sources. The Administrator has determined that MACT for new facilities is the MACT floor, which is an overall control requirement of 98 percent. However, as discussed above, the EPA will take comment on whether MACT for new facilities could, consistent with section 112(d) of the Act, be equal to 95 percent reduction for recovery devices and 98 percent reduction for other destruction devices. b. Ballasting. The Administrator believes that the combined impact of fleet turnover and Coast Guard and other regulatory requirements for tankships to use segregated ballast tanks means that there should be no impacts from the control (i.e., prohibition) of ballast emissions. As a result, MACT was determined to be equivalent to a prohibition of emissions from ballasting. However, as discussed in section J.2, Ballasting Emissions, the Administrator is soliciting comments and data on the possibility of significant impacts to currently uncontrolled vessels. 4. Selection of the Proposed MACT Standards a. Product loading. As with the RACT standards, vessels loading at facilities with controls must install a vapor collection system and pass one of three tank vessel tightness alternatives. The MACT standards for existing facilities are based on a facility demonstrating that 93 percent of HAP emissions are controlled. Facilities would be allowed to demonstrate that the standard is being met in one of two ways. In the first case, a facility may choose to demonstrate that emissions from all vessels being loaded at the facility are being routed to either a 95 percent efficient recovery device or a 98 percent efficient destruction device. In the other case, the facility may opt to exclude the emissions of certain vessels or process lines from control, based on documented emission estimates, so long as at least a 93 percent overall level of control is achieved. The partial control of any commodity loaded or unloaded at the terminal would not be allowed as a means of showing compliance with the 93 percent overall emissions reduction standard. The facility would still be required to demonstrate that all controlled emissions are being routed to either a 95 percent efficient recovery device or a 98 percent efficient destruction device. The MACT standards for new facilities require an emissions limit of 98 percent control. Additionally, these facilities would be required to maintain tank-tight vessels while loading. b. Ballasting. Owners or operators of existing and new marine tank vessel loading and unloading operations would be required to demonstrate compliance with the ballasting standards by maintaining records showing that the vessels loaded met one of the following criteria: (1) The vessel does not perform ballasting at any time, (2) the vessel meets the Coast Guard standards, or (3) ballasting emissions are ducted to a control device. 5. Impacts of the Proposed MACT Standards
