FR940214-1-00031 FR940214-1-00005 (ii) If the inspector determines that the product is adulterated, it shall be condemned as prescribed in §310.5 of this subchapter; (iii) If the inspector determines that the product is misbranded, it shall be held under a U.S. retained tag, or a U.S. detention tag as provided in part 329 of this subchapter, pending correction of the misbranding or issuance of an order under section 7 of the Act to withhold from use the labeling or container of the product, or the institution of a judicial seizure action under section 403 of the Act or other appropriate action. (iv) The inspector shall make a record of each transaction under paragraph (d)(2) of this section and shall report actions taken by the inspector to the area supervisor. (3) Immediately after an establishment is notified of a final Agency decision denying an appeal regarding retained product, all such retained product shall be condemned and destroyed under the inspector's supervision. PART 381_POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS 5. The authority citation for part 381 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 450, 21 U.S.C. 451&hyph;470, 7 CFR 2.17, 2.55. 6. Section 381.35 would be amended by adding a new sentence after the third sentence to read as follows: §381.35 Appeal inspections; how made. * * * Appeals above the circuit supervisor level of decisions related to product retentions shall be made in writing by the establishment within a period of twenty (20) calendar days from the date of the retention. * * * 7. Section 381.145(b) would be revised and the undesignated paragraph following paragraph (b) would be removed as follows: §381.145 Poultry products and other articles entering or at office establishments; examination and other requirements. * * * * * (b)(1) All poultry products and all carcasses, parts thereof, meat and meat products of cattle, sheep, swine, goats, or equines which enter any official establishment shall be identified by the operator of the official establishment at the time of receipt at the official establishment. All poultry products, and all carcasses, parts thereof, meat and meat food products of such animals, which are processed or otherwise handled at any official establishment shall be subject to examination by an inspector at the official establishment in such manner and at such times as may be deemed necessary by the inspector-in-charge to assure compliance with the regulations. Such examination may be accomplished through use of statistically sound sampling plans that assure a high level of confidence. The circuit supervisor shall designate the type of plan and the Program employee shall select the specific plan to be used in accordance with instructions issued by the Administrator. 1 Upon such examination, if any such article or portion thereof is found to be adulterated by the inspector, such article or portion shall, in the case of poultry products, be condemned and disposed of as prescribed in §381.95, except that a determination regarding adulteration may be deferred by the inspector and such product retained as prescribed in §381.77 and §381.99 of this subchapter if: 1 Further information concerning sampling plans which have been adopted for specific products may be obtained from the circuit supervisor of program circuits. These sampling plans are developed for individual products and will be distributed for field use as they are developed. The type of plan applicable depends on factors such as whether the product is in containers, state of preparation, and procedures followed by the establishment operator. The specific plan applicable depends on the kind of product involved, such as whole birds, parts, etc. (i) By reprocessing, the product may be made not adulterated, and shall, in the case of such articles be presented for reinspection and disposal in accordance with this section within a period of twenty (20) calendar days. In this case, the procedures in §381.77 and §381.99 regarding retained product shall apply. (ii) Prior approval is granted by the Regional Director of an establishment's written procedures for storing at the official establishment product suspected of adulteration with metal, plastic, or other material capable of detection by the use of approved specialized mechanical detection devices prior to final reinspection. These written procedures shall describe how the establishment will maintain the identity of the suspect product, where the suspect product will be stored, how long the product will be stored, and what measures will be taken to secure the product. (A) Approval of an establishment's written procedures for accumulating product will be based on the establishment's ability to provide the physical space to store the accumulated product and its ability to assure that the identity and security of the product is maintained.
