FR940426-2-00024 FR940426-2-00014 Award of a Grant, Noncompetitive Financial Assistance; Tri-City Industrial Development Council AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Richland Operations Office. ACTION: Notice of intent to make a noncompetitive financial assistance award. . SUMMARY: The Department of Energy (DOE), Richland Operations Office (RL) announces that pursuant to Public Law 95&hyph;91, as amended, Department of Energy Organization Act, it intends to make a discretionary financial assistant award based on the criterion set forth in 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i)(D) to the Tri-City Industrial Development Council (TRIDEC), Kennewick, Washington, under Grant Number DE&hyph;FGO6&hyph;94RL12917. The primary purpose of the grant is to act for DOE as facilitator in regard to submission of community economic development diversification proposals. This three year effort will have an estimated cost of $228,000 for the first budget year. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions regarding this announcement should be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Richland Operations Office, Procurement Division, Mail Stop A7&hyph;80, P.O. Box 550, 825 Jadwin Avenue, Richland, Washington 99352, ATTN: Jo Laughlin, Contract Specialist. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In support of the transformation within the Department of Energy as it redirects its focus from a primarily mission oriented, inward-facing agency to a service-oriented, customer-driven agency, the Secretary of Energy has implemented plans for supporting economic development and community assistance activities around DOE sites affected by changing program missions. Each Operations Office has been charged with notifying the public of available facilities, technology partnership opportunities and economic development and diversification programs for the purpose of stimulating local economic growth through community partnerships. It is anticipated that assistance through community economic development plans will help to minimize the impact of DOE downsizing on the local area and work force. Community representatives, including elected officials, business executives, community leaders, and the academic field, have selected TRIDEC, under a Memorandum of Understanding, to be the Community Reuse Organization (CRO) and single point of contact for coordinating community efforts and resources and performing site-specific economic development planning and management. The ultimate goal is to stimulate local economic growth through community partnerships so that when the Department of Energy has completed its mission and closes its operations at this site, the economical impact on the community will be minimal. Dated: April 18, 1994. Robert D. Larson, Director, Procurement Division, Richland Operations Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10077 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
