FR940317-2-00127 FR940317-2-00078 The Basic Proposal must not exceed 25 typewritten pages in length. The applicant may submit a separately bound document of appendices, containing letters of support or other information in support of the Basic Proposal. Appendices and other supplemental information must not exceed 20 pages. Excess pages in either the Basic Proposal (over the 25 page limit) or the supplemental appendices (over the 20 page limit) will not be considered in the evaluation. Content of Basic Proposal The Basic Proposal must, at a minimum, include the following: A. An executive summary of not more than five (5) pages, summarizing the planned project consistent with the Evaluation Criteria stated in this notice. B. A description of the planned project sufficient to permit evaluation of the proposal in accordance with the proposal Evaluation Criteria stated in this notice. C. A budget for the project which identifies all sources of funds. D. A description of the qualifications of key personnel who will be assigned to work on the proposed project. E. A statement of work that discusses the specific tasks to be carried out, including a schedule of measurable events and milestones. F. For Program Planning and Program Implementation projects, letters from the Governor's office (not considered part of the page count) indicating that the applicant is the lead organization for conducting the proposed activities. For Program Planning, the letter will also acknowledge that there is only one proposal from that state for Program Planning. G. A Standard Form 424 (Rev 4&hyph;88) prescribed by OMB circular A&hyph;102, and Form CD&hyph;511, Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying. SF&hyph;424 (Rev 4&hyph;88) and Form CD&hyph;511 will not be considered part of the page count of the Basic Proposal. Invitation for Proposals Qualified organizations are invited to submit proposals in one or more of the projects stated in this notice. Each proposal should address only one project. Program Planning Projects Project objective
