FR940805-0-00038 FR940805-0-00012 (B) Delivery of custom-ordered items. Generally, costs incurred in transporting goods from a taxpayer's storage facility to its retail sales facility must be capitalized. However, costs incurred outside a storage facility in delivering custom-ordered items to a retail sales facility are not required to be capitalized. For this purpose, any costs incurred on a loading dock are treated as incurred outside a storage facility. Delivery of custom-ordered items occurs when a taxpayer can demonstrate that a delivery to the taxpayer's retail sales facility is made to fill an identifiable order of a particular customer (placed by the customer before the delivery of the goods occurs) for the particular goods in question. Factors that may demonstrate the existence of a specific, identifiable delivery include the following_ ( 1 ) The customer has paid for the item in advance of the delivery; ( 2 ) The customer has submitted a written order for the item; ( 3 ) The item is not normally available at the retail sales facility for on-site customer purchases; and ( 4 ) The item will be returned to the storage facility (and not held for sale at the retail sales facility) if the customer cancels an order. (C) Pick and pack costs _( 1 ) In general. Generally, handling costs incurred inside a storage or warehousing facility must be capitalized. However, costs attributable to pick and pack activities inside a storage or warehousing facility are not required to be capitalized. Pick and pack activities are activities undertaken in preparation for imminent shipment to a particular customer after the customer has ordered the specific goods in question. Examples of pick and pack activities include: ( i ) Moving specific goods from a storage location in preparation for shipment to the customer; ( ii ) Packing or repacking those goods for shipment to the customer; and ( iii ) Staging those goods for shipment to the customer. ( 2 ) Activities that are not pick and pack activities. Pick and pack activities do not include: ( i ) Unloading goods that are received for storage; ( ii ) Checking the quantity and quality of goods received; ( iii ) Comparing the quantity of goods received to the amounts ordered and preparing the receiving documents; ( iv ) Moving the goods to their storage location, e.g., bins, racks, containers, etc.; and ( v ) Storing the goods. ( 3 ) Costs not attributable to pick and pack activities. Occupancy costs, such as rent, depreciation, insurance, security, taxes, utilities, and maintenance costs properly allocable to the storage or warehousing facility, are not costs attributable to pick and pack activities. Margaret Milner Richardson, Commissioner of Internal Revenue. Approved: June 28, 1994. Leslie Samuels, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19079 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 12:41 pm] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
