FR940406-1-00013 FR940406-1-00003 Figure 1_Weight and Balance Information Accuracy Method No. 1 A. Review existing weight and balance documentation to assure completeness and accuracy of the documentation from the most recent FAA-approved weighing or from factory delivery to date of compliance with this AD. B. Compare the actual configuration of the airplane to the configuration described in the weight and balance documentation; and C. If equipment additions or deletions are not reflected in the documentation or if modifications affecting the location of the center of gravity (e.g., paint or structural repairs) are not documented, determine the accuracy of the airplane weight and balance data in accordance with Method No. 2. Figure 2_Weight and Balance Information Accuracy Method No. 2 A. Assemble the following equipment: 1. One certified platform scale having a range of 750 to 1,000 pounds that is capable of supporting the nose wheel without contacting the rest of the airplane; 2. One scale ramp of sufficient incline to allow rolling the wheel onto the scale; and 3. One gear strut inflation system capable of inflating the gear struts to full extension. B. Procedure 1. Prepare the airplane for weighing in accordance with the Weighing Instructions in the Weight and Balance Section of the Pilot's Operating Handbook/Airplane Flight Manual (POH/AFM). 2. Ensure that the scale and airplane are on a level hangar floor and the airplane is shielded from any wind. 3. Inflate the main landing gear struts to the maximum extension and completely deflate the nose strut. Inflate the tires to correct tire pressure as listed in the applicable maintenance or shop manual. Note: Extreme caution should be used when deflating the nose strut because the airplane could drop suddenly. 4. Adjust the height of the scale platform to 12 inches above the hangar floor. 5. Position the nose wheel onto the scale and ensure that the remainder of the airplane does not contact the scale. Verify the proper wheel weight. Set the parking brake and chock the main wheels. 6. Record the net weight registered on the scale. 7. Remove the nose wheel from the scale. 8. Adjust the gear struts to the proper extension lengths in accordance with the applicable maintenance or shop manual. 9. Subtract the following unusable (less undrainable) fuel from the current airplane Basic Empty Weight, CG, and Moment: ␣ 1Category 1Weight (lbs) (in.) 1Arm (in-lbs) 1Moment All Airplanes 34.5 79.1 2,730 Airplanes with 10-gallons wing auxiliary tanks 5 94 470 Airplanes with 20-gallon auxiliary fuselage tanks 3 133 399 10. Multiply the net weight obtained in paragraph 6. by 83.25 to obtain moment. 11. Divide the weight obtained in paragraph 9. into the moment obtained in paragraph 10. to determine a value for X. 12. Calculate a value of CG from: CG=92.5^1.01X. 13. Subtract the CG obtained in paragraph 12. from the CG obtained in paragraph 9. D. Results 1. If the results of paragraph C. 13., indicate that the difference in CG is equal to or less than .5 inches, then continue to use the basic empty airplane weight and CG data listed in the existing airplane records as the basis for computing the weight and CG for the loaded airplane while using the criteria specified in the POH/AFM, Weight and Balance Section. 2. If the results of paragraph C. 13, indicate that the difference in CG is more than .5 inches, then determine the basic weight and CG of the airplane using Method No. 3.
