FR940325-1-00027 FR940325-1-00007 (d) The operator shall furnish to the COTP for each port at which the vessel calls, a copy of each plan or amendment found adequate under §120.305 or §120.307. The copy shall be furnished to the COTP at least 7 days prior to the first call at the port. §120.305 Plan: letter of adequacy. (a) Each operator of a passenger vessel subject to this part shall submit the ship security plan required by §120.300 to the Commandant (G&hyph;MPS), 2100 Second Street SW., Washington, DC, 20593&hyph;0001 for review before [Insert date 90 days after date of publication of the final rule in the Federal Register ], or at least 60 days before embarking passengers on a voyage described in §120.100, whichever is later. (b) Within 30 days after receipt of a proposed ship security plan, the Chief, Port Safety and Security Division will issue to the operator either a letter of adequacy certifying that the ship security plan adequately addresses the requirements of this part or a notice of deficiencies in the plan relative to the requirements of this part. (c) Within 30 days after receipt of a notice of deficiencies, the operator may either submit a modified ship security plan or submit an appeal of the notice of deficiencies to the Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection. The decision of the Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection is a final agency action. (d) The Chief, Port Safety and Security Division may void the letter of adequacy if the operator_ (1) Amends the ship security plan without following the procedures in §120.307; (2) Fails to amend the ship security plan when required by the Commandant; or (3) Fails to update the ship security plan as required by §120.300(d). (e) No vessel subject to this part shall embark or disembark passengers in the United States after [ Insert date 120 days after date of publication of the final rule in the Federal Register ] unless it has a valid letter of adequacy for its ship security plan or an appeal under paragraph (c) of this section is pending. §120.307 Plan: amendment. (a) Amendments to update the ship security plan may be initiated by the operator of a passenger vessel subject to this part or directed by the Commandant. (b) If initiated by the operator, each proposed amendment to the ship security plan, including changes to the enclosures required by §120.300(a), must be submitted to the Commandant for review at least 30 days before the proposed effective date, unless a shorter period is allowed by the Commandant. (c) The Commandant may direct the operator of a passenger vessel subject to this part to amend the ship security plan if it is determined that implementation of the plan is not providing effective security or there is an increased threat affecting the vessel. Except in an emergency, a written notice of matters to be addressed will be issued to the operator and the operator will be provided at least 60 days to submit proposed amendments. (d) Within 15 days after receipt of a proposed amendment, the Chief, Port Safety and Security Division will issue a letter to the operator either accepting the proposed amendment or addressing why the proposed amendment does not adequately meet the requirements of this part. (e) A notice to amend a ship security plan or a rejection of a proposed amendment by the Chief, Port Safety and Security Division may be appealed within 30 days of receipt as provided in §120.305. (f) If there is an emergency or other circumstance that makes the procedures in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of this section impractical, the COTP may order the operator of a vessel subject to this part to implement increased security measures immediately. The order will incorporate a statement of the reasons for the emergency action. Orders issued by the COTP may be appealed as provided in §160.7 of this chapter. §120.310 Survey: general. (a) Each operator of a passenger vessel subject to this part shall conduct an initial, comprehensive ship security survey before preparing the plan required by §120.300. (b) The operator shall update the survey at least every two years and whenever there is a_
