FR940721-0-00086 FR940721-0-00014 (h) Requests for information and certifications relevant to information on the label. (1) Each manufacturer and allied supplier shall request its suppliers to provide directly to it the information and certifications specified by this part which are necessary for the manufacturer/allied supplier to carry out its responsibilities under this part. The information shall be requested sufficiently early to enable the manufacturer to meet the timing requirements specified by this part. (2) For requests made by manufacturers or allied suppliers to outside suppliers: (i) The requester shall indicate that the request is being made pursuant to 49 CFR part 583, and that the regulation is administered by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration; (ii) The requester shall indicate that 49 CFR part 583 requires outside suppliers to provide specified information upon the request of a manufacturer or allied supplier to which it supplies passenger motor vehicle equipment and that, to the best of the requester's knowledge, the outside supplier is required to provide the requested information; (iii) If any information other than that required by 49 CFR Part 583 is requested, the requester shall indicate which information is required by 49 CFR part 583 and which is not; (iv) The requester shall indicate that 49 CFR part 583 specifies that while information may be requested by an earlier date, the outside supplier is not required to provide the information until the date specified by the requester or the date 45 days after receipt of the request, whichever is later. (i) Manufacturers need not provide any of the information specified in this part for model year 1994 vehicles. For model year 1995 and model year 1996 carlines which are first offered for sale to ultimate purchasers before June 1, 1995, manufacturers and suppliers may, instead of following the calculation procedures set forth in this part, use procedures that they expect, in good faith, to yield similar results. ยง583.6 Procedure for determining U.S./Canadian parts content. (a) Each manufacturer, except as specified in ยง583.5 (f) and (g), shall determine the percentage U.S./Canadian Parts Content for each carline on a model year basis, before the beginning of each model year. Items of equipment produced at the final assembly point (but not as part of final assembly) are treated in the same manner as if they were supplied by an allied supplier. All value otherwise added at the final assembly point and beyond, including all final assembly costs, are excluded from the calculation of U.S./Canadian parts content. (b) Determining the value of items of equipment. (1) For items of equipment received at the final assembly point, the value is the price paid by the manufacturer for the equipment as delivered to the final assembly point. (2) For items of equipment produced at the final assembly point (but not as part of final assembly), the value is the fair market price that a manufacturer of similar size and location would pay a supplier for such equipment. (3) For items of equipment received at the factory or plant of an allied supplier, the value is the price paid by the allied supplier for the equipment as delivered to its factory or plant. (c) Determining the U.S./Canadian percentage of the value of items of equipment. (1) Equipment supplied by an outside supplier to a manufacturer or allied supplier is considered: (i) 100 percent U.S./Canadian, if 70 percent or more of its value is added in the United States or Canada; and (ii) 0 percent U.S./Canadian, if less than 70 percent of its value is added in the United States or Canada. (2) The extent to which an item of equipment supplied by an allied supplier is considered U.S./Canadian is determined by dividing the value added in the United States and Canada by the total value of the equipment. The resulting number is multiplied by 100 to determine the percentage U.S./Canadian content of the equipment.
