FR940505-1-00205 FR940505-1-00012 The application of this program on a statewide basis is considered necessary because vehicle traffic flow into and out of the areas covered by the FIPs is large. Any program constrained to only the FIP areas would be extremely difficult to implement and enforce. EPA is concerned that the benefits of the enhanced in-use compliance program may be diminished if a large number of vehicles first registered in other states are brought into California. These vehicles may be less expensive because they would not have to meet enhanced in-use or California low emission vehicle standards. EPA proposes, therefore, very strict restrictions on importation of 49-state vehicles (Section d.2.h. of the Preamble). Because new vehicle programs such as this one are relatively slow in achieving their full emission reduction benefit due to the time required for fleet turnover, EPA solicits comments on the feasibility of implementing this program earlier, such as via a partial phase-in in model year 1998. The emissions reduction achieved by earlier implementation could reduce the need for increased stringency in other source categories. As described below, the proposed enhanced in-use compliance program concerns only non-methane hydrocarbon (NMHC) and NO X emissions, and does not cover CO emissions. California is projected to be in attainment with the NAAQS for CO by 2000 as required by the Clean Air Act, before the enhanced in-use compliance program would have had a chance to achieve any significant CO emissions reductions. In addition, the FIP addresses only ozone non-attainment and thus focuses only on ozone precursors, NMHC and NO X . EPA's proposed requirements for the enhanced in-use compliance program are presented in Sections A.(2)(a) and A.(2)(b), respectively. Descriptions of new recall and I/M requirements under the enhanced in-use compliance program follow in Sections A.(3) and A.(4). a. New light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. California's LEV program greatly reduces the emissions permitted from new LDVs and LDTs. CARB's 100,000 mile NMOG and NO X LEV standards for LDVs and small LDTs are 0.09 and 0.3 gram per mile (g/mi), respectively. Higher numerical standards apply to Transitional LEVs (TLEVs) and lower numerical standards apply to Ultra LEVs (ULEVs). By model year 2000, CARB's fleet average NMOG standards require the average vehicle to be slightly below the emission standards applicable to LEVs. Assuming a reactivity adjustment factor of 0.98 for NMOG (that for California Phase II reformulated gasoline), CARB's LEV standards are 70 and 50 percent below the Federal Tier I NMHC and NO X standards, respectively. By model year 2003, CARB's fleet average NMOG standard for LDVs and small LDTs is even more stringent, 0.062 g/mi. Under the enhanced in-use compliance program, EPA proposes that LDVs and LDTs comply with the in-use composite NMHC and NO X standards contained in Table AI.A&hyph;1. EPA is proposing a single composite NMHC recall standard (for each vehicle class) that will apply throughout the useful life of the vehicle. The proposed NO X standards for post-1998 model year LDVs and LDTs are the same as CARB's standards for LEVs. To afford a smoother transition to this program, EPA proposes that up to 25 percent of a manufacturer's 1999 model year LDV and LDT sales fleet may comply with ``transitional'' enhanced in-use standards also contained in Table AI.A&hyph;1. The transitional enhanced in-use NO X standards are the same as CARB's NO X standards for TLEVs. EPA is proposing this transition, because CARB's fleet average NMOG standard for the 1999 model year will still allow a significant number of TLEVs to be sold. However, after 1999, the fleet average NMOG standard becomes sufficiently stringent to prohibit any significant number of TLEVs from being sold. Given that the great majority of vehicles will be meeting the NO X standards applicable, it is not clear why any vehicles should be able to be sold which only meet the significantly less stringent TLEV standards (usually a factor of two higher than the LEV standards).
