FR940111-2-00003 FR940111-2-00002 Forest Service Rocky Mountain Region: Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, South Dakota, Eastern Wyoming; Legal Notice of the Opportunity To Comment on Certain Proposed Actions and of Decisions Subject to Notice and Comment AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This is a list of those newspapers that will be used to publish notice of all decisions which are subject to appeal under 36 CFR 217, notice of the opportunity to comment on certain proposed actions pursuant to 36 CFR 215.5, and notice of decisions subject to appeal under the general provisions of 36 CFR part 215. As required at 36 CFR 215.5 and 215.9, such notice shall constitute legal evidence that the agency has timely and constructive notice of decisions that are subject to public notice and comment and administrative appeal. Newspaper publication of notices of decisions is in addition to direct notice to those who have requested notice in writing and to those known to be interested in or affected by a specific decision. DATES: Use of these newspapers for purposes of publishing the notices required under the provisions of 36 CFR part 215 shall begin January 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John P. Halligan, Regional Appeals and Litigation Coordinator, Rocky Mountain Region, Box 25127, Lakewood, Colorado 80225, Area Code 303&hyph;275&hyph;5148. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Responsible Officials in the Rocky Mountain Region shall give notice of the opportunity to comment on certain proposed actions and of decisions subject to appeal pursuant to 36 CFR part 215 in the following newspapers which are listed by Forest Service unit. Where more than one newspaper is listed for any unit, the first newspaper listed is the primary newspaper which shall be used to constitute legal evidence that the agency has given timely and constructive notice of decisions that are subject to administrative appeal. The day after the publication of the public notice in the primary newspaper shall be the first day of the appeal filing period. Decisions by the Regional Forester The Denver Post, published daily in Denver, Denver County, Colorado, for decisions affecting National Forest System lands in the States of Colorado, Nebraska, Kansas, and eastern Wyoming and for any decision of Region-wide impact. In addition, notice of decisions made by the Regional Forester will also be published in the Rocky Mountain News, published daily in Denver, Denver County, Colorado. Notice of decisions affecting National Forest System lands in the State of South Dakota will also be published in the Rapid City Journal, published daily in Rapid City, Pennington County, South Dakota. For those decisions affecting a particular unit, the newspaper specific to that unit will be used. Arapaho and Roosevelt National Forests, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions The Denver Post, published daily in Denver, Denver County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions Redfeather and Estes-Poudre Districts: Coloradoan, published daily in Fort Collins, Larimer County, Colorado. Pawnee District: Greeley Tribune, published daily in Greeley, Weld County, Colorado. Boulder District: Boulder Daily Camera, published daily in Boulder, Boulder County, Colorado.
