FR941207-2-00093 FR941207-2-00065 [Release No. 34&hyph;35028; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;57] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to an Enhanced Parity Split for Index Option Trades November 30, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on November 1, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the Phlx. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx proposes to amend Exchange Rule 1014(g) and Commentary .17 thereunder in order to provide an enhanced parity split for specialists trading index options. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, Phlx, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Phlx included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Phlx has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change On May 25, 1994, the Commission approved the Exchange's proposal to provide new options specialists units (``New Units'') trading newly-listed equity options classes with an enhanced participation in parity equity option transactions (``New Specialist Split''). 2 On August 26, 1994, the Commission approved, as a one-year pilot program, the Exchange's proposal to provide an enhanced parity split in certain assigned equity options classes for option specialists not qualifying for the New Specialist Split. 3 In each of those filings, the Phlx indicated that the enhanced parity splits would be applicable to equity options specialists, however, the Phlx represents that the intent of the Exchange in proposing those rules was to limit the proposals to options traded on the Phlx's Equity Option Floor, which would specifically include index options but exclude foreign currency options. The Exchange represents that index options are traded on the Equity Options Floor and that index option specialists are not separate and distinct from equity options specialists trading at the Exchange. Accordingly, the Phlx hereby proposes to amend Phlx Rule 1014(g) and Commentary .17 thereunder in order to expand the enhanced parity split proposals discussed above to expressly include transactions in index options traded on the Exchange's Equity Options Floor. Because the Exchange represents that this was the original intent of the proposals discussed above, the Exchange does not expect any new objections to be raised by amending its rules to extend the enhanced parity split to trades in index options. 2 Specifically, this proposal allows New Units to execute 50% of the contracts in transactions involving newly-listed equity options classes where the New Unit is on parity with one Registered Options Trader (``ROT'') and 40% of the contracts in such transactions where the New Unit is on parity with two or more ROTS. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34109 (May 25, 1994), 59 FR 28570 (June 2, 1994). 3 Specifically, this proposal provides that in certain circumstances and for certain options classes, an equity option specialist is eligible to receive an enhanced participation in parity equity option trades by being counted as two crowd participants. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34606 (August 26, 1994), 59 FR 45711 (September 2, 1994) (order approving proposal on a pilot basis until August 26, 1995). The Phlx believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in particular in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and to promote just and equitable principles of trade by providing specialists with additional incentives to make deep and liquid markets in index options. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Phlx does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition.
