FR940810-2-00014 FR940810-2-00009 We then compared the adjusted U.S. export price to the price Pequiven charged for orthoxylene in the month that orthoxylene was exported from the United States. Based on this comparison, we found that Pequiven's price was greater than the price of imported U.S. orthoxylene. As a final check on the validity of the single importation as a benchmark, we averaged U.S. export prices (adjusted for freight and insurance as well as the difference between the spot and contract prices) for the three months in which we had data (one within the POI and two outside of the POI). For the two exports occurring outside of the POI, we added the average spread between spot and contract prices for the POI to the export prices because monthly data on the difference between spot and contract prices outside of the POI was not available. We compared the average of the adjusted U.S. export prices to the average price Pequiven charged in the same three months and found that Pequiven's average price was greater than the average price of the imports from the United States. Therefore, we find that the GOV, through Pequiven, did not provide orthoxylene to PA producers at preferential rates. Accordingly, we determine that no benefits which constitute bounties or grants within the meaning of the countervailing duty law are being provided to manufacturers, producers, or exporters of PA from Venezuela. II. Programs Determined not to be Used We determine that producers or exporters in Venezuela of the subject merchandise did not receive benefits during the POI for exports of the subject merchandise to the United States under the following programs: A. FINEXPO Preferential Short-Term Export Loans B. FINEXPO Preferential Long-Term Export Loans C. Excessive Tariff Drawback D. Preferential Tax Exemptions Under the 1966 Income Tax Law Because we find that the GOV did not provide orthoxylene at preferential rates and all other alleged programs were not used, we determine that no benefits which constitute bounties or grants within the meaning of the countervailing duty law are being provided to manufacturers, producers, or exporters of PA from Venezuela. Comments All written comments submitted by the interested parties in this investigation either have been previously addressed in this notice or relate to alternative benchmarks that are lower in the preferentiality hierarchy than the one we used to reach our final determination. Verification In accordance with section 776(b) of the Act, we verified the information used in making our final determination. We followed standard verification procedures, including meeting with government and company officials, examination of relevant accounting records, and examination of original source documents. Our verification results are outlined in detail in the public versions of the verification reports, which are on file in the Central Records Unit (Room B&hyph;099 of the Main Commerce Building). ITC Notification In accordance with section 705(d) of the Act, we will notify the ITC of our determination. Since we have determined that no bounties or grants are being provided to manufacturers, producers or exporters of PA in Venezuela, the investigation will be terminated upon publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Hence, the ITC is not required to make a final injury determination with respect to this countervailing duty proceeding. Return or Destruction of Proprietary Information This notice serves as the only reminder to parties subject to Administrative Protective Order (APO) of their responsibility concerning the return or destruction of proprietary information disclosed under APO in accordance with 19 CFR 355.34(d). Failure to comply is a violation of the APO. This determination is published pursuant to section 705(d) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1671d(d)). Dated: August 3, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19541 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
