FR941216-2-00032 FR941216-2-00019 One Federal agency representative commented that, contrary to the Committee's finding in its notice announcing the proposed addition, placing the paints on the Procurement List would result in additional reporting by the Federal Government. However, the Committee's finding, as required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act, applied to additional reporting requirements on small entities, not on the Federal Government. This same commenter challenged the Committee's statement in its proposal notice that there are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the JWOD Act objectives in connection with the tree marking paints. Since the commenter suggested no such alternatives and did not explain his conclusion, the Committee has no basis on which to determine that some other alternative exists. As a result of changes in the nonprofit agency's supply approach following the comment period, representatives of the three commenting paint firms and their trade association appeared before several Committee members and staff prior to the preparation of a decision package. At that meeting, they identified potential obstacles to supplying the nonprofit agency with paints or concentrates. Problems cited included liability risks for the paint firms since they could not control the nonprofit agency's treatment of their paints during the packaging and distribution process, the complex nature of the paints, and the possibility that the approach proposed might result in flawed paints because they would have to be handled by a second entity prior to reaching the customer. One paint company representative questioned the ability of the nonprofit agency to schedule shipments from the paint companies and to the customer in a way that was consistent with the paints' shelf-life requirements. Another representative expressed doubt that her firm could compete with a paint or concentrate supplier located in the same town as the nonprofit agency. All requested additional time to explore the problems and opportunities associated with supplying the paints or concentrates to the nonprofit agency. The Committee recognizes that the approach to be used by the nonprofit agency differs from that currently being employed by the paint companies, but is not persuaded by the evidence presented that the obstacles cited by the paint companies and their association are insurmountable. The Committee notes that working out liability responsibilities with suppliers is a normal business process and that at least two of the four firms identified as potential suppliers of the paints or concentrates have not raised the liability issue as a concern. Moreover, the nonprofit agency has indicated that the application of routine testing procedures would identify responsibility for any problems with the paints, thus eliminating the paint manufacturers' concerns that they would be held liable for mistakes made by others. The Committee believes that these same testing procedures will assure that the products received by Government customers meet Federal specifications. With respect to potential shelf-life problems, the Committee believes that the nonprofit agency's record with other products with shelf-lives, including paints and a first aid kit containing several medical items, demonstrates that the agency's quality control expertise is sufficient to prevent the shipment of paints without adequate shelf-lives. The Committee does not believe the objection of one paint company to competing with a supplier in the nonprofit agency's city is a sufficent reason for rejecting the proposed addition to the Procurement List. Location advantages and disadvantages are present in all open market competition, and other factors often outweigh disadvantages associated with transportation costs. In this respect, the Committee notes that although the other two firms have similar location disadvantages, neither has raised this as an obstacle. At the end of the appearance, the Committee gave the paint companies and trade association an opportunity to submit written versions of their presentations, which they decided against doing. The Government agency which buys the paints needs to procure them immediately. In the absence of evidence that the Committee's proposed approach would cause insurmountable problems in producing the paint, the Committee has decided that no further delay in adding the paints to the Procurement List is acceptable.
