FR940628-2-00091 FR940628-2-00069 Regulation 4 (``Order'') is the most fundamental of the Exchange's order and decorum regulations, which are adopted pursuant to Phlx Rule 60 (``Assessments for Breach of Regulations''). Rule 60 permits Exchange officials and Floor Officials to assess fines, not exceeding $1,000, for violations of regulations pertaining to order, decorum, health, safety and welfare (``order and decorum'') on the Exchange, or to refer such violations to the Exchange's Business Conduct Committee where higher fines or other sanctions may be imposed, in accordance with Phlx Rule 960. 4 Rule 60 also enumerates the procedural aspects of order and decorum fines, including the ability to contest a fine and request a hearing. The Exchange has adopted seven regulations of order and decorum pursuant to Rule 60, including regulation 4. 5 4 Phlx Rule 960 governs disciplinary procedures at the Exchange. Rule 960 provides for, among other things, a statement of charges, answer, hearing, decision, petition for review of decision, and sanctions, which include expulsion, suspension, fine, censure, limitations or termination as to activities, functions, operations, or association with a member or member organization, or any other fitting sanction. 5 In addition to Regulation 4, the Exchange's Rule 60 Regulations govern smoking; food, liquids, and beverages; identification badges and access cards, visitors and applicants, dress; and proper utilization of the security system. See Phlx Rule 60 Regulations. In summary, Regulation 4 governs conduct on the trading floors of the Exchange by prohibiting disorderly conduct and imposing fines for violations thereof. In addition to a general prohibition against disorderly behavior, specific fines are also imposed for abuse of the paging system, possession of firearms, and various degrees of fighting, including inciting physical abuse, minor acts of physical abuse and major acts of physical abuse. At this time, the Exchange proposes to add a new paragraph (b) Stating that any acts described in paragraph (a) which are deemed particularly egregious, or where an individual has established a pattern or order violations, may be referred by two Floor Officials to the Business Conduct Committee where additional fines and other sanctions may be imposed pursuant to Phlx rule 960. 6 As a result of this proposed language, similar language which currently follows the paragraph addressing physical abuse is proposed to be deleted in order for the new paragraph to apply to all violations of Regulation 4. 6 The Exchange stated that two Floor Officials could not impose a fine or sanction pursuant to both Rules 60 and 960 for the same conduct. The Exchange also stated that if a disciplinary proceeding pursuant to Rule 960 is initiated by the Exchange, all procedural rights contained in Rule 960 would apply. Conversation between Gerald D. O'Connell, Vice President, Market Surveillance, Phlx, and Louis A. Randazzo, Attorney, SEC, on March 25, 1994. In addition to adopting new paragraph (b), the proposal would also renumber the existing provisions of the regulation. The following language in the introductory paragraph is proposed to be deleted as redundant: instances determined by a Floor Official as violative of the ``Order'' requirement may result in fines as described below. The first paragraph would be renumbered as (a), with the abuse of paging system, firearms and physical abuse provisions numbered (i)_(iii), respectively. The following prohibition is proposed to be added to paragraph (a) to expand upon the general prohibition against disorderly conduct: acting in an indecorous manner which is disruptive to the conduct of business on the trading floor. The new language explicitly prohibits behavior that results in a disruption of trading and provides a gauge by which a Floor Official may determine whether a certain act was disorderly (if an act caused floor traders to divert their attention from trading, the act could be construed as disorderly). The Exchange also proposes to adopt new paragraph (a)(iv) to prohibit instances of abusive, derisive or harassing treatment directed at any person while on the floor, which in the view of two Floor Officials, could constitute a public embarrassment to the Exchange, and impose a fine ranging from $500 to $1,000 for such violations. The Exchange believes that because such behavior is indecorous but not disruptive to trading in each case, it warrants a separate fine between $500 and $1,000 and direct prohibition. This provision is intended to specifically implement Exchange Rule 708 (``Acts Detrimental to the Interest or Welfare of the Exchange''). 7 Specifically, Rule 708, Commentary .01(e) prohibits misconduct on the trading floor, in violation of the Exchange's Order and Decorum Regulations, that is repetitive, egregious of a publicly embarrassing nature to the Exchange rule 708 would specifically enable the Exchange's Business Conduct Committee to pursue formal disciplinary action for disorderly conduct on the trading floor. The purpose of the present proposal is to provide an established procedure by which referrals of such floor misconduct would be made to the Business Conduct Committee by Floor Officials. 7 Phlx Rule 708 was approved by the Commission on April 1, 1994. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33850 (April 1, 1994) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;93&hyph;53). (b) Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act in general, and in particular, with Section 6(b)(5), in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and protect investors and the public interest by ensuring an orderly and decorous environment on the trading floor for Exchange business to be conducted. The proposal is also consistent with Section 6(b)(6), in that Regulation 4, as amended, would continue to provide that members of the Exchange be appropriately disciplined for violations of the rules of the Exchange. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others. The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change.
