FR940127-2-00121 FR940127-2-00075 OCC states that the proposed changes to its By-Laws and Rules are consistent with the purposes and requirements of section 17A of the Act, as amended, because they provide for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of transactions in cash-settled foreign currency options. The proposed changes also are consistent with OCC's section 17A obligations to safeguard funds and securities in its custody or control or for which it is responsible. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition OCC does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were not and are not intended to be solicited with respect to the proposed rule change, and none have been received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder applicable to registered clearing agencies. In particular, sections 17A(b)(3) (A) and (F) of the Act require that a clearing agency be organized and that its rules be designed to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to assure the safeguarding of funds and securities within its custody or control or for which it is responsible. 16 Because OCC will apply rules and procedures comparable to those that it has used successfully in the clearance and settlement of transactions in other established options products, OCC will satisfy its statutory obligations concerning safeguarding. At the same time, OCC will provide clearance and settlement facilities for an innovative product to the foreign currency market. Cash-settled foreign currency options should provide investors with an additional means to hedge foreign currency portfolios against short-term market risk, should facilitate transactions in foreign currency options, and should contribute to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. OCC's clearance and settlement of such options should promote their prompt and efficient clearance and settlement. 16 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3) (A) and (F) (1988). OCC also has requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing in the Federal Register . The Commission finds good cause for so approving because accelerated approval will permit OCC to coordinate its clearance and settlement of cash-settled foreign currency options with the PHLX's listing of cash-settled foreign currency options, which are proposed for February 7, 1994. The Commission believes that because OCC will be applying procedures which have proved to be efficient and safe in the past, accelerated approval is justified. Furthermore, no negative comments were received when the Commission published notice of filing of the PHLX proposed rule change. 17 17 Supra note 3. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-referenced self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;OCC&hyph;93&hyph;10 and should be submitted by February 17, 1994. V. Conclusion For the reasons stated above, the Commission finds that OCC's proposal is consistent with section 17A of the Act. 18 18 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1 (1988). It is therefore ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 19 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;OCC&hyph;93&hyph;10) be, and hereby is, approved. 19 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 20 20 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1992). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1678 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
