FR940602-0-00041 FR940602-0-00016 Section 178.605 In ยง178.605, a typographical error is corrected in the last sentence of paragraph (b) by changing the reference from the ``Associate Administrator of Hazardous Materials Safety'' to ``Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety.'' Section 178.606 In ยง178.606, a typographical error is corrected in the third sentence of paragraph (b) by changing the reference from the ``Associate Administrator of Hazardous Materials Safety'' to ``Associate Administrator for Hazardous Materials Safety.'' Section 179.105&hyph;7 In ยง179.105&hyph;7, in paragraph (b), the reference to the 1976 edition of the AAR Specifications for Tank Cars is updated to reference the September 1, 1992 edition. This final rule will facilitate compliance with the HMR by correcting errors, clarifying provisions and updating obsolete matter incorporated by reference. All of the changes are noncontroversial. With regard to matter incorporated by reference, there is a need to update IME Standard 22 as quickly as possible to avoid misunderstandings that can adversely affect the safe transportation of detonators. Other provisions of this rule provide minor relief from regulatory provisions which will have an immediate benefit to the affected entities. For these reasons, RSPA has determined that public notice and comment procedures, prior to adoption of this final rule, are not required under the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 551 et seq.). Regulatory Analyses and Notices A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This final rule is not considered a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, was not subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget. The rule is not considered significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979). The impacts of the changes are so minimal that a regulatory evaluation is unnecessary. B. Executive Order 12612 This final rule has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria in Executive Order 12612 (``Federalism''). The Hazardous Materials Transportation Act contains express preemption provisions (49 App. U.S.C. 1811) that preempt a non-Federal requirement if (1) compliance with both the non-Federal and the Federal requirement is not possible; (2) the non-Federal requirement creates an obstacle to accomplishment of the Federal law or regulations; or (3) it is preempted under 49 App. U.S.C. 1804(a)(4), concerning certain covered subjects, or 49 App. U.S.C. 1804(b), concerning highway routing. Covered subjects are: (i) The designation, description, and classification of hazardous materials; (ii) The packing, repacking, handling, labeling, marking, and placarding of hazardous materials; (iii) The preparation, execution, and use of shipping documents pertaining to hazardous materials and requirements respecting the number, content, and placement of such documents; (iv) The written notification, recording, and reporting of the unintentional release in transportation of hazardous materials; or (v) The design, manufacturing, fabrication, marking, maintenance, reconditioning, repairing, or testing of a package or container which is represented, marked, certified, or sold as qualified for use in the transportation of hazardous materials. 49 App. U.S.C. 1804(a)(4)(A) and (B). This rule concerns the description and handling of hazardous materials. This rule preempts State, local, or Indian tribe requirements in accordance with the standards set forth above. The HMTA (49 App. U.S.C. 1804(a)(5)) provides that if DOT issues a regulation concerning any of the covered subjects after November 16, 1990, DOT must determine and publish in the Federal Register the effective date of Federal preemption. That effective date may not be earlier than the 90th day following the date of issuance of the final rule and not later than two years after the date of issuance. RSPA has determined that the effective date of Federal preemption for the requirements in this rule concerning covered subjects is October 1, 1994. Thus, RSPA lacks discretion in this area, and preparation of a federalism assessment is not warranted. C. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This rule relaxes certain provisions that apply to hazardous materials shippers, carriers and packaging manufacturers, some of whom are small entities. This final rule should result in minor cost savings to affected entities. It also reduces confusion by incorporating by reference the latest editions of certain standards that have been revised for consistency with the current HMR. D. Paperwork Reduction Act There are no new information collection requirements in this final rule. E. Regulation Identifier Number (RIN) A regulation identifier number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes the Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN number contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross-reference this action with the Unified Agenda.
