FR941202-0-00146 FR941202-0-00013 (2) Triggering event. What was the date, time and location of the accident or supervisor's determination of reasonable suspicion that led to the requirement for the test? (3) Employee category. What type of safety-sensitive function was the employee performing? In responding to this item, employers should use the employee categories listed in each of the operating administrations' regulations (e.g., in mass transit, operator of a revenue service vehicle, operator of a non-revenue service vehicle, controller/dispatcher, maintenance personnel, security personnel). These regulatory categories, rather than the employer's job title for the individual, should be used for this purpose. Under no circumstances should the employee's name or other identifying information be provided. (This information is not required in reports to FHWA, since all FHWA-covered personnel are drivers.) (4) Explanation. The reason(s) the test could not be completed within 8 hours. That is, what prevented the employer from conducting the test within this time period using breath testing? (5) Possible Use of Blood. If blood testing would have been available to complete the test within eight hours, the record would include the name, address, and telephone number of the testing site at which blood testing could have occurred. (This information will help the Department to estimate the frequency of situations in which blood testing would have been available where breath testing is not.) The Department will analyze these reports (which, since they concern 1995, 1996, and 1997, will include three years' data for large employers and two years' data for small employers) in 1998. We will revisit, at that time, the issue of whether there are sufficient numbers of post-accident and reasonable suspicion testing occasions which are missed by breath testing and could be captured by blood testing to make the addition of blood testing (or some other, new technology) a worthwhile step. While this data collection requirement is a response to the issues raised by the NPRM, and is a logical outgrowth of our consideration of those issues and the comments on them, it was not itself specifically proposed in that document. Therefore, we are asking for comment on the reporting requirement. Because we believe it is important to be in a position to have responded to comments on the reporting requirement before January 1, 1995, when alcohol testing begins and records of missed tests would need to start being kept for the reports that are due March 15, 1996, we have established a 45-day, rather than a 60-day, comment period on the reporting requirement. This opportunity for comment concerns only the reporting requirement itself, and not the underlying decision to withdraw the proposal to allow blood testing. Comments on that decision will be considered as outside the scope of this request for comments. Regulatory Analyses and Notices The Department has determined that this rule is a significant rule for purposes of Executive Order 12886 and the Department's Regulatory Policies and Procedures. While it makes only small changes to the Department's existing alcohol testing requirements, it pertains to a Department-wide regulatory program, and has been reviewed by all concerned Departmental offices and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The costs and benefits of alcohol testing were fully analyzed as part of the final rules issued February 15, 1994. Because the rule does impose a new reporting requirement, we have submitted this requirement to OMB for review under the Paperwork Reduction Act. The new reporting requirement will not be effective until OMB has approved it. DOT will publish a Federal Register notice when OMB approves the requirement. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Department certifies that the requirements imposed by this rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities. There are not sufficient Federalism impacts to warrant a Federalism assessment under Executive Order 12612. List of Subjects 14 CFR Part 121 Air carriers, Air transportation, Aircraft, Aircraft pilots, Airmen, Airplanes, Alcohol, Alcoholism, Aviation safety, Pilots, Safety, Transportation. 49 CFR Part 199 Alcohol testing, Drug testing, Pipeline safety, Recordkeeping and reporting. 49 CFR Part 219 Alcohol and drug abuse, Railroad safety, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 49 CFR Part 382 Alcohol testing, Controlled substances testing, Highways and roads, Highway safety, Motor carriers, Motor vehicle safety. 49 CFR Part 654 Alcohol testing, Grant programs_transportation, Mass transit, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Safety, Transportation. Issued this 22nd day of November, 1994, at Washington, D.C. Mortimer L. Downey, Deputy Secretary. David R. Hinson, Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration. D.K. Sharma, Administrator, Research and Special Programs Administration. S. Mark Lindsey, Acting Deputy Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration. Rodney E. Slater, Administrator, Federal Highway Administration. Gordon J. Linton, Administrator, Federal Transit Administration.
