FR940719-2-00007 FR940719-2-00003 MVP Mandatory State Endorsements Arkansas Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance laws of the State of Arkansas, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects your coverage. Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is deleted in its entirety and the following new Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is substituted in lieu thereof: Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US You cannot bring suit against Us unless You have complied with all of the Policy provisions. If You do enter suit against Us, You must do so within ten (10) years of the occurrence causing loss or damage. Article VI_APPRAISAL is amended by adding a paragraph ``F'' immediately following paragraph ``E'' of Article VI, as follows: F. This appraisal process is voluntary and any appraisal award will not be binding on either You or Us. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and all other endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged. Kansas Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance laws of the State of Kansas, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects your coverage: Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is deleted in its entirety and the following new Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US is substituted in lieu thereof: Article XIII_SUIT AGAINST US You cannot bring suit or action against Us unless You have complied with all of the Policy provisions. If You do enter suit against Us, You must do so within sixty (60) months of the occurrence causing loss or damage. Article III_TERMS AND CONDITIONS is amended by adding the following new unnumbered paragraph at the end thereof: If coverage under this Policy is terminated due to termination or cancellation of coverage under the MPCI Policy, and prior to such termination You sustained a loss under the MPCI Policy, We will adjust the loss under this Policy when You receive Your MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment and the amount of the indemnity under this Policy can be determined. Article III_TERMS AND CONDITIONS, Premium section, is amended by deleting the last sentence from the second paragraph which states as follows: ``In no event shall the premium be less than $100.00 which is the minimum premium payable by You.'' All other terms and conditions of the Policy and all other endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged. Michigan Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance laws of the State of Michigan, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. Cancellation and Premium Refund You may cancel this Policy at any time by giving Us written notice and returning the policy to Us. If You cancel, We will refund the premium You have paid for the current season, if any, according to the following tables:
