FR940419-0-00114 FR940419-0-00020 (i) Property not acquired with federal resources is a contribution in the amount of 100% of the value. (ii) Property that is acquired with federal assistance must be acquired specifically for HOME-assisted housing or for affordable housing that will be counted as match pursuant to §92.219(b)(2). Such property is a contribution in the amount of the difference between the acquisition cost and the appraised value at the time of acquisition with the federal assistance, provided that the property is acquired by the HOME project owner (or owner of the affordable housing that will be counted as match) with the federal assistance. It also may be given to the HOME project owner (or owner of the affordable housing that will be counted as match) by the entity acquiring the property with federal assistance or sold to the HOME project owner (or owner of the affordable housing that will be counted as match) at a price equal to or less than the amount of the federal assistance used to acquire the property. The acquisition cost paid with the federal assistance must be demonstrably below the appraised value and must be acknowledged by the seller as a donation to affordable housing at the time of the acquisition with the federal assistance. (iii) Property must be appraised in conformance with established and generally recognized appraisal practice and procedures in common use by professional appraisers. Opinions of value must be based on the best available data properly analyzed and interpreted. The appraisal of land and structures must be performed by an independent, certified appraiser. * * * * * (5) Proceeds from multi-family affordable housing and single-family project bond financing validly issued by a State or local government, or an agency, instrumentality, or political subdivision of a State, as follows: (i) Fifty percent of the loan amount made from bond proceeds to a multi-family affordable housing project owner may qualify as match. (ii) Twenty-five percent of the loan amount from bond proceeds made to a single-family affordable housing project owner may qualify as match. (iii) Loans made from bond proceeds may not constitute more than 25 percent of a participating jurisdiction's total annual match contribution. Loans made from bond proceeds in excess of 25 percent of a participating jurisdiction's total annual match contribution may be carried over to subsequent fiscal years as excess match, but may not constitute more than 25 percent of a participating jurisdiction's total annual match contribution in any one year. * * * * * 19. In §92.221, paragraphs (a)(7) and (c) are added to read as follows: §92.221 Match credit. (a) * * * (7) A loan made from bond proceeds under §92.220(a)(5) is credited at the time of the loan closing. * * * * * (c) The participating jurisdiction that makes the match contributions to HOME-assisted or HOME match eligible projects (match pursuant to §92.219(b) for contributions to affordable housing, including tenant-based rental assistance, that is not assisted with HOME funds) is the participating jurisdiction that receives the match credit. A State that provides funding to a local participating jurisdiction to be used for a contribution to affordable housing, whether or not HOME-assisted, may take the match credit for itself or may permit the local participating jurisdiction to receive the match credit. 20. In §92.222, paragraph (a)(2) is added to read as follows: §92.222 Reduction of matching contribution requirement. (a) *␣*␣* (2) Distress criteria for participating jurisdictions that are States. As determined and published annually by HUD, if a State satisfies at least 2 of the 3 distress factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, it is in severe fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced 100% for the period specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If a State satisfies any 1 of the 3 distress factors in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, it is in fiscal distress and its match requirement will be reduced by 50 percent, for the period specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. (i) Poverty rate. The average poverty rate in the State was equal to or greater than 125 percent of the average national poverty rate during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information of the Bureau of the Census. (ii) Per capita income. The average per capita income in the State was less than 75 percent of the average national per capita income, during the calendar year for which the most recent data are available, as determined according to information of the Bureau of the Census. (iii) Personal income growth. The average personal income growth rate in the State over the most recent four quarters for which the data are available was less than 75 percent of the average national personal income growth rate during that period, as determined according to information of the Bureau of Economic Analysis. * * * * * 21. In §92.252, a new paragraph (a)(2)(iii) is added, and paragraph (a)(5) text (the table remains unchanged) and paragraph (d) are revised, to read as follows: §92.252 Qualification as affordable housing and income targeting: Rental housing.
