FR940711-2-00094 FR940711-2-00040 e. Form partnerships with highway safety officials (e.g., Governor's Highway Safety Representative, police) to promote bicycle helmet usage. f. Seek community input and generate community support for bicycle helmet usage promotion activities. Coalitions of appropriate individuals, agencies, and organizations with experience and interest in bicycle helmet usage campaigns may be established in support of intervention activities. g. Evaluate the effectiveness of each intervention activity and the program as a whole using evaluation guidelines for State injury control programs developed by CDC/NCIPC. h. Perform related injury demonstration projects. These may be related by population at risk, nature of the injury, causal chain, or intervention methodology. 2. For Fire-Related Burn Prevention Programs a. Provide a full-time director/coordinator and staff who have authority, responsibility, and expertise to carry out the program. b. Define the magnitude of the fire-related burn problem; define the population at risk and areas affected, and collect adequate injury data. These data include deaths and injuries attributable to fire-related burns, smoke detector use rates for various geographic areas of the community, and barriers to smoke detector use. Potential data sources include: E-coded hospital discharge data, emergency department data, public safety data (e.g., fire department data), and random digit dial phone surveys of community residents to obtain information on behaviors. c. Develop and implement community-based prevention programs to encourage the installation, use, and maintenance of smoke detectors. These include promotional, educational, and legislative (State and local) strategies utilized in a multifaceted approach. d. Form partnerships with public safety officials (e.g., fire departments) to promote smoke detector installation and maintenance. e. Seek community input and generate community support for smoke detector installation and maintenance. Coalitions of appropriate individuals, agencies, and organizations with experience and interest in smoke detector campaigns may be established in support of fire-related burn prevention activities. f. Evaluate the effectiveness of each intervention activity and the program as a whole using evaluation guidelines for State injury control programs developed by CDC/NCIPC. g. Perform related injury demonstration projects. These may be related by population at risk, nature of the injury, causal chain, or intervention methodology. 3. For Motor Vehicle Injury Prevention Programs a. Provide a full-time director/coordinator and staff who have authority, responsibility, and expertise to carry out the program. b. Define the magnitude of the motor vehicle injury problem; define the population at risk and associated costs and collect adequate injury data. These data include deaths and injuries attributable to motor vehicle crashes, use of occupant protection (seat belts, child safety seats, air bags, or a combination of these), and barriers to occupant protection use. These data might best be derived through linkage of various data systems (e.g., hospital discharge and police data). c. Develop and implement or enhance existing State and community-based programs to encourage the use of occupant protection devices. These include legislative (State and local), promotional, and educational strategies utilized in a multifaceted approach. d. Form partnerships with highway safety officials (e.g., Governor's Highway Safety Representative, law enforcement) to promote motor vehicle occupant protection use. e. Seek community input and generate community support for motor vehicle occupant protection. Coalitions of appropriate individuals, agencies, and organizations with experience and interest in prevention of motor vehicle injuries may be established in support of occupant protection campaigns. f. Evaluate the effectiveness of each intervention activity and the program as a whole using evaluation guidelines for State injury control programs developed by CDC/NCIPC.
