FR940429-0-00110 FR940429-0-00012 One commenter writing on behalf of a SPRE noted that professional programs are defined and governed under the State's education and judiciary Laws. The commenter urged that the definition of professional program recognize a State's statutory definition as provided under section 494C(d) of the HEA. (That section of the HEA requires a State to develop standards that are consistent with the constitution and laws of the State.) Discussion: Secretary disagrees with those commenters that suggest that the term professional program be limited to programs at or below the associate degree level. The term professional program is commonly accepted as encompassing programs at higher degree levels. The Secretary agrees with the commenter that the proposed definition of professional program be modified to recognize State law. The Secretary believes that the IPEDS definition of first professional degree is too narrow. Under that definition, the term profession program would encompass only 10 fields of study. However, the Secretary also agrees that the proposed definition was overly broad in that it permitted overlap between what constitutes professional education and what constitutes vocational education. The final regulations need to make the distinctions between both types of education clear. See also the discussion of vocational program. Changes: The Secretary has revised the second element of the proposed definition to maintain a clear distinction between the terms vocational program and professional program. Thus, a professional program is an educational program that prepares individuals for an occupation, if that occupation requires, in part, at least a bachelor's degree to qualify for entry. Also, the definition is expanded to allow a SPRE to use a State's statutory definition of the term professional program. Vocational Program Comments: All commenters agreed that the definition of the term vocational program under the SPRP be the same as the definition of vocational education under the Accreditation regulations, 34 CFR part 602. Several commenters agreed with the proposed definition of a vocational program. Most of these commenters preferred the SPRP definition to that proposed in the accreditation NPRM. Many commenters writing on behalf of community colleges and universities believed the proposed definition of vocational program was too broad. Many of these commenters believed strongly that proprietary institutions were primarily responsible for abuses in the title IV, HEA programs, and it was unfair to classify associate degree programs as vocational programs or to include any degree programs offered by community colleges or universities within the scope and meaning of the term vocational program. Many commenters writing on behalf of proprietary and vocational institutions believed strongly that the proposed definition was too narrow. These commenters noted that most postsecondary educational programs are employment or career oriented and that students who enroll in those programs should be treated equally, regardless of the institution they chose to attend. These commenters believe that the term vocational program should include all undergraduate programs. One commenter agreed with the propositions that the commenter claimed were presented in the accreditation NPRM that (1) every postsecondary educational program is technically vocational, and (2) while all programs may be vocational in nature, not all programs are academic. This commenter suggested that a better case be made for classifying programs as ``academic'' or ``nonacademic.'' Under this approach, the term vocational program would be replaced by the term nonacademic program and the term academic program would be defined to include any program described under proposed 34 CFR 668.8(c) (1) and (2), that (1) a program of at least two academic years in length that provides an associate degree, a bachelor's degree, a professional degree, or an equivalent degree as determined by the Secretary, or (2) a program in which each course is acceptable for full credit toward that institution's associate degree, bachelor's degree, professional degree, or equivalent degree as determined by the Secretary, provided that the institution's degree requires at least two academic years of study. Many commenters believed that the proposed definition was too vague. Several of these commenters suggested adopting the definition of an ``occupationally specific program,'' as that term is defined in the CIP and used under IPEDS. These commenters noted that the National Center for Education Statistics and other Federal agencies use this definition to obtain data from institutions through IPEDS for research and other purposes. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters that the definition of vocational program in this part should be the same as the definition of vocational education in the accreditation regulations, 34 CFR part 602. The Secretary further agrees with those commenters that suggested that the IPEDS/CIP definition, with minor modifications, is the most appropriate definition to use in this part and in the accreditation regulations because under that definition, educational programs are classified in a manner that is congruent with various SPRP statutory provisions that require a clear identification and reporting of educational programs offered by an institution that are occupationally specific and employment related. See, for example, the standards described under section 494C(d)(7) of the HEA, ``If the stated objectives of the courses or programs of the institution are to prepare students for employment␣*␣*␣*;'' section 494C(d)(8) of the HEA, ``Availability to students of relevant information by institutions of higher education, including *␣*␣* information related to market and job availability for students in occupational, professional, and vocational programs; and *␣*␣* information regarding the relationship of courses to specific standards necessary for State licensure in specific occupations;'' and section 494C(d)(14)(C) of the HEA, ``The success of the program at the institution, including *␣*␣* with respect to vocational and professional programs, the rates of placement of the institution's graduates in occupations related to their course of study.'' The Secretary disagrees with the commenter who suggested classifying programs as ``academic'' and ``nonacademic,'' because the Secretary disagrees with the commenter's premise that all vocational programs are ``nonacademic'' programs. The Secretary disagrees with those commenters who suggest that the term vocational program excludes in some manner degree programs offered by colleges and universities. The statute does not exempt types of institutions; rather, as noted above, the statute clearly speaks in terms of vocational programs offered at institutions.
