FR940902-0-00087 FR940902-0-00010 Subpart H_Youth Training Program A number of commenters suggested that the term ``out-of-school youth'' be clarified or defined in §628.803(h). Several commenters specifically cited attendance in an alternative school or education program as a criterion. A few commenters specifically said that the Congressional Conference Committee Report makes clear that this definition encompasses youth enrolled in alternative education programs. They encouraged the inclusion of alternative education programs in the definition of ``out-of-school youth''. Other comments stressed a combination of options including students attending area learning centers, adult basic education classes, general educational development (GED) preparation, vocational schools, or colleges. Others wanted truants, dropouts, and those on suspension status specifically included. One recommended that the State define out-of-school. A few commenters wanted the term ``in-school youth'' clarified or defined. Some commenters had specific suggestions such as leaving the definition up to the Governor or placing it in §625.5, Definitions. In an earlier attempt to provide administrative clarification in this area, the Department had provided guidance to the Regional Offices on the definition of ``in-school youth'' and out-of-school youth'' in Field Memorandum No. 34&hyph;93. This guidance indicated that an in-school youth was a youth who had not received a high school degree and was attending school on a full-time compulsory basis. An out-of-school youth was a youth who was not in school, or as suggested by the report of the Conferees, was attending alternative school or was habitually truant. In comments to the Department, it was indicated that the interim guidance was problematic for two reasons. First, a 14 or 15-year-old youth attending alternative school would not be eligible to participate if defined as out-of-school since a 14 or 15-year-old could only be eligible as in-school youth. Second, if a youth was in alternative school and considered in-school by the school system, but defined as out-of-school for JTPA, the eligibility criteria of participation in a compensatory education program or eligibility for free lunch could not be applied. The issue is of some interest to the JTPA system, especially in light of the requirement that at least 50 percent of the youth served be out-of-school youth. The Department has given careful consideration to this matter and has determined to take a slightly different course. The regulations define ``in-school youth'' at §628.803(b). The Department has not included the concept of being subject to compulsory attendance requirements because in some States these requirements end at an age before a youth has attained a diploma and the Department believes that attainment of a diploma is key to the criteria for being in school. The word ``diploma'' is substituted for ``degree'' to distinguish from post-secondary attainment. Any other youth is out-of-school. Rather than further define ``out-of-school'' in a way that would create the problems noted above or create a number of unnecessary exceptions, the Department has decided to adopt, in §628.803(h), the exceptions suggested in the Conference Report which set forth the requirement that 50-percent of youth served must be out-of-school. The Conference Report indicates that youth in alternative schools or who are ``habitually truant'' may be considered as out-of-school for purposes of meeting the statutory requirement. ``Alternative school'' also is defined. Section 628.803(h) is revised accordingly so that paragraph (h)(2) is redesignated as paragraph (h)(3) and a new paragraph (h)(2) is added. Several commenters were concerned that the status of high school graduates was unclear. The intent of the revision of the definitions in the final rule is to make it clear that all youth who are not in-school are out-of-school. Thus, high school graduates or GED recipients, who are not enrolled in post-secondary education programs, would qualify as out-of-school youth. It should be stressed, however, that the primary intent of including the ``out-of-school'' eligibility category in title II&hyph;C was to stress services to high school dropouts. SDA's should focus their services on this group. A few commenters noted the problems with documenting the free lunch program as an eligibility criterion for youth. That program has strict confidentiality provisions. One urged the Department to work with the appropriate agency to improve the existing process. While section 9 of the National School Lunch Act assures confidentiality, schools may release summary information such as the number of eligible children in a school. Parents may sign waivers of confidentiality for specific programs. Households may voluntarily provide evidence of eligibility. The U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) is requesting that their regional offices notify State agencies of these regulations and suggest they share this information with local school administrators. The Department plans to work with USDA staff to coordinate this effort. Section 628.803(c) is amended to reflect that the Department will provide further guidance on the verification of documentation regarding the free lunch program. Regarding the requirement to serve hard-to-serve individuals, §628.803(d)(2) is amended to state that all Job Corps participants shall be considered as out-of-school and shall be automatically considered to have a barrier to employment. This change is made to foster JTPA/Job Corps coordination. SDA's now will have an incentive to provide job development and placement services for Job Corps participants. All positive program terminations will be enjoyed by both systems. A commenter sought clarification as to whether non-economically disadvantaged youth enrolled as a part of a schoolwide project are to be counted as part of the 10 percent non-economically disadvantaged stated in §628.803(f). As stated in §628.803(h)(2), these youth do not count against the 10-percent window. Commenters sought clarification of the provisions of the regulations regarding title II&hyph;C eligibility based on schoolwide project participation. Section 628.803 is amended to add a paragraph (g)(3) to restate the provisions of the Act on the criteria for schools that qualify for schoolwide projects, and a paragraph (g)(4) which states that the SDA determines its schoolwide projects and provides a list of examples of possible projects. One commenter pointed out that section 263(g)(1)(C) of the Act requires that projects be in schools in which not less than 70 per cent are hard-to-serve and that the regulations should define a reasonable standard to determine this. This is addressed in DOL's Technical Assistance Guide on Eligibility which specifies that the school makes the certification that 70 percent of its students meet the criteria. The SDA may rely upon the school's certification for purposes of compliance.
