FR940105-0-00048 FR940105-0-00008 (3) Photocopying standard size pages. $0.10 per page. Freedom of Information Officers may charge lower fees for particular documents where: (i) The document has already been printed in large numbers; (ii) The program office determines that using existing stock to answer this request, and any other anticipated Freedom of Information requests, will not interfere with program requirements; and (iii) The Freedom of Information Officer determines that the lower fee is adequate to recover the prorated share of the original printing costs. (4) Photocopying odd-size documents (such as punchcards or blueprints), or reproducing other records (such as tapes). The actual costs of operating the machine, plus the actual cost of the materials used, plus charges for the time spent by the operator, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (5) Certifying that records are true copies. This service is not required by the Freedom of Information Act. If the Food and Drug Administration agrees to provide certification, there is a $10 charge per certification. (6) Sending records by express mail, certified mail, or other special methods. This service is not required by the Freedom of Information Act. If the Food and Drug Administration agrees to provide this service, actual costs will be charged. (7) Performing any other special service in connection with a request to which the Food and Drug Administration has agreed. Actual costs of operating any machinery, plus actual cost of any materials used, plus charges for the time of the Food and Drug Administration's employees, at the rates given in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (d) Procedures for assessing and collecting fees. (1) Agreement to pay. The Food and Drug Administration generally assumes that a requester is willing to pay the fees charged for services associated with the request. The requester may specify a limit on the amount to be spent. If it appears that the fees will exceed the limit, the Food and Drug Administration will consult the requester to determine whether to proceed with the search. (2) Advance payment. If a requester has failed to pay previous bills in a timely fashion, or if the Food and Drug Administration's initial review of the request indicates that the charges will exceed $250, the requester will be required to pay past due fees and/or the estimated fees, or a deposit, before the search for the requested records begins. In such cases, the requester will be notified promptly upon receipt of the request, and the administrative time limits prescribed in ยง20.41 will begin only after there is an agreement with the requester over payment of fees, or a decision that fee waiver or reduction is appropriate. (3) Billing and payment. Ordinarily, the requester will be required to pay all fees before the Food and Drug Administration will furnish the records. At its discretion, the Food and Drug Administration may send the requester a bill along with or following the records. For example, the Food and Drug Administration may do this if the requester has a history of prompt payment. The Food and Drug Administration may also, at its discretion, aggregate the charges for certain time periods in order to avoid sending numerous small bills to frequent requesters, or to businesses or agents representing requesters. For example, the Food and Drug Administration might send a bill to such a requester once a month. Fees should be paid in accordance with the instructions furnished by the person who responds to the request. 4. Section 20.43 is revised to read as follows: ยง20.43 Waiver or reduction of fees. (a) Standard. The Associate Commissioner for Public Affairs will waive or reduce the fees that would otherwise be charged if disclosure of the information meets both of the following tests: (1) Is in the public interest because it is likely to contribute significantly to public understanding of the operations or activities of the Government; and (2) It is not primarily in the commercial interest of the requester. These two tests are explained in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
