FR940805-1-00017 FR940805-1-00001 (iii) Notice of the estimated date for completion of construction. (2) In the case of financial hardship, as determined by the Administrator, REA may agree to an extension of the fund advance period even though the borrower has failed to meet the 120-day requirement of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (3) If the Administrator approves a request for an extension, REA will notify the borrower in writing of the extension and the terms and conditions thereof. An extension will be effective only if it is obtained in writing prior to the automatic termination date. (d) Advances of funds from loans approved before June 1, 1984, are generally made during the first 6 years of the note. (e) REA will rescind the balance of any loan funds not advanced to a borrower as of the final date approved for advancing funds. ยง1714.57 Sequence of advances. (a) Except as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, concurrent loan funds will be advanced in the following order: (1) 50 percent of the REA insured loan funds; (2) 100 percent of the supplemental loan funds; (3) The remaining amount of the REA insured loan funds. (b) At the borrower's request and with REA approval, all or part of the supplemental loan funds may be advanced before funds in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. ยง1714.58 Amortization of principal. (a) For insured loans approved on or after [the effective date of this section]: (1) Amortization of funds advanced during the first 2 years after the date of the note shall begin no later than 2 years from the date of the note. Except as set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, amortization of funds advanced 2 years or more after the date of the note shall begin with the scheduled loan payment billed in the month following the month of the advance. (2) For advances made 2 years or more after the date of the note, the Administrator may authorize deferral of amortization of principal for a period of up to 2 years from the date of the advance if the Administrator determines that failure to authorize such deferral would adversely affect either the government's financial interest or the achievement of the purposes of the RE Act. (b) For insured loans approved before [the effective date of this section], amortization of principal shall begin 2 years after the date of the note for advances made during the first and second years of the loan, and 4 years after the date of the note for advances made during the third and fourth years. ยง1714.59 Rescission of loans. (a) A borrower may request rescission of a loan with respect to any funds unadvanced by submitting a certified copy of a resolution by the borrower's board of directors. (b) REA may rescind loans pursuant to ยง1714.56. (c) Borrowers who prepay REA loans at a discounted present value pursuant to 7 CFR part 1786, subpart F, are required to rescind the unadvanced balance of all outstanding electric notes pursuant to 7 CFR 1786.158(j).
