FR940105-2-00037 FR940105-2-00017 B. Making any earnings-related or profit-related claim which uses the phrase ``up to'' or words of similar import or which states any dollar amount, unless the stated level of earnings or profits constitutes the net earnings or profits which can be achieved by an appreciable number of participants; and further, in any instances where consumers could not reasonably foresee the major factors or conditions affecting the ability to achieve the stated level of earnings or profits, cease and desist from failing to disclose clearly and prominently the class of consumers who can achieve the stated level. II It is further ordered That for three (3) years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this Order, respondents shall maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: A. Specimen copies of all materials disseminated which contain such representation; B. All materials that were relied upon as substantiation in disseminating such representation; C. The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all work opportunity participants who paid any money to respondents within the previous three years; and D. The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all work opportunity participants who earned any income or profits from respondents during the previous three years, and for each such participant: All written agreements between respondents and each participant during the previous three years; and the dates and amounts of all payments paid to each participant for work completed pursuant to the work opportunity during the previous three years. III It is further ordered: A. That respondent Russell J. Osborn shall pay to the FTC as consumer redress the sum of one million nine hundred thousand dollars ($1,900,000); provided however, that this liability will be suspended, subject to the provisions of subpart B below. B. That the Commission's acceptance of this Order is expressly premised upon the representations regarding the financial condition of the respective respondents made to the FTC in a ``Financial Statement of Debtor'' executed by Russell J. Osborn on September 22, 1992, and appended ``Statement of Assets and Liabilities'' executed by Russell J. Osborn on September 14, 1992; a ``Financial Statement of Corporate Defendant'' relating to Rainbow Productions, Inc. executed by Russell J. Osborn on September 22, 1992; and on the federal and California tax returns of Russell J. Osborn for 1990. After service upon respondents of an order to show cause, the FTC may reopen this proceeding to make a determination whether there are any material misrepresentations or omissions in said representations regarding the financial condition of the respective respondents. Respondents shall be given an opportunity to present evidence on this issue. If, upon consideration of respondents' evidence and other information before it, the FTC determines that there are any material misrepresentations or omissions in the financial statements and related documents, that determination shall cause the entire amount of monetary liability of one million nine hundred thousand dollars ($1,900,000) to become immediately due and payable to the Federal Trade Commission, and interest computed at the rate prescribed in 28 U.S.C. ยง1961, as amended, shall immediately begin to accrue on the unpaid balance. Proceedings initiated under part III are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other civil or criminal remedies as may be provided by law, including any proceedings the Federal Trade Commission may initiate to enforce this Order.
