FR940511-0-00069 FR940511-0-00015 The fifth activity prohibited is drilling into, dredging or otherwise altering the seabed of the Sanctuary; or constructing, placing or abandoning any structure, material or other matter on the seabed of the Sanctuary, except if any of the above results incidentally from: (1) Anchoring vessels; (2) traditional fishing operations; (3) installation of navigation aids; (4) harbor maintenance in the areas necessarily associated with Federal Projects in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation, including dredging of entrance channels and harbors, and repair, replacement or rehabilitation of breakwaters and jetties; (5) construction, repair, replacement, enhancement or rehabilitation of boat launches, docks or piers and associated breakwaters and jetties; or (6) beach nourishment projects related to harbor maintenance activities. Federal projects are any water resources development projects conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers or operating under a permit or authorization issued by the Corps of Engineers and authorized by Federal law. The intent of this prohibition is to protect the resources and qualities of the Sanctuary from the harmful effects of activities such as, but not limited to, archaeological excavations, drilling into the seabed, strip mining, laying of pipelines and outfalls, and offshore commercial development, which may disrupt and/or destroy sensitive marine benthic habitats, such as kelp beds, invertebrate populations, fish habitats and estuaries. The sixth activity prohibited is taking marine mammals, sea turtles or seabirds in or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by NMFS or USFWS under the authority of the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq., the Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq., and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 16 U.S.C. 703 et seq., or pursuant to a treaty with an Indian tribe to which the United States is a party, provided that the treaty right is exercised in accordance with the MMPA, ESA and MBTA, to the extent that they apply. The term ``taking'' includes all forms of harassment. The MMPA, ESA and MBTA prohibit the taking of species protected under those acts. The prohibition overlaps with the MMPA, ESA and MBTA but also extends protection for Sanctuary resources on an environmentally holistic basis and provides a greater deterrent with civil penalties of up to $100,000 per taking. The prohibition covers all marine mammals, sea turtles and seabirds in or above the Sanctuary. The prohibition recognizes existing treaty rights to hunt marine mammals, sea turtles and seabirds to the extent that the treaty rights have not been abrogated by provisions of the MMPA, ESA or MBTA. The seventh activity prohibited is flying motorized aircraft at less than 2,000 feet (610m) both above the Sanctuary within one nautical mile of the Flattery Rocks, Quillayute Needles or Copalis National Wildlife Refuge, or within one nautical mile seaward of the coastal boundary of the Sanctuary, except as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes, for activities related to tribal timber operations conducted on reservation lands, or to transport persons or supplies to or from reservation lands as authorized by a governing body of an Indian tribe. This prohibition is designed to limit potential noise impacts, particularly those that might startle hauled-out seals and sea lions, and colonial seabirds along the shoreline margins of the Sanctuary. Both the eighth and ninth prohibitions serve to facilitate enforcement actions for violations of Sanctuary regulations. The eighth prohibition is the possession within the Sanctuary of any historical resource or marine mammal, sea turtle or seabird, regardless of where the resource was taken, except in compliance with the MMPA, ESA and MBTA and the ninth prohibition is interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing investigations, searches, seizures or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act. Section 925.6 authorizes the regulation, including prohibition, on a temporary basis of any activity where necessary to prevent or minimize the destruction of, loss of, or injury to a Sanctuary resource or quality, or minimize the imminent risk of such destruction, loss or injury. Section 925.7 sets for the maximum statutory civil penalty for violating a regulation_$100,000. Each day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate violation. Section 925.8 repeats the provision in section 312 of the Act that any person who destroys, causes the loss of, or injures any sanctuary resource is liable to the United States for response costs and damages resulting from such destruction, loss or injury, and any vessel used to destroy, cause the loss of, or injure any sanctuary resource is liable in rem to the United States for response costs and damages resulting from such destruction, loss or injury. The purpose of these sections is to draw the public's attention to the liability for violating a Sanctuary regulation or the Act. Regulations setting forth the procedures governing administrative proceedings for assessment of civil penalties, permit sanctions and denials for enforcement reasons, issuance and use of written warnings, and release or forfeiture of seized property appear in 15 CFR part 904.
