FR941006-2-00131 FR941006-2-00089 Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Section 45(a) provides that the information contained in any application filed with the SEC under the Act shall be made available to the public, unless and except insofar as the SEC finds that public disclosure is neither necessary nor appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. 2. Applicants request an order under section 45(a) for the exhibits they submitted in support of the other application relating to international custody charges and other likely cost savings. These exhibits contain confidential business information that has been supplied to support applicants' contention that granting the relief they requested would likely result in cost savings, rather than increase expense, for the Blended Style Norwest Funds. It is possible for an interested investor fully to understand and evaluate this argument without knowing the precise amount of the cost savings that applicants believe the Blended Style Norwest Fund may realize. Therefore, applicants believe that public disclosure of the information is not necessary in the public interest or for the protection of investors. 3. On the other hand, such public disclosure could result in harm to the shareholders of the Blended Style Norwest Funds. Applicants have negotiated, or expect to negotiate, preferential treatment from the service providers to Core Trust as a result of the larger Core Trust portfolios that will be created by the pooled investment of the Blended Style Norwest Funds. Disclosure of how the negotiated fees have been computed and the specific amounts that would have been charged under other circumstances could weaken the applicants' negotiating position towards the service providers and could cause the service providers to refuse to give the applicants preferential rates. Applicants submit, therefore, that public disclosure of the information is not appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors. 4. The Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. ยง552) generally provides that all information provided to or generated by the government should be made available to the general public, with certain exceptions set forth in the statute. One of those exceptions is for ``trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential.'' Applicants believe that the information that is the subject of this application falls within the exception described, and it thus is eligible for protection under the Freedom of Information Act. 1 1 Applicants recognize that any order granting the confidential treatment requested will be issued under section 45(a) only, and that any such order will not be dispositive of any Freedom of Information Act request filed by a third party. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24800 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
