FR940919-0-00096 FR940919-0-00016 Table 1._ Capacity Variances for Newly Listed and Identified Wastes1 1Waste type 1Variance for surface-disposed wastes 1Variance for deep well-disposed wastes High TOC D001 Wastes No One year D012&hyph;D017 Wastes2 No One year D018&hyph;D043 Nonwastewaters No N/A K141&hyph;K145 Wastes No No K147&hyph;K148 Wastes No No K149&hyph;K151 Wastes No No Soil (Phase II Wastes) No N/A Debris (Phase II Wastes) No N/A Mixed Radioactive Two years N/A Mixed Radioactive Soil and Debris (with Phase II Wastes) Two years N/A N/A=Not applicable. 1EPA is granting a three month national capacity variance for all the newly identified and listed wastes covered in this rule to handle logistical problems associated with complying with the new standards. 2Newly identified TC wastes that were not previously hazardous by the old EP Leaching Procedure. B. Analysis of Available Capacity The analysis of commercial capacity for newly identified and listed wastes is based primarily on data received in voluntary data submissions. These data include estimates of available capacity at commercial combustion facilities provided by the Hazardous Waste Treatment Council (HWTC) on incinerators and the Cement Kiln Recycling Coalition (CKRC) on cement kilns that burn hazardous wastes. Capacity for other conventional treatment processes (e.g., stabilization) is based on the 1990 TSDR Survey Capacity Data Set, which contains results from the National Survey of Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, Disposal and Recycling Survey (the TSDR Survey), and required capacity information from prior LDR rules. Combustion Capacity. Combustion capacity for liquid hazardous wastes has historically been more readily available than capacity for sludges and solids. EPA estimates commercial combustion capacity for TC organic liquids to be about 1,267,000 tons per year. Commercial capacity for combustion of sludges and solids is available at both incinerators and industrial furnaces (primarily cement kilns that are authorized to burn hazardous wastes as fuel). Cement kiln capacity for hazardous waste is limited by air emission limits (e.g., boiler and industrial furnace (BIF) limits under 40 CFR 266 subpart H), feed system limitations (e.g., particle size and viscosity limits), and product (i.e., cement clinker) quality considerations. For instance, cement quality considerations may require that wastes burned in cement kilns have a heating value of at least 5,000 BTU/lb to ensure adequate temperatures in the kiln. (Comments received by EPA, however, indicate that some kilns accept wastes below this heating value.) Incineration capacity is also limited by air emission limits, other permit limits (such as heat release limits), and feed system limits. EPA has taken these limitations into account in its estimates of available commercial combustion capacity. Information available to EPA indicates that approximately 438,000 tons/year of commercial combustion capacity are available for newly identified TC organic sludges and solids, including soil and debris. 2 EPA primarily derived this estimate primarily from survey data compiled by the Hazardous Waste Treatment Council (HWTC) and Cement Kiln Recycling Coalition (CKRC). These surveys contained detailed information on the amount and types of waste burned at each commercial facility in 1992, and the maximum amount of waste that could practically be burned in light of technical, operational, and regulatory constraints. In deriving this estimate, EPA first reviewed each survey response to confirm that the information provided was based on technically valid assumptions. To be conservative in its national estimate, EPA only included facilities and units that are presently capable of operating at or near full capacity under current permit and operational constraints. EPA then derived a national baseline estimate of available capacity by subtracting the amount of waste (hazardous and nonhazardous) burned in 1992 from the maximum practical capacity at each facility. Several cement kilns that burn hazardous waste were not included in the CKRC survey results. For these facilities, EPA obtained maximum practical capacity estimates from other sources (e.g., past data submittals or general trade literature), and derived available capacity estimates by assuming that these kilns are utilized at the average rate of those included in the CKRC survey. EPA's methodology for deriving its baseline capacity estimate is described in greater detail in the capacity background document for today's rule. 2 This estimate includes solids and nonpumpable sludges, but excludes pumpable sludges. Pumpable sludge capacity in general is grouped with liquid capacity because of its limitations in particle size, solids content, and viscosity, and because pumpable sludges are often fed through the same feed ports that are used for liquids. Once EPA obtained its baseline available commercial combustion capacity estimate, it estimated available capacity for wastes affected by today's rule by subtracting required capacity for routinely generated F037 and F038 (69,000 tons/year) from its baseline estimate. This adjustment was needed because these wastes were not regulated during most of the 1992 base year (refer to 57 FR 37194, August 18, 1992). EPA did not adjust its capacity estimate to account for one-time generation of F037 and F038 because the Agency understands that these wastes were generally removed prior to the June 1994 effective date of the LDR standards or are being left in place when the surface impoundments that contain them are being closed.
