FR940317-1-00006 FR940317-1-00003 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Parts 170 and 171 [Docket No. PRM&hyph;170&hyph;3] American College of Nuclear Physicians and the Society of Nuclear Medicine; Denial of Petition for Rulemaking AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Petition for rulemaking; denial. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (``NRC'' or ``Commission'') received a petition for rulemaking submitted by the American College of Nuclear Physicians (``ACNP'') and the Society of Nuclear Medicine (``SNM'') (``petitioners''). The petitioners requested that the Commission amend its regulations governing the user and annual fees charged to their members due to increases in those fees. Among the specific requests contained in the petition were to establish a generic exemption for medical licensees who provide services in nonprofit institutions and to allow NRC licensees a greater voice in the development of new regulations by the NRC. After careful consideration, the Commission has decided not to adopt the proposals made in the petition. ADDRESSES: Copies of the petition for rulemaking, the public comments received, and the NRC's letter to the petitioner are available for public inspection or copying in the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC 20555. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: L. Michael Rafky, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone 301&hyph;504&hyph;1974. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background. II. Responses to comments. I. Background On February 18, 1992, the NRC received a petition for rulemaking submitted by petitioners ACNP and SNM. The petitioners requested that the NRC amend 10 CFR parts 170 and 171 which govern the annual and user fees imposed on most NRC materials licensees by the Commission since the advent of 100 percent fee recovery in FY 1991. The petitioners requested these amendments because of the substantial adverse impacts experienced by their members following increases in the NRC's user and annual fees. On May 12, 1992 (57 FR 20211), the NRC published a notice in the Federal Register announcing receipt of the petition. In that notice, the NRC stated that it would consider the issues raised by petitioners within the context of the review and evaluation of the fee program for FY 1993 conducted as part of the NRC's continued implementation of Public Law 101&hyph;508, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, as amended (OBRA&hyph;90). On October 13, 1992 (57 FR 46818), the NRC published a notice requesting public comment on the issues raised in the petition. The NRC received nearly 100 comments in response to this request, with the vast majority in favor of granting the petition. After careful consideration of the comments, the Commission has decided to deny the petition for rulemaking, for reasons stated below. II. Responses to Comments 1. Comment. The majority of commenters simply restated their support for some or all of the requested changes in NRC policy detailed in the petition. In their petition, ACNP and SNM stated that NRC fee increases under the 100 percent recovery regime were adversely affecting their members' practice of nuclear medicine, in the process harming the societal benefits which stem from that field of medicine. The petitioners claimed that they could not recoup the costs of NRC fees because Medicare reimbursement levels are inadequate and because competing nuclear medicine alternatives are not regulated (or charged fees) by the NRC. Petitioners then compared their treatment under the NRC's fee rules to that of nonprofit educational institutions, power reactors and small entities, all of whom petitioners claimed receive special treatment by the NRC, and argued that for exemption purposes medical licensees should not be lumped together with all other materials licensees. For these reasons, ACNP and SNM requested that the Commission take the following policy actions: (1) Grant a generic exemption for medical services provided in nonprofit institutions, such as hospitals, similar to that granted to nonprofit educational institutions; (2) Provide individualized exemption criteria for medical licensees, by means of a ``simple template for structuring exemption requests;'' (3) Adopt a sliding scale of minimum fees that grants nuclear physicians more relief than the current small entity classification (which grants relief to physicians in private practice with less than $1,000,000 in gross receipts); and (4) Give NRC licensees a greater voice in the NRC's decisionmaking process for developing new regulatory programs.
