FR940202-2-00166 FR940202-2-00073 (a) A detailed description of the supportive services proposed to be provided to the anticipated occupancy. (b) Form HUD 92013E, Supplemental Application Processing Form_Housing for the Elderly. Identify all supportive services, if any, to be provided to the persons occupying such housing. (c) A description of public or private sources of assistance that reasonably could be expected to fund the proposed services. (d) The manner in which such services will be provided to such persons ( i.e. , on or off-site), including, whether a service coordinator will facilitate the adequate provision of such services, and how the services will meet the identified needs of the residents. (e) Narrative description of the building design including a description of any special design features and community space, and how this design will facilitate the delivery of services in an economical fashion and accommodate the changing needs of the residents over the next 10&hyph;20 years. (f) Describe if and how the project will promote energy efficiency and, if applicable, innovative construction or rehabilitation methods or technologies to be used that will promote efficient construction. IV. Other Matters A. Environmental Impact A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment has been made in accordance with HUD regulations that implement section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4332. The Finding of No Significant Impact is available for public inspection during business hours in the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of General Counsel, room 10276, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20410. B. Federalism Executive Order The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order No. 12612, Federalism, has determined that this NOFA does not have substantial direct effects on States or their political subdivisions, or on the relationship between the Federal government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. This NOFA merely notifies the public of the availability of capital advances and project rental assistance for supportive housing for the elderly. C. Family Executive Order The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order No. 12606, The Family, has determined that this NOFA does not significantly affect family formation, maintenance, or general well-being, and, thus, is not subject to review under the order. D. Accountability in the Provision of HUD Assistance HUD has promulgated a final rule to implement section 102 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (HUD Reform Act). The final rule is codified at 24 CFR part 12. Section 102 contains a number of provisions that are designed to ensure greater accountability and integrity in the provision of certain types of assistance administered by HUD. On January 14, 1992, HUD published at 57 FR 1942, additional information that gave the public (including applicants for, and recipients of, HUD assistance) further information on the implementation, public access, and disclosure requirements of section 102. The documentation, public access, and disclosure requirements of section 102 are applicable to assistance awarded under this NOFA as follows: 1. Documentation and Public Access HUD will ensure documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See 24 CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these requirements.) 2. Disclosures HUD will make available to the public for five years all applicant disclosure reports (HUD Form 2880) submitted in connection with this NOFA. Update reports (also Form 2880) will be made available along with the applicant disclosure reports, but in no case for a period less than three years. All reports_both applicant disclosures and updates_will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. (See 24 CFR subpart C, and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these disclosure requirements.) E. Documentation and Public Access Requirements: HUD Reform Act HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these requirements.)
