FR941007-1-00155 FR941007-1-00009 (1) A consumer loan is located where the borrower resides; (2) A home mortgage loan is located where the property to which the loan relates is located; (3) A small business or small farm loan is located where the main business facility or farm is located or where the loan proceeds otherwise will be applied, as indicated by the borrower. (m) Loan production office means a staffed banking facility that is accessible to the public, and provides lending-related services such as loan information and applications, but is not a branch. (n) MSA means metropolitan statistical area or primary metropolitan statistical area, as defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. (o) Minority means an individual who is an American Indian or Alaskan Native, an Asian or Pacific Islander, a Black, or of Hispanic origin as provided in the Office of Management and Budget's Statistical Policy Directive No. 15, Race and Ethnic Standards for Federal Statistics and Administrative Reporting. (p) Minority-owned business means a business, including a farm, that is more than 50 percent owned by one or more minority individuals, and that has not issued any securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq .) and has 100 or fewer shareholders. (q) Service area means a geographical area delineated in accordance with ยง563e.41 of this part. (r) Small savings association means a savings association with total assets of less than $250 million that is: (1) Independent; or (2) An affiliate of a holding company with total banking and thrift assets of less than $250 million. (s) Small business loan means a loan with an original amount of $1 million or less that is either a commercial or industrial loan or a loan secured by nonfarm, nonresidential property. (t) Small farm loan means a loan with an original amount of $500,000 or less that is a loan secured by farmland (including a loan to finance a farm residence or other improvements), a loan to finance agricultural production, or any other loan to a farmer. (u) Women-owned business means a business, including a farm, that is more than 50 percent owned by one or more women, and that has not issued any securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq .) and has 100 or fewer shareholders. (v) Wholesale savings association means a savings association that is not in the business of extending home mortgage, small business, small farm, or consumer loans to retail customers, and has, pursuant to a written request, been designated by the OTS as a wholesale savings association, as provided in ยง563e.25 of this part. Subpart B_Standards for Assessing Performance ยง563e.21 Assessment tests and ratings, in general.
