FR940926-0-00021 FR940926-0-00006 (4) Adjustments for outliers, area wages, and indirect medical education. The Department of Defense may, but is not required by this part, to adjust cost determinations in particular cases for length-of-stay outliers (long stay and short stay), cost outliers, area wage rates, and indirect medical education. If any such adjustments are used, the method shall be comparable to that used for CHAMPUS hospital reimbursements pursuant to 32 CFR 199.14(a)(1)(iii)(E), and the calculation of the standardized amount under paragraph (a)(2) of this section will reflect that such adjustments will be used. (5) Identification of professional and hospital costs. For purposes of billing third party payers other that automobile liability and no-fault insurance carriers, inpatient billings will be subdivided into two categories: (1) Hospital charges (which refers to routine service charges associated with the hospital stay and ancillary charges). (ii) Professional charges (which refers to professional services provided by physicians and certain other providers). (6) Outpatient billings will continue to be subdivided into three categories: (i) Hospital charges (which refers to routine service charges associated with the outpatient visit). (ii) Professional charges (which refers to professional services provided by physicians and certain other providers). (iii) Ancillary charges (which refers to diagnostic and treatment services, other than professional services, provided by components of the hospital in connection with the outpatient visit). * * * * * (c) Clinical groups per diem rates for care provided on or after October 1, 1992, and prior to October 1, 1994. For inpatient hospital care provided on or after October 1, 1992, and prior to October 1, 1994, the computation of reasonable costs shall be based on the per diem full reimbursement rate applicable to the clinical category of services involved. *␣*␣* * * * * * (d) Medical services and subsistence charges included. Medical services charges pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1078 or subsistence charges pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1075 are included in the claim filed with the third party payer pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1095. For any patient of a facility of the Uniformed Services who indicates that he or she is a beneficiary of a third party payer plan, the usual medical services or subsistence charge will not be collected from the patient to the extent that payment received from the payer exceeds the medical services or subsistence charge. Thus, except in cases covered by section 220.8(k), payment of the claim made pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1095 which exceeds the medical services or subsistence charge, will satisfy all of the third party payer's obligation arising from the inpatient hospital care provided by the facility of the Uniformed Services on that occasion.
