FR941017-2-00092 FR941017-2-00057 Finally, the proposal makes clear that the requirements specified in the Rule 11.1 only apply to expiring equity options listed on the Exchange. 21 21 See supra note 10. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to national securities exchanges, particularly, Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 22 Specifically, the Commission believes the Exchange's proposal is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to protect investors and the public interest. 22 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). Although all options exchanges currently have a uniform 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) Exercise Cut-Off Time on Expiration Fridays for expiring equity options, the OCC's rules permit the OCC to accept exercise notices for expiring equity options from clearing firms until 12:00 a.m. (E.S.T.) on the expiration date ( i.e. , the Saturday after an Expiration Friday). This additional time within which to receive exercise notices from clearing members was provided to accommodate corrections of mistakes made in good faith, trade reconciliations, and certain exceptional circumstances that affected a customer's ability to inform its brokerage firm or affected a firm's ability to receive final exercise decisions before the Exercise Cut-Off Time. Nevertheless, there have been situations where member organizations have either delayed making exercise decisions until after 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.) on Expiration Friday in anticipation of the release of material news concerning a particular underlying company, or having made decisions prior to 5:30 p.m. (E.S.T.), changed these decisions based upon such material news. 23 In this regard, the Commission believes that it is appropriate for the Exchange to make it clear in its rules that the submission of a Contrary Exercise Advice on the basis of material information released after the Exercise Cut-Off Time will be activity deemed inconsistent with just and equitable principles of trade. 24 23 See, e.g. , In re Farmers Group Stock Options Litigation, Master File No. 88&hyph;4994 (E.D.Pa 1989). 24 See supra note 13. The Commission believes that the proposed exercise procedures should enhance the Exchange's ability to surveil for violations of Rule 11.1 by providing an enhanced audit trail for identifying late exercises. Specifically, every time an exercise decision is made contrary to OCC Rule 805, a Contrary Exercise Advice must be filed with the Exchange, in addition to submitting an exercise instruction to a clearing member as is currently required. 25 Similarly, the proposal requires that documentation must be prepared and submitted to the proper options exchange whenever a late exercise decision is made in reliance on one of the exceptions to Rule 11.1, with the burden of establishing the existence of the exception on the party submitting the Contrary Exercise Advice. The proposed rule change, therefore, should facilitate the Exchange's ability to monitor and enforce compliance with Rule 11.1. Accordingly, because the proposed rule change significantly bolsters the Exchange's existing procedures regarding the exercise of expiring equity options and helps to ensure compliance with their rules, the Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with the Act. 26 25 See supra note 14. 26 The Commission notes that the CBOE has represented that it will prepare (in cooperation with the other options exchanges) and distribute a notice to member organizations describing the new procedures set forth above, and notifying member organizations as to when the new procedures will be fully in effect. See supra notes 5 and 16. Even though the proposed rule change significantly improves the Exchange's audit trail with respect to late exercises, the Commission believes that the Exchange should continue to examine ways of ensuring compliance with the Exercise Cut-Off Time and the other requirements of Rule 11.1. In this regard, the Commission encourages the Exchange to review the permitted exceptions to Rule 11.1 and consider ways of establishing parameters as to the extent of the exceptions. 27 27 For example, the Exchange may want to define expressly in the rule the circumstances that qualify for a good faith exception. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposal prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register . Specifically, the Commission believes that Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposal, as discussed above, clarify the application of the rule and may serve to minimize confusion and disputes between and among members and customers as to the application of this rule. Additionally, the original proposal was noticed for the full comment period without any comments being received by the Commission. Accordingly, the Commission believes that it is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act to approve Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis. Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposed rule change. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filings will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CBOE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;06 and should be submitted by November 7, 1994. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 28 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;06), as amended, is hereby approved. 29 28 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1982). 29 The Commission notes, however, that the proposed rule change will not be implemented until the Commission receives certain written representations from the OCC regarding the operational status of C/MACS. See supra note 16. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 30 30 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25553 Filed 10&hyph;14&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
