FR940617-2-00170 FR940617-2-00095 [Release No. 34&hyph;34200; File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;08] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Securities Trust Company; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Reorganization Processing June 10, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on May 5, 1994, the Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by MSTC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. section 78s (b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change adds to Article IV of MSTC's rules an interpretation which describes the Reorganization Processing System. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, MSTC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MSTC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, or the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the rule filing is to set forth in MSTC's rules the fact that MSTC may provide reorganization notices by computer facility. The computer facility that MSTC developed for the purpose of providing reorganization notices is a user-friendly, real-time computer system that allows participants, through the use of intuitive, data-driven displays, to view offer information on-line. It will allow MSTC participants to inquire as to various offer criteria, including offer type(s), target CUSIP(s), MSTC offer status, and offer date(s). Participants will be able to tailor their inquiries to only those offers in which they have a depository position. They may also view the location of a position within their MSTC account(s) for a chosen CUSIP. In addition, participants will be able to inquire as to a CUSIP's reorganization history. Rule 4 of Article IV of MSTC's rules describes MSTC's activities with respect to reorganizations, and sections 3 and 4 of Rule 2 of Article IV describe MSTC's responsibilities with respect to reorganization information disseminated by MSTC. Pursuant to these rules, MSTC currently provides daily notification of newly announced and updated corporate reorganization offers to its participants through manually produced, hard-copy notices. MSTC produces these notices, which include pertinent offer information, for a variety of offer types including, but not limited to, mergers, reverse splits, tenders and exchanges, expiring rights and warrants, put options on corporate and municipal bonds, and expiring convertible securities. Each current notice includes a disclaimer to the effect that MSTC does not guarantee the correctness or completeness of the information provided. This liability standard has been used for over twenty years and was part of MSTC's written procedures when MSTC applied for and received permanent registration as a clearing agency. The proposed interpretation sets forth language that limits MSTC's liability with respect to the information provided by computer. The liability standard is substantially the same as the standard for the hard copy notices. The proposed rule change is consistent with section 17A of the Act in that it will facilitate the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition MSTC does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were not and are not intended to be solicited with respect to the proposed rule change, and none have been received.
