FR940919-0-00090 FR940919-0-00016 The Agency solicited information on certain potential waste management practices for decharacterized TC wastes to help determine whether new notification requirements are needed. In particular, EPA requested whether generators or treaters, after removing the characteristic, send the decharacterized TC waste off-site to a Subtitle D (nonhazardous waste) treatment facility for further treatment to address the underlying hazardous constituents (58 FR 48134). The Agency solicited comment on potential enforcement concerns if there is not a federal requirement that generators notify Subtitle D treatment and disposal facilities receiving decharacterized wastes. One commenter stated that the generator of the waste should be made responsible through an EPA mandate to assure that treatment of underlying hazardous constituents at a subtitle D facility meets LDR treatment standards. Other commenters thought that the generator should notify the subtitle D facility of the underlying hazardous constituents, but they did not specify that a mandated notification should be required. However, other commenters said that existing arrangements between generators and off-site treatment facilities would suffice because EPA already requires generators to notify the EPA Regional office or Authorized State when it is sending decharacterized waste to a subtitle D facility under 40 CFR 268.9. One commenter pointed to the contract between the generator and the subtitle D facility as the mechanism by which generators would notify the treatment facility of what underlying hazardous constituents are in the waste. Only one commenter offered information on the extent that the practice of sending decharacterized wastes to a nonhazardous waste treater for treatment of underlying hazardous constituents is actually occurring. This commenter asked generators who send waste to their facilities how often they remove the characteristic prior to sending the decharacterized waste to a nonhazardous waste treatment facility for treatment of underlying hazardous constituents. They found that roughly 2&hyph;3 percent of the wastes from their survey group were decharacterized D001 and D002 wastes being sent off-site for further treatment at a nonhazardous waste treatment facility that employs CWA wastewater treatment or stabilization of underlying hazardous constituents. The commenter added, however, that there will be less decharacterized TC wastes going off-site for treatment of underlying hazardous constituents because these wastes require more sophisticated treatment systems to remove the characteristic than do the D001 and D002 wastes. Based on this information, the Agency has decided, for the time being, not to impose new notification requirements in today's final rule (a new certification is being added in this rule to ยง268.7(b)(5)(iv) as described above). The Agency continues to believe that very little decharacterized TC wastes will be sent to a subtitle D facility for treatment of underlying hazardous constituents. If such a practice should occur, generators and Subtitle D facilities have substantial incentives (such as CERCLA liability) to exchange and verify compliance with treatment standards for underlying hazardous constituents independent of federal notification requirements. If, however, information becomes available that generators are sending substantial amounts of decharacterized TC wastes off site to subtitle D facilities for treatment of underlying hazardous constituents, or that there is a paperwork loophole that existing arrangements between generators and treatment facilities do not address, today's approach will be revisited to determine whether such tracking is necessary to assure ``cradle to grave'' tracking of wastes and better informing subtitle D treatment and disposal companies of the requirements to which these decharacterized wastes remain subject. XI. Implementation of the Final Rule This section presents flowcharts of what EPA expects will be the most frequent set of decisions that must be made to implement the regulations for TC organic wastes (including soils), mixtures of TC organic wastes with listed wastes, and mixtures of TC organic wastes with ignitable or corrosive wastes. A flowchart describing the decisions necessary to comply with treatment standards for Phase II newly listed wastes is also included. Additionally, a flowchart is presented that outlines the decisions necessary to comply with treatment standards for debris contaminated with Phase II wastes. And, as a reminder that TC metals are not regulated by today's rule, a flowchart is also included of the decisions that must be made to determine if a characteristic metal waste is subject to the LDRs at this time based on regulation of Extraction Procedure (EP) metals in the Third Third rule in 1990, or is not yet subject to LDR regulation because TC metals will not be addressed until a later rulemaking. These flowcharts present only the major decisions that must be made; a thorough reading of the regulations will be necessary to fully implement the LDRs. There are requirements for specific waste management scenarios that are not included in these flowcharts because they would have become too complex to be generally useful. BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSER19SE94.000 E:GRAPHICSER19SE94.001 E:GRApHICSER19SE94.002 E:GRAPHICSER19SE94.003 E:GRAPHICSER19SE94.004 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C
