FR941003-0-00112 FR941003-0-00018 Comment on limiting market value with replacement cost: It is ill-advised and inconsistent with USPAP for HUD to stipulate that market value shall not exceed replacement cost. Response: The Department agrees with several of the commenters that there are instances when replacement cost does not keep step with market value, and this is precisely why a limitation is needed. We do not agree that a property can adequately secure a debt for any sum greater than is sufficient to replace the property. For purposes of mortgage financing, value must be ascertained prudently. It is not the same, for example, as the value assigned to property when setting a market price. For FHA purposes, it is fair and sensible to limit market value by replacement cost, particularly since it will be supported by an actual construction contract. We are puzzled by the assertion of one commenter that HUD's policy is inconsistent with USPAP. Standards Rule 1&hyph;5 of USPAP states that the appraiser must consider and reconcile the quality and quantity of data available and analyzed within the approaches used and the applicability or suitability of those approaches which are set forth in Standards Rule 1&hyph;4. For FHA, the acceptable approach is market value, although replacement cost is recognized as a limit to data acquired from the sales of comparable properties. We see no conflict with USPAP in this regard. Comment on reporting market conditions and trends: Why require the appraiser to analyze and report on current market conditions and trends if, as stated in the preamble to the proposed rule, such conditions and trends should not be factored into the estimate of value? Response: In the preamble to the proposed rule, we stated that: *␣*␣* while the appraiser should indicate observed market trends as a part of the appraisal report, a trend should not be factored into the estimate of value. This statement failed to make a basic distinction between what is meant by ``trend'' in multifamily compared with single family programs, and caused several commenters to question the usefulness of trending in single family appraisal work. A multifamily appraiser must give consideration to long-term projections of market changes in order to estimate, for example, project income from rents over the life of the mortgage. Trends are therefore of twofold significance in multifamily cases: they address projected changes in both the intrinsic value of the property and in its earning ability. Hence, they are essentially forward-looking. By comparison, the existence of rapidly rising or declining prices for single family properties can be ascertained by analysis of recent sales data. Looking at sale prices within the preceding six months, the appraiser can estimate the rate of increase or decrease in an area. These rates of change will have an effect on the value of the subject property and must be taken into consideration. 6 6 The URAR provides for the appraiser's perception of ``Market conditions in the subject neighborhood (including support for the above conclusions [regarding marketability] related to the trend of market values *␣*␣*)'' (Emphasis added.) For both single family and multifamily transactions, however, it should be borne in mind that conditions and trends are ephemeral elements in any economy whether viewed from a local or national perspective and they reflect assumptions which may or may not be vindicated by subsequent events. Comment on reporting the use of minority appraisers: Reporting on the use of minority and female appraisers is burdensome, unnecessary and if nevertheless adopted, should be HUD's responsibility. Response: This is an important initiative. It is intended to address two matters of concern. One is the perceived underutilization of minority and female appraisers in general. Second is a perceived underutilization of minority appraisers in communities where they might be more knowledgeable about trends and conditions and more sensitive to community problems. However, the Department recognizes the burden this reporting requirement places on mortgagees, especially in FHA's high volume single family programs. We have therefore revised the requirement so that HUD will accept virtually all responsibility for compiling and reporting the information for those programs.
