FR940224-0-00024 FR940224-0-00002 (b) Purpose and scope. This subpart A governs any extension of credit by a member bank to an executive officer, director, or principal shareholder of: The member bank; a bank holding company of which the member bank is a subsidiary; and any other subsidiary of that bank holding company. It also applies to any extension of credit by a member bank to: A company controlled by such a person; and a political or campaign committee that benefits or is controlled by such a person. This subpart A also implements the reporting requirements of 12 U.S.C. 375a concerning extensions of credit by a member bank to its executive officers and of 12 U.S.C. 1817(k) concerning extensions of credit by a member bank to its executive officers or principal shareholders, or the related interests of such persons. §215.2 Definitions. For the purposes of this subpart A, the following definitions apply unless otherwise specified: (a) Affiliate means any company of which a member bank is a subsidiary or any other subsidiary of that company. (b) Company means any corporation, partnership, trust (business or otherwise), association, joint venture, pool syndicate, sole proprietorship, unincorporated organization, or any other form of business entity not specifically listed herein. However, the term does not include: (1) An insured depository institution (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813); or (2) A corporation the majority of the shares of which are owned by the United States or by any State. (c)(1) Control of a company or bank means that a person directly or indirectly, or acting through or in concert with one or more persons: (i) Owns, controls, or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the company or bank; (ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors of the company or bank; or (iii) Has the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of the company or bank. (2) A person is presumed to have control, including the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies, of a company or bank if: (i) The person is: (A) An executive officer or director of the company or bank; and (B) Directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities of the company or bank; or (ii)(A) The person directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent of any class of voting securities of the company or bank; and (B) No other person owns, controls, or has the power to vote a greater percentage of that class of voting securities. (3) An individual is not considered to have control, including the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies, of a company or bank solely by virtue of the individual's position as an officer or director of the company or bank. (4) A person may rebut a presumption established by paragraph (b)(2) of this section by submitting to the appropriate Federal banking agency (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(q)) written materials that, in the agency's judgment, demonstrate an absence of control. (d) Director of a member bank means any director of a member bank, whether or not receiving compensation. An advisory director is not considered a director if the advisory director: (1) Is not elected by the shareholders of the company or bank; (2) Is not authorized to vote on matters before the board of directors; and (3) Provides solely general policy advice to the board of directors. (e)(1) Executive officer of a company or bank means a person who participates or has authority to participate (other than in the capacity of a director) in major policymaking functions of the company or bank, whether or not: the officer has an official title; the title designates the officer an assistant; or the officer is serving without salary or other compensation. 1 The chairman of the board, the president, every vice president, the cashier, the secretary, and the treasurer of a company or bank are considered executive officers, unless the officer is excluded, by resolution of the board of directors or by the bylaws of the bank or company, from participation (other than in the capacity of a director) in major policymaking functions of the bank or company, and the officer does not actually participate therein. 1 The term is not intended to include persons who may have official titles and may exercise a certain measure of discretion in the performance of their duties, including discretion in the making of loans, but who do not participate in the determination of major policies of the bank or company and whose decisions are limited by policy standards fixed by the senior management of the bank or company. For example, the term does not include a manager or assistant manager of a branch of a bank unless that individual participates, or is authorized to participate, in major policymaking functions of the bank or company. (2) Extensions of credit to an executive officer of an affiliate of a member bank (other than a company that controls the bank) shall not be subject to §§215.4, 215.6 and 215.8 of this part, provided that: (i) The executive officer of the affiliate is excluded (by name or by title) from participation in major policymaking functions of the member bank by resolutions of the boards of directors of both the affiliate and the member bank, and does not actually participate in such major policymaking functions; and (ii) The executive officer is not otherwise subject to such requirements as a director or principal shareholder.
