FR940303-0-00040 FR940303-0-00011 (i) Be in writing; (ii) Reference section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I); (iii) Be signed by the taxpayer; (iv) If it is in a separate document, reference the binding agreement that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and (v) Be notarized by the 5th day following the end of the month in which the binding agreement was made. (4) Multiple agreements_ (i) Rescinded agreements. A taxpayer may not make an election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) for a building if an election has previously been made for the building for a different month. For example, assume a taxpayer entered into a binding agreement for allocation of a specific housing credit dollar amount to a building and made the election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) to apply the appropriate percentage for the month of the binding agreement. If the binding agreement subsequently is rescinded under state law, and the taxpayer enters into a new binding agreement for allocation of a specific housing credit dollar amount to the building, the taxpayer must apply to the building the appropriate percentage for the elected month of the rescinded binding agreement. However, if no prior election was made with respect to the rescinded binding agreement, the taxpayer may elect the appropriate percentage for the month of the new binding agreement. (ii) Increases in credit. The election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I), once made, applies to any increase in the credit amount allocated for a building, whether the increase occurs in the same or in a subsequent year. However, in the case of a binding agreement (or carryover allocation that is treated as a binding agreement) to allocate a credit amount under section 42(e)(1) for substantial rehabilitation treated as a separate new building, a taxpayer may make the election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) notwithstanding that a prior election under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) is in effect for a prior allocation of credit for a substantial rehabilitation that was previously placed in service under section 42(e). (5) Amount allocated. The housing credit dollar amount eventually allocated to a building may be more or less than the amount specified in the binding agreement. Depending on the Agency's determination pursuant to section 42(m)(2) as to the financial feasibility of the building (or project), the Agency may allocate a greater housing credit dollar amount to the building (provided that the Agency has additional housing credit dollar amounts available to allocate for the calendar year of the allocation) or the Agency may allocate a lesser housing credit dollar amount. Under section 42(h)(7)(D), in allocating a housing credit dollar amount, the Agency must specify the applicable percentage and maximum qualified basis of the building. The applicable percentage may be less, but not greater than, the appropriate percentage for the month the building is placed in service, or the month elected by the taxpayer under section 42(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I). Whether the appropriate percentage is the appropriate percentage for the 70-percent present value credit or the 30-percent present value credit is determined under section 42(i)(2) when the building is placed in service. (6) Procedures_ (i) Taxpayer. The taxpayer must give the original notarized election statement to the Agency before the close of the 5th calendar day following the end of the month in which the binding agreement is made. The taxpayer must retain a copy of the binding agreement and the election statement and must file an additional copy of each with the taxpayer's Form 8609, Low-Income Housing Credit Allocation Certification, for the first taxable year in which credit is claimed for the building. (ii) Agency. The Agency must file with the Internal Revenue Service the original of the binding agreement and the election statement with the Agency's Form 8610, Annual Low-Income Housing Credit Agencies Report, that accounts for the year the allocation is actually made. The Agency must also retain a copy of the binding agreement and the election statement.
