FR941003-1-00077 FR941003-1-00006 (3) Effect. Any undertaking that falls within the exempted category approved by the Council shall require no further review pursuant to this part, unless the Agency Official, Council, State Historic Preservation Officer, or Tribal Preservation Officer, if participating, determines that there are circumstances under which the normally excluded undertaking may have an adverse effect upon historic properties. §800.6 Council review of agency procedures. (a) Initiation of review. When requested by the appropriate officer of a Federal agency or the Secretary pursuant to Section 110(a)(2)(E) of the Act, the Council shall review a procedure for consistency with the Council's regulations. An agency request shall be accompanied by the full text of the procedure and the information necessary to evaluate the programs and organizational structure of the agency as they are affected by the procedure. (1) The Council may request additional information necessary to complete its review of the procedure. The Council may also undertake review of an agency's procedures under this section upon its own initiative. The agency shall provide such procedures to the Council when requested. (2) When reviewing a procedure to evaluate consistency with the Council's regulations, the Council shall also consult with the Secretary, and may provide the agency head and the Secretary with its views on the consistency of the procedure with the disposition requirements of Section 3(c) of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act. (b) Council finding of consistency. The Council membership shall make a finding as to the consistency of the procedure with the Council's regulations based on the criteria set forth in §800.4. The Council shall provide its finding in writing to the officer of the agency who made the request and the head of the agency. (c) Approval of counterpart procedures. If the Council membership finds the procedure consistent, the agency may request the Council membership to approve the procedure as a counterpart procedure to substitute for the provisions of Subpart C of this part. Counterpart procedures must meet the requirements of §§800.4 and 800.5. (d) Council finding of inconsistency. If the Council membership finds the procedure inconsistent with the Council's regulations, the Council shall notify the officer of the agency who made the request, the head of the agency, and the Secretary. The notice shall identify the specific provisions that are inconsistent and include any recommendations that the Council may have to make the procedure consistent and suitable for approval as a counterpart procedure.
