FR940826-2-00158 FR940826-2-00081 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20491; 813&hyph;130] The Travelers Inc.; Notice of Application August 19, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANT: The Travelers, Inc., (``The Travelers''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under sections 6(b) and 6(e) granting an exemption from all provisions of the Act except section 9, certain provisions of section 17, sections 36 through 53, and the rules and regulations thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: The Travelers requests an exemptive order on behalf of certain limited partnerships or other entities (the ``Partnerships'') that it will organize. Each Partnership will be an employees' securities company within the meaning of section 2(a)(13) of the Act. FILING DATE: The application was filed on March 22, 1994, and amended on July 6, 1994, and August 19, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on September 13, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicant, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20549. Applicant, 65 East 55th Street, New York, New York 10022. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Deepak T. Pai, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0574, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564, or (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. The Travelers is a financial services holding company engaged, through its subsidiaries and certain affiliates, principally in four business segments; investment services, consumer finance services, life insurance services, and property and casualty services. The Travelers and its subsidiaries are referred to as The Travelers Group. One of The Travelers' principal indirect subsidiaries, Smith Barney Inc., which is a subsidiary of Smith Barney Holdings, Inc., is a broker-dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ``1934 Act'') and an investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the ``Advisers Act''). 2. The Travelers proposes to establish the Partnerships to provide investment opportunities for highly compensated key employees of The Travelers Group (``Eligible Employees''). The Partnerships will allow the Eligible Employees to diversify their investments, to pool their investment resources and to receive the benefit of certain investment opportunities that come to the attention of The Travelers Group. Each Partnership will be an ``employees' securities company'' as that term is defined in section 2(a)(13) of the Act, and will operate as a closed-end, non-diversified, management investment company. Each Partnership will have a general partner, the executive officers and directors of which will be Eligible Employees. The affairs of each Partnership will be governed by a limited partnership agreement to be executed by the general partner and each limited partner who will invest in the Partnership. The Travelers Group will bear all expenses incurred in connection with the organization of the Partnerships. Units will be sold without a sales load. 3. The Eligible Employees, in addition to being employees, officers or directors of The Travelers Group, will be engaged in various aspects of the financial services business. They also will be sophisticated investors who are highly compensated and otherwise able to fend for themselves without benefit of regulatory safeguards, and will be required to meet the standards for ``accredited investors'' in rule 501(a)(6) of Regulation D under the Securities Act of 1933. 4. Units in the Partnerships will not be transferable by a limited partner except with the express consent of the general partner and then only to parties that fall within the class of persons referred to in section 2(a)(13) of the Act.
