FR940707-2-00088 FR940707-2-00049 Local and State governments should enter the amount of indirect costs determined in accordance with HHS requirements. When an indirect cost rate is requested, these costs are included in the indirect cost pool and should not be charged again as direct costs to the grant. In the case of training grants to other than State or local governments (as defined in title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, part 74), the Federal reimbursement of indirect costs will be limited to the lesser of the negotiated (or actual) indirect cost rate or 8 percent of the amount allowed for direct costs, exclusive of any equipment charges, rental of space, tuition and fees, post-doctoral training allowances, contractual items, and alterations and renovations. For training grant applications, the entry under line 6j should be the total indirect costs being charged to the project. The Federal share of indirect costs is calculated as shown above. The applicant's share is calculated as follows: (a) Calculate total project indirect costs (a*) by applying the applicant's approved indirect cost rate to the total project (Federal and non-Federal) direct costs. (b) Calculate the Federal share of indirect costs (b*) at 8 percent of the amount allowed for total project (Federal and non-Federal) direct costs exclusive of any equipment charges, rental of space, tuition and fees, post-doctoral training allowances, contractual items, and alterations and renovations. (c) Subtract (b*) from (a*). The remainder is what the applicant can claim as part of its matching cost contribution. Justification: Enclose a copy of the indirect cost rate agreement. Applicants subject to the limitation on the Federal reimbursement of indirect costs for training grants should specify this. Total_Line 6k. Enter the total amounts of lines 6i and 6j. Program Income_Line 7. Enter the estimated amount of income, if any, expected to be generated from this project. Do not add or subtract this amount from the total project amount. Justification: Describe the nature, source, and anticipated use of program income in the Program Narrative Statement. Section C_Non-Federal Resources. This section summarizes the amounts of non-Federal resources that will be applied to the grant. Enter this information on line 12 entitled ``Totals.'' In-kind contributions are defined in title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations, §§74.51 and 92.24, as ``property or services which benefit a grant- supported project or program and which are contributed by non-Federal third parties without charge to the grantee, the subgrantee, or a cost-type contractor under the grant or subgrant.'' Justification: Describe third party in-kind contributions, if included. Section D_Forecasted Cash Needs. Not applicable. Section E_Budget Estimate of Federal Funds Needed For Balance of the Project. This section should only be completed if the total project period exceeds 17 months. Totals_Line 20. For projects that will have more than one budget period, enter the estimated required Federal funds for the second budget period (months 13 through 24) under column ``(b) First.'' If a third budget period will be necessary, enter the Federal funds needed for months 25 through 36 under ``(c) Second.'' Columns (d) and (e) are not applicable in most instances, since ACF funding is almost always limited to a three-year maximum project period. They should remain blank. Section F_Other Budget Information. Direct Charges_Line 21. Not applicable. Indirect Charges_Line 22. Enter the type of indirect rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) that will be in effect during the funding period, the estimated amount of the base to which the rate is applied, and the total indirect expense.
