FR940817-1-00051 FR940817-1-00013 §66.13 Temporary certificate. A certificate and ratings effective for a period of not more than 120 days may be issued to a qualified applicant, pending review of his or her application and supplementary documents and the issue of the certificate and ratings for which the applicant applied. §66.15 Duration of certificates. (a) An aviation maintenance technician certificate, an aviation repair specialist certificate issued to an experimental aircraft builder, or any rating issued under this part is effective until it is surrendered, suspended, or revoked. (b) Unless it is sooner surrendered, suspended, or revoked, an aviation repair specialist certificate issued to an individual other than an experimental aircraft builder is effective until the holder is relieved from the duties for which the holder was employed and certificated. (c) The holder of a certificate issued under this part that is suspended, revoked, or no longer effective shall return it to the Administrator. §66.16 Change of name: Replacement of lost or destroyed certificate. (a) An application for a change of name on a certificate issued under this part must be accompanied by the applicant's current certificate and the marriage license, court order, or other document verifying the change. The documents are returned to the applicant after inspection. (b) An application for a replacement of a lost or destroyed certificate is made by letter to the Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Airman Certification Branch, Post Office Box 25082, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125. The letter must: (1) Contain the name in which the certificate was issued, the permanent mailing address (including zip code), social security number (if any), and date and place of birth of the certificate holder and any available information regarding the grade, number, and date of issue of the certificate, and the ratings on it; and (2) Be accompanied by a check or money order for $2, payable to the Federal Aviation Administration. (c) A person whose certificate issued under this part has been lost may obtain a telegram or facsimile from the FAA confirming that it was issued. The telegram or facsimile may be carried as a certificate for a period not to exceed 60 days pending the receipt of a duplicate certificate under paragraph (b) of this section, unless the airman has been notified that the certificate has been suspended or revoked. The request for such a telegram or facsimile may be made by prepaid telegram or facsimile, stating the date upon which a duplicate certificate was requested, or including the request for a duplicate and a money order for the necessary amount. The request for a telegraphic or facsimile certificate should be sent to the office prescribed in paragraph (b) of this section. §66.17 Tests: General procedure. (a) Tests prescribed by or under this part are given at times and places, and by persons, designated by the Administrator. (b) The minimum passing grade for each test is 70 percent. §66.18 Written tests: Cheating or other unauthorized conduct. (a) Except as authorized by the Administrator, no person may: (1) Copy, or intentionally remove, a written test under this part; (2) Give to another, or receive from another, any part or copy of that test; (3) Give help on that test to, or receive help on that test from, any person during the period that test is being given; (4) Take any part of that test in behalf of another person; (5) Use any material or aid during the period that test is being given; or (6) Intentionally cause, assist, or participate in any act prohibited by this paragraph. (b) No person who commits an act prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section is eligible for any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating under this chapter for a period of 1 year after the date of that act. In addition, the commission of that act is a basis for suspending or revoking any airman or ground instructor certificate or rating held by that person. §66.19 Retesting after failure. An applicant for a written, oral, or practical test for a certificate and rating, or for an additional rating under this part, may apply for retesting:
