FR940203-1-00003 FR940203-1-00002 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Parts 19 and 20 RIN 3150&hyph;AE80&hyph;1 Radiation Protection Requirements; Amended Definitions and Criteria AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) proposes to amend its regulations concerning radiation protection requirements. The proposed rule would: Delete the definition of ``Controlled area'' to make it clear that any area to which access is restricted for the purpose of radiological protection is a restricted area as defined in the regulation, revise the definition of ``Occupational dose'' to delete reference to the ``Restricted area,'' revise the definition of unrestricted area to be consistent with the deletion of controlled area, revise the provision entitled ``Instruction to Workers,'' so that radiation protection training will be provided to all persons with the potential to be occupationally exposed and restore a provision to provide that whenever licensees are required to report exposures of individual members of the public to the NRC, then those individuals are to receive copies of the report. DATES: Comment period expires April 4, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to assure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments to: Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch. Deliver comments to: 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm Federal workdays. Copies of the regulatory analysis, the environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact, the supporting statement submitted to OMB, and comments received may be examined at: The NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Alan K. Roecklein, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 492&hyph;3740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On May 21, 1991, (56 FR 23360) the NRC amended 10 CFR part 20 to add its revised ``Standards for Protection Against Radiation (10 CFR 20.1001&hyph;20.2402). Compliance became mandatory for all licensees on January 1, 1994. Extensive discussion regarding interpretation and implementation of the new rules has ensued both within the NRC and Agreement State staffs and with licensees and other interested parties. The revised standards include a definition for the term ``Controlled area.'' The term is defined to be an area outside of a restricted area, but inside the site boundary access to which can be limited for any reason (10 CFR 20.1003). The term ``Restricted area'' was retained in the revised standards from the original regulation, 10 CFR part 20, and is defined as an area, ``access to which is limited by the licensees for the purpose of protecting individuals against undue risks from exposure to radiation or radioactive materials *␣*␣* (10 CFR 20.1003).'' Neither the revised standards themselves, nor the supplemental information provide a basis for deciding whether to designate a given area as a ``Restricted area'' or a ``Controlled area.'' In discussions with licensees and Agreement States, the absence of such a clear delineation appears to be the cause of considerable uncertainty among a number of licensees regarding how to implement the revised standards in this regard. The NRC believes that this situation can be alleviated by eliminating the term ``Controlled area'' from the regulations. This change has the effect of returning the regulation to the former situation in which areas are either restricted or unrestricted for purposes of radiation protection. As has always been the case, licensees continue to have the option of controlling access to areas for reasons other than radiation protection. The definition of ``Unrestricted area'' in the revised standard acknowledges the existence of controlled areas and currently is defined as an area ``access to which is neither limited nor controlled by the licensee'' (10 CFR 20.1003). Deletion of the term ``Controlled area'' permits return to the former situation in which areas are either restricted or unrestricted for radiation protection purposes, and the Commission now proposes to revise the definition of ``Unrestricted area'' to make this clear. Under this proposal, licensees would continue to have the option to control access for reasons other than radiation protection. As before, the definitions of ``restricted area'' and of ``unrestricted area'' do not preclude the existence of areas in which access is limited for purposes other than protecting individuals against undue risks from exposure to radiation and/or radioactive materials.
