FR940927-0-00107 FR940927-0-00016 (B) The expired license or certificate of registry to be renewed; or, if it has not expired, a photocopy of the license or certificate, including the back and all attachments. (C) A certification from a licensed physician or physician assistant in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section for the renewal of a license. (D) If the applicant desires to renew a license with a radar observer endorsement, either the radar observer certificate or a certified copy. (E) Evidence of, or acceptable substitute for, sea service for the renewal of a license. (F) For a certificate of registry as a medical doctor or professional nurse, evidence that he or she holds a currently valid, appropriate license as physician, surgeon, or registered nurse, issued under the authority of a state or territory of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia. (ii) The open-book exercise, if required, may be administered through the mail. (iii) Upon receipt of the renewed license or certificate of registry, the applicant shall sign it in order to validate the license or certificate. (4) Concurrent renewal of licenses, certificates of registry, and merchant mariner's documents. An applicant for concurrent renewal of more than one merchant mariner credential shall satisfy the individual renewal requirements and pay the applicable fees required by §§10.109 and 12.02&hyph;18 of this chapter for each license, certificate of registry, or merchant mariner's document being renewed. (f) Reissuance of expired license or certificate of registry. (1) Whenever an applicant applies for reissuance of a license more than 12 months after expiration, in lieu of the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, the applicant shall demonstrate continued professional knowledge by completing a course approved for this purpose, or by passing the complete examination for that license. The examination may be oral-assisted if the expired license was awarded on an oral exam. The fees listed in §10.109 apply to these examinations. In the case of an expired radio officer's license, the license may be issued upon presentation of a valid first- or second-class radiotelegraph operator license issued by the Federal Communications Commission. (2) A certificate of registry that has been expired for more than 12 months shall be renewed in the same way as a current certificate of registry. There are no additional requirements for reissuing certificates of registry that have been expired for more than 12 months. (g) Inactive license renewal. (1) Applicants for renewal of licenses who are unwilling or otherwise unable to meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section may renew their licenses, with the following restrictive endorsement placed on the back of the license: ``License renewed for continuity purposes only; service under the authority of this license is prohibited.'' Holders of licenses with this continuity endorsement may have the prohibition rescinded at any time by satisfying the renewal requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. (2) Applications for renewal of a license with the continuity endorsement must include: (i) The license to be renewed, or, if it is unexpired, a photocopy of the license including the back and all attachments; and, (ii) A signed statement from the applicant attesting to an awareness of the restriction to be placed on the renewed license, and of the requirements for rescinding the continuity endorsement. 6. Section 10.805 is amended by adding paragraph (f) to read as follows: §10.805 General requirements. * * * * * (f) A certificate of registry is valid for a term of 5 years from the date of issuance. Procedures for renewing certificates of registry are found in §10.209. The expiration date of a certificate of registry issued without an expiration date shall be determined in accordance with §10.811. 7. Section 10.811 and Table 10.811 are added to read as follows: §10.811 Expiration of existing certificates of registry. The expiration year of a certificate of registry issued without an expiration date is calculated by adding 5-year increments to the issuance date of the certificate of registry, up to first applicable year falling between 1995 and 1999, inclusive. The day and month of expiration are the same as that of issuance. Table 10.811 is provided as an aid for calculating the expiration date of a certificate of registry issued without an expiration date. A certificate of registry is not valid for use after the expiration date calculated under this section, but may be renewed in accordance with the requirements of §10.209.
