FR940620-0-00132 FR940620-0-00029 Response. The exception did not intend that access would not be provided. It did, however, intend to permit higher thresholds where equivalent facilitation using ramps, raised decking, or other means is provided. This provision is based on ADAAG 9.2.2(6)(d) and the exception has not been changed. Comment. The proposed rule included carports and garages along with patios, decks, terraces, and balconies in the list of spaces which were required to be accessible. The exception for level changes however, did not include carports and garages which are on an accessible level and which serve the dwelling unit. A few commenters felt that this needed clarification. Response. Carports and garages are listed separately to clarify that the exception for level changes does not apply to all these spaces. Carports and garages serving accessible dwelling units as well as their routes or connections to the dwelling unit must be accessible. 13.3.2(14)␣Laundry Facilities This provision requires laundry facilities to be accessible in compliance with ADAAG 13.3.5. Few comments were received on this provision and no changes have been made. 13.3.3␣Bathrooms This section establishes minimum requirements for accessible bathrooms within dwelling units. 13.3.3(1)␣Doors This provision requires that bathroom doors comply with ADAAG 4.13. The door swing may overlap required clear floor space for fixtures provided that maneuvering clearance is beyond the arc of the door swing. Comment. The NPRM proposed a provision based on ADAAG 4.22.2 that would prohibit the door swing from intruding on clear floor space required for any fixture. A number of commenters opposed this requirement based on the rationale that bathrooms in dwelling units are for individual use. They reasoned that the additional space required to accommodate a door swing outside of the clear floor space could be as much as twelve square feet. Several commenters noted that the ANSI A117.1&hyph;1992 standard for Accessible and Usable Buildings allows the door to swing into the clear floor space in single user toilet rooms provided that maneuvering clearance is provided beyond the arc of the door swing. One commenter believed that in order to reduce costs, a person using a wheelchair or other mobility device should back out of a residential bathroom. Response. The Board agrees that fixtures in residential bathrooms are still usable if doors are permitted to swing into the required clear floor space. However, residents with disabilities should not be required to back out of their bathrooms. This would require that they must use the facility with the door open. Permitting this design alternative would constitute an intrusion into the privacy of individuals with disabilities. In order to facilitate a turn within the bathroom, and to accommodate commenters' concerns, the original language in the NPRM prohibiting doors from swinging into required clear floor space has been revised. The new language is consistent with ANSI A117.1&hyph;1992 section 4.16.2 in that the arc of the door swing may overlap required clear floor space at fixtures as long as it does not intrude into required maneuvering clearance within the room. This change allows greater flexibility in the layout of a residential bathroom and does not greatly compromise its usability. 13.3.3(2)␣Water Closets This provision requires water closets to be accessible in compliance with ADAAG 4.16 and allows a water closet height range of 15 to 19 inches measured to the top of the seat. ADAAG 4.16 includes requirements for a grab bar 36 inches in length behind the water closet and a grab bar 42 inches in length beside the water closet and contains requirements for toilet paper dispensers and requirements for flush controls. Comment. Several commenters raised concerns over the provision allowing the height of toilet seats to range from 15 to 19 inches. Some commenters supported the use of lower water closets noting they have difficulty using higher water closets and others felt they would find lower water closets less accessible. Response. Because there was no clear consensus among commenters for a specific height, no changes were made to this provision.
