FR940217-1-00003 FR940217-1-00002 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Part 212 [Regulation L; Docket No. R-0825] Management Official Interlocks AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION : Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is proposing to amend its regulations that implement the Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act (Interlocks Act or Act). The Interlocks Act generally prohibits certain management official interlocks between depository institutions, depository holding companies, and their affiliates. The proposed amendment would create limited exemptions to the prohibition on management official interlocks between certain depository organizations located in the same community or relevant metropolitan statistical area (RMSA). These exemptions would permit management official interlocks between depository organizations that together control only a small percentage of the total deposits in the community or RMSA. These exemptions are based on the Board's belief that these management interlocks would not threaten to inhibit or restrict competition among depository organizations. In addition, the Board is soliciting comment generally on revisions to the existing Interlocks Act regulations that the Board should consider, including the addition of other exemptions. The Board also is proposing amendments to implement certain provisions of the Management Interlocks Revision Act of 1988. DATES: Written comments must be received on or before April 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments, which should refer to Docket No. R-0825, may be mailed to Mr. William Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20551. Comments addressed to Mr. Wiles may also be delivered to the Board's mail room between 8:45 a.m. and 5:15 p.m., and to the security control room outside of those hours. Both the mail room and control room are accessible from the courtyard entrance on 20th Street between Constitution Avenue and C Street, NW. Comments may be inspected in room MP-500 between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except as provided in 261.8 of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information, 12 CFR 261.8. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : Thomas M. Corsi, Senior Attorney (202/452-3275), Legal Division, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. For the hearing impaired only , Telecommunication Device for the Deaf (TDD), Dorothea Thompson (202/452-3544), Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 20th and C Streets, NW, Washington, DC 20551. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background_Exemptions to the Interlocks Act The general purpose of the Interlocks Act is to foster competition among depository organizations 1 by prohibiting certain management interlocks that might contribute to anticompetitive practices. The primary concern is that interlocking management may enable certain depository institutions to control the flow and availability of credit in the markets in which they operate. 1 A depository organization means a depository institution or a depository holding company. See 12 CFR 212.2(g). The Act prohibits a management official of a depository organization from serving at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization located in the same community 2 or RMSA. 3 12 U.S.C. 3202. Congress designated RMSAs as appropriate regions within which to restrict management interlocks because RMSAs are ``economic trade areas and reflect the area in which financial institutions compete.'' S. Rep. No. 323, 95th Cong., 1st Sess. 14 (1977). 4 2 Community is defined as a city, town, or village, or contiguous or adjacent cities, towns, or villages. 12 CFR 212.2(c) 3 An RMSA includes a primary metropolitan statistical area, a metropolitan statistical area, or a consolidated metropolitan statistical area that is not comprised of designated primary metropolitan statistical areas as defined by the Office of Management and Budget. See 12 CFR 212.2(n); 58 FR 27443 (May 18, 1993). 4 The prohibitions apply if both organizations are depository institutions, each with an office in the same RMSA; if offices of depository institution affiliates of both organizations are located in the same RMSA; or if one organization is a depository institution that has an office in the same RMSA as a depository institution affiliate of the other organization. The RMSA prohibition does not apply to depository institutions with less than $20 million in assets. See 12 CFR 212.3. In the Interlocks Act, Congress authorized the Federal depository institutions regulatory agencies (the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of Thrift Supervision, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, hereinafter the ``Agencies'') to implement rules and regulations to carry out the Act, including rules or regulations which permit service by a management official that would otherwise be prohibited by the Act. 12 U.S.C. 3207. The legislative history of the Act indicates that the Agencies may exercise this rulemaking authority to exempt management official interlocks that otherwise might be prohibited by the statute if they establish that the exemption has a pro-competitive effect. H.R. Rep. No. 1383, 95th Cong., 2d Sess. 15 (1978). Pursuant to this rulemaking authority, the Board, along with the other Agencies, previously established exceptions for institutions located in low- and moderate-income areas, minority- and/or women-owned organizations, newly-chartered institutions, and institutions facing conditions endangering their safety and soundness. See 12 CFR 212.4(b). These exceptions are all available on a temporary basis upon a demonstration that the exempted management official interlock is necessary to provide management or operating expertise to the requesting institution. The Agencies are publishing their proposed rule notices separately. The Board now seeks comment on a proposal to establish additional exemptions from the prohibitions of the Act. These exemptions would be available to depository organizations that between them control a small percentage of deposits in a community or RMSA. The Board also proposes an amendment to exempt honorary and advisory directors that serve institutions with less than $100 million in assets from the definition of a ``management official'' in the Interlocks Act. This change is consistent with a provision of the Management Interlocks Revision Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-650, 102 Stat. 3819 (1988)). In addition to the proposed new exemption to the Interlocks Act, the Board, together with the other Federal depository institutions regulatory agencies, is considering a more comprehensive revision of the regulations implementing the statute. Any such revision would seek to simplify the regulations, revise existing exemptions, and consider new exemptions that would foster competition in relevant RMSAs and communities and thus minimize unnecessary regulatory burden while still fulfilling the requirements of the Interlocks Act. The Board therefore is using this notice of proposed rulemaking as an opportunity to solicit additional comment on the question of the improvement of its Interlocks Act regulations. The Small Market Share Exemption The Interlocks Act prevents two competing institutions from conspiring through common management officials to adversely impact competition in the products and services they offer. Where two depository institutions dominate a large portion of the market, these risks are real. But when a particular market is served by many institutions, the risks diminish that two depository institutions with interlocking management can adversely affect the credit products and services available in their market. The Board believes that analysis of the combined deposit holdings of two institutions provides a meaningful assessment of the capacity of the two institutions to control credit and related services in their market. This proposal reflects the view that two depository institutions that control a small portion of the market they serve are not capable of exerting sufficient market influence to materially restrict the terms and availability of credit in their market. For institutions located in a RMSA, the RMSA constitutes the relevant market. Some depository institutions compete in smaller markets either within or outside of RMSAs. The Interlocks Act provides that the relevant market for these organizations and organizations with total assets of $20 million or less that are located within a RMSA, is the city, town, or village and contiguous and adjacent areas in which the organizations are located. 12 U.S.C. 3202. The Proposal The Board is proposing to amend the management interlocks regulations to permit two depository organizations that serve the same RMSA to share management officials in circumstances where organizations control a small portion of the deposits in that market. Specifically, this proposal would permit two competing depository organizations, each with assets in excess of $20 million, to share management officials if the organizations together control no more than 20 percent of the deposits in the RMSA. Additionally, the depository organizations could control no more than 20 percent of the deposits in any other RMSA whether they compete directly, through offices, or through affiliated depository institutions. Under the proposal, depository organizations located in RMSAs would look to appropriate deposit share data available from the relevant Federal Reserve Bank in order to determine whether they are entitled to the exemption in reliance upon this information. Depository institutions would not have to apply to the appropriate Federal depository institution regulatory agency for permission to engage in the interlock. The Board would treat management interlocks between institutions with assets of less than $20 million that are located within an RMSA and all depository institutions located outside of an RMSA in a similar manner. Specifically, the amendment would exempt any management interlock between two depository organizations located in a community, as defined by 212.2 of the regulation, if the depository organization's combined share of the total deposits in the community is no more than 20 percent. Similarly, to be exempt, the organizations may not together control more than 20 percent of the deposits in any community in which they or their depository institution affiliates are located. The proposal would provide an exemption only if management interlocks between the two organizations are not otherwise prohibited by the Act. For example, 12 U.S.C. 3203 provides that a depository institution or a depository holding company with assets in excess of $1 billion may not enter into a management interlock with a depository institution or a depository holding company with assets in excess of $500 million. No exemption would be available for interlocks that fall within this prohibition. The exemption is effective as long as the organizations meet the conditions. If the level of deposit control exceeds 20 percent of deposits in the community or RMSA, as measured annually, the depository organizations shall have up to 15 months to address the prohibited interlock by shrinking the deposit base, terminating the interlock, or taking any other action to correct the violation. No prior Board approval is required. The exemption is intended to be self-implementing. Management is responsible for compliance with the terms of the exemption and maintaining sufficient supporting documentation. Determining Deposit Share of the Relevant Market Using the total deposit data reported by depository institutions to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) in the Summary of Deposits addendum to the Report of Condition and Income, the depository organizations will determine for themselves whether the exemption is available. The FDIC compiles the collected deposit data into a summary and makes the deposit summary available annually. The FDIC's annual deposit summary breaks-out the total deposits of every insured depository institution by branch. 5 This deposit data can be sorted by RMSA, and by community as that term is defined by the Act, to provide to depository organizations the necessary information to determine deposit share by the relevant market. 5 The data do not include the deposits held by federally-chartered credit unions, which are insured by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, and state-chartered credit unions. Typically, these credit union deposits comprise only a small part of the total deposits in a relevant market. If included, the deposit figures for a particular market would be slightly increased. As such, the data will not include the credit union deposits, but will still serve as a reliable approximation of the total deposits in the relevant market. The FDIC provides this deposit summary to each of the Agencies. Under the proposal, the Board will make the deposit data available to all bank holding companies and state member banks. 6 Each of the Agencies will make the same data available to the other depository organizations. The process would involve neither an application nor an approval from any of the Agencies but, the burden of determining the applicability of the exemption falls upon the depository organizations that seek it. Depository organizations located in an RMSA would simply look to the deposit share data for the total deposits of the RMSA. Then, both interlocking depository organizations would determine whether their combined share of the total deposits exceeds 20 percent. If the combined share of deposits is no more than 20 percent of the market, the interlock is exempt. 6 For the purpose of ascertaining whether depository organizations qualify for the exception, deposit information regarding specific counties and RMSAs will be available at each Federal Reserve Bank. The Board intends this exemption to be available to community-based depository organizations in the same manner as for organizations whose relevant market is the RMSA. However, while the deposit share data can be pre-sorted and made readily available by RMSA, the deposit share data cannot be pre-sorted by community. For example, two community-based depository organizations seeking to rely on the small market share exemption must first determine the total deposits in their community. To do this, the depository organizations must request deposit share data from the Board with sufficient specificity to delineate the community defined by the Interlocks Act that both the interlocking institutions will serve. Only then can they calculate the portion of the deposits in the market that they would be deemed to control if they engage in the interlock. Whether within or outside of an RMSA, the depository organizations will be required to retain records supporting the applicability of the exemption, and to reconfirm, on an annual basis, that the interlock is eligible for the exemption. The most recent deposit share data made available to the depository organizations by the Agencies will determine whether organizations are entitled to the small market share exception. When new data demonstrates that the two interlocking institutions' combined control of deposits exceeds 20 percent of deposits in the community or RMSA, the affected depository organizations have up to 15 months to correct the prohibited interlock. Pro-competitive Results The Board believes this proposal will have a pro-competitive effect. Since the deposit base of the exempted interlocking institutions is small, the risk of anticompetitive control over the market is remote. To provide to these particular institutions this limited relief from the management interlock restrictions enlarges the pool of experienced management talent upon which they may draw and enhances their operational effectiveness. The result will be better managed, more competitive, and healthier depository institutions. Request for Comment In addition to any relevant comments on this proposal, the Board specifically requests comment on the following: 1. Whether 20 percent or less of the deposits of a community or RMSA is an appropriate threshold for the exemption, or whether a different level is more appropriate. 2. Should the community and RMSA exemptions rely on the same or a different threshold level? 3. Should the exemption require depository organizations to demonstrate that they control no more than 20 percent of the deposits of communities within an RMSA? For example, if two depository organizations with more than $20 million in assets operate in a community within a RMSA, should the exemption require that the depository organizations control no more than 20 percent of the deposits in the community and no more than 20 percent of the deposits in the RMSA? Consider depository organizations that compete in several communities within a RMSA. 4. Whether and how the proposed procedure to employ the deposit data collected by the FDIC in connection with the Report of Condition and Income will permit depository organizations to determine easily and effectively whether they qualify for the small market share exception. 5. Whether the exemption for community-based institutions will be easy to use, or whether these institutions might be better served by another approach to the exemption. 6. Whether the exemption would enable depository organizations to subvert the purposes of the Interlocks Act by establishing multiple interlocks involving several individuals. For example, the Board is concerned that each of several directors of one depository organization could serve as a director of a different unaffiliated depository organization, facilitating diminished competition among the several depository organizations. The Board seeks comment on whether this concern is justified, and if so, whether it is exacerbated by the fact that the threshold limit for the exemption is set at 20 percent of the deposits in the RMSA or community, rather than a smaller percentage. In addition to this proposal, the Board plans a comprehensive revision of the regulations implementing the Interlocks Act. The Board intends to simplify the regulation, revise the interlocks prohibitions and exemptions, and consider new exemptions that promote competition without fostering anticompetitive practices. The comprehensive revision will eliminate unnecessary regulatory burden in a manner consistent with the Interlocks Act and the stated objectives of the Board. Toward this end, the Board solicits comment on how to clarify and improve the entire rule in a manner consistent with the Interlocks Act. Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information contained in this proposed rule will be reviewed by the Board under Office of Management and Budget (OMB) delegated authority pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Comments regarding the accuracy of the burden estimate, and suggestions for reducing the burden, should be addressed to Mr. William Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System at the address noted above and should refer to Docket No. R-0825. The collection of information in this proposed rule is found in 212.4(d), and takes the form of records maintained by depository organizations which are sufficient to support their determination that the interlocking relationships which they have established are exempt under this section. Such depository organizations must also maintain records which demonstrate that they have subsequently reconfirmed such determinations on an annual basis. The information will be used to provide state and federal examiners of depository institutions with documentation which will allow them to ascertain whether depository organizations are eligible for the exemption. The estimated annual recordkeeping burden for the collection of information requirement in this proposed rule is summarized as follows: Number of Recordkeepers: 70 Annual Hours per Recordkeeper: 3 Total Recordkeeping Hours: 210 Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to Section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Board hereby certifies that this proposed rule, if adopted as a final rule, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The effect of the rule, if adopted as proposed, would be to reduce the compliance requirements imposed upon small entities by creating a regulatory exemption to the prohibition on management interlocks between certain organizations. Furthermore, the proposed exemption would affect only the management structure of only a few institutions. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 212 Antitrust, Banks, banking, Holding companies, Management official interlocks. Accordingly, for the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System proposes to amend 12 CFR part 212 as follows: PART 212_MANAGEMENT OFFICIAL INTERLOCKS (REGULATION L) 1. The authority citation for part 212 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 3201 et seq. , 15 U.S.C. 19. 2. Section 212.2 is amended by revising paragraph (h) to read as follows: ยง212.2 Definitions. * * * * * (h)(1) Management official means: (i) An employee or officer with management functions (including a branch manager); (ii) A director (including an advisory or honorary director, except in the case of a depository institution with total assets of less than $100,000,000); (iii) A trustee of a business organization under the control of trustees (e.g. a mutual savings bank); or (iv) Any person who has a representative or nominee serving in any such capacity. (2) Management official does not include: (i) A person whose management functions relate exclusively to the business of retail merchandising or manufacturing; (ii) A person whose management functions relate principally to the business outside the United States of a foreign commercial bank; or (iii) Persons described in the provisos of section 202(4) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201(4)). * * * * * 3. Section 212.4 is amended by adding a new paragraph (d) to read as follows: ยง212.4 Permitted interlocking relationships. * * * * * (d) Small market share exemption _(1) Depository organizations controlling no more than 20 percent of the deposits in a community or RMSA. A management official may serve two unaffiliated depository organizations in a capacity which would otherwise be prohibited by 212.3(a) or (b) of this part if the following conditions are met: (i) The interlock is not prohibited by 212.3(c) of this part; and (ii) The two depository organizations hold in the aggregate no more than 20 percent of the deposits, as reported annually in the Summary of Deposits, in each RMSA or community in which the depository organizations have offices, or in which depository institution affiliates of both depository organizations are located. (2) Confirmation and records. Depository organizations must maintain records sufficient to support their determination that the interlocking relationship is exempt under this section and must reconfirm that determination on an annual basis. (3) Termination. An interlock permitted by this exemption may continue as long as the conditions of this section are satisfied. Any increase in the aggregate deposit holdings of the depository organizations as reported annually in the Summary of Deposits, that causes the interlock to become prohibited will be treated as a change in circumstances under 212.6 of this part. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, February 4, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94-3090 Filed 2-16-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
