FR940505-1-00258 FR940505-1-00012 Lithographic printing unit means a printing unit in which the image and nonimage areas are on the same plane of the roll printer. Magnet wire coating facility means a facility that includes one or more magnet coating unit(s). Magnet wire coating unit means a coating unit in which electrically insulating varnish or enamel is applied onto the surface of wire to be used in electrical machinery. Marine vessel means a ship or boat used to travel on, or a submarine used to travel through, the sea. Marine vessel coating facility means a facility that includes one or more marine vessel coating unit(s). Marine vessel coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating is applied on the fabricated part, assembly of parts, or completed unit of any marine vessel. Metal furniture means any furniture piece made of metal or any metal part which is or will be assembled with other metal, wood, fabric, plastic, or glass parts to form a furniture piece including, but not limited to, tables, chairs, waste baskets, beds, desks, lockers, benches, shelving, file cabinets, lamps, and room dividers. This definition shall not apply to any coating unit coating miscellaneous metal parts or products. Metal furniture coating facility means a facility that includes one or more metal furniture coating unit(s). Metal furniture coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating is applied onto the surface of metal furniture. Miscellaneous metal part or product means any metal part or metal product, even if attached to or combined with a nonmetal part or product. Miscellaneous metal parts or products coating facility means a facility that includes one or more miscellaneous metal parts or products coating unit(s). Miscellaneous metal parts or products coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating is applied onto the surface of miscellaneous metal parts or products. Mobile equipment means self-propelled equipment which is physically capable of being driven on a highway. Mobile equipment includes: Automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, vans, construction equipment (e.g., mobile cranes, bulldozers, concrete mixers), farming equipment (e.g., wheel tractors, pesticide sprayers), and miscellaneous equipment (e.g., street cleaners, golf carts, and hauling equipment used inside and around airports, docks, depots, and industrial and commercial plants). Motor vehicle means a vehicle which is self-propelled and physically capable of being driven on a highway. Motor vehicle or mobile equipment assembly line coating facility means a facility where parts are manufactured or finished for eventual inclusion into finished motor vehicles or mobile equipment ready for sale to motor vehicle or mobile equipment dealers. This definition does not include customizers, body shops, and/or other auto refinishing facilities. Motor vehicle or mobile equipment refinishing facility means a facility where all or any part of used motor vehicles or mobile equipment is refinished, or customized, by the application of paint. This definition includes motor vehicles or mobile equipment dealerships who purchase new motor vehicle or mobile equipment from Original Equipment Manufacturers. This definition does not include motor vehicle or mobile equipment assembly line coating facilities. Motorcycle means any motor vehicle other than a tractor having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground and weighing less than 1,500 lbs, except that four wheels may be in contact with the ground when two of the wheels are a functional part of a sidecar. Offset means a blanket cylinder that is used to transfer ink from a plate cylinder to the substance to be printed. Open-top vapor degreasing means the batch process of cleaning and removing soils from surfaces by condensing hot solvent vapor on the colder metal parts. Oven means a chamber within which heat is used for one or more of the following purposes: To dry, bake, cure, or polymerize a coating or ink.
