FR940118-2-00090 FR940118-2-00055 [Docket No. 50&hyph;443] North Atlantic Energy Service Corp.; Consideration of Issuance of Amendment to Facility Operating License and Opportunity for a Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;86, issued to North Atlantic Energy Service Corporation (the licensee), for operation of the Seabrook Station, Unit No. 1, located in Rockingham County, New Hampshire. The proposed amendment would change the Seabrook Station, Unit 1 (Seabrook) Technical Specifications (TS) to permit operation of the Seabrook core with an expanded axial flux difference (AFD) band from that currently permitted. Operation with the expanded AFD band is supported by continuous monitoring of core power distribution using the fixed incore detector system. Other TS changes allow for fuel design enhancements. The changes to the TS include modification to a number of safety analysis input parameters and assumptions as follows: •Incorporation of Westinghouse WRB&hyph;1 departure from nucleate boiling correlation and revised thermal design procedure. •Increased core power distribution peaking factors. •Allowance for positive moderator temperature coefficient. •Allowance for thimble plug deletion. •Allowance for increased steam generator tube plugging limit. •Allowance for new fuel design features. •Modification of analytical assumptions related to certain surveillance parameters. •Expansion of AFD band Limiting Condition for Operation. The proposed amendment would affect TS Sections 3.1.1.3, 3.1.3.4, 3.2.1, 3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.2.4, 3.2.5, 3.3.3.2, 4.2.1, 4.2.2, 4.2.5, 4.5.2, 5.3, and 6.8.1, Figure 2.1&hyph;1, and Tables 2.2&hyph;1, 3.3&hyph;4, and 4.3&hyph;1. Before issuance of the proposed licensee amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. By February 17, 1994, the licensee may file a request for a hearing with respect to issuance of the amendment to the subject facility operating license and any person whose interest may be affected by this proceeding and who wishes to participate as a party in the proceeding must file a written request for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene. Requests for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene shall be filed in accordance with the Commission's ``Rules of Practice for Domestic Licensing Proceedings'' in 10 CFR part 2. Interested persons should consult a current copy of 10 CFR 2.714 which is available at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555 and at the local public document room located at Exeter Public Library, 47 Front Street, Exeter, New Hampshire 03833. If a request for a hearing or petition for leave to intervene is filed by the above date, the Commission or an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board, designated by the Commission or by the Chairman of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel, will rule on the request and/or petition; and the Secretary or the designated Atomic Safety and Licensing Board will issue a notice of hearing or an appropriate order. As required by 10 CFR 2.714, a petition for leave to intervene shall set forth with particularity the interest of the petitioner in the proceeding, and how that interest may be affected by the results of the proceeding. The petition should specifically explain the reasons why intervention should be permitted with particular reference to the following factors: (1) The nature of the petitioner's right under the Act to be made a party to the proceeding; (2) the nature and extent of the petitioner's property, financial, or other interest in the proceeding; and (3) the possible effect of any order which may be entered in the proceeding on the petitioner's interest. The petition should also identify the specific aspect(s) of the subject matter of the proceeding as to which petitioner wishes to intervene. Any person who has filed a petition for leave to intervene or who has been admitted as a party may amend the petition without requesting leave of the Board up to 15 days prior to the first prehearing conference scheduled in the proceeding, but such an amended petition must satisfy the specificity requirements described above.
