FR941104-2-00103 FR941104-2-00062 Currently, Amex Rule 922(b) requires that background and financial information of customers who have been approved for options transactions be maintained at both the branch office servicing the customer's account and at the principal supervisory office with jurisdiction over the branch office. Amex Rule 922(b) also requires that copies of account statements be maintained at both the branch office supervising the accounts and at the principal supervisory office with jurisdiction over the branch for the most recent six-month period. The Amex proposes to amend Exchange Rule 922(b) to provide that the customer information and account statements currently maintained at the principal supervisory office may be maintained at a location other than the principal supervisory office if the documents and information are readily accessible and promptly retrievable. The Amex states that the rules of all the options exchanges and the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'') uniformly require that both the branch office servicing an options customer's account and the principal supervisory office having jurisdiction over the branch office retain account statements and other financial and background information for the account for supervisory purposes. With the advances in data storage and retrieval capability available through optical disks, fax machines, microfiche and computers, coupled with the escalating costs of storing records on-site, many Amex member organizations prefer to store documents away from their principal supervisory offices. In this connection, an increasing number of member organizations have asked and received permission from the self-regulatory organizations (``SROs'') to store the required customer option account documents off-site so long as they are readily accessible and promptly retrievable. In view of the number of requests received by the SROs to store customer options information off-site, the Options Self-Regulatory Council (``OSRC'') 4 has asked each of the options exchanges and the NASD to consider amending their rules to permit the principal supervisory office to store customer account information off-site. 4 The OSRC is a committee comprised of representatives from each of the options exchanges and the NASD. The Exchange believes that these off-site storage arrangements are consistent with the record retention requirement rules, provided the documents are readily accessible and promptly retrievable. In this regard, the Amex states that the proposed rule will not compromise the supervisory obligations of a member firm since the firm will still be required to maintain customer option account documents and information at the branch office servicing the customer's account. To ensure compliance with the provisions of the rule, the Amex states that it will periodically examine the document retrieval capabilities of member firms using off-site document storage arrangements. The Amex believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system. The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to facilitate transactions in securities, and to protect investors and the public interest. 5 5 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). Specifically, by allowing off-site storage of customer account information maintained at supervisory offices, the Commission believes that the proposal should provide the Amex's members with a cost-effective means to utilize computers, facsimile machines, optical disks, and other technology to store the required customer account information off-site while ensuring that member firms will continue to have easy access to all of the customer account information necessary to discharge their supervisory responsibilities. In this regard, the proposal provides that options customer account information stored off-site must be ``readily accessible and promptly retrievable,'' 6 thereby preserving the Exchange's ability to access and investigate customer account records. The Commission notes that the Amex plans to periodically examine the document retrieval capabilities of member firms using off-site storage arrangements. Thus, the Commission believes that the proposal strikes a reasonable balance between the Amex's interest in allowing member organizations to reduce the cost of storing customer account information and ensuring that the information continues to be available for supervisory purposes. 6 See October 24 Letter, supra note 3. In addition, the Commission believes that it is reasonable for the Amex to allow off-site storage of customer account information maintained at supervisory offices, but not of account information stored at branch offices, because branch offices are responsible for the day-to-day administration of customer accounts and require immediate access to account information. For example, by continuing to require branch offices to store customer account information on-site, the proposal facilitates broker compliance with the suitability requirements applicable to options customers. The Commission finds good cause for approving the Amex's proposal prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register because the proposal is identical to proposals submitted by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'') and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., which were subject to the full notice and comment period. The Commission received no comments on those proposals, and the Commission has approved the CBOE's proposal. 7 Therefore, the Commission believes it is consistent with Sections 6(b)(5) and 19(b)(2) of the Act to approve the Amex's proposal on an accelerated basis. 7 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34899 (October 26, 1994) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;30). It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 8 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;37) is approved. 8 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1982). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27359 Filed 11&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
