FR940119-1-00027 FR940119-1-00007 (3) Mineral materials including, but not limited to common varieties of gravel, sand, or stone may be used only within the HCNRA for the purpose of construction and maintenance of facilities including, but not limited to, roads, existing airfields, trails, and recreation developments. (4) Sources of mineral materials should be located outside the HCNRA. Sources for mineral materials that may be used to benefit the HCNRA may be located inside the HCNRA if the cost of obtaining the materials outside the HCNRA adds significantly to the costs of the materials, or the transportation of mineral materials from outside the HCNRA present a safety hazard to the motoring public. When mineral materials are obtained from inside the HCNRA, environmental impact at the mineral source must be mitigated by contouring the land; re-establishing vegetation, and other appropriate measures. The HCNRA shall not be the source of mineral materials for use outside the HCNRA for projects that do not directly benefit the HCNRA. (b) Wilderness Lands. The standards and guidelines of this section apply to mining activities in the Wilderness Lands category of the HCNRA. (1) The standards and guidelines for Other Lands in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section also apply to Wilderness Lands. (2) Extraction of mineral materials is prohibited on Wilderness Lands. ยง292.48 Grazing activities. The following standards and guidelines apply to domestic livestock grazing activities in the HCNRA: (a) Grazing may occur only on rangeland determined to be suitable for grazing and to be in satisfactory condition. (b) Where domestic livestock grazing is incompatible with the protection, restoration, and/or maintenance of fish and wildlife or their habitats; public outdoor recreation; conservation of scenic, wilderness, and scientific values; or rare combinations of outstanding ecosystems, the livestock use shall be modified as necessary to eliminate or avoid the incompatibility. In the event an incompatibility persists after the modification, or modification is not feasible, the livestock use shall be terminated. (c) Range improvements must be designed and located to minimize their impact on scenic, cultural, fish and wildlife, and other resources in the HCNRA to the extent practicable. (d) The authorization of grazing use, through a grazing permit, must provide for terms and conditions which protect and conserve riparian areas. Dated: December 23, 1993. William L. McLeese, Acting Chief. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1035 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
