FR940224-2-00037 FR940224-2-00017 KNI states that the Tyrone System, located in Beaver and Texas Counties, Oklahoma and Seward County, Kansas, was constructed in 1953. KNI indicates that the system was constructed even though it was isolated from the rest of its system. It was also indicated that adequate reserves could not be purchased adjacent to its main pipeline system. KNI states that gas purchased by KNI was delivered from the Tyrone System to third parties for ultimate redelivery to KNI on its mainline system. KNI advised that over time its reliance upon the supplies connected to the Tyrone System diminished and, as a result, KNI released all of the gas supplies it had under contract along the Tyrone System. It is indicated that because the Tyrone System was isolated and distant from its mainline system and was no longer needed to move its system supplies, K N transferred its facilities upstream of the Tyrone Plant to GPM but did not transfer the residue lines connecting the plant with the three downstream interstate transporters. The Commission approved this abandonment by sale by order issued August 4, 1993, in Docket No. CP92&hyph;661&hyph;000 and also determined that the upstream facilities were non-jurisdictional gathering lines. KNI also states that, upon acquisition of the Tyrone gathering facilities, GPM began using these facilities to gather gas for delivery to its own processing plants. It is then indicated that, as a result, gas no longer flowed to the Tyrone Plant for processing and for ultimate delivery into KNI's residue lines. It is also stated that, subsequently, the owner of the Tyrone Plant sold the plant, and removed the facility from the plant site. KNI states that, with the removal of the Tyrone Plant, the residue lines are no longer usable to KNI. KNI now seeks to transfer these facilities to GPM. It is indicated that pursuant to a memorandum of understanding, KNI would receive the net book value of the residue lines ($36,000 as of October 31, 1993) in return for the transfer of facilities to GPM. KNI states that by abandoning the remainder of the Tyrone System facilities, it would eliminate the expense and inefficiencies associated with the isolated facilities. Comment date: March 8, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. Standard Paragraphs F. Any person desiring to be heard or to make any protest with reference to said application should on or before the comment date, file with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20426, a motion to intervene or a protest in accordance with the requirements of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214 or 385.211) and the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.10). All protests filed with the Commission will be considered by it in determining the appropriate action to be taken but will not serve to make the protestants parties to the proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party to a proceeding or to participate as a party in any hearing therein must file a motion to intervene in accordance with the Commission's Rules. Take further notice that, pursuant to the authority contained in and subject to the jurisdiction conferred upon the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission by sections 7 and 15 of the Natural Gas Act and the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, a hearing will be held without further notice before the Commission or its designee on this application if no motion to intervene is filed within the time required herein, if the Commission on its own review of the matter finds that a grant of the certificate and/or permission and approval for the proposed abandonment are required by the public convenience and necessity. If a motion for leave to intervene is timely filed, or if the Commission on its own motion believes that a formal hearing is required, further notice of such hearing will be duly given. Under the procedure herein provided for, unless otherwise advised, it will be unnecessary for applicant to appear or be represented at the hearing. G. Any person or the Commission's staff may, within 45 days after issuance of the instant notice by the Commission, file pursuant to Rule 214 of the Commission's Procedural Rules (18 CFR 385.214) a motion to intervene or notice of intervention and pursuant to ยง157.205 of the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.205) a protest to the request. If no protest is filed within the time allowed therefor, the proposed activity shall be deemed to be authorized effective the day after the time allowed for filing a protest. If a protest is filed and not withdrawn within 30 days after the time allowed for filing a protest, the instant request shall be treated as an application for authorization pursuant to section 7 of the Natural Gas Act. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4114 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
