FR940506-1-00002 FR940506-1-00001 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Parts 50 and 73 [Docket No. PRM&hyph;50&hyph;59] Virginia Power; Filing of Petition for Rulemaking AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Notice of receipt of petition for rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is publishing for public comment a notice of receipt of petition for rulemaking dated December 30, 1993, which was filed with the Commission by Virginia Power. The petition was assigned Docket No. PRM&hyph;50&hyph;59 on January 19, 1994. The petitioner requests that the Commission amend its regulations to change the frequency with which each licensee conducts independent reviews and audits of its safeguards contingency plan and security program from annually to biennially. DATES: Submit comments July 20, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but assurance of consideration cannot be given except as to comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Submit comments to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch, Washington DC 20555. For a copy of the petition, write to the Rules Review Section, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael T. Lesar, Chief, Rules Review Section, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Telephone: 301&hyph;415&hyph;7163 or Toll Free: 800&hyph;368&hyph;5642. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Commission's regulations currently require that independent reviews and audits of each licensee's safeguards contingency plan and security program be conducted every 12 months by personnel who have no direct responsibility for the subject areas. The NRC is considering rulemaking in several program areas that would modify audit requirements so that the frequency, scope, and depth of auditing activities would be based on review of program performance indicators but would not exceed a 36-month interval to accomplish an audit of all program elements. Final NRC action on this petition would be consistent with actions taken on modifications to other program audit requirements. Petitioner's Request Virginia Power requests that the NRC amend its regulations in 10 CFR parts 50 and 73 to change the requirements that each licensee provide for a review at least every 12 months (annually) of its safeguards contingency plan and security programs to nominally every 24 months (biennially). The petitioner also requests that appendix C to 10 CFR part 73 be amended to change the requirement that each licensee provide for a review and audit of its safeguards contingency plan at intervals not to exceed 12 months to a frequency of 24 months. The petitioner states that the proposed amendments would require each licensee to conduct independent reviews and audits of its safeguards contingency plan and security program at least biennially. The petitioner states that the resources presently used for audits in each area could be reallocated if justified by performance to address more safety-significant concerns that might be identified. The petitioner also states that the proposed audit frequency provides a greater degree of flexibility in applying resources, thereby permitting a licensee to implement a more performance-based audit program. Grounds for Request The petitioner states that the changes requested are identified as present requirements that are resource intensive but of marginal importance to safety. The petitioner offers the following reasons for the request. 1. The underlying purpose of the requirements is to overview and ensure effective implementation of security programs. Given the available objective criteria that industry performance is commendable in this area, aggressive overview activities do not seem to be warranted. Resources, which previously would have been strictly dedicated to the conduct of mandatory audits, could now be more effectively used to address performance issues having safety significance. Biennial audits are sufficient to provide an acceptable, formal confirmation of security program implementation. The underlying purpose of the existing requirement will continue to be met by the proposed rule. 2. The current industry Systematic Assessment of Licensee Performance (SALP) average for the security category is 1.27 as of October 15, 1993. Clearly, this represents a commendable overall performance in this area and supports the move to biennial audits which can be supplemented as performance warrants. Based on the overall industry SALP ratings concerning safeguards contingency plan and security program effectiveness, Virginia Power concludes that changing the audit frequency to two years will have no adverse impact on implementation of the plan and program. 3. A two-year audit schedule would permit the licensee an increased degree of flexibility to concentrate available audit resources in areas of observed weakness based on performance rather than conducting a mandatory annual audit of marginal safety significance. Thus, personnel resources would be allowed to address and resolve issues having greater safety significance. 4. Regulatory Guide 1.33, Quality Assurance Program Requirements (Operation), prescribes a two-year audit frequency for most operational phase activities commensurate with the activity's operational safety significance. The proposed rule would be consistent with this previously defined regulatory position and the present safety significance as evidenced by industry performance. 5. The requirements to conduct annual audits are not of themselves necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of 10 CFR 50.54(p) and 10 CFR part 73. Biennial audits are sufficient to provide an acceptable formal confirmation of program effectiveness.
