FR940902-2-00088 FR940902-2-00040 INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION [Ex Parte No. MC 221] Tariffs of Carriers Whose Operating Authorities Have Been Revoked AGENCY: Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). ACTION: Notice of the Commission's intention to treat as cancelled the tariffs of carriers whose operating authorities have been revoked and remain inactive for one year. SUMMARY: The ICC announces that, effective immediately, it will treat as cancelled the tariffs of any carrier whose operating authority is revoked and remains inactive for a one-year period. This will permit the Commission to reduce its storage costs for tariffs, and will avoid misleading the public by having meaningless tariffs included in the active tariff library. DATES: Comments are due on October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments (an original and 10 copies) referring to Ex Parte No. MC 221 to: Interstate Commerce Commission, Office of the Secretary, Case Control Branch, Washington, DC 20423. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James W. Greene, (202) 927&hyph;5597. TDD for hearing impaired: (202) 927&hyph;5721. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In recent years, a significant number of carriers have had their operating authorities revoked and gone out of business without canceling their tariffs. In the absence of formal cancellation action by the carriers, we have retained these tariffs in the active tariff library. In our view, the retention of such tariffs in the active tariff library should be discontinued since it imposes unnecessary storage costs and can mislead the public by indicating the availability of service and pricing that no longer exist. The Interstate Commerce Act does not permit a carrier to file tariffs covering service which it is not authorized to provide. Thus, once a carrier's operating authority is revoked, there is no lawful basis for the continued existence of any effective tariffs covering service formerly authorized by the revoked authority. We believe we can treat such tariffs as cancelled whether or not the carrier whose operating authority is revoked takes formal action to cancel them. 1 1 Carriers whose operating authorities are revoked are sometimes included as participating carriers in tariffs issued by agents or other carriers who remain in business; however, the tariffs published by others can be, and generally are, promptly revised to exclude the carriers whose authorities have been revoked. There are numerous instances each year in which the Commission revokes carriers' operating authorities because they fail to maintain insurance coverage as required by the Commission's regulations. In many instances, once the carriers realize that their operating authorities have been revoked, they reinstate the required coverage and request that their authorities be reinstated. As a matter of practice, the carriers have been allowed to reinstate operations without being required to file new tariffs. In these revocations and reinstatements, however, the entire process is typically completed within a few months, so the procedures announced in this notice, which provide that tariffs will be deemed cancelled after 1 year of inactivity, will not affect current tariff reinstatement practices. 2 2 The Commission currently keeps cancelled tariffs at the Commission for three years after cancellation for use in resolving rate disputes for past traffic. The tariffs are then stored for an additional seven years at the Federal Records Center to satisfy Federal records retention requirements and to be further available for rate dispute resolutions. The tariffs of a carrier whose operating authority has been revoked will be treated in the same fashion; the information contained in them will be available for 10 years after the carrier's authority has been revoked. Environmental Statement This action will not significantly affect either the quality of the human environment or the conservation of energy resources. Decided: August 18, 1994. By the Commission, Chairman McDonald, Vice Chairman Phillips, Commissioners Simmons and Morgan. Vernon A. Williams, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21762 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE FR&hyph;7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
