FR940323-1-00046 FR940323-1-00005 (b) Establishing the income standard. (1) The agency must establish and apply an income standard at a level that does not exceed 100 percent of the Federal poverty income guidelines applicable to a family of the size involved. (2) For purposes of this section, family of the size involved is based on the SSI concept of eligibility for an individual as an individual or as part of a couple. If two individuals are married and eligible under section 1902(m), their income will be compared to the Federal poverty income level for a family of two. In all other situations, eligibility will be determined on an individual basis, using the poverty level for one, with deeming of income as appropriate (under SSI deeming rules that do not conflict with title XIX of the Act). (c) Establishing the resource standard. The agency must apply a resource standard that is either_ (1) The SSI resource standard; or (2) If the State has a medically needy program that uses a higher resource standard, at State option, the resource standard applied to the medically needy. (d) Methodologies for determining income and resources. (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (d) (2) through (4) of this section, the agency must use the methodologies applied under sections 1612 and 1613 of the Act in determining countable income and resources or may instead use any less restrictive income and resource methodologies specified in the State plan in accordance with §436.601. Methodologies include, but are not limited to, those used in disregarding income. (2) The agency may not deduct from income the costs incurred for medical care or any other type of remedial care to reduce the individual's income to the established income standard, except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. (3) For severely disabled individuals who work, the agency may deduct the reasonable costs for attendant care services, medical devices, equipment, prostheses, and similar items and services (generally not including routine drugs or routine medical services) that are necessary in order for the individual to work. (4) In determining the financial responsibilities of relatives, the agency must apply the requirements of §436.602. (5) In determining eligibility under this section for an individual entitled to monthly social security cash benefits, Title II COLA increases must be disregarded from December of each year through the month after the month in which the Federal poverty guideline for the next year is published. During that period, the poverty level for the previous year will be used for these individuals. (e) State plan requirement. The State plan must specify the income standard and the resource standard by the family size involved. 17. Section 436.1001 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §436.1001 FFP for administration. (a) FFP is available in the necessary administrative costs the State incurs in_ (1) Determining and redetermining Medicaid eligibility and in providing Medicaid to eligible individuals; and (2) Determining presumptive eligibility for pregnant women and in providing ambulatory prenatal care to presumptively eligible women. * * * * * 18. Section 436.1002 is amended by revising paragraph (a) and adding new paragraphs (c) and (d) to read as follows: §436.1002 FFP for services. (a) Except for the limitations and subject to the conditions specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, FFP is available in expenditures for Medicaid services for all recipients whose coverage is required or allowed under this part. * * * * * (c) FFP is available in expenditures for ambulatory prenatal care services covered by the plan that are furnished to pregnant women who are determined by a qualified provider to be presumptively eligible, when these services are furnished during a presumptive eligibility period by a provider that is eligible for payment under the State plan, regardless of whether or not the women are determined eligible for Medicaid following the presumptive eligibility period. (d) FFP is not available in expenditures for services provided to low-income pregnant women and infants covered under §436.226(a) (1) and (2) if the State has in effect under its AFDC plan payment levels (that is, the amount of the AFDC payment for basic needs made to a family with no other income) that are less than those in effect under its AFDC plan on July 1, 1987. PART 440_SERVICES: GENERAL PROVISIONS D. Part 440 is amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for part 440 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 1102 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1302). 2. Section 440.1 is revised to read as follows: §440.1 Basis and purpose. (a) This subpart interprets_ (1) Section 1905(a) of the Act, which lists the services included in the term ``medical assistance'';
