FR941027-2-00104 FR941027-2-00062 [Release No. 34&hyph;34877; File No. SR-Amex-94-41] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Designation of Additional Equity Derivative Securities Pursuant to Exchange Rule 154, Commentary .04(c) October 21, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on October 7, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange is designating Standard & Poor's Depositary Receipts as eligible, pursuant to Exchange Rule 154, Commentary .04(c), for stop and stop limit orders to be elected by quotation. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose Exchange Rules 131 and 154 allow stop and stop limit orders 1 in selected derivative securities to be elected by a quotation, 2 provided the prior approval of a Floor Official is obtained. Absent this provision, such orders could only be elected when a transaction in the security occurred at or through the stop price, notwithstanding the fact that the quoted market had moved through the stop price as a result of trading in the underlying security. 1 Stop sell orders generally are entered in a stock whose price has increased substantially to protect the investor's profits should the stock price decline. Similarly, stop buy orders generally are entered by investors with short positions to limit losses should the stock price increase. 2 A stop or stop limit order in a derivative security is elected, i.e., becomes a market or limit order, respectively, when the quoted market for the derivative security reaches the appropriate stop or stop limit price. Once elected, the specialist treats the orders like any other market or limit order. The specialist must execute the market order at the next best market price, and must execute the limit order at the limit price or hold the order on his limit order book until the limit price is available. Under Exchange Rule 154, Commentary .04(c)(v), provisions regarding the election of stop and stop limit orders are only applicable to such derivative securities as are designated by the Exchange as eligible for this treatment. Currently, only index warrants have been so designated. 3 The Exchange had previously designated Americus Trust Units, PRIMEs, and SCOREs as eligible as well, but all such securities have since expired and are no longer traded. 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 290673 (April 10, 1991), 56 FR 15652 (April 17, 1994) (File No. SR-Amex-90-31). Accordingly, the Exchange now designates, pursuant to Exchange Rule 154, Commentary .04(c), Standard & Poor's Depositary Receipts 4 as eligible for stop and stop limit orders to be elected by quotation. These derivative equity securities can be expected to fluctuate in price based on changes in an underlying stock index, and are therefore appropriately designated as eligible for election of stop and stop limit orders by quotation. 4 The product, known as a ``SPDR,'' is a Portfolio Depositary Receipt (``PDR'') based upon the Standard & Poor's (``S&P'') 500 Stock Index. The Commission approved the listing and trading of SPDRs in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31591 (December 11, 1992), 57 FR 60253 (December 18, 1992). 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest.
