FR940504-2-00056 FR940504-2-00049 Applications must be postmarked or, if not mailed, received at the appropriate Grants Management Office no later than close of business on application due dates listed above. Private metered postmarks will not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Applications which are postmarked or, if not sent by U.S. mail, delivered to the appropriate Grants Management Office later than the application due date will be judged late and will not be accepted for review. (Applicants should request a legibly dated postmark from the U.S. Postal Service.) Applications which do not conform to the requirements of this program announcement or do not meet the applicable regulatory requirements at 42 CFR part 59, subpart A will not be accepted for review. Applicants will be so notified,and the applications will be returned. Applications will be evaluated on the following criteria: (1) The number of patients and, in particular, the number of low-income patients to be served; (2) The extent to which family planning services are needed locally; (3) The relative need of the applicant; (4) The capacity of the applicant to make rapid and effective use of the Federal assistance; (5) The adequacy of the applicant's facilities and staff; (6) The relative availability of non-Federal resources within the community to be served and the degree to which those resources are committed to the project; and (7) The degree to which the project plan adequately provides for the requirements set forth in the Title X regulations. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity for setting priority areas. This announcement is related to the priority areas of Family Planning. Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00474&hyph;0) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9325 (Telephone (202) 783&hyph;3238). The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Application Requirements Applications kits (including the application form, PHS 5161) and technical assistance for preparing proposals are available from the regional offices. An application must contain: (1) A narrative description of the project and the manner in which the applicant intends to conduct it in order to carry out the requirements of the law and regulations; (2) A budget that includes an estimate of project income and costs, with justification for the amount of grant funds requested; (3) A description of the standards and qualifications that will be required for all personnel and facilities to be used by the project; and (4) Such other pertinent information as may be required by the Secretary as specified in the application kit. In preparing an application, applicants should respond to all applicable regulatory requirements. (The information collections contained in this notice have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and assigned control number 0937&hyph;0189.) Application Review and Evaluation Each regional office is responsible for establishing its own review process. Applications must be submitted to the appropriate regional office at the address listed above. Staff are available to answer questions and provide limited technical assistance in the preparation of grant applications. Grant Awards Grant projects are generally approved for 3 to 5 years with an annual non-competitive review of a continuation application to obtain continued support. Non-competing continuation awards are subject to factors such as the project making satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. In all cases, continuation awards require a determination by HHS that continued funding is in the best interest of the Federal Government. Review Under Executive Order 12372 Applicants under this announcement are subject to the review requirements of Executive Order 12372, State Review of applications for Federal Financial Assistance, as implemented by 45 CFR part 100. As soon as possible, the applicant should discuss the project with the State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) for each State to be served. The application kit contains the currently available listing of the SPOCs which have elected to be informed of the submission of applications. For those States not represented on the listing, further inquiries should be made by the applicant regarding the submission to the Grants Management Office of the appropriate region. State Single Point of Contact comments must be received by the regional office 30 days prior to the funding date to be considered. When final funding decisions have been made, each applicant will be notified by letter of the outcome of its application. The official document notifying an applicant that a project application has been approved for funding is the Notice of Grant Award, which specifies to the grantee the amount of money awarded, the purpose of the grant, and terms and conditions of the grant award. Gerald J. Bennett, Acting Deputy Assistance Secretary for Population Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10658 Filed 5&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;17&hyph;M
