FR940112-0-00098 FR940112-0-00021 (3) May set reasonable limits on the amount to be deducted for expenses specified in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2), and (g)(2) of this section. (h) Order of deduction. The agency must deduct incurred medical expenses that are deductible under paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section in the order prescribed under one of the following three options: (1) Type of service. Under this option, the agency deducts expenses in the following order based on type of expense or service: (i) Cost-sharing expenses as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. (ii) Services not included in the State plan as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. (iii) Services included in the State plan as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section but that exceed limitations on amounts, duration, or scope of services. (iv) Services included in the State plan as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section but that are within agency limitations on amount, duration, or scope of services. (2) Chronological order by service date. Under this option, the agency deducts expenses in chronological order by the date each service is furnished, or in the case of insurance premiums, coinsurance or deductible charges, the date such amounts are due. Expenses for services furnished on the same day may be deducted in any reasonable order established by the State. (3) Chronological order by bill submission date. Under this option, the agency deducts expenses in chronological order by the date each bill is submitted to the agency by the individual. If more than one bill is submitted at one time, the agency must deduct the bills from income in the order prescribed in either paragraph (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section. (i) Eligibility based on incurred medical expenses. (1) Whether a State elects partial or full month coverage, an individual who is expected to contribute a portion of his or her income toward the costs of institutional care or home and community-based services under §§435.725, 435.726, 435.733, 435.735 or 435.832 is eligible on the first day of the applicable budget (spenddown) period_ (i) If his or her spenddown liability is met after the first day of the budget period; and (ii) If beginning eligibility after the first day of the budget period makes the individual's share of health care expenses under §§435.725, 435.726, 435.733, 435.735 or 435.832 greater than the individual's contributable income determined under these sections. (2) At the end of the prospective period specified in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section, and any subsequent prospective period or, if earlier, when any significant change occurs, the agency must reconcile the projected amounts with the actual amounts incurred, or with changes in circumstances, to determine if the adjusted deduction of incurred expenses reduces income to the income standard. (3) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, in States that elect partial month coverage, an individual is eligible for Medicaid on the day that the deduction of incurred health care expenses (and of projected institutional expenses if the agency elects the option under paragraph (g)(1) of this section) reduces income to the income standard. (4) Except as provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, in States that elect full month coverage, an individual is eligible on the first day of the month in which spenddown liability is met. (5) Expenses used to meet spenddown liability are not reimbursable under Medicaid. To the extent necessary to prevent the transfer of an individual's spenddown liability to the Medicaid program, States must reduce the amount of provider charges that would otherwise be reimbursable under Medicaid.
