FR941027-2-00042 FR941027-2-00027 System manager(s) and address: Assistant Staff Director for Audit, Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463 (202/219&hyph;3440). Notification procedures: Refer to Commission access regulations at 11 CFR 1.1 et seq., 41 FR 43064 (1976). Record access procedures: Same as above. Contesting record procedures: Same as above. Record source categories: With respect to open audits, the foregoing system is exempt pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). See 11 CFR 1.14. FEC 3 System name: Compliance actions. System location: Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who have filed complaints (complainants) and persons complained about (respondents), candidates filing late reports, or no reports, and cases internally generated through review and audit of reports and statements filed by candidates. Categories of records in the system: Complaints, referrals, and responses thereto; internal investigations of reports on file at the Commission, depositions, interrogatories and responses thereto. Authority for maintenance of the system: 2 U.S.C. 437g(a)(1), (2), (4) and (5); 438(a)(7) and 438(b); 26 U.S.C. 9006 and 9038. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: While any case is active, these documents are maintained as the agency's working or investigative file. Based upon information contained in the file, recommendations are made to the Commission as to the disposition of a case, and the Commission acts upon those recommendations. Compliance actions are assigned by the Associate General Counsel to an attorney and/or to appropriate staff for investigation. Administrative action and civil litigation are handled by the General Counsel's office. Evidence of knowing and willfull violations of the law may be referred to the Attorney General. Routine use for disclosure to the Department of Justice for use in litigation: It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such reports by the Department of Justice is deemed by the Federal Election Commission to be relevant and necessary to the litigation provided, however, that in each case the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Routine use for Agency disclosure in litigation: It shall be a routine use of records maintained by this agency to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency, or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the Federal Election Commission determines that, on a case-by-case basis, use of such records is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that the agency determines that disclosure of the records is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records. Closed compliance cases are duplicated, stored on microfilm and are available to the public, minus information deemed to be exempt under the Freedom of Information Act. Retrievability: This system is indexed and retrievable by name of complainant or respondent by compliance action number or by microfilm roll and frame number, as appropriate. Safeguards: This system is kept in locked filing cabinets in limited access areas under personal surveillance during working hours, and in locked filing cabinets in locked rooms at other times. Retention and disposal: Indefinite. System manager(s) and address: The General Counsel, Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463, (202/219&hyph;3440). Notification procedures: Refer to Commission access regulations at 11 CFR 1.1 et seq., 41 FR 43064 (1976).
