FR940912-1-00067 FR940912-1-00016 NMFS is concerned that the proposed OY for royal red shrimp is established at a level above MSY. NMFS believes that this may be inconsistent with National Standard 1 that requires conservation and management measures to prevent overfishing. Specifically, NMFS is concerned that if fishery harvests were allowed at an OY level above MSY on a continuing basis, the royal red shrimp stock may be depleted and could sustain adverse effects preventing it from producing fishery yields at the MSY level over the long term. Amendment 7 indicates that the royal red shrimp resource does not provide an annual crop as with other shrimp species, but is harvested from grounds believed to contain at least five year classes. Also, this species does not reach maturity until 3 years of age. Royal red shrimp differ from brown, white, and pink shrimp in that they are not estuarine dependent, but exist in a relatively constant environment in the deeper waters of the Gulf of Mexico (100&hyph;300 fathoms) (183&hyph;549 m). Royal red shrimp are harvested from what are believed to be at least five year classes, whereas brown, white, and pink shrimp are harvested from one or two year classes. Because of these biological characteristics, Amendment 7 indicates that royal red shrimp are more vulnerable to overfishing than other shrimp. Based on these considerations about the OY in relation to MSY and the resource characteristics, NMFS specifically invites public comments on a proposed OY greater than the MSY. Since the current TALFF for royal red shrimp was established in 1987, there has been no foreign harvest of royal red shrimp from the Gulf of Mexico. The annual domestic harvest of royal red shrimp has varied, but closely approximated the current domestic quota in 1993, indicating to the Council that U.S. vessels have the capacity and intent to harvest OY. Accordingly, Amendment 7 would revise the estimate of DAH to equal OY, the domestic quota would equal OY, and TALFF would be zero. The OY, DAH, and TALFF for royal red shrimp in the Gulf of Mexico, as published on February 3, 1987 (52 FR 3248), would be revised to read, in metric tons, tail weights, as follows: ␣ 1Species 1OY 1DAH 1TALFF Royal red shrimp 195.6 195.6 0 There are no governing international fisheries agreements that involve the catching of royal red shrimp in the Gulf of Mexico EEZ and, under this action, there would be neither a TALFF nor a foreign national allocation for such shrimp. Accordingly, no foreign fishing for royal red shrimp would be allowed in the Gulf of Mexico EEZ, and the provisions of 50 CFR 611.62 concerning the foreign fishery for royal red shrimp would be removed. Additional Measures in Amendment 7 Amendment 7 would revise the definition of overfishing for royal red shrimp as exceeding OY (MSY plus ten percent) in a fishing year. Fishing is to close for the remainder of a fishing year when the OY (MSY plus ten percent) is reached. Given the lack of data to make a scientifically rigorous estimate of MSY for royal red shrimp, the Council believes that defining overfishing as exceeding OY (or exceeding MSY by more than 10 percent) in a fishing year still represents a biologically conservative level of harvest. Amendment 7 provides that: If OY is attained, the royal red shrimp fishery would be closed; if MSY is exceeded in any fishing year, NMFS would advise the Council and closely monitor the catch and effort in the fishery; and if MSY is exceeded in 2 consecutive years, the Council would convene its Stock Assessment Panel to consider the changes in catch and effort and to determine whether the MSY estimate and OY should be revised. Amendment 7 also proposes a framework measure for changing MSY and OY. Specifically, a revised MSY/OY would be effected based on a recommendation by the Council's Stock Assessment Panel, approval by the Council's Scientific and Statistical Committee, adoption by the Council, and implementation by ``Notice Action.'' Given NMFS' concerns about the proposed royal red shrimp OY exceeding MSY, NMFS is equally concerned as to whether the revised definition of overfishing for royal red shrimp is consistent with the national standards of the Magnuson Act and other applicable law. NMFS is also concerned whether the proposed framework measure provides assurances of consideration of social and economic factors and opportunity for public comment on a proposed change to MSY or OY. Accordingly, NMFS specifically invites public comments on the revised overfishing definition and the proposed framework measure.
