FR940202-2-00111 FR940202-2-00071 III. Diagnosis Diagnosing pneumonia due to Aspergillus spp. is often difficult without performing invasive procedures. Bronchoalveolar lavage has been a useful screening test, 450&hyph;452 but lung biopsy is still considered the most reliable technique. 453 Histopathologic demonstration of tissue invasion by fungal hyphae has been required in addition to isolation of Aspergillus spp. from respiratory tract secretions because the latter, by itself, may indicate colonization. 454 However, when Aspergillus spp. is grown from the sputum of a febrile, granulocytopenic patient with a new pulmonary infiltrate, it is highly likely that the patient has pulmonary aspergillosis. 447,455 Routine blood cultures are remarkably insensitive for detecting Aspergillus spp., 456 and systemic antibody responses in immunocompromised patients are likely to be unreliable indicators of infection. 457&hyph;459 Antigen-based serologic assays are now being developed in an attempt to allow for the rapid and specific diagnosis of Aspergillus spp. infections; however, their clinical usefulness is presently undefined. 460,461 IV. Risk Factors and Control Measures The major risk factor for invasive aspergillosis is severe and prolonged granulocytopenia, both disease- and therapy-induced. 462 Since bone-marrow transplant recipients experience the most severe degree of granulocytopenia, they probably constitute the population at highest risk of developing invasive aspergillosis. 442,463 The tendency of bone-marrow transplant recipients to develop severe granulocytopenia (<1,000 polymorphonuclears/μl) is associated with the type of graft they receive. While both autologous and allogeneic bone-marrow transplant recipients are severely granulocytopenic for up to 4 weeks after the transplant procedure, allogeneic-transplant recipients may, in addition, develop acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease. The latter may occur up to several months after the procedure, and the disease and/or its therapy (often with high doses of corticosteroids, cyclosporine, and other immunosuppressive agents) may result in severe granulocytopenia. Consequently, in developing strategies to prevent invasive Aspergillus spp. infection in bone-marrow-transplant patients, infection control personnel should consider exposures of the patient to the fungus not only during the patient's immediate posttransplantation period, but also other exposures (e.g., at home or in an ambulatory-care setting) subsequent to the immediate posttransplant period, when the patient (especially allogeneic-transplant recipients) may again manifest severe granulocytopenia. To help address this problem, various studies are now in progress to evaluate newer methods of enhancing host resistance to invasive fungal (and other) infections, and of eliminating or suppressing respiratory fungal colonization of the upper respiratory tract. These methods include, respectively, the use of granulocyte-colony-stimulating factors and intranasal application of amphotericin B, or oral or systemic antifungal drug prophylaxis. 418,464&hyph;467 For solid-organ transplant recipients, risk factors for invasive aspergillosis have not been as extensively studied. In one study of liver-transplant recipients, risk factors for invasive infection with Aspergillus sp. identified by univariate analysis included preoperative and postoperative receipt of steroids and antimicrobial agents, and prolonged duration of transplant surgery. 468 The presence of aspergilli in the hospital environment is the major extrinsic risk factor for the occurrence of opportunistic invasive Aspergillus sp. infection. 437,469 Environmental disturbances due to construction and/or renovation activities in and around hospitals markedly raise the airborne Aspergillus spp. spore counts in such hospitals and have been associated with nosocomial aspergillosis. 426,428,429,470&hyph;473 In addition, aspergillosis in high-risk immunosuppressed patients has been associated with other hospital environmental reservoirs, including bird droppings in air ducts supplying high-risk patient areas, 474 and contaminated fireproofing material or damp wood. 428,475 A single case of nosocomial Aspergillus spp. pneumonia is often difficult to link to a specific environmental exposure. However, additional cases may remain undetected without an active search that includes an intensive retrospective review of microbiologic, histopathologic, and postmortem records; notification of clinicians caring for high-risk patients; and establishment of a system for prospective surveillance for additional cases. When additional cases are detected, the likelihood is increased that a hospital environmental source of Aspergillus spp. can be identified. 426,428,470&hyph;475 Previous investigations have shown the importance of construction activities and/or fungal ``contamination'' of hospital air-handling systems as major sources for outbreaks. 424,426,428,470&hyph;474 New molecular typing techniques, namely karyotyping 476 and DNA endonuclease profiling (now available for A. fumigatus ), 477 may significantly aid in identifying the source of an outbreak. Outbreaks of invasive aspergillosis reinforce the importance of maintaining an environment as free of Aspergillus spp. spores as possible for patients with severe granulocytopenia. To achieve this goal, specialized services in many large hospitals, in particular bone-marrow transplant services, have installed ``protected environments'' for the care of their high-risk, severely granulocytopenic patients, and increased their vigilance during hospital construction and routine maintenance of hospital air-filtration and ventilation systems, to prevent exposing high-risk patients to bursts of fungal spores. 426,428,470&hyph;474,478&hyph;483 While the exact configuration and specifications of the protected environments may vary between hospitals, these patient-care areas are built to minimize fungal spore counts in air by maintaining (a) high-efficiency filtration of incoming air as it enters the room (i.e., at point of use) with HEPA filters that are 99.97% efficient in filtering 0.3μ-sized particles, (b) directed room airflow_from intake on one side of the room, across the patient, and out through the exhaust on the opposite side of the room, (c) positive room-air pressure relative to the corridor, (d) well-sealed rooms, and (e) high rates of room-air changes (range: 15 to >400 per hour). 424,479&hyph;481,483&hyph;485 The oldest and most studied protected environment is a room with laminar airflow, consisting of a bank of HEPA filters along an entire wall through which air is pumped by blowers into the room at a uniform velocity (30&hyph;90 feet/minute), forcing the air to move in a laminar, or at least unidirectional, pattern. 486 The air usually exits at the opposite end of the room, and ultra-high (100&hyph;400 per hour) air-change rates are achieved. 424 The net effects are: essentially sterile air in the room, minimal air turbulence, minimal opportunity for microorganism build-up, and a consistently clean environment. 424 The efficacy of a laminar-airflow system in decreasing or eliminating the risk of nosocomial aspergillosis in high-risk patients has been demonstrated. 424,479,484,485 However, such a system is costly to install and maintain. 469 Less expensive alternative systems with lower air-change rates (10&hyph;15 per hour) have been utilized in some centers. 480,481,487 However, studies comparing the efficacy of these alternative systems with laminar-airflow rooms in eliminating Aspergillus spp. spores and preventing nosocomial aspergillosis are limited. One institution employing cross-flow ventilation, point-of-use high-efficiency filters, and 15 air changes per hour reported that cases of nosocomial aspergillosis in patients housed in these rooms have occurred, albeit at a low rate (3.4%). 481,487 The infections, however, were due to A. flavus _a species that was never cultured from the room air, suggesting that the patients were probably exposed to fungal spores when they were allowed outside their rooms. 481 Copper-8-quinolinolate has been used on environmental surfaces contaminated with Aspergillus spp. to control a reported outbreak, 488 and incorporated in fireproofing material of a newly constructed hospital 481 to help decrease the environmental spore burden, but its general applicability is yet to be established.
