FR940303-1-00020 FR940303-1-00003 (f) Threat to Safety or Life. The attorney for the government believes that there may be a threat to the safety or life of any person; the purpose of the communication is to obtain or provide information to protect against the risk of harm; and the attorney for the government believes that the communication is reasonably necessary to protect against such risk. (g) Effective Performance of Law Enforcement Functions. The Attorney General, the Deputy Attorney General, the Associate Attorney General, an Assistant Attorney General or a United States Attorney: (i) Determines that exceptional circumstances exist such that, after giving due regard to the importance as reflected in 28 CFR part 77 and this section of avoiding any undue interference with the attorney-client relationship, the direct communication with a represented party is necessary for effective law enforcement; and (ii) authorizes the communication. Communications with represented parties pursuant to this exception shall be limited in scope consistent with the exceptional circumstances of the case and the need for effective law enforcement. 9&hyph;13.242␣Overt Communications With Represented Targets Organizations and Employees Overt communication with current high-level employees of represented organizations should be made in accordance with the procedures and considerations set forth in section 9&hyph;13.241 above, in the following circumstances: (a) The current high-level employee is known by the government to be participating as a decision maker in the determination of the organization's legal position in the proceeding or investigation of the subject matter of the communication; and (b) the organization is a target. 9&hyph;13.250␣Communications During Investigative Stage Office Approval Procedure Before communicating, or causing another to communicate, with a target the attorney for the government knows is represented by counsel regarding the subject matter of the communication, the attorney for the government should write a memorandum describing the facts of the case and the nature of the intended communication. The memorandum should be sent to and approved by the appropriate supervisor before the communication occurs. In United States Attorney's Offices, the memorandum should be reviewed and approved by the United States Attorney. If the circumstances of the communication are such that prior approval is not feasible, the attorney for the government should write a memorandum as soon after the communication as practicable and provide a copy of the memorandum to the appropriate supervisor. This memo should also set forth why it was not feasible to obtain prior approval. The provisions of this section do not apply if the communication with the represented target is made at the time of arrest pursuant to section 9&hyph;13.241(d). 9&hyph;13.260␣Enforcement of the Policies Appropriate administrative action may be initiated by Department officials against prosecutors who violate the policies regarding communication with represented persons. * * * * * The following new section is added to title 4, chapter 8. 4&hyph;8.1300␣Communications With Represented Persons Communications with represented persons in civil law enforcement investigations and proceedings are governed generally by the rules set forth in 28 CFR part 77 and by USAM 9&hyph;13.200 et seq . * * * * * V. Certifications In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Attorney General certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This rule was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to Executive Order No. 12866. List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 77 Government employees, Investigations, Law enforcement, Lawyers. Accordingly, chapter I of title 28 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended by adding a new part 77 to read as follows: PART 77_COMMUNICATIONS WITH REPRESENTED PERSONS Sec. 77.1␣Purpose and authority. 77.2␣Definitions. 77.3␣Represented party; represented person. 77.4␣Constitutional and other limitations. 77.5␣General rule for civil and criminal enforcement; represented parties. 77.6␣Exceptions; represented parties. 77.7␣Represented persons; investigations. 77.8␣Represented persons and represented parties; plea negotiations. 77.9␣Represented persons and represented parties; respect for attorney-client relationships. 77.10␣Organizations and employees. 77.11␣Enforcement of rules. 77.12␣Relationship to state and local regulation. Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 515(a), 516, 519, 533, 547. §77.1. Purpose and authority. (a) The Department of Justice is committed to ensuring that its attorneys perform their duties in accordance with the highest ethical standards. The purpose of this part is to provide a comprehensive, clear, and uniform set of rules governing the circumstances under which Department of Justice attorneys may communicate or cause others to communicate with persons known to be represented by counsel in the course of law enforcement investigations and proceedings. This part ensures the Department's ability to enforce federal law effectively and ethically, consistent with the principles underlying Rule 4.2 of the American Bar Association Model Rules of Professional Conduct, while eliminating the uncertainty and confusion arising from the variety of interpretations given to that rule and analogous rules by state and federal courts and by bar association organizations and committees. (Copies of the ABA Model Rule are available through Order Fullfillment Office, American Bar Association, 750 North Lake Shore Drive, Chicago, IL 60611. (b) This part is issued under the authority of the Attorney General to prescribe regulations for the government of the Department of Justice, the conduct of its employees, and the performance of its business, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 301; to direct officers of the Department of Justice to secure evidence and conduct litigation, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 516; to direct officers of the Department to conduct grand jury proceedings and other civil and criminal legal proceedings, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 515(a); to supervise litigation and to direct Department officers in the discharge of their duties, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 519; and otherwise to direct Department officers to detect and prosecute crimes, to prosecute offenses against the United States, to prosecute civil actions, suits, and proceedings in which the United States is concerned, and to perform such other functions in an appropriate and ethical manner as may be provided by law, pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 509, 510, 533, and 547. §77.2 Definitions. As used in this part, the following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the context indicates otherwise:
