FR940705-2-00110 FR940705-2-00078 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34270; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;02] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., Relating to Equity and SPX RAES Participation Requirements June 28, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``ACT''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on January 22, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CBOE proposes to amend its rules to impose fees on market makers who fail to observe certain participation duties on the Retail Automated Execution System (``RAES'') for equity and Standard & Poor's 500 Index (``SPX'') classes of options. Specifically, the CBOE proposes to amend CBOE Rules 8.16m, ``RAES Eligibility in Equity Options'' and 24.16, ``RAES Eligibility in SPX/NDX,'' to impose the following fees for failures to satisfy the rules' log-off requirements: (1) a fee of $100.00 for one to three failures within one twelve-month period; (2) a fee of $250.00 for four to six failures within one twelve-month period; and (3) a fee of $500.00 for seven or more failures within one twelve-month period. In addition, the CBOE proposes to issue a Regulatory Circular clarifying market makers' RAES responsibilities with respect to equity and SPX options classes and indicating that members who fail to meet the long-on requirements of CBOE Rules 8.16(b) or 24.16(b) ordinarily will be suspended from participation on RAES at the applicable trading station for a period of 21 consecutive business days. 1 1 CBOE Rule 8.16(b) states that in option classes designated by the market Performance Committee (``MPC''), any market maker who has logged on RAES at any time during an expiration month must log on the RAES system in that option class whenever he is present in that trading crowd until the next expiration. CBOE Rule 24.(b) states that unless exempted by the MPC, any market maker who has logged on RAES at any time during an expiration month must log on the RAES system in SPX/NSX whenever he is present in that trading crowd until the expiration. The text of the proposal is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The CBOE stats that the purpose of the proposed rule change is to impose fees on members who fail to observe the RAES log-off requirements set forth in CBOE Rules 8.16(a) and 24.16(a) relative to equity options and SPX index options. The CBOE proposes to incorporate the following fee schedule into CBOE Rules 8.16(a) for equity options) and 24.16(a) (for SPX options) for failures to comply with the log-off requirements: (1) a fee of $100.00 for one to three failures within one twelve-month period; (2) a fee of $250.00 for four to six failures within one twelve-month period; and (3) a fee of $500.00 for seven or more failures within one twelve-month period. The proposed fees for failures to observe the log-off requirements for equity and SPX RAES are identical in amounts and graduated structure to the fees proposed for Standard & Poor's 100 Index (``OEX'') options in File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;12. Under both proposals, the fee amounts will increase in relation to the number of times each calendar year that a member does not log off as required. As is the case of fees applicable to OEX RAES participants under existing CBOE Rule 24.17, ``RAES Eligibility in ``OEX,'' the proposed fees do not constitute disciplinary action, although the CBOE's review procedures in Chapter XIX, ``Hearings and Review.'' of the CBOE's rules will be available for review of fees assessed under the proposal. The Commission has noted the appropriateness of such fees and appeal rights in a related context. 2 2 Specifically, in approving a CBOE proposal that included procedures for contesting the fees assessed for delayed submission of trade data the Commission stated that ``Although such formalized procedures are unusual for challenging fee assessments, they actually make the imposition of the fee fairer by allowing members to challenge erroneous fee charges. Moreover, these procedures are reasonably designed to afford a member assessed fee the opportunity to challenge the veracity of the assessments.'' See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30001 (November 26, 1991), 56 FR 63529 (order approving File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;90&hyph;06). In addition to establishing a fee schedule, the CBOE proposes to issue a Regulatory Circular that will reaffirm the nature of CBOE market makers' RAES log-on and log-off responsibilities in respect of equity and SPX options classes and will describe the consequences that attach to any market maker's failure to observe these responsibilities. The Regulatory Circular addresses four points. First, CBOE Rules 8.16(a)(iii) and 24.16(a)(iii) require any market maker who has logged onto RAES at a trading station on any given trading day to log off RAES whenever the market maker leaves the trading crowd for more than ``a brief interval.'' The Regulatory Circular interprets ``a brief interval'' to mean ``five consecutive minutes.'' Under this interpretation any market maker who signs onto RAES at a particular trading station during a trading session must log off the system prior to leaving that station for more than five consecutive minutes. The CBOE believes that this interpretation should eliminate ambiguity about the amount of time a market maker may be away from the trading crowd without signing off RAES.
