FR940620-2-00100 FR940620-2-00062 8. The quality of educational and employment opportunities is often uneven among high poverty area youth, thus requiring that careful consideration be given to enhancing both the access and availability of opportunities to all area youth. Under this competition, awards will be made to local partnerships serving youth who reside or attend school in high poverty areas to address their special needs and implement local School-to-Work Opportunities initiatives, as defined in this notice. Approximately $10 million are available for awards under this notice. The Departments expect to award 15 to 25 12-month grants. The amount of the awards will be based on a number of factors, including the scope, quality, and comprehensiveness of the proposed initiative and the size of the population to be served. While there are no limitations on the size of a high poverty area, the Departments expect that the resources available for individual grants will effectively serve areas of no more than 50,000 in population. The Departments are not bound by the estimates in this notice. The Departments intend to conduct subsequent competitions for Urban/Rural Opportunities Grants, on an annual basis, under the recently enacted ``School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994.'' A local partnership shall be eligible to receive only one (1) grant under this notice, with grant renewals to be awarded depending upon fund availability. Section B. Application Process 1. Eligible Applicants A local entity that both meets the definition of ``local partnership'' and proposes to serve youth residing in areas meeting the definition of ``high poverty area'' in section B.7. of this notice is eligible to apply for an Urban/Rural Opportunities Grant. An eligible partnership must include employers, representatives of local educational agencies and local postsecondary educational institutions (including representatives of area vocational education schools, where applicable), local educators (such as teachers, counselors, or administrators), representatives of labor organizations or nonmanagerial employee representatives, and students. Other entities appropriate to effective development and implementation of the proposed School-to-Work Opportunities initiative, particularly community-based organizations with experience, expertise, and demonstrated success in addressing the needs of youth within the targeted area, should also be included in the partnership. 2. Submission of Application Applicants must submit an original and four (4) copies of the application. The application shall consist of two (2) separate parts: Part I shall contain the Standard Form (SF) 424, ``Application for Federal Assistance,'' and SF 424A, ``Budget'' (Appendix A). All copies of the 424 Form must have original signatures of the designated fiscal agent. In addition, the budget shall include_on a separate page(s)_a detailed cost break-out of each line item on Budget Form 424A. Assurances and Certifications (Appendix B) shall also be included in this part. Part II shall contain the application narrative that demonstrates the applicant's plan and capabilities in accordance with the Statement of Work in Section C. No cost data or reference to price shall be included in this part of the application. In order to assist applicants in the preparation of their applications and to facilitate the expeditious evaluation by the panel, applicants should describe their proposed plan in light of each of the Selection Criteria in Section E of this notice. The Departments strongly request that applicants limit the application narrative to no more than 40 double-spaced pages, on one side only. 3. Late Applications Any application received after the exact time specified for receipt at the office designated in this notice will not be considered, unless it is received before awards are made and it_ (a) Was sent by registered or certified mail not later than the fifth calendar day before the date specified for receipt of applications (e.g., an application submitted in response to a solicitation requiring receipt of applications by the 20th of the month must have been mailed/post marked by the 15th of that month); or (b) Was sent by the U.S. Postal Service Express Mail Next Day Service to addressee not later than 5 p.m. at the place of mailing two working days prior to the date specified for receipt of applications. The term ``working days'' excludes weekends and Federal holidays.
