FR940620-0-00155 FR940620-0-00029 A parallel access aisle provides an area for entering and exiting the vehicle outside traffic lanes. The parallel access aisle is required to enable the driver or passenger to transfer from the vehicle. This access aisle can be located on either side of the vehicle, depending on how the car is parked. Parallel on-street parking spaces may be indented into the public sidewalk as are loading zones or utilize space occupied by parkways or street furnishing zones along a curb. An exception has been added for narrower rights-of-way, where only the perpendicular access aisle and public sidewalk curb ramp must be provided. Two parking spaces may be paired at one public sidewalk curb ramp, although the requirement for dispersion may preclude larger groupings. Perpendicular and angled spaces are specified similar to ADAAG 4.6 (Parking and Passenger Loading Zones). The provision for signage has been amended to include designation of van-accessible perpendicular and angled parking spaces. Two angled parking spaces are not permitted to share an access aisle because the parking approach may preclude backing into the space so that the access aisle is on the side necessary for transfer. Comment. The NPRM asked whether additional parking spaces provided in lots or garages could substitute for required on-street parking spaces if greater convenience to commercial districts could be achieved. Commenters noted that when new on-street parking is added, regardless of its location and convenience, some accessible on-street parking spaces should be provided. If accessible on-street parking is not provided at the time of expansion, it will be difficult to add it later, when it will be needed. One commenter noted that Washington, DC and Los Angeles (CA) provide most of their municipal parking on streets rather than in parking garages or lots. Response. No provision has been included in the interim final rule to allow additional accessible parking spaces in lots or garages to substitute for required on-street parking spaces. When either is provided, it must include the full number of accessible parking spaces required by applicable ADAAG provisions. Comment. An appendix note in the NPRM suggested that accessible on-street parking spaces located adjacent to an intersection may be served by a public sidewalk curb ramp at that intersection. A few commenters were concerned about the safety of persons transferring from a vehicle to a wheelchair in narrow rights-of-way where parallel access aisles may not be provided. Response. These are dangers faced by all motorists exiting on the driver's side under some conditions. As in other sections of these guidelines, access is nevertheless required to ensure choice. The proposed appendix note has been deleted. The interim final rule permits on-street parking spaces without access aisles in alterations where site infeasibility precludes compliance with ADAAG 14.2.6(1). Comment. Several commenters from regions with heavy winter snowfall expressed concern about snow removal at indented curbs. Response. Snow removal is a problem at every pedestrian feature, particularly at public sidewalk curb ramps and intersections. The construction of indented parking is similar to that of loading zones provided on urban public sidewalks in many jurisdictions and should not require different treatment. 14.2.6(2)␣Parking Meters Paragraph (2) requires parking meters to meet ADAAG requirements for controls, mounting height, and location requirements. Comment. The NPRM required that all parking meters be accessible. Most jurisdictions indicated that the parking meter they commonly specify could not meet guidelines for operation without tight grasping or twisting and reported having a program allowing free parking for persons displaying appropriate license plates or placards. Other commenters saw no need for accessible meters if exemptions were available. However, many commenters supported the requirement that these parking meters be accessible and pointed out that some persons may have disabilities that make it difficult to operate controls but are not eligible for license plates allowing free parking. These commenters further noted that only a few State programs provide full reciprocity with other jurisdictions and that local policy on exemptions could change at any time. Commenters asserted that it would be less costly to have a standard specification for all meters than to have to install, maintain, and collect money from both accessible and inaccessible types. Response. Meters with accessible controls are available from several manufacturers at only slightly increased cost over standard meters. Just as controls and operating mechanisms, such as door hardware, light switches, and dispenser controls, located on an accessible route must be accessible, the controls and operating mechanisms of fixed street furnishings along a continuous passage must also comply with ADAAG 4.27 (Controls and Operating Mechanisms). Since motorists generally cannot choose a particular parking space, and persons with disabilities that affect their ability to grasp and twist operating mechanisms will not always be able or need to use an accessible parking space, the requirement that all meters be accessible has not been changed in the interim final rule. Comment. The NPRM sought comment on the requirement for a 48 inch mounting height for parking meters. Commenters recommended mounting heights between 32 and 48 inches. A number of commenters noted that some parking meters post hours of operation on a horizontal surface within the casing, and that this information should be accessible to persons in wheelchairs. Several jurisdictions noted that a lower mounting height was feasible. Response. Persons with disabilities may choose to use any on-street parking space that is available, even though it may not meet the requirements for an accessible space. Therefore, the interim final rule requires a maximum mounting height of 42 inches to the operable parts of controls, consistent with requirements in ADAAG 14.2.5(1). Where accessible on-street parking spaces with access aisles are not provided, this provision ensures that accessible meters will be available. Comment. Several commenters recommended a more specific requirement for the location of the parking meter relative to the approach area at accessible parking spaces. One commenter suggested that meters be located within 10 inches horizontally of the space required for a wheelchair to operate them, consistent with ADAAG side reach limits for a parallel approach.
