FR940223-2-00087 FR940223-2-00043 Health Resources and Services Administration New Community Health Centers, Expanded Community Health Center Activities, and Integrated Service Network Development Activities for CHCs Agency: Health Resources and Services Administration, PHS. Action: Advance Notice of Application Deadlines for New Community Health Centers, Expanded Community Health Center Activities, and Integrated Service Network Development Activities for CHCs. Summary: The Health Resources and Services Administration's Bureau of Primary Health Care (BPHC) expects to provide discretionary grant funds of approximately $17 million in fiscal year (FY) 1994 under section 330 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act to establish new community health centers (CHCs), to expand existing CHCs, and to develop integrated service networks for CHCs. The purpose of this announcement is to give early notice of funding amounts and application deadlines for CHC new start/expansion applicants, as well as to announce the availability of supplemental funds for existing CHCs involved in integrated service network activities. Approximately $12.5 million will be available to support the establishment of new CHCs and the expansion of capacity in existing CHCs. For applicants seeking to establish new CHCs and for applicants seeking to expand existing CHCs, the following application deadlines are provided: (1) The application for designation as a medically underserved area (MUA) or medically underserved population (MUP) is March 15, 1994; and (2) the application deadline for grants is June 1, 1994. Applicants are also encouraged to submit Letters of Interest by March 15, 1994, to the PHS Regional Grants Management Officers (RGMOs) whose names and addresses are provided in the appendix to this document. This will enable the RGMOs to provide additional assistance and instructions. Approximately $4.5 million will be available under Section 330 (d)(1) to support existing CHCs in the development of integrated service networks. As part of their ongoing operational activities, CHCs are permitted to expend a reasonable amount of their grant funds or other revenues for corporate planning activities, including efforts to define their roles within the provider community. This special funding initiative earmarks an additional $4.5 million for grant support of these activities. Integrated Service Networks are defined as: the collaboration of a Section 330 health center and at least one other health care provider or health care entity (e.g., community health center, migrant health center, health care for the homeless center, center for residents of public housing, other primary care provider, specialty group, hospitals, academic medical center, mental health provider, laboratory, pharmacy, insurance company, managed care organization and others) to form a horizontally and/or vertically integrated delivery system for managed purposes that will ensure access for the medically underserved. For applicants interested in Integrated Service Network Development projects, a pre-application is required and may be submitted after the publication of this notice with a final deadline of May 1, 1994. The final deadline for Integrated Service Network Development applications is June 1, 1994. Interested applicants should contact their RGMOs for additional assistance and instructions. For Further Information Contact: For grant information, potential applicants may contact the PHS RGMOs. RGMOS are responsible for distributing application kits and guidance (Form PHS 5161&hyph;1 with revised face sheets DHHS Form 424, as approved by the OMB under control number 0937&hyph;0189). The RGMO can also provide assistance on business management issues, Letters of Interest and Integrated Service Network Development projects. For general program information and technical assistance, contact Richard C. Bohrer, Director of Division of Community and Migrant Health, BPHC, 4350 East-West Highway, 7th Floor, Rockville, MD 20857 (301) 594&hyph;4300. Supplementary Information: A notice of Availability of Funds for new CHCs and expanded CHC activities in FY 1994 will be published in the Federal Register announcing program provisions, requirements, and evaluation criteria. Dated: February 16, 1994. William A. Robinson, Acting Administrator.
