FR940713-2-00099 FR940713-2-00061 (J) The Partnership may make any lawful acquisition of physician practices. However, in the event that a practice is acquired that admits patients to either hospital for Independent Services, Morton Plant and Mease shall allow each such physician to determine in his or her sole discretion to which hospital to admit such patients. VI Independent Activities (A) Morton Plant and Mease shall continue as separate and competing corporate entities, with separate Boards of Trustees and executive management, and shall separately own and operate their respective Independent Services. Marketing, pricing, and managed care negotiating and contracting decisions shall remain Independent Services to be considered only in each hospital board's respective meeting. Each board shall adhere to a separate agenda and will record such meeting in separate minutes. (B) Morton Plant and Mease shall each price and sell its services, both those owned and operated and operated separately and those purchased from the Partnership, in active competition with each other. Morton Plant and Mease shall each exercise its own independent judgment on how to market and price its patient care services and shall not discuss, communicate, or exchange with each other or any other hospital information relating to the marketing, pricing, negotiating, or contracting of any patient care services, including those purchased from the Partnership. (C) Morton Plant or Mease shall be free to offer any patient care service or administrative service provided through the Partnership independently and in competition with any other provider and may end its provision of any such service through the Partnership. (D) Morton Plant and Mease shall negotiate and contract independently with health care purchasers such as Managed Care Plants. Morton Plant and Mease may contract with the same Managed Care Plan or any other health care purchaser so long as they do so independently; provided, that Morton Plant and Mease may independently enter into similar but separate contracts with the same Managed Care Plan. VII Compliance Program Morton Plant and Mease shall maintain an antitrust compliance program, which shall include: (A) Distributing within 60 days from the entry of this Final Consent Judgment, a copy of the Final Consent Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement to all officers, directors, trustees and administrators; (B) Distributing in a timely manner a copy of the Final Consent Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement to any person who succeeds to a position described in Paragraph VII(A); (C) Briefing annually those persons designated in Paragraph VII(A) on the meaning and requirements of this Final Consent Judgment, penalties for violation thereof and the antitrust laws, including potential antitrust concerns raised by hospitals; (D) Obtaining from the officers and administrators an annual written certification that he or she has read, understands and agrees to abide by this Final Consent Judgment and in not aware of any violation of this Final Consent Judgment; and (E) Maintaining for inspection by plaintiffs a record of recipients to whom this Final Consent Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement have been distributed. VIII Certifications (A) Within 75 days after the entry of this Final Consent Judgment, Morton Plant and Mease shall each certify to plaintiffs whether it has made the distribution of this Final Consent Judgment in accordance with Paragraph VII(A) above. (B) For five years after the entry of this Final Consent Judgment, on or before its anniversary date, Morton Plant and Mease shall each certify annually to plaintiffs whether it has complied with the provisions of Paragraph VII. IX Plaintiffs' Access For the sole purpose of determining or securing compliance with this Final Consent Judgment, and subject to any recognized privilege, authorized representatives of the United States Department of Justice or the Office of the Attorney General, State of Florida, upon written request of the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Antitrust Division or the Attorney General of the State of Florida, respectively, shall on reasonable notice be permitted: (A) Access during regular business hours of Morton Plant and Mease to inspect and copy all records and documents relating to any matters contained in this Final Consent Judgment; (B) To interview Morton Plant and Mease officers, directors, trustees, administrators, and employees, who may have counsel present, concerning such matters; and (C) To obtain written reports from Morton Plant and Mease relating to any of the matters contained in the Final Consent Judgment. X Jurisdiction Retained Jurisdiction is retained by this Court for the purpose of enabling any of the parties to this Final Consent Judgment to apply to this Court at any time for further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this Final Consent Judgment, to modify or terminate any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish violations of its provisions. XI Expiration of Final Consent Judgment This Final Consent Judgment shall expire 5 years from the date of entry; provided that, before the expiration of this Final Consent Judgment, either plaintiff, after consultation with Morton Plant and Mease and in each plaintiff's sole discretion, may extend the Judgment for an additional five years. XII Public Interest Determination Entry of this Final Consent Judgment is in the public interest. Steven D. Merryday, United States District Judge.
