FR940412-0-00016 FR940412-0-00005 While RSPA understands this position, it does not agree that it justifies exception of gas transmission lines based solely on their low hoop stress at maximum operating pressure. Pipelines operating at lower stress levels are as susceptible to corrosion and other types of damage, identifiable by smart pigs, as pipelines operating at higher stress. In addition, the Reauthorization Act mandate to require certain new and replacement pipelines to be designed and constructed to accommodate the passage of smart pigs limits RSPA's discretion only to situations that make such design and construction impracticable. RSPA finds that an exception from the requirements adopted in this rule for pipelines operating at or below 40% SMYS is not appropriate, because the pipe wall stress does not, within the terms of the Reauthorization Act, affect the practicability of designing and constructing a line to accommodate passage of smart pigs. Short Lengths Eighteen commenters recommended that the rule except new or replacement pipelines based on their short lengths. Some commenters recommended excepting replacement pipelines depending on whether the adjoining portions of the pipeline are piggable. One of these commenters reasoned that unless the adjoining portion of pipeline can accommodate the passage of instrumented internal inspection devices, there can be no added benefit from making a replacement section piggable because the pipeline overall will still contain restrictions prohibiting inspection by smart pigs. Nine commenters recommended exception of minimum lengths that ranged from 2000 feet to 5 miles. A gas transmission line operator recommended that the minimum excepted length should be the distance between compressor stations (40 to 60 miles), to exclude the necessity to replace non-full opening valves on short replacement sections. Four commenters suggested that the minimum excepted length should be determined by RSPA. The disparity of the commenters' recommendations illustrates that there is no generally accepted rationale for determining the minimum length, if any, of pipe that should be excepted. Moreover, RSPA does not agree that the rule should except replacement pipelines based on either the length of the replaced section of pipeline or on whether the adjoining portion of pipeline can accommodate passage of instrumented internal inspection devices. The plain objective of the statutory mandate is to make both short and long pipelines that are not now piggable from end to end, piggable in time through replacements. Therefore, the final rule does not include these exceptions. However, operators wishing to except short length pipelines may want to petition the Administrator under the procedures set out in the new ยง190.9. Non-Steel Pipelines Five commenters recommended that the rule apply only to steel pipelines. One commenter argued that current internal inspection devices cannot monitor non-ferrous pipelines for stress corrosion. The commenter contends that no benefit derives from the running of smart pigs on these lines, and therefore it would be unreasonable to require operators to make them piggable. Another commenter contended that, although some polyethylene gas pipelines are by DOT definition transmission lines, there are no smart pigs (except camera pigs) that are designed for use in plastic pipe. RSPA does not agree that the rule should except non-steel pipelines. It is true that smart pigs cannot presently monitor non-steel pipelines for as many defects or anomalies as are detectable in steel pipelines. However, smart pigs can currently detect some physical defects in non-steel pipelines; i.e. dents, change in internal diameter, ovality, misalignment of joints, and change in position of the pipe. Moreover, by making new and replacement plastic pipelines piggable, they will be able to accommodate new smart pig technology as it is developed. Nonetheless, all the exceptions in this rule applicable to steel pipelines are also applicable to non-steel pipelines. Small Diameter Pipelines Twenty-four commenters recommended that the rule except the smaller diameter pipelines. Some reasoned that commercially available smart pig technology is limited to the larger pipe sizes. Consequently, for those sizes of pipe for which there are no commercially available smart pigs, designing and constructing pipelines to pass smart pigs would be impracticable. RSPA does not agree that the rule should include a blanket exception for all small diameter pipelines. In recent years we have seen the increasing miniaturization of electro-mechanical components in equipment used in smart pigs and we expect the trend to continue.
