FR940912-0-00036 FR940912-0-00006 G. Subpart C_Quarterly Report to Investors Proposed §630.40(b)(5) requires that the System file a ``preferability'' letter with the FCA disclosing any accounting changes made during the reporting period that are not required by new accounting pronouncements. The AICPA and the FCC commented that the requirement for filing a separate letter with the FCA explaining the reason for the preferable alternative accounting principle is unnecessary. They suggested that the requirement be deleted from §630.40(b)(5). The preferability letter was intended as a notice to inform the FCA of any accounting change made by the System during the interim period that is not required by existing accounting pronouncements. Because the quarterly report will be required to disclose such accounting changes, upon further consideration, the FCA has deleted the requirement of filing a preferability letter from §630.40(b)(5) of the final rule. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 630 Accounting, Agriculture, Banks, banking, Credit, Organization and functions (Government agencies), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas. For the reasons stated in the preamble, part 630 of chapter VI, title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations is added to read as follows: PART 630_DISCLOSURE TO INVESTORS IN SYSTEMWIDE AND CONSOLIDATED BANK DEBT OBLIGATIONS OF THE FARM CREDIT SYSTEM Subpart A_General Sec. 630.1␣Purpose. 630.2␣Definitions. 630.3␣Publishing and filing the report to investors. 630.4␣Responsibilities for preparing the report to investors. 630.5␣Prohibition against incomplete, inaccurate, or misleading disclosure. 630.6␣Farm Credit System audit committee and bank audit committees. Subpart B_Annual Report to Investors 630.20␣Contents of the annual report to investors. Subpart C_Quarterly Reports to Investors 630.40␣Contents of the quarterly report to investors. Appendix A to Part 630_Supplemental Information Disclosure Guidelines Authority: Secs. 5.17, 5.19 of the Farm Credit Act (12 U.S.C. 2252, 2254); sec. 424 of Pub. L. 100&hyph;233, 101 Stat. 1568, 1656. Subpart A_General §630.1 Purpose. This part sets forth the requirements for preparation and publication by the Farm Credit System (FCS or System) of annual and quarterly reports to investors and potential investors in Systemwide and consolidated bank debt obligations of the System and to other users of the reports in the general public. §630.2 Definitions. For purposes of this part, the following definitions shall apply: (a) Bank means any bank chartered under the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (Act). (b) Combined financial statements means financial statements prepared on a combined basis by a group of affiliated entities that share the same financial interest, regardless of whether any of the entities has the ability to exercise control over another. For purposes of this part, unless otherwise specified, combined financial data of a bank and its related associations includes financial data of the bank's consolidated subsidiaries. (c) Disclosure entity means any bank, the Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation (Financial Assistance Corporation), and the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation (Funding Corporation). (d) Engagement letter means the proposal, contract, letter, and other documents reflecting the understandings between the audit committee or board of directors of a bank or an association and its independent public accountant regarding the scope, terms, and nature of the audit services to be performed. (e) Farm Credit System means, collectively, the banks, associations, and such other institutions that are or may be made a part of the System under the Act, all of which are chartered by and subject to regulation by the Farm Credit Administration (FCA). For purposes of this part, the System does not include the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac). (f) FCS debt obligation means, collectively, notes, bonds, debentures, and other debt securities issued by banks pursuant to section 4.2(c) (consolidated bank debt securities) and section 4.2(d) (Systemwide debt securities) of the Act. (g) Report to investors or report means a report that presents the Systemwide combined financial statements, supplemental financial statement information, and related financial and nonfinancial information pertaining to the System required by this part. (h) Systemwide combined financial statements means the combined financial statements required by this part. §630.3 Publishing and filing the report to investors. (a) The disclosure entities shall jointly publish the following reports in order to provide meaningful information pertaining to the financial condition and results of operations of the System to investors and potential investors in FCS debt obligations and other users of the report: (1) An annual report to investors within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year;
