FR940418-0-00038 FR940418-0-00011 Saint Francis' satyr is extremely restricted geographically. Mitchell's satyr, the nominate subspecies, has been eliminated from approximately half its known range, primarily due to collecting (Refsnider 1991). Saint Francis' satyr is now known to exist as only a single population in North Carolina. The annual life cycle of N. m. francisci, unlike that of its northern relative, is bivoltine. That is, it has two adult flights or generations per year. Larval host plants are believed to be graminoids such as grasses, sedges, and rushes. Little else is known about the life history of this butterfly. The habitat occupied by this satyr consists primarily of wide, wet meadows dominated by sedges and other wetland graminoids. In the North Carolina sandhills, such meadows are often relicts of beaver activity. Unlike the habitat of Mitchell's satyr, the North Carolina species' habitat cannot be properly called a fen because the waters of this sandhills region are extremely poor in inorganic nutrients. Hall (1993) states: Whereas true fens_apparently the habitat of the northern form of N. mitchellii (Wilsman and Schweitzer 1991)_are circumneutral to basic in pH and are long-lasting features of the landscape, the boggy areas of the sandhills are quite acidic as well as ephemeral, succeeding either to pocosin or swamp forest if not kept open by frequent fire or beaver activity. Hall (1993) further states: Under the natural regime of frequent fires ignited by summer thunderstorms, the sandhills were once covered with a much more open type of woodland, dominated by longleaf pine, wiregrass, and other fire-tolerant species. The type of forest that currently exists along [the creek inhabited by Saint Francis' satyr] can only grow up under a long period of fire suppression. The dominance on this site of loblolly pine, moreover, is due primarily to past forestry management practices, not any form of natural succession. Parshall and Kral speculated that N. m. francisci is a relict from a more widespread southern distribution during the Pleistocene period. Hall (1993) presents the following alternative hypothesis: The current narrow distribution of francisci could also be a result of the enormous environmental changes that have occurred in the southern coastal plain just within the past 100 years. Only the discovery of additional populations or fossil remains can clarify this situation. Extensive searches have been made of suitable habitat in North Carolina and South Carolina, but no other populations of this butterfly have been found (Hall 1993, Schweitzer 1989). Federal government actions on this species began when it was included as a category 2 species in the November 21, 1991, animal notice of review (56 FR 58804). Category 2 species are those for which the Service believes that Federal listing as endangered or threatened is possibly appropriate but for which conclusive data on biological vulnerability and threat are not currently available to support proposed rules. Recent surveys have been conducted by Service and State personnel, and the Service now believes sufficient information exists to proceed with an emergency rule to list Neonympha mitchellii francisci as endangered.
