FR941110-0-00140 FR941110-0-00016 Two commenters said that, in the case of civil money penalties, notice before an effective date is meaningless, since the fine may be imposed for a past violation that has already been corrected. One commenter said that the ``not more than four days'' notice in §488.402(f) conflicts with §488.410, and another that paragraph (f) conflicts with §488.330(e)(1)(i) and (ii). Another said that the clause, ``*␣*␣* the remedy could be imposed anytime after the minimum 2 day notification period, but not later than the 10th day after the last day of survey,'' is confusing. Finally, one commenter suggested that residents and their representatives be notified of enforcement actions and their implications at the same time the nursing home is notified. Two other commenters said that States should be required to compile, at least monthly, a list of facilities against which they have taken adverse action and imposed sanctions. They suggested that this listing be sent to newspapers, to the State long-term care ombudsman, to the State protection and advocacy agency, to acute care hospitals, and to public and private agencies that regularly make referrals of individuals to nursing facilities. They also suggested that States be required to develop poster notices for each intermediate remedy, and require facilities to post the notice in a prominent place. Response: We are revising §488.402(f) to specify that the time frames given are calendar days, and that they begin when the facility receives the notice, but in no event will the effective date of the enforcement action be later than 20 days after the notice is sent. We are not accepting the suggestion that the notices be sent via certified mail, with return receipt requested. This would preclude a valid notice sent via other means, such as telefax, telegram, commercial overnight delivery services, or other means that may be faster. This becomes an especially important consideration in the case of immediate jeopardy deficiencies. The commenter who asks for an expedited hearing process due to the short notice alleging immediate jeopardy seems to be suggesting that the hearing take place before the effective date of a sanction to safeguard the facility's ability to continue its business and protect its residents from wrongful government action. In the case of immediate jeopardy, this would mean a hearing would have to be held as early as the first 48 hours after the survey. It is entirely possible that, when a survey uncovers such jeopardy, the State or HCFA may immediately set an effective date at the minimum required time after notice, that is, 2 days. It is virtually impossible to set up a hearing this quickly, and expanding the time between the notice and the effective date of a remedy to make it possible to hold a hearing before the effective date would not be in the best interests of the residents. The whole point of a short time frame is to safeguard the lives and the safety of residents by taking immediate action. As discussed at proposed §488.180 (now designated as §488.330), Certification of compliance or noncompliance, it is not necessary to hold a hearing before the effective date of termination to adequately protect a facility's right to due process. As noted above, we received comments saying our time frames were too short, and others saying that they were too long. While we are mindful of the Act's requirement that the Secretary take immediate action in the case of immediate jeopardy (sections 1819(h)(4) and 1919(h)(4) of the Act), and to minimize the time between the identification of violations and final imposition of the other remedies (sections 1819(h)(2)(B) and 1919(h)(2)(B) of the Act), we have chosen not to shorten them, except for the same day (if necessary) installation of a State monitor in the case of an immediate jeopardy. We believe that, for other available remedies when there is an immediate jeopardy deficiency, the facility should be allowed at least 2 days before imposition of sanctions. This is because we believe that even in cases of immediate jeopardy, providers are entitled to some notice before the imposition of sanctions. We believe that, in the case of non-immediate jeopardy, we should not allow any less than 15 days for similar reasons.
