FR940810-0-00301 FR940810-0-00021 (G) Ensure that employees use the hygiene facilities and observe the decontamination procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section; (H) Ensure that though on-site inspection engineering controls are functioning properly and employees are using proper work practices; and, (I) Ensure that notification requirement in paragraph (f)(6) of this section are met. (4) Training for the competent person. (i) For Class I, and II asbestos work the competent person shall be trained in all aspects of asbestos removal and handling, including: abatement, installation, removal and handling; the contents of this standard; the identification of asbestos; removal procedures, where appropriate; and other practices for reducing the hazard. Such training shall be obtained in a comprehensive course for supervisors, such as a course conducted by an EPA or state-approved training provider, certified by the EPA or a State, or an course equivalent in stringency, content and length. (ii) For Class III and IV asbestos work, the competent person shall be trained in aspects of asbestos handling appropriate for the nature of the work, to include procedures for setting up glove bags and mini-enclosures, practices for reducing asbestos exposures, use of wet methods, the contents of this standard, and the identification of asbestos. Such training shall include successful completion of a course equivalent in curriculum and training method to the 16-hour Operations and Maintenance course developed by EPA for maintenance and custodial workers [See 40 CFR 763.92(a)(2)], or its equivalent in stringency, content and length. Competent persons for Class III and IV work, may also be trained pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (o)(4)(i) of this section. (p) Appendices. (1) Appendices A, C, D, and E to this section are incorporated as part of this section and the contents of these appendices are mandatory. (2) Appendices B, F, H, I, J, and K to this section are informational and are not intended to create any additional obligations not otherwise imposed or to detract from any existing obligations. (q) Dates. (1) This standard shall become effective October 11, 1994. (2) The provisions of 29 CFR 1926.58 remain in effect until the start-up dates of the equivalent provisions of this standard. (3) Start-up dates: All obligations of this standard commence on the effective date except as follows: (i) Methods of compliance. The engineering and work practice controls required by paragraph (g) of this section shall be implemented as soon as possible but no later than April 10, 1995. (ii) Respiratory protection. Respiratory protection required by paragraph (h) of this section shall be provided as soon as possible but no later than February 8, 1995. (iii) Hygiene facilities and practices for employees. Hygiene facilities and practices required by paragraph (j) of this section shall be provided as soon as possible but no later than February 8, 1995. (iv) Communication of hazards. Identification, notification, labeling and sign posting, and training required by paragraph (k) of this section shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than April 10, 1995. (v) Housekeeping. Housekeeping practices and controls required by paragraph (l) of this section shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than January 9, 1995. (vi) Medical surveillance required by paragraph (m) of this section shall be provided as soon as possible, but no later than January 9, 1995. (vii) The designation and training of competent persons required by paragraph (o) of this section shall completed as soon as possible but no later than April 10, 1995. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1218&hyph;0133)
