FR940711-2-00150 FR940711-2-00059 Federal Highway Administration [FHWA Docket No. 94&hyph;15] Life-Cycle Cost Analysis AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Interim policy statement; request for comments. SUMMARY: This FHWA policy statement on life-cycle cost analysis (LCCA) helps fulfill Federal management responsibilities for analyzing life-cycle cost aspects of infrastructure investment decisions under Executive Order 12893, ``Principles of Federal Infrastructure Investment.'' The policy statement establishes LCCA principles to be applied by FHWA in infrastructure investment analyses, and in evaluating the adequacy of State highway agency procedures used in conducting required LCCA for investments funded through the Federal-aid highway program. States and local agencies are expected to apply these principles in evaluating program and project level investment decisions involving Federal-aid highway funds as required under applicable FHWA regulations. Comments are solicited on potential problems in implementing provisions of this policy statement and specific needs for training and technical assistance in LCCA. DATES: This interim policy statement is effective on July 11, 1994. Comments on the interim policy statement must be received on or before October 11, 1994. A final LCCA policy statement will be published that takes into consideration comments received on this interim statement. ADDRESSES: Submit written, signed comments concerning this interim policy statement to FHWA Docket No. 94&hyph;15, Federal Highway Administration, room 4232, HCC&hyph;10, Office of the Chief Counsel, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington D.C. 20590. In addition to specific comments on this policy statement, comments are requested on training and technical assistance needed to implement LCCA. All comments received will be available for examination at the above address between 8:30 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. e.t. Monday through Friday, except legal Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. James W. March, Chief, Systems Analysis Branch, (202) 366&hyph;9237, or Mr. Steven M. Rochlis, Legislation and Regulations Division, (202) 366&hyph;1395, Federal Highway Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington D.C. 20590. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background There is an increasing recognition that total life-cycle costs of highway and transportation investments must be given greater consideration in all phases of highway programs. Executive Order 12893, ``Principles of Federal Infrastructure Investment,'' requires that benefits and costs of infrastructure investment be measured and appropriately discounted over the full life cycle of each project. Sections 1024 and 1025 of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (ISTEA) (Pub. L. 102&hyph;240, 105 Stat. 1914, 1977) also require consideration of ``the use of life-cycle cost in the design and engineering of bridges, tunnels, or pavement.'' Subpart B of the interim final rule on implementation of ISTEA management systems (23 CFR 500.207) requires use of LCCA for pavement management systems (PMS) and Subpart C (23 CFR 500.307) requires use of LCCA or comparable techniques for bridge management systems (BMS). Life-cycle cost analysis is an economic evaluation of all current and future costs associated with investment alternatives. It is a valuable economic analysis technique for evaluating highway and other transportation programs and projects that require long-term capital and maintenance expenditures over the extended lives of facilities. Future costs are discounted using an appropriate discount rate to compare costs incurred at different points in time. Life-cycle cost analysis principles and techniques are used in many types of economic analysis to compare benefits and costs arising at different points in time. Benefit-cost analysis and cost effectiveness analysis, for instance, use life-cycle cost analysis principles to discount future benefits and costs of investment alternatives over the lives of alternatives being evaluated. Life-cycle cost analysis is used to evaluate programs of pavement and bridge improvements as well as individual projects. It is an important input to estimates of future funding requirements and to the development of improvement programs, especially when there are budget constraints. The use of value engineering is receiving increased attention as a technique for analyzing the functions of a program, project, system, product, or service to identify opportunities to significantly lower costs while still achieving the essential functions. Life-cycle costs are often analyzed to ensure that unnecessary costs are avoided by considering future operations, maintenance, and reconstruction requirements.
