FR940603-2-00013 FR940603-2-00010 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [I.D. 040594D] Marine Mammals; Gray Whale Research and Monitoring Plan AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of report availability and request for comments. SUMMARY: On January 7, 1993, NMFS made a determination that the eastern North Pacific (California) stock of gray whale ( Eschrictius robustus ) had recovered and should be removed from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife (List) under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). Section 4(g) requires NMFS to implement a system to monitor the status, for at least 5 years, of any species that has recovered and is removed from the List. This notice announces the availability of the draft Gray Whale Research and Monitoring Plan (Plan), that was prepared under section 4(g) of the ESA, for review and comment. DATES: Comments on the Plan must be postmarked by August 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the Plan to William W. Fox, Jr., Director, Office of Protected Resources, National Marine Fisheries Service, 1335 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910&hyph;3226. A copy of the Plan is available from this address or by telephoning the individual listed below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kenneth R. Hollingshead, Office of Protected Resources, 301/713&hyph;2055. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: NMFS issued a proposed determination on November 22, 1991 (56 FR 58869) that the California population of gray whales should be removed from the List. After a 104-day comment period, NMFS issued a final determination on January 7, 1993 (58 FR 3121). Under section 4(a) of the ESA, NMFS has the responsibility to monitor the status of the California gray whale for a period of at least 5 years following delisting. The purpose of monitoring populations following delisting is to evaluate the validity of the status determination used in the delisting process and to determine whether the status of the population has deteriorated within a 5-year period subsequent to delisting. If at any time during this period NMFS finds that the species' well-being is at risk, the ESA (section 4(b)(7)) requires NMFS to issue emergency protective regulations to ensure the conservation of the species. NMFS is making available for comment its proposed Plan. The Plan was developed by the staff of the National Marine Mammal Laboratory in coordination with the NMFS Gray Whale Monitoring Task Group, which is composed of scientists and managers who have specific responsibilities for coordinating activities involving gray whales. The Task Group was asked to develop a plan, monitor research activities after the plan is implemented, and also to serve as a quick response advisory team in the event of any catastrophic event affecting gray whales. The following research is recommended for the first 5-year monitoring plan, in order of priority: (1) Estimation of abundance from biennial surveys (or other appropriate sampling period) during the southbound migration; (2) Estimation of calf production during the northbound migration; (3) Determination of potential biases in methods used to estimate abundance and calf production; (4) Determination of trends in pregnancy rates from animals taken in any subsistence harvests that may be conducted by Russia on behalf of its natives in Siberian Arctic; (5) Estimation of the number of animals killed in any subsistence harvests that may be conducted by Russia on behalf of its natives in Siberian Arctic; (6) Use of Bayesian synthesis to evaluate current status of the population; (7) Determination of the degree to which anthropogenic factors (e.g., chemical contaminants, marine noise) may compromise the viability of this population (including its habitat). Dated: May 25, 1994. William W. Fox, Jr., Director, Office of Protected Resources, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13499 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;F
