FR941206-2-00076 FR941206-2-00051 7. Executing Section 202 regulatory agreements and development and funding documents. 8. Approving/disapproving mortgagors' requests to prepay Section 202 mortgages when note contains a prepayment right. 9. Executing new Congregate Housing Services Program (CHSP) grants. 10. Executing extensions, amendments, close-outs, or terminations of existing CHSP grants. 11. Executing Section 8 contracts for service coordinators. 12. Approving use of residual receipts for service coordinators. C. Multifamily Grants 1. Rating and, where specified in program regulations, ranking of applications for competitive grant programs. 2. Processing applications in noncompetitive grant programs. 3. Executing and amending grant agreements. 4. Approving Line of Credit Control System (LOCCS) drawdowns. 5. Monitoring compliance with grant agreements and terminating agreements for non-performance. 6. Executing close-out/settlements of grants. (iv.) Multifamily Asset Disposition._ 1. Determining terms of foreclosure sale. 2. Directing Office of General Counsel to commence foreclosure. 3. Determining services (statement of work) to be included in Project Managers' contracts. 4. Establishing maximum rents and charges Project Managers may levy. 5. Approving budgets for rehabilitation work and operating costs, including personnel and salaries. 6. Authorizing project managers to spend amounts or to subcontract for goods or services not authorized in budgets. 7. Authorizing rehabilitation work. 8. Authorizing advertisements of properties for sale. 9. Approving disposition plans. 10. Approving purchasers, in conjunction with foreclosures or sales, of HUD-owned properties. 11. Approving sales documents. 12. Executing Annual Housing Assistance Program (AHAP) and Housing Assistance Program (HAP) contracts. 13. Making final decisions on subsidy layering reviews required in conjunction with foreclosure sales or sales of HUD-owned projects or authorizing HFAs to make these decisions. (Redelegation of this function effective upon Headquarters providing administrative instructions.) (b.) Single Family Housing Program Functions Powers and authorities redelegated under the single family housing programs, listed above, include: (i) General Single Family Housing Functions._ 1. Issuing waivers of Department directives not mandated by statute or regulation. 2. Signing documents as necessary to carry out enumerated functions. (ii) Single Family Development._ 1. Identifying/maintaining local codes to meet Minimum Property Standards (MPS). 2. Approving Direct Endorsement (DE) lenders and underwriters. 3. Reviewing/approving DE test cases. 4. Reviewing endorsement packages. 5. Executing Mortgage Insurance Certificates (MICs). 6. Performing appraisal field reviews. 7. Performing architectural field reviews. 8. Performing pre-endorsement reviews for mortgage credit. 9. Performing detailed underwriting reviews for mortgage credit. 10. Processing Appraisals for HUD processed cases. 11. Processing credit underwriting process for HUD processed cases. 12. Assigning case numbers per requests. 13. Receiving/logging appraisals. 14. Receiving/logging endorsement packages. 15. Recording post-endorsement reviews.
