FR941227-2-00161 FR941227-2-00107 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Fiscal Service Valuation of Collateral for Treasury Tax and Loan Depositaries AGENCY: Financial Management Service, Fiscal Service, Treasury. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice informs interested parties that the Department of the Treasury has directed its fiscal agent, the Federal Reserve, to change the method of determining the value of collateral pledged by depositaries to secure Treasury Tax and Loan (TT&L) deposits. Current regulations published in the Code of Federal Regulations provide that collateral will be accepted at values assigned by the Federal Reserve Banks (FRBs). This change in collateral valuation is being implemented concurrently and in a manner consistent with the FRBs' new valuation methodology for collateral pledged by financial institutions to secure borrowings from the Federal Reserve. The current FRB methodology for TT&L and the discount window generally values securities at par value to which margins may be applied; the new methodology will value collateral at market prices, where available, to which margins may be applied. In addition, the FRBs are currently developing a uniform methodology to value definitive collateral for which no market prices are available. These changes will assign more equitable values to collateral. DATES: Federal Reserve Bank implementation of the new collateral valuation methodology will begin January 1, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sam Stokes, (202) 874&hyph;7078, (Financial Program Specialist), or John P. Galligan, (202) 874&hyph;6657, (Director, Cash Management Policy & Planning Division), or Steven D. Laughton, (202) 874&hyph;6680, (Senior Attorney for Programs). SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION: The Financial Management Service (Service), acting through the Federal Reserve as fiscal agent of the United States, designates Treasury Tax and Loan (TT&L) depositaries. Current regulations promulgated in the Code of Federal Regulations provide that collateral will be accepted at values assigned by the Federal Reserve Banks (FRBs). 31 CFR 203.14(d). Currently, the FRBs value pledged collateral at the outstanding principal balance or the outstanding principal balance reduced by a margin. A margin, or haircut, is the deduction of a certain percentage of the value of the collateral. This notice announces the FRBs' new methodology for valuing TT&L collateral. Under the new methodology, the FRBs will value the collateral using market prices, where available, or determine a value based on risk characteristics. The resulting final collateral value assigned by the FRBs may be more or less than par value. This new valuation system is intended to increase the accuracy of the value assigned to collateral in relation to the deposits at risk. The new valuation methodology will be implemented in phases, beginning January 1, 1995. Phase 1 will encompass definitive securities for which reliable and active markets exist, and for which market pricing is available to the FRBs. Initially, the margin applied in phase 1 will be the existing margins. These margins may be modified later. Phase 2, to be implemented later in 1995, will cover all remaining definitive collateral. The FRBs will value this definitive collateral, for which a reliable and active market does not exist, using an enhanced valuation methodology. Lastly, the FRBs will value collateral held in book-entry form at the FRBs using a market based methodology in approximately 2 years. The Service has sent to all TT&L depositaries, a Special Notice to Depositaries, which provided additional information on this change in the method of collateral valuation. In addition, the Federal Reserve has provided depositaries a separate information package. (Authority: See e.g., 12 U.S.C. 90, 265, 266; 31 U.S.C. 323, 3122.) Dated: December 20, 1994. Russell D. Morris, Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31697 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;35&hyph;P
