FR940228-0-00004 FR940228-0-00002 Federal Crop Insurance Corporation 7 CFR Part 457 General Crop Insurance Regulations; Small Grains Crop Insurance Provisions AGENCY: Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) hereby adopts regulations for specific crop provisions to insure Small Grains (wheat, barley, flax, oats, and rye), and options for increased coverage on Winter Wheat and Malting Barley. This rule consolidates the provisions for insuring small grains into one policy and provides for late planting, prevented planting, and wheat winter coverage. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mari L. Dunleavy, Regulatory and Procedural Development, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, telephone (202) 254&hyph;8314. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This action has been reviewed under USDA procedures established by Departmental Regulation 1512&hyph;1. This action constitutes a review as to the need, currency, clarity, and effectiveness of these regulations under those procedures. The sunset review date established for these regulations is July 1, 1998. Kenneth D. Ackerman, Manager, FCIC, has determined that this action is in conformance with Executive Order 12866 and is not a ``significant regulatory action.'' Based on information compiled by the Department, it has been determined that this final rule: (1) Would not adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or state, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) would not create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) would not alter the budgetary impact of entitlement, grants, user fees or loan programs or rights and obligations of recipients thereof; and (4) would not raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the information collection or record-keeping requirements included in this final rule have been submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget. This action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses. The insurance companies delivering these policies will not increase the amount of work required over the previous policy delivery. In fact, the combination of a number of previously independent policies into one policy should reduce confusion and increase efficiency. Therefore, this action is determined to be exempt from the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act and no Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was prepared. This program is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.450. This program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 which requires intergovernmental consultation with state and local officials. See the Notice related to 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V, published at 48 FR 29115, June 24, 1983. This action is not expected to have any significant impact on the quality of the human environment, health, and safety. Therefore, neither an Environmental Assessment nor an Environmental Impact Statement is needed. The small grains crop provisions were developed to provide one policy form for insuring wheat, barley, flax, oats, and rye. Using one policy for these five crops will: (1) Substantially reduce paperwork by issuing one policy form rather than the five separate policies previously used; (2) substantially reduce the number of crop handbooks and administrative procedures because separate handbooks and procedures will no longer be required for each of the small grain crops; (3) reduce the time involved to amend or revise the Provisions by eliminating repetitious review processes; and (4) continue to allow insureds the flexibility to elect any of the five small grain crops they wish to insure. By separate rule, FCIC will remove and reserve the present sections for these crop endorsements. On Thursday, June 10, 1993, FCIC published a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register at 58 FR 32458 proposing to revise the Common Crop Insurance Regulations by adding new provisions for oats, wheat, winter wheat, flax, barley, malting barley, and rye crop insurance. Following publication of the proposed rule, the public was afforded 30 days to submit written comments, data, and opinions. Comments were received from various representatives of farm and commodity groups, the crop insurance industry, and FCIC. The comments received and FCIC responses are as follows:
