FR940602-1-00022 FR940602-1-00012 On March 30, 1993, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service published a final rule in the Federal Register determining the coastal California gnatcatcher to be a threatened species (58 FR 16741). In its decision to list the gnatcatcher the Service relied, in part, on taxonomic studies conducted by Dr. Jonathan Atwood of the Manomet Bird Observatory, Manomet, Massachusetts. As is standard practice in the scientific community, the Service did not request, nor was it offered, the data used by Dr. Atwood in reaching his conclusions. Instead, the Service relied upon the conclusions published in Dr. Atwood's peer reviewed scientific report on the subspecific taxonomy of the California gnatcatcher (Atwood 1991). This report was used by the Secretary to support, in part, a finding that the southern range limit of the coastal California gnatcatcher occurs at 30 degrees north latitude in Baja California, Mexico. The Building Industry Association of Southern California (BIA) and others filed suit in Federal court challenging the listing on several grounds, including the claim that the Service was legally required to obtain and make Atwood's data available for review and comment. On May 2, 1994, the court ruled in favor of the BIA and vacated the listing. In response to the court's decision, Dr. Atwood has agreed to release his data to the Service. With this notice, the Service makes available for public review and comment Dr. Atwood's data. The Secretary has filed a motion for reconsideration of the court's decision and, alternatively, a motion to stay the portion of the decision that vacated the listing while the Service receives public comment on these data. These motions are currently pending before the court. The Service is also reviewing several other options to provide the protection of the Endangered Species Act to the gnatcatcher. These options include appealing the court's decision, listing the gnatcatcher on an emergency basis, and proposing a new rule to list the gnatcatcher. The Service solicits public comments on Dr. Atwood's data in order to assist it in further evaluating the decision to list the coastal California gnatcatcher pursuant to the Endangered Species Act. References Cited Atwood, J.L. 1991. Subspecies limits and geographic patterns of morphological variation in California gnatcatchers ( Polioptila californica ). Bull. Southern California Acad. Sci. 90(3):118&hyph;133 Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation. Dated: May 25, 1994. Thomas J. Dwyer, Acting Regional Director, Region I, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13375 Filed 6&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
