FR940404-0-00058 FR940404-0-00019 (3) The depository would require an average or minimum balance so high that it would not be feasible within the expected Federal and non-Federal cash resources. (l) For those entities where CMIA and its implementing regulations do not apply, interest earned on Federal advances deposited in interest bearing accounts shall be remitted annually to Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, P.O. Box 6021, Rockville, MD 20852. Interest amounts up to $250 per year may be retained by the recipient for administrative expense. In keeping with Electric Funds Transfer rules, (31 CFR part 206), interest should be remitted to the HHS Payment Management System through an electric medium such as the FEDWIRE Deposit system. Recipients which do not have this capability should use a check. State universities and hospitals shall comply with CMIA, as it pertains to interest. If an entity subject to CMIA uses its own funds to pay pre-award costs for discretionary awards without prior written approval from the Federal awarding agency, it waives its right to recover the interest under CMIA. (m) Except as noted elsewhere in this part, only the following forms shall be authorized for the recipients in requesting advances and reimbursements. Federal agencies shall not require more than an original and two copies of these forms. (1) SF&hyph;270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement. Each Federal awarding agency shall adopt the SF&hyph;270 as a standard form for all nonconstruction programs when electronic funds transfer or predetermined advance methods are not used. Federal awarding agencies, however, have the option of using this form for construction programs in lieu of the SF&hyph;271, ``Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.'' (2) SF&hyph;271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. Each Federal awarding agency shall adopt the SF&hyph;271 as the standard form to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. However, a Federal awarding agency may substitute the SF&hyph;270 when the Federal awarding agency determines that it provides adequate information to meet Federal needs. ยง19.23 Cost sharing or matching. (a) All contributions, including cash and third party in-kind, shall be accepted as part of the recipient's cost sharing or matching when such contributions meet all of the following criteria. (1) Are verifiable from the recipient's records. (2) Are not included as contributions for any other federally-assisted project or program. (3) Are necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives. (4) Are allowable under the applicable cost principles. (5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another award, except where authorized by Federal statute to be used for cost sharing or matching. (6) Are provided for in the approved budget when required by the Federal awarding agency. (7) Conform to other provisions of this part, as applicable. (b) Unrecovered indirect costs may be included as part of cost sharing or matching only with the prior approval of the Federal awarding agency.
