FR940426-2-00099 FR940426-2-00063 [Release No. 34&hyph;33927; File No. SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;94&hyph;01] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Participants Trust Company; Filing of Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Eligibility of Certain Securities Guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association April 19, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on April 4, 1994, the Participants Trust Company (``PTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;94&hyph;01) as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by the self-regulatory organization. On April 15, 1994, PTC filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Letter from Carol Jamison, Assistant Vice President and Associate Counsel, PTC, to Ari Burstein, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (April 15, 1994). The amendment changes the date on which principal and interest on the GNMA REMIC will be payable from the fifteenth calendar day of the month as was originally proposed, to the sixteenth calendar day of the month. In addition, issuers of REMIC-eligible MBS will not be required to pay or report principal and interest electronically, as was originally proposed. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will allow PTC to designate certain securities guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association (``GNMA'') as ``eligible securities'' as permitted by Article I, Rule 2 of PTC's Rules (``GNMA Securities''). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and the Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to allow PTC to designate certain securities guaranteed by GNMA as eligible securities as permitted by Article I, Rule 2 of PTC's Rules. PTC currently acts as depository for single-class GNMA I and GNMA II mortgage-backed securities (``MBS'') and REMIC securities 3 guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs (``VA''). 4 3 REMIC is an acronym for ``real estate mortgage investment conduit,'' a pass-through vehicle invented pursuant to the Tax Reform Act of 1986 to issue multiclass mortgage-backed securities. Interests in REMICs may be regular (debt) or residual (equity interests). Downes, John and Goodman, Kordan Elliot, Dictionary of Finance and Investment Terms (Barron's 1987). 4 As of December 31, 1993, PTC had approximately 260,000 pools of GNMA single-class securities on deposit, representing $850 billion in par value (95% of total GNMA single-class securities par value outstanding), and 71 tranches of VA REMIC securities, representing $4.6 billion in par value, from a total of 5 REMIC transactions (100% of all VA REMIC par value outstanding).
