FR940428-2-00073 FR940428-2-00044 Since both the VER rule and the rule on the applicability of 522(e) to subsidence relate to the scope of the prohibitions of 522(e), and both rules have been previously addressed in a combined draft EIS on two occasions, OSM again intends to issue a revised draft EIS addressing both rules. The second reason for a revised draft EIS is that it will have the benefit of the many comments that were submitted on the April 1991 draft EIS. Previous Scoping Activity OSM published a notice of intent to conduct rulemaking on the applicability of the prohibitions in section 522(e) (4) and (5) to subsidence resulting from underground mining on April 3, 1985 (50 FR 13250). Subsequently, OSM published a notice of intent to prepare an EIS to analyze the environmental impacts of the rulemaking on subsidence, as required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), on June 19, 1985 (50 FR 25473). Scoping meetings were then held in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on August 1, 1985; in St. Louis, Missouri, on August 6, 1985; and in Washington, DC, on August 9, 1985. OSM received written comments during that period also. Based on the comments received, OSM decided to combine the environmental analysis of a rulemaking on VER with the analysis of the rulemaking on subsidence. On January 22, 1987 (52 FR 2421), OSM published a notice of intent to (1) prepare an EIS on those rulemakings, and (2) hold a scoping meeting to address public comments on February 6, 1987, in Washington, DC. The public meeting was held to receive comments from interested persons on the specific alternatives evaluated in the EIS and on the scope and significance of the issues to be analyzed. Federal agencies whose lands would be affected also were invited to discuss data problems. Upon request, OSM held a second meeting on February 23, 1987, to hear comments from environmental groups unable to attend the February 6, 1987 meeting. Again, OSM received written comments. All written comments submitted as part of scoping for the EIS, as well as all testimony presented at the public meetings on the EIS, were considered in the preparation of that draft EIS, which was published concurrently with a proposed rule addressing both VER and subsidence on December 27, 1988. However, on July 21, 1989 (54 FR 30557), OSM withdrew the proposed rule. Subsequently, OSM made a decision to consider the VER rulemaking and the rulemaking on the applicability of section 522(e) to subsidence separately. At the same time, OSM decided to continue to include analysis of both rulemakings in the same EIS due to the interrelated nature of their effects, and the draft EIS, entitled OSM&hyph;EIS&hyph;29, was issued on April 19, 1991. The comment period on the draft EIS closed on October 16, 1991. As a result of prior scoping meetings and the publication of the draft EIS, OSM has received numerous comments on both the scope of the analysis and the alternatives considered in the draft EIS. However, the public is again invited to submit comments on the scope of the analysis, the assumptions and scope of data relating to the analysis, and the issues and alternatives to be analyzed in the revised draft EIS. OSM would like to emphasize that comments received on the previous draft EIS are being considered and need not be re-submitted. OSM staff will be available to meet with interested persons upon request to discuss the scope of the revised draft EIS. Since the meetings will be informal, OSM will not be using a court reporter and would appreciate receiving, if possible, a written copy of the comments they intend to present at the meeting. Alternatives Considered The alternatives considered in the April 1991 draft EIS are listed below. It is possible that the number of alternatives actually considered in the revised draft EIS may be revised as a result of comments received during scoping, analysis of comments received on previous drafts, further legal analysis, or further analysis by the Department. The public is invited to submit any other alternatives that it believes are reasonable and should be considered. VER Alternatives For the definition of VER, the four alternatives considered were: 1. No Action No Action means that OSM would not promulgate a rule defining VER and that OSM would continue to make VER determinations consistent with existing law. 2. Good Faith All Permits Standard The good faith all permits Standard (GFAP) would require any person seeking confirmation of VER to show that he had made a good faith effort to obtain all permits before August 3, 1977, or before the date the land in question became subject to the prohibitions of section 522(e). It is anticipated that few persons would be able to meet this test for determining VER. 3. GFAP or Takings Standard Under this alternative, VER would be found to exist if the person can demonstrate that he had made a good faith effort to obtain all permits before August 3, 1977 (or before the date the land became subject to the prohibitions of section 522(e)), or if denial of VER would be projected to result in a compensable taking of property. 4. Ownership and Authority Standard Under the Ownership and Authority (O&A) standard for VER, the person claiming VER for a surface coal mining operation would have to demonstrate ownership of the coal and the authority to extract the coal by the method intended, as determined by the laws of the State in which the property is located. Subsidence Alternatives There were five alternatives in the draft EIS for determining the degree, if any, to which subsidence resulting from underground coal mining is subject to the prohibitions of section 522(e) of SMCRA. Because the Solicitor's Memorandum Opinion M&hyph;36971 advised that the best reading of SMCRA is that the prohibitions of section 522(e) do not apply to subsidence resulting from underground coal mining, OSM is considering this opinion and will consult further with the Solicitor on this issue. OSM anticipates including in the revised draft EIS the five alternatives which were analyzed in the April 1991 draft EIS.
