FR941103-0-00036 FR941103-0-00007 A. Examples of Specific Pricing Methods That Conform to the Traditional Revenue Requirement The following pricing approaches are examples of methods that the Commission would find acceptable, assuming an adequate showing by the utility. In this context, a conforming method is one that clearly meets the first two fundamental requirements and demonstrates that it is capable of satisfying the other three pricing principles (which ultimately may need to be balanced against one another in the Commission's determination of whether the proposed rates are just and reasonable). Of course, the rates resulting from its use must be shown to be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. (1) Examples of Acceptable Transmission Pricing by an Individual Utility A variety of pricing proposals from an individual utility could be acceptable under the five pricing principles. The range of possible approaches includes various combinations of: (1) a traditional contract path approach or a flow-based approach; (2) costs aggregated at the utility level, at a zonal level, or at the line-by-line level; and (3) various cost concepts for rate design, such as embedded cost, ``or'' cost, incremental cost, or short-run marginal cost. Not all of these possible combinations, however, would necessarily satisfy our principles. Examples of pricing reform that the Commission would approve if proposed by an individual utility and if they satisfy our principles include: •Zonal ``or'' pricing based on power flows from zone to zone within a utility, or within the members of a holding company system. Zonal rates should be supported by showing the use made of separate zones by an individual transaction. Such rates should be supported by an explanation of the data base required and the computer modeling needed to implement it. •Flow-based line-by-line rates, based on embedded costs ``or'' pricing. Such rates should be supported by an explanation of the data base required and the computer modeling needed to implement it. •``Or'' pricing, at the corporate level using the traditional contract path approach. This is the current Commission standard and remains an acceptable pricing policy that satisfies our pricing principles. (2) Examples of Acceptable Transmission Pricing by an RTG The Commission will provide substantial latitude for innovative, conforming pricing proposals by a regional transmission group that meets the requirements of our RTG Policy Statement. 31 We will give more latitude to RTGs than to individual utilities. This is for two reasons. First, an RTG represents the combined interests of both transmission owners and transmission users, as well as the appropriate participation of state authorities, so pricing proposals are likely to represent an appropriate balancing of those interests. Second, the more attractive proposals for treating regional loop flow problems work better if all the utilities in the region use the same method. 31 Policy Statement Regarding Regional Transmission Groups, 58 FR 41626 (Aug. 5, 1993), III FERC Stats. & Regs. ¶30,976 (July 30, 1993); See also PacifiCorp, et al. (on behalf of Western Regional Transmission Association), 69 FERC at XXXX ; Southwest Regional Transmission Association, 69 FERC at XXXX .
