FR940810-0-00197 FR940810-0-00021 Table 2._ Frequency of Chest Roentgenogram 1Years since first exposure 1Age of employee 215 to 35 235+ to 40 245+ 0 to 10 Every 5 years Every 5 years Every 5 years. 10+ Every 5 years Every 2 years Every 1 year. (4) Termination of employment examinations. (i) The employer shall provide, or make available, a termination of employment medical examination for any employee who has been exposed to airborne concentrations of fibers of asbestos at or above the TWA and/or excursion limit. (ii) The medical examination shall be in accordance with the requirements of the periodic examinations stipulated in paragraph (l)(3) of this section, and shall be given within 30 calendar days before or after the date of termination of employment. (5) Recent examinations. No medical examination is required of any employee, if adequate records show that the employee has been examined in accordance with any of paragraphs ((l)(2) through (l)(4)) of this section within the past 1 year period. A pre- employment medical examination which was required as a condition of employment by the employer, may not be used by that employer to meet the requirements of this paragraph, unless the cost of such examination is borne by the employer. (6) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide the following information to the examining physician: (i) A copy of this standard and Appendices D and E. (ii) A description of the affected employee's duties as they relate to the employee's exposure. (iii) The employee's representative exposure level or anticipated exposure level. (iv) A description of any personal protective and respiratory equipment used or to be used. (v) Information from previous medical examinations of the affected employee that is not otherwise available to the examining physician. (7) Physician's written opinion. (i) The employer shall obtain a written signed opinion from the examining physician. This written opinion shall contain the results of the medical examination and shall include: (A) The physician's opinion as to whether the employee has any detected medical conditions that would place the employee at an increased risk of material health impairment from exposure to asbestos; (B) Any recommended limitations on the employee or upon the use of personal protective equipment such as clothing or respirators; and (C) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the results of the medical examination and of any medical conditions resulting from asbestos exposure that require further explanation or treatment. (D) A statement that the employee has been informed by the physician of the increased risk of lung cancer attributable to the combined effect of smoking and asbestos exposure. (ii) The employer shall instruct the physician not to reveal in the written opinion given to the employer specific findings or diagnoses unrelated to occupational exposure to asbestos. (iii) The employer shall provide a copy of the physician's written opinion to the affected employee within 30 days from its receipt. (m) Recordkeeping._(1) Exposure measurements. NOTE: The employer may utilize the services of competent organizations such as industry trade associations and employee associations to maintain the records required by this section. (i) The employer shall keep an accurate record of all measurements taken to monitor employee exposure to asbestos as prescribed in paragraph (d) of this section. (ii) This record shall include at least the following information: (A) The date of measurement; (B) The operation involving exposure to asbestos which is being monitored; (C) Sampling and analytical methods used and evidence of their accuracy; (D) Number, duration, and results of samples taken; (E) Type of respiratory protective devices worn, if any; and (F) Name, social security number and exposure of the employees whose exposure are represented. (iii) The employer shall maintain this record for at least thirty (30) years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. (2) Objective data for exempted operations. (i) Where the processing, use, or handling of products made from or containing asbestos is exempted from other requirements of this section under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section, the employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record of objective data reasonably relied upon in support of the exemption. (ii) The record shall include at least the following: (A) The product qualifying for exemption; (B) The source of the objective data; (C) The testing protocol, results of testing, and/or analysis of the material for the release of asbestos; (D) A description of the operation exempted and how the data support the exemption; and (E) Other data relevant to the operations, materials, processing, or employee exposures covered by the exemption. (iii) The employer shall maintain this record for the duration of the employer's reliance upon such objective data.
