FR940706-2-00044 FR940706-2-00026 [OPP&hyph;00385; FRL&hyph;4898&hyph;2] Publication of Addenda for Data Reporting; Requirements for Pesticide Assessment Guidelines (N, E, and K) AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of availability; request for comment. SUMMARY: This notice announces the availability of and requests comments regarding the proposed addenda which includes a draft Data Reporting Guidelines (DRG) for those environmental chemistry methods associated with Subdivision N, E, and K. This draft DRG is not intended to introduce any new data requirements or revisions into the existing guidelines. Its purpose is to further clarify technical aspects of the existing Pesticide Assessment Guidelines and to provide a format for organizing and submitting soil and water methods and their supporting data in order to facilitate their review. EPA recognizes there are sections of the draft DRG that do not apply to specific soil and water methods; therefore, registrants should exercise scientific judgement in deciding which sections apply to their methods. DATES : Three copies of written comments must be received by Donald A. Marlow identified below on or before August 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: The draft Data Reporting Guideline for the Pesticide Assessment Guidelines (N, E, and K) can be obtained from the pesticide public docket at the following address: Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person or by telephone: Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202 (703) 305&hyph;5805. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Donald A. Marlow, Chief, Analytical Chemistry Branch (7503W), Biological and Economic Analysis Division, Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Crystal Station 1, Rm. CS 44J1, 2800 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22203, (703) 308&hyph;8198 (Voice Mail). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The draft DRG provides the registrant with a detailed format for submitting soil and water methods to the Agency. Each method should be complete and meet the technical requirements identified in the DRG. Those methods should be sent to the Agency to support specific exposure, environmental fate, and ecological effects studies during the normal registration and reregistration cycle. Each study for which environmental chemistry methods are needed has been clearly identified below. Soil and water methods should be clearly written and capable of being repeated by chemists in Federal and state laboratories. The draft DRG is not intended to introduce any requirements. Its purpose is to further clarify technical aspects of the existing Pesticide Assessment Guidelines and to provide a format for organizing and submitting soil and water methods used to generate study data and to facilitate their review. The studies involved are: Subdivision N -␣ Environmental Fate Series 164-1 -␣ Terrestrial Field Dissipation Studies 1 Series 164-2 -␣ Aquatic Field Dissipation Studies Series 164-3 -␣ Forest Field Dissipation Studies Series 164-5 -␣ Long Term Soil Dissipation Studies 1 1 In practice these studies are considered to be equivalent because they evaluate the persistent nature of pesticide residues in soil. Series 165-3 -␣ Accumulation Studies in Irrigation Crops Series 166-1 -␣ Groundwater Study Subdivision E -␣ Hazard Evaluation Series 71-5 -␣ Simulated and Actual Field Testing for Mammals and Birds Series 72-7 -␣ Simulated and Actual Field Testing and Aquatic Organisms Subdivision K -␣ Reentry Protection Series 132-1 -␣ Soil Dislodgeable Residue Dissipation Studies These addenda supercede the paragraphs in the respective guidelines and the other addenda issued by the Pesticide Program regarding soil and water methods sent to the Agency for the studies identified above. While these addenda to the Guidelines are not mandatory, data submitters are strongly encouraged to follow the format to assure that reports will be consistent, thereby increasing the efficiency of pesticide registration, reregistration, and other regulatory activities. This is the ninth addendum to Subdivision N-Environmental Fate (Chemistry) published by the Agency. This new addenda with the draft DRG has been sent to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Administration, and other organizations within EPA for comment. With this notice EPA plans to make the DRG available to the public for comment in the Federal Register . The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) requires the registration of all pesticides that are manufactured for use in the United States. In order to obtain a registration from EPA, manufacturers must demonstrate that their pesticides do not cause any unreasonable adverse effects to human health and the environment. It is now considered appropriate to provide available soil and water residue methods to EPA because of the increased public concern regarding the contamination of the environment with pesticides. EPA will validate some of those methods and may assemble them into a new manual in order to make them available to address potential environmental problems. This DRG provides more detailed technical guidance regarding those analytical methods and amends Pesticide Assessment Guideline N, E, and K referred to earlier. These methods may be validated in an EPA laboratory to determine if they identify and quantify the pesticide parent compound, toxicologically significant metabolites, and degradates at the level indicated. The results from the soil and water method validation program may be used to support regulatory decisions regarding the reliability and validity of the chemistry data sent to the Agency with exposure, environmental fate, and ecological effects studies. List of Subjects Environmental protection. Dated: June 27, 1994. Allen L. Jennings, Director, Biological and Economic Analysis Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16193 Filed 7&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
