FR940324-2-00130 FR940324-2-00074 DEPARTMENT OF STATE Bureau of Political-Military Affairs [Public Notice 1968] Consideration of Defense Articles and Defense Services Marketing License Requests for South Africa AGENCY: Department of State. ACTION: Public notice. SUMMARY: Pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act, notice is hereby given that the Department of State will on a case-by-case basis consider licenses and approvals for (1) marketing proposals to sell United States Munitions List items to South Africa and for (2) export of the minimum basic operational and maintenance data necessary to support such proposals. However, exports of defense articles and services subject to the United Nations arms embargo on South Africa will not be approved while the embargo remains in force. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 24, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John Clarkson, Political-Military Affairs Officer, Office of Export Control Policy, Defence Trade Policy, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Department of State (202) 647&hyph;4231. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: South Africa is currently under a mandatory arms export embargo imposed by the United Nations Security Council, and is a proscribed destination for exports of defense articles and services pursuant to 22 CFR 126.1. However, it is contemplated that the embargo may end once certain events take place. Because of this, the Department of State will now consider, on a case-by-case basis, granting licenses and approvals for proposals to sell defense articles and defense services to South Africa and to export the minimum amount of basic operations and maintenance technical data necessary to support such proposals, so long as assurances are received that this data will be used in support of such proposals and for no other purpose. Approvals for the export of the aforementioned technical data will only be granted if the Director, Office of Defense Trade Controls, receives reliable assurances from the foreign end-user that it will only use the technical data for evaluation and informational purposes related to the proposed sale, and not for any other purposes. The Department of State will not grant licenses for the actual sale or export of defense articles and defense services (other than for the aforementioned technical data and for exceptions in accordance with current policy as provided for in §126.1(c)) while the U.N. arms embargo against South Africa and U.S. regulations prohibiting the export to South Africa of defense articles and services are in force. Section 126.1(e) also provides that any person who knows or has reason to know of a proposal to sell or transfer to a country referred to in §126.1, or to any person acting on its behalf, any defense articles, defense services or technical data subject to the ITAR must immediately inform the Office of Defense Trade Controls. Effective immediately, this requirement no longer applies to South Africa. However, the obligation to inform the Office of Defense Trade Controls of actual sales or transfers to South Africa remains in place. The licenses and approvals subject to this policy include proposals, within the meaning of 22 CFR 126.1(e), to sell or transfer defense articles and services. This policy also covers licenses and approvals to export the minimum basic technical data in the form of operations and maintenance information related to a defense article or service which is necessary to support a sales proposal. For this purpose, a proposal is defined as the communication of information in sufficient detail to permit an intended purchaser to decide either to acquire the particular equipment in question or to enter into a manufacturing license agreement or technical assistance agreement. This would include a presentation which describes the equipment's performance characteristics, price, and probable availability for delivery. This policy does not cover technical data which discloses the details of design, development, production or manufacture of any defense item. Nor does it permit the use, with respect to articles originating in or for export to South Africa, of any exemptions except those already permitted by §126.1 (i.e., §§123.17 and 125.4(b)(13)). Furthermore, the requirements of §126.8, regarding proposals to foreign persons relating to significant military equipment, remain in place. This action has been taken pursuant to section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) and §126.7 of the ITAR in furtherance of the foreign policy of the United States. Dated: March 14, 1994. Robert L. Gallucci, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Political-Military Affairs, Department of State. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6872 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;25&hyph;M
