FR940407-0-00038 FR940407-0-00006 Use of the simplified procedure will initially be limited, by internal guidance, to certain requirements and prohibitions subject to Class I Administrative Civil Penalties under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (FWPCA) as amended. A Notice of Violation can be issued for two types of violations: (1) Oil discharges in violation of the FWPCA, if they are 100 gallons or less, and (2) pollution prevention violations (33 CFR parts 154, 155, 156). Coast Guard issuing officers will issue a Notice of Violation with a proposed penalty only in clear-cut cases as determined by applying specific written guidance. Proposed penalty amounts would be taken from a penalty schedule based on objective criteria. Any case in which aggravating or extenuating circumstances are evidenced, or which concern violations not included in specific guidance documents, may be referred to the Hearing Officer for processing under current procedures. Delegation by the District Commander This rule will also allow more flexibility on the part of the District Commander to delegate authority for review of alleged violations to any person under the District Commander's command. For example, the District Commander could delegate review authority to the Captain of the Port for certain pollution prevention violations, thus eliminating the need for review by the District Commander's staff, prior to the case being forwarded to a Hearing Officer. Such a delegation would streamline the processing of a violation case and would be in the best interest of the public and the party involved. Regulatory Implementation Based on the results of the pilot test and internal and external comments received on the IFR, the Coast Guard will determine whether the procedure should be implemented nationally and will make revisions to the final rule and internal guidance, if appropriate. This approach will facilitate implementation without disrupting the existing civil penalty process for cases involving violations other than oil discharge or pollution prevention violations. However, the rule is designed to allow extension of the simplified process to other Coast Guard programs without additional amendments to 33 CFR 1.07. Under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), procedural rules are exempt from the notice and comment procedures and, under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(3)(B), the promulgating agency may omit notice and comment. Further, under the alternative simplified procedure established by this IFR, a party will continue to have the option of requesting a hearing, as under current regulations. Therefore, the Coast Guard has determined that these regulations may be promulgated without prior notice and opportunity for comment. Since the public interest would not be served by delaying the date of the interim rule, and a party will continue to have the option of requesting a hearing, as under current regulations, the Coast Guard has also determined that under 5 U.S.C. 533(d), these rules may be made effective upon publication. Nonetheless, as previously discussed in this preamble, the Coast Guard is requesting comment on this interim rule and its pilot implementation program. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866, does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order, and has not been reviewed under that order. It is not significant under the ``Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures'' (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this procedural rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation is unnecessary. The total annual cost to the public from civil penalties should not be changed by this proposal. Savings to the government will be realized from the reduction in administrative costs to enforce civil penalties by eliminating the need for review by the District Commander or action by the Hearing Officer in cases where the penalty specified in a Notice of Violation is paid by the party within the allowed time. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Coast Guard must consider whether this rulemaking will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). Because it expects the impact of this proposal to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rulemaking will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If, however, you think that your business qualifies as a small entity and that this rulemaking will have significant economic impact on your business, please submit a comment (see ADDRESSES ) explaining why you think your business qualifies and in what way and to what degree this rulemaking will economically affect your business.
