FR940622-2-00054 FR940622-2-00039 The collection will occur only in years in which Congress has appropriated funds for special adjustments for security for Moderate Rehabilitation projects. 8. Explain any special circumstances that require the collection to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with the guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.6. This information collection does not violate 5 CFR 1320.6. 9. Describe efforts to consult with persons outside the agency to obtain their views on the availability of data, frequency of collection, the clarity of instructions and record-keeping, disclosure, or reporting format (if any), and on the data elements to be recorded, disclosed, or reported. (Consultation should occur at least once every 3 years.) In the supporting statement, provide: a. The names and telephone numbers of those consulted and the year in which the consultation took place. Indicate the agencies, companies, State or local governments, or other organizations represented by those consulted. b. A summary of any major problems that could not be resolved during consultation. c. A description of other public contacts and opportunities for public comment, and a summary of the comments received. The parties outside the agency who would have an interest in commenting on Form HUD&hyph;52662 are Housing Agencies (HAs) administering Moderate Rehabilitation Programs and Moderate Rehabilitation project owners. Since the form must be approved for use in assigning funds appropriated for the current fiscal year, time does not permit the opportunity for HAs and owners to comment. HAs and owners have expressed interest to the Department in having a mechanism for funding special adjustments for security. 10. Describe any assurance of confidentiality provided to respondents and the basis for the assurance in statute, regulation, or agency policy. Section 8 owners who choose to use Form HUD&hyph;52662 to apply for special adjustments for security are accustomed to providing information on the nature of project operations through their ongoing participation in the Section 8 Program. HAs and HUD staff are aware of many of the particulars of the ownership, financial and physical conditions of projects under HAP Contract. The additional information requested on Form HUD&hyph;52662 regarding drug-related criminal activity and its impact on the project is considered non-confidential and customary under the program. 11. Provide additional justification for any questions of a sensitive nature, such as sexual behavior and attitudes, religious beliefs, and other matters that are commonly considered private. This justification should include the reasons why the agency considers the questions necessary, the specific uses to be made of the information, the explanation to be given to persons from whom the information is requested, and any steps to be taken to obtain their consent. There are no questions of this nature in the collection. 12. Provide estimates of annualized cost to the Federal Government and to the respondents. Also provide a description of the method use to estimate cost, which should include quantification of hours, operational expenses (such as equipment, overhead, printing, and support staff), and any other expense that would not have been incurred without the paperwork burden. An owner who chooses to use the form will spend approximately three (3) hours completing the form. Housing Agency review of the form will take approximately one (1) hour. HUD Field Office review of the form will take approximately one (1) hour. This process will take place no more than once a year for funding purposes; Fiscal Year 1994 is the first year such funding has occurred, and it is not know whether future fiscal years will provide another opportunity for owners to apply for these funds. 13. Provide estimates of the burden of the collection of information. The statement should: • Provide number of respondents, frequency of response, annual burden, and an explanation of how the burden was estimated. Unless directed to do so, agencies should not make special survey to obtain information on which to base burden estimates. Consultation with a few potential respondents is desirable. If the burden on respondents is expected to vary widely because of differences in activity, size, or complexity, show the range of estimated burden, and explain the reasons for the variance. • If the request for approval is for more than one form, provide burden estimates for each form for which approval is sought and summarize the burdens on the SF 83. • If the proposed collection of information was not included in the agency's Information Collection Budget (ICB) or if the burden show on the SF 83 is different from that in the ICB, explain the difference. Two hundred Moderate Rehabilitation owners are expected to apply for the special adjustment for security in Fiscal Year 1994. The annual ``burden'' will be once per year, if Congress provides appropriations after the current fiscal year. 14. Explain reasons for changes in burden, including the need for any increase. This is a new information collection requirement, since this is the first time Congress has appropriated funds for this purpose. 15. For collections of information whose results are planned to be published for statistical use, outline plans for tabulation, statistical analysis, and publication. Provide the time schedule for the entire project, including beginning and ending dates of the collection of information, completion of report, publication dates, and other actions.
