FR940428-1-00039 FR940428-1-00008 (7) This subpart does not compel immediate initiation of rangeland project decisions to issue or renew grazing permits. (d) Delineation of allotments. Where lands are suitable for grazing and livestock grazing is to be authorized, the authorized officer shall delineate allotments consistent with the forest plan and applicable rangeland project decisions. When approved by the affected landowner, lessee, or cooperating agency, allotments may include associated private and other public lands in order to form logical range management units for effective coordinated resource management. (1) Maps delineating allotments shall be on file at the office of the District Ranger. (2) The delineation of allotments is an administrative act and not a decision subject to further NEPA analysis or disclosure of environmental effects. Grazing Permits ยง222.4 General provisions applicable to all grazing permits. (a) Grazing authorization required. All livestock grazing use of National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control requires prior written authorization through a grazing permit issued by an authorized officer, except for certain temporary grazing as provided for in ยง222.6(c). (b) Nature of grazing permit. A grazing permit is a privilege authorizing the holder to use National Forest System lands or other lands under Forest Service control subject to the terms and conditions contained therein. Grazing permits do not convey any right, title, or interest in United States lands, resources, or permanent range improvements to the permittee. (c) NEPA compliance. Issuance of a permit implements a previous decision to authorize grazing and is not a decision point subject to NEPA procedures as provided for in ยง222.3(b)(3). (d) Terms and conditions. The authorized officer shall prescribe the terms and conditions of each grazing permit in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, and direction issued through the Forest Service Directive System (36 CFR 200.4). (1) The authorized officer shall include as terms and conditions of the grazing permit those applicable standards and guidelines in the forest plan and rangeland project decision. (2) A permittee may be required, as a condition of permit issuance, to collect and submit to the Forest Service monitoring, inventory, or other resource information related to the permitted livestock grazing activity. (e) Operating instructions. In addition to the terms and conditions of a permit, the authorized officer may issue written operating instructions to the permittee(s) to make annual, seasonal, or other temporary adjustments in the amount or duration of livestock grazing use authorized by a grazing permit. The authorized officer may also issue written instructions that temporarily adjust or tailor terms and conditions as necessary for proper management of the rangelands. As long as the operating instructions fall within the scope of the decision authorizing the grazing use and the NEPA documentation associated with that decision, this does not require a new decision and additional environmental analysis.
