FR940725-2-00101 FR940725-2-00063 Exchange rules applicable to options on the Index will be identical to the rules applicable to other broad-based index options for purposes of trading rotations, halts, and suspensions, 19 and margin treatment. 20 19 See CBOE Rule 24.7. 20 See CBOE Rule 24.11. G. Surveillance The Exchange will use the same surveillance procedures currently utilized for each of the Exchange's other index options to monitor trading in Index options and Index LEAPS. The Exchange currently is pursuing a market surveillance agreement with the TSE, which agreement the Exchange expects will enable it to better carry out its regulatory responsibilities with respect to the surveillance of trading in the stocks comprising the Index. 21 21 See infra Section III.C. III. Commission Findings and Conclusions The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 22 Specifically, the Commission finds that the trading of options based on the Nikkei 300 Index will serve to protect investors, promote the public interest, and help to remove impediments to a free and open securities market by providing investors with a means to hedge exposure to market risk associated with the Japanese equity market and provide a surrogate instrument for trading in the Japanese securities market. 23 The trading of options based on the Nikkei 300 Index should provide investors with a valuable hedging vehicle that should reflect accurately the overall movement of the Japanese equity market. 22 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). 23 Pursuant to Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, the Commission must predicate approval of any new securities product upon a finding that the introduction of such product is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult with respect to an option that served no hedging or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants likely would be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns. In addition, the Commission believes, for the reasons discussed below, that the CBOE has adequately addressed issues related to customer protection, index design, surveillance, and market impact of Nikkei 300 Index options. A. Index Design and Structure The Commission finds that it is appropriate and consistent with the Act to classify the Index as a broad-based index. Specifically, the Commission believes the Index is broad-based because it reflects a substantial segment of the Japanese equity market, and, among other things, it contains a large number of stocks that trade in that market. First, the Index consists of 300 actively-traded stocks traded on the first section of the TSE. Second, the market capitalizations of the stocks comprising the Index are very large. Specifically, the total capitalization of the Index, as of March 31, 1994, was US$2.25 trillion, with the market capitalization of the individual stocks in the Index ranging from a high of US$76.5 billion to a low of US$875 million, with a median value of US$3.3 billion and a mean of US$7.5 million. Third, no one particular stock or group of stocks dominates the Index. Specifically, no single stock comprises more than 3.41 percent of the Index's total value, and the percentage weighting of the five largest issues in the Index accounts for 15.14 percent of the Index's value. Accordingly, the Commission believes it is appropriate to classify the Index as broad-based. In addition, because none of the Index component stocks are traded in the United States in any form, and the primary market for component stocks is closed throughout the CBOE's trading day, the Commission believes it is not unreasonable for the Exchange to decide to begin trading Index options at 8:00 a.m. (Chicago time). B. Customer Protection The Commission believes that a regulatory system designed to protect public customers must be in place before the trading of sophisticated financial instruments, such as Nikkei 300 Index options (including full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS), can commence on a national securities exchange. The Commission notes that the trading of standardized, exchange-traded options occurs in an environment that is designed to ensure, among other things, that (1) The special risks of options are disclosed to public customers; (2) only investors capable of evaluating and bearing the risks of options trading are engaged in such trading; and (3) special compliance procedures are applicable to options accounts. Accordingly, because the Index options and Index LEAPS will be subject to the same regulatory regime as the other standardized options currently traded on the CBOE, the Commission believes that adequate safeguards are in place to ensure the protection of investors in Nikkei 300 Index options and full-value and reduced-value Nikkei 300 Index LEAPS.
