FR940720-0-00124 FR940720-0-00010 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB88 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Final Rule To List the Rio Grande Silvery Minnow as an Endangered Species AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines the Rio Grande silvery minnow ( Hybognathus amarus ) to be an endangered species under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended. This fish occurs only in the middle Rio Grande from Cochiti Dam downstream to the headwaters of Elephant Butte Reservoir, New Mexico. Threats to the species include dewatering, channelization and regulation of river flow to provide water for irrigation; diminished water quality caused by municipal, industrial, and agricultural discharges; and competition or predation by introduced non-native fish species. Currently, the species occupies about five percent of its known historic range. This action will implement Federal protection provided by the Act for the Rio Grande silvery minnow. The Service further determines that finalization of proposed critical habitat will not occur at this time, as critical habitat is not now determinable because the required economic analysis has not been completed. Pursuant to section 4(b)(6)(C)(ii) of the Act, a final determination on critical habitat may be delayed up to 1 year beyond the normal deadline. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this rule is available for inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, New Mexico Ecological Services State Office, 3530 Pan American Highway NE., Suite D, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87107. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jennifer Fowler-Propst, State Supervisor, at the above address (505/883&hyph;7877). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Rio Grande silvery minnow is one of seven species in the genus Hybognathus found in the United States (Pflieger 1980). The species was first described by Girard (1856) from specimens taken from the Rio Grande near Fort Brown, Cameron County, Texas. It is a stout silvery minnow with moderately small eyes and a small, slightly oblique mouth (Pflieger 1975). Adults may reach 90 mm (3.5 in) in total length (Sublette et al. 1990). Its dorsal fin is distinctly pointed with the front located slightly closer to the tip of the snout than to the base of the tail (Pflieger 1975). Life color is silver with emerald reflections. Its belly is silvery white, fins are plain, and barbels are absent (Pflieger 1975, Sublette et al. 1990). This species was historically one of the most abundant and widespread fishes in the Rio Grande basin, occurring from Espanola, New Mexico, to the Gulf of Mexico (Bestgen and Platania 1991). It was also found in the Pecos River, a major tributary of the Rio Grande, from Santa Rosa, New Mexico, downstream to its confluence with the Rio Grande in south Texas (Pflieger 1980). Collection data indicate the species presently occupies about five percent of its historic range (Platania 1993). It has been completely extirpated from the Pecos River and from the Rio Grande downstream of Elephant Butte Reservoir. Currently, it is found only in a 275 km (170 mi) reach of the middle Rio Grande, New Mexico, from Cochiti Dam, Sandoval County, to the headwaters of Elephant Butte Reservoir, Socorro County (Bestgen and Platania 1991). Throughout much of its historic range, decline of H. amarus may be attributed to modification of stream discharge patterns and channel desiccation by impoundments, water diversion for agriculture, and stream channelization (Bestgen and Platania 1991, Cook et al. 1992). The Rio Grande silvery minnow no longer exists in the Pecos River where it was replaced by a congener, the introduced plains minnow ( H. placitus ) (Hatch et al. 1985, Bestgen et al. 1989, Cook et al. 1992). It is believed that the plains minnow was introduced into the Pecos drainage during 1968, probably the result of the release of ``bait minnows'' that were collected from the Arkansas River drainage. The replacement that ensued was complete in less than one decade (Cowley 1979). The plains minnow may be more tolerant of modified habitats and therefore able to replace H. amarus in the modified reaches of the Pecos River where it was introduced. It is also believed the two species hybridized (Cook et al. 1992). Habitat alteration and resulting flow modification could have also contributed to extirpation of the Rio Grande silvery minnow in the Pecos River. Decline of the species in the Rio Grande probably began in 1916 when the gates at Elephant Butte Dam were closed. Elephant Butte was the first of five major mainstream dams constructed within the Rio Grande silvery minnow's habitat (Shupe and Williams 1988). These dams allowed the flow of the river to be manipulated and diverted for the benefit of agriculture. Often this manipulation resulted in the desiccation of some river reaches and elimination of all fish. Concurrent with construction of the mainstream dams was an increase in the abundance of non-native and exotic fish species, as these species were stocked into the reservoirs created by the dams (Sublette et al. 1990). Once established, these species often completely replaced the native fish fauna (Propst et al. 1987). Development of agriculture and the growth of cities within the historic range of H. amarus resulted in a decrease in the quality of water in the river that may have adversely affected the range and distribution of the species.
