FR941019-2-00180 FR941019-2-00095 [Release No. 34&hyph;34834; File No. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;94&hyph;12] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Relating to Entering Into Contracts With Participants To Provide Transactional Processing Services on Behalf of Participants October 13, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 11, 1994, the Midwest Clearing Corporation (``MCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Item has been prepared primarily by MCC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). I. Self-Regulatory Organizations Statement of the Terms and Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to permit MCC to enter into contracts to provide transactional processing and related data-entry services with respect to certificated securities which are not depository eligible on behalf of participants. II. Self-Regulatory Organizations Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, MCC included statements concerning the purpose of, and basis for, the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MCC has prepared summaries, set forth in section (A), (B) and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Purposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed change is to permit MCC to enter into contracts with any of its participants whereby MCC will provide transactional processing and data-entry services for a participant with respect to the participant's certificated securities which are not depository eligible. MCC shall not be obligated to enter into such contracts with any participant, and if it chooses to enter into such a contract, it shall not be obligated to do so on similar terms available to any other participant. The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 17A of the Act in that it is designed to promote the accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The MCC does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received.
