FR940516-2-00008 FR940516-2-00003 Eastside Forest Restoration Project, Tahoe National Forest, Sierra County, CA AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice; intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for proposed timber harvest, plantation thinning, fire hazard reduction, watershed restoration, and wildlife habitat improvement projects for areas in the Feather River Watershed and Truckee River Watershed. The project area is located within portions of T.19N., R.14, 15, 16, & 17E., T.20N., R.14, 15, 16, & 17E., and T.21N., R.15, 16, and 17E., MDB&M. The agency invites comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis. In addition, the agency gives notice of the full environmental analysis and decision-making process that will occur on the proposal so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments should be made in writing and received by June 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments concerning the project should be directed to Steve Bishop, District Ranger, Sierraville Ranger District, P.O. Box 95, Sierraville, CA 96126. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Steve Bishop, District Ranger, or Barbara Bonefeld, Public Services Director, Sierraville Ranger District, Sierraville, CA 96126, telephone (916) 994&hyph;3401. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Eastside Analysis Area is about 85,000 acres in size. Most of the area is in the Feather River Watershed, with a small portion in the Truckee River Watershed. It is located two miles south of Sierraville, southwest to Webber Lake, east to the crest of the Bald Mountain Range, and north to approximately 4 miles south of Loyalton. The area is dominated by eastside pine stands with catastrophic insect-induced mortality resulting from several years of severe drought. The extensive mortality and overstocked timber stands have resulted in poor forest health and an extreme fire hazard. There are opportunities to treat these stands in order to improve forest health and reduce the fire hazard, while concurrently accomplishing watershed restoration and wildlife habitat improvement goals. In preparing the environmental impact statement, the Forest Service will identify and analyze a range of alternatives that address the issues developed for this area. One of the alternatives will be no treatment. Other alternatives will consider differing levels of implementation of California spotted owl standards and guidelines, salvage and sanitation treatments, group selection harvests, plantation thinning, thinnings from below, fuelbreak construction, plantation protection from fire, watershed restoration, road obliteration, wildlife habitat improvement, and new road construction and reconstruction. An ecological approach will be used to achieve multiple-use management of the Eastside area. It also means that the needs of people and environmental values will be blended in such a way that this area would represent a diverse, healthy, productive, and sustainable ecosystems. Public participation will be important during the analysis, especially during the review of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement. The Forest Service is seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. This input will be used in preparation of the draft environmental impact statement (DEIS). The scoping process includes: 1. Identifying potential issues. 2. Identifying issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminating insignificant issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis. 4. Exploring additional alternatives. 5. Identifying potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects and connected actions). 6. Determining potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. The following list of issues has been identified through initial scoping: (1) To what extent will future options for the management of California spotted owls be maintained?
