FR940513-1-00082 FR940513-1-00017 Emissions from ballasting operations would be prohibited. G. Selection of Test Methods The proposed standards require the use of approved test methods to ensure consistent and verifiable results for initial performance tests and compliance demonstrations. Different test methods are specified for combustion and recovery devices. For combustion devices, Method 25 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A (Method 25) has been specified. Method 25 is appropriate for measuring the VOC destruction efficiency of combustion devices whose output is greater than 50 ppmv. Given the large inlet concentrations associated with marine loadings, outlet concentrations of less than 50 ppmv are not expected. For recovery devices, (Method 25A) of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A (Method 25A) has been specified. The (Method 25A) is appropriate for measuring the VOC removal efficiency of a nondestructive control device. Method 25A may be used for testing both removal efficiency and outlet concentration. Because emissions and control efficiency also vary during the loading cycle, the EPA has determined that performance tests should be conducted to include the loading of the last 20 percent of a compartment, and may be spread out over multiple compartments. Data show that the greatest emissions occur during the last 20 percent of loading of a tank or compartment. The EPA believes that the control equipment should be designed to handle the peak loading emissions, which occur during this period. The proposed standards also allow the use of any test method or test results validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A to allow owners or operators greater flexibility in testing. Under today's proposed standards, owners or operators not having documentation of vessel vapor tightness would be required to test the vapor tightness of vessels using a pressure test provided in the regulation, or a leak test provided in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Methods are also provided for owners or operators loading under negative pressure. These test methods were first proposed for owners or operators of benzene transfer operations on September 14, 1989 (54 FR 38083) and were promulgated on March 7, 1990 (55 FR 8292). In the proposal of the benzene transfer operations NESHAP, comments were specifically requested regarding the suitability of these methods for these sources. Based on the comments received on these methods and the Agency's knowledge of the use of these methods under the benzene transfer NESHAP, the Agency is confident that these methods are suitable for determining vapor tightness for today's proposed regulation. Regarding the emission estimation procedures to be followed in determining compliance with the proposed standards, the Agency is proposing that facilities use either actual test data or AP&hyph;42 emissions factors to identify emissions from the various commodities and streams loaded. The Agency is requesting comment on this approach for estimating emissions. H. Selection of Monitoring and Compliance and Performance Testing Requirements The proposed standards list parameters to be monitored for the purpose of determining compliance. Monitoring requirements are proposed for both the vapor collection system and control devices. The vapor collection system monitoring requirements ensure that vent streams will not be diverted from the control device through the use of flow indicators or routine inspection of secured by-pass lines. While many forms of monitoring may qualify as enhanced monitoring, enhanced monitoring for tank vessel loading vapor control systems will generally be limited to a continuous control device parameter monitoring system, a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS), portable monitors, or a combination thereof. The monitoring criterion for carbon adsorption is a CEMS for VOC concentration at the exhaust to atmosphere. The compliance condition will be no exceedance of the average concentration demonstrated during the facility's last compliance test. This monitoring criteria does not correspond precisely to the 95 percent reduction requirement, however it will be less costly to install and maintain than a system monitoring inlet and outlet and calculating removal efficiency. The monitoring parameter for combustion devices, except flares, is combustion temperature. Combustion temperature is a strong indicator of performance. The temperature to be maintained will be determined from the facility's compliance test. For compliance purposes, temperature variation is limited to # 5.6 ○C ( # 10 ○F) compared to the average temperature during the most recent compliance test. The monitoring parameter for condensers is the exhaust stream temperature. Exhaust temperature directly correlates to exhaust concentration and is easier to monitor than outlet concentration. Coolant temperature was not chosen because it provides no guarantee of heat transfer efficiency or control efficiency. As with combustion devices, temperature deviations from the operating parameters established during the most recent compliance test are limited to # 5.6 ○C ( # 10 ○F). The monitoring requirements for flares are established in 40 CFR 60.18, which requires the owner or operator to monitor for the presence of a flame at all times. The monitoring parameters for absorbers are the temperature and specific gravity of the scrubbing liquid. Deviations from the operating parameters established during the most recent compliance test are limited to 11 ○C (20 ○F) above the baseline scrubbing liquid temperature and # 0.1 unit from the baseline scrubbing liquid specific gravity respectively. Finally, in order to not prohibit the use of other control devices or new technology, a facility not using a control device for which enhanced monitoring criteria have been included may develop its own monitoring criteria and submit them to the Administrator for approval. The Agency is also proposing alternative means of monitoring compliance with the standards at terminals using recovery devices for control of gasoline vapor emissions. These terminals would monitor the outlet concentration of VOC from the recovery device. Compliance with the standards is indicated provided that the VOC concentration is 1,000 ppmv or less. The EPA believes the 1,000 ppmv limit for gasoline vapor is generally more strict than the 95-percent control device efficiency requirement. Data from an existing facility show this limit to be achievable (Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, item II&hyph;B&hyph;13). The intent of the concentration alternative is to allow those facilities that operate at a higher efficiency than required by the proposed standard to perform a simpler compliance test, as they would only have to test at the outlet of the control device. The EPA does not have sufficient data to determine a ppmv emission limit for controlling VOC vapors from crude oil emissions. Nor does the EPA have sufficient data to determine a ppmv emission limit for controlling HAP vapors from crude oil emissions or other commodities. The EPA is soliciting data and comments regarding a ppmv limit for controlling non-gasoline VOC and HAP emissions and whether carbon adsorption would be used to control emissions from crude oil and other commodities.
