FR940602-2-00185 FR940602-2-00094 b. If the project analysis results in a decision that the lot shall be converted to an alternative public use, the holder shall be notified in writing and given at least 10 years continued occupancy. The holder shall be given a copy of the project analysis, environmental documentation, and decision document. c. A decision resulting from a project analysis shall be reviewed two years prior to permit expiration, when that decision and supporting environmental documentation is more than 5 years old. If this review indicates that the conditions resulting in the decision are unchanged, then the decision may be implemented. If this review indicates that conditions have changed, a new project analysis shall be made to determine the proper action. B. In issuing a new permit, the authorized officer shall include terms, conditions, and special stipulations that reflect new requirements imposed by current Federal and State land use plans, laws, regulations, or other management decisions. (36 CFR 251.64) C. If the 10-year continued occupancy given a holder who receives notification that a new permit will not be issued would extend beyond the expiration date of the current permit, a new term permit shall be issued for the remaining portion of the 10-year period. X. Rights and Responsibilities Upon Revocation or Notification That a New Permit Will Not Be Issued Following Termination of This Permit A. Removal of Improvements Upon Revocation or Notification That A New Permit Will Not Be Issued Following Termination Of This Permit: At the end of the term of occupancy authorized by this permit, or upon abandonment, or revocation for cause, Act of God, catastrophic event, or in the public interest, the holder shall remove within a reasonable time all structures and improvements except those owned by the United States, and shall return the lot to a condition approved by the authorized officer unless otherwise agreed to in writing or in this permit. If the holder fails to remove all such structures or improvements within a reasonable period_not to exceed one hundred and eighty (180) days from the date the authorization of occupancy is ended_the improvements shall become the property of the United States, but in such event, the holder remains obligated and liable for the cost of their removal and the restoration of the lot. B. In case of revocation or notification that a new permit will not be issued following termination of this permit, except if revocation is for cause, the authorized officer may offer an in-lieu lot to the permit holder for building or relocation of improvements. Such lots will be nonconflicting locations within the National Forest containing the residence being terminated or under notification that a new permit will not be issued or at nonconflicting locations in adjacent National Forests. Any in-lieu lot offered the holder must be accepted within 90 days of the offer or within 90 days of the final disposition of an appeal on the revocation or notification that a new permit will not be issued under the Secretary of Agriculture's administrative appeal regulations, whichever is later, or this opportunity will terminate. XI. Miscellaneous Provisions A. This permit replaces a special use permit issued to: * XXXXXXXXXX (Holder Name) on * XXXXX (Date), 19* XX . B. The Forest Service reserves the right to enter upon the property to inspect for compliance with the terms of this permit. Reports on inspection for compliance will be furnished to the holder. C. Issuance of this permit shall not be construed as an admission by the Government as to the title to any improvements. The Government disclaims any liability for the issuance of any permit in the event of disputed title. D. If there is a conflict between the foregoing standard printed clauses and any special clauses added to the permit, the standard printed clauses shall control. Note: Additional provisions may be added by the authorized officer to reflect local conditions. Public reporting burden for this collection of information, if requested, is estimated to average 1 hour per response for annual financial information; average 1 hour per response to prepare or update operation and/or maintenance plan; average 1 hour per response for inspection reports; and an average of 1 hour for each request that may include such things as reports, logs, facility and user information, sublease information, and other similar miscellaneous information requests. This includes the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Department of Agriculture, Clearance Officer, OIRM, room 404&hyph;W, Washington, DC 20250; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (OMB # 0596&hyph;0082), Washington, DC 20503. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13323 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
