FR940603-1-00113 FR940603-1-00009 (2) The Bidder will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the Bidder, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex or national origin. (3) The Bidder will send to each labor union or representative of workers, with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice to be provided advising the said labor union or worker's representative of the Bidder's commitments under this section, and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment. (4) The Bidder will comply with all provisions of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor. (5) The Bidder will furnish all information and reports required by Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and by rules, regulations, and orders of the Secretary of Labor, or pursuant thereto, and will permit access to its books, records and accounts by the administering agency and the Secretary of Labor for purposes of investigation to ascertain compliance with such rules, regulations, and orders. (6) In the event of the Bidder's noncompliance with the Equal Opportunity Clause of this Contract or with any of the said rules, regulations, or orders, this Contract may be cancelled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part, and the Bidder may be declared ineligible for further Government contracts or federally assisted construction contracts in accordance with procedures authorized in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and such other sanctions may be imposed and remedies invoked as provided in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, or by rule, regulations, or order of the Secretary of Labor, or as provided by law. (7) The Bidder will include this Equal Opportunity Clause in every subcontract or purchase order unless exempted by the rules, regulations, or order of the Secretary of Labor issued pursuant to Section 204 of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, so that such provisions will be binding upon each subcontract or vendor. The Bidder will take such action with respect to any subcontract or purchase order as the administering agency may direct as a means of enforcing such provisions, including sanctions for noncompliance. Provided, however, that in the event Bidder becomes involved in, or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor as a result of such direction by the administering agency, the Bidder may request the United States to enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United States. (c) Certificate of Nonsegregated Facilities. The Bidder certifies that it does not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Bidder agrees that a breach of this certification is a violation of the Equal Opportunity Clause in this Contract. As use in this certification, the term ``segregated facilities'' means any waiting rooms, work areas, restrooms and washrooms, restaurants and other eating areas, timeclocks, locker rooms, and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees which are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion, or national origin, because of habit, local custom, or otherwise. The Bidder agrees that (except where it has obtained identical certifications from proposed subcontractors for specific time periods) it will obtain identical certifications from proposed subcontractors prior to the award of subcontracts exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity Clause, and that it will retain such certifications in its files. Section 6. License: The Bidder warrants that a Contractor's License is XX , is not XX , required, and if required, it possesses Contractor's License No. XXXX for the State of XXXX in which the Project is located, and said license expires on XXXX , 19 XX . Section 7. Extension to Successors and Assigns: Each and all of the covenants and agreements contained in the contract effected by the Acceptance of this Proposal shall extend to and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties thereto. Section 8. Description of Contract: The Notice and Instructions to Bidders, the Proposal, the Acceptance, the Contractor's Bond or Builder's Risk Policy, the Plans and Specifications and all amendments or revisions thereto constitute the Construction Contract. Section 9. Contractor: Upon acceptance of this Proposal the successful Bidder shall be the Contractor and all references in the Proposal to the Bidder shall apply to the Contractor. Section 10. Approval by the Administrator: No acceptance of a Proposal for a contract upon which approval of the Administrator is required shall become effective until the contract has been approved by the Administrator; provided that no obligation shall arise hereunder unless such approval is given within sixty (60) days after the date set for the opening of the proposals. The acceptance of a Proposal for a contract upon which approval of the Administrator is not required shall become effective the date of acceptance by the Owner. XXXX Bidder By XXXX President XXXX Address Attest: XXXX Secretary Date XXXX The Proposal must be signed with the full name of the Bidder. If the Bidder is a partnership, the Proposal must be signed in partnership name by a partner. If the Bidder is a corporation, the Proposal must be signed in the corporate name by a duly authorized officer and the corporate seal affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Corporation. Acceptance Subject to the approval of the Administrator, if approval of the Administrator is required, the Owner hereby accepts the Proposal of XXXX for the construction of the Project therein described for the: Base Bid of XXXX and alternate bids as follows (Show plus or minus): Alternate bid No. XXXX , $ XXXX . Alternate bid No. XXXX , $ XXXX . Alternate bid No. XXXX , $ XXXX .
