FR940803-1-00072 FR940803-1-00014 These species have been rendered vulnerable to extinction by significant loss of habitat and severe range restriction. The restricted distribution of these seven species also makes localized populations susceptible to catastrophic events and increased pressures from take. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, and implementing regulations (50 CFR 424.12) require that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary designate critical habitat at the time the species is determined to be endangered or threatened. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not prudent for these species. Service regulations (50 CFR 424.12(a)(1)) state that designation of critical habitat is not prudent when one or both of the following situations exist_(1) The species is threatened by taking or other human activity, and identification of critical habitat can be expected to increase the degree of threat to the species, or (2) such designation of critical habitat would not be beneficial to the species. Such a determination would result in no known benefit to these species, and designation of critical habitat could further increase the threat of collecting or vandalism. Regulations promulgated for implementing section 7 provide for both a jeopardy standard, based on listing alone, and for a destruction or adverse modification standard, in cases where critical habitat has been designated. The fat three-ridge, shiny-rayed pocketbook, Gulf moccasinshell, Ochlockonee moccasinshell, oval pigtoe, Chipola slabshell, and purple bankclimber occupy very restricted stream reaches. Any significant adverse modification or destruction of their habitat would likely jeopardize their continued existence. Therefore, no additional protection for the species would accrue from critical habitat designation that would not also accrue from listing these species. If these are listed, the Service believes that protection of their habitat can be accomplished through the section 7 jeopardy standard, and through section 9 prohibitions against take. The publication of critical habitat maps in the Federal Register and local newspapers and other publicity accompanying critical habitat designation could increase the harvest or collection threat and also increase the potential for vandalism during the critical habitat designation process. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain practices. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against taking and harm are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(4) requires Federal agencies to confer informally with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a proposed species or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a species is listed subsequently, section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. Federal involvement is expected to include the EPA through the Clean Water Act's provisions for pesticide registration and waste management actions. The Corps of Engineers will consider these species in project planning and operation, and during the permit review process. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission will consider these species prior to the relicensing of hydropower dams. The Federal Highway Administration will consider impacts of federally funded bridge and road construction projects when known habitat may be impacted. Continuing development within the Apalachicolan Region may involve the Farmers Home Administration and their loan programs. The Soil Conservation Service will consider the species during project planning and under their farmer's assistance programs. The Forest Service will consider downstream impacts to habitat of the fat three-ridge and purple bankclimber when planning or implementing silvicultural, recreational, or other programs in lands adjacent the lower mainstem of the Apalachicola River, and to habitat of the purple bankclimber when planning or implementing these activities in lands adjacent the lower mainstem of the Ochlockonee River, both drainages are in the Apalachicola National Forest.
