FR941110-0-00102 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Numerous commenters were strongly opposed to allowing oral requests for information. Some say that this is clearly inconsistent with past practice which has generally been that requests be in writing. This claim is further substantiated by the Freedom of Information Act which provides that all agencies generally stipulate that requests for information be in writing. Some commenters say that only written requests can substantiate specific charges and fees, while others, specifically States, use the written requests as a record of the distribution of information which is used for workload and expenditure reporting, as well as for other administrative purposes. Response: Since publishing the proposed rule, we have concluded that it is not necessary to create a facility-specific requirement relative to the method by which requests for survey information should be made, and we are revising §488.325(c) to provide that such requests are to be made in accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services' regulations relative to disclosure at 45 CFR Part 5, in other words, generally in writing. Comment: Many commenters suggested that paragraph (d)(3) be expanded to include providers' responses in order to be consistent with §488.325(a)(1) as well as to ensure full disclosure of all affected parties. Response: With the exception of those isolated deficiencies that HCFA or the State determines constitute no actual harm with potential for minimal harm, which are recorded on a separate form and which can be refuted by providers during the dispute resolution process, any provider response to the deficiency statement itself would be noted on the plan of correction (both of which are explicitly releasable under the Freedom of Information Act), we are making explicit in §488.325(d) that provider responses to the deficiency statements are disclosable. Comment: Some commenters believed that States and facilities should be required to provide information immediately, especially when State law or policy provides immediate access. Commenters also wanted to know whose disclosure provisions apply (HCFA's or the State's) when there is a difference about what is releasable and when. A few commenters asked us to specify whether the 10 days referred to in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) are calendar or working days. Response: As we have stated above, we have no basis to require facilities to disclose any information other than that which is statutorily mandated. OBRA '90 provided that each State and the Secretary (HCFA), must make available to the public information concerning all surveys and certifications of NFs and SNFs, including statements of deficiencies, and approved plans of correction, within 14 calendar days after such information is made available to those facilities. For procedures relative to release of information not included in the OBRA '90 provision, HCFA or the State should defer to §401.136 or State procedures, respectively. Also, we note that §488.325(d) implements sections 4008(h)(2)(M) and 4801(e)(14) of OBRA '90, which require release of information by HCFA and the States, respectively, not by providers. Since paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of the proposed rule offered no additional guidance to HCFA or the States beyond what is currently at §401.136 or in State procedures, respectively, we are deleting them. However, we are clarifying the 10-day timeframe at §401.136 as ``working'' days. The question of whose regulations prevail when disclosure requirements differ between HCFA and the State should not arise since the State and Federal disclosure systems operate separately from one another. It is possible that the same document could be releasable under a State's disclosure laws yet not be releasable under Federal law, or vice versa. It is also possible that a disclosable document may be released by HCFA and the State subject to different disclosure timeframes. In other words, documents maintained by Federal agencies are subject to Federal regulations; those maintained by the State are subject to the State's regulations.
