FR940128-2-00125 FR940128-2-00087 Runaway and Homeless Youth Program Proposed Priorities for Fiscal Year 1994 AGENCY: Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF), Administration for Children and Families (ACF), HHS. ACTION: Notice of proposed fiscal year 1994 runaway and homeless youth program priorities for the administration for children and families. SUMMARY: The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act requires the Secretary to publish annually, for public comment, a proposed plan specifying priorities the Department will follow in awarding grants and contracts under the Act. The final priorities selected will take into consideration the comments an recommendations received from the public in response to this notice. The public, particularly those knowledgeable about and experienced in providing services to runaway and homeless youth, are urged to respond. The actual solicitations for grant applications will be published at later dates in the Federal Register . No proposals, concept papers or other forms of application should be submitted at this time. DATES: To be considered, comments must be received no later than March 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please address comments to: Olivia A. Golden, Commissioner, Administration on Children, Youth and Families. Attention: Family and Youth Services Bureau, P.O. Box 1182, Washington, DC 20013. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Organization, Mission and Goals of the Family and Youth Services Bureau The Family and Youth Services Bureau (FYSB) is a component of the Administration on Children, Youth and Families (ACYF) in the Administration for Children and Families (ACF). The Bureau administers five Federal programs dealing with children, youth and families: (1) The Runaway and Homeless Youth (Basic Center) Program (RHYP), (2) The Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth (TLP), (3) The Drug Abuse Prevention Program for Runaway and Homeless Youth (DAPP), (4) The Youth Gang Drug Prevention Program (YGDPP), and (5) The Family Resource and Support Program (FRSP). The mission of FYSB is to provide national leadership on youth issues and to empower individuals and organizations to provide effective, comprehensive services for at-risk youth and their families, ensuring the safety and maximizing the stability and long-term self-sufficiency of the youth. Two of the FYSB programs listed above, the Runaway and Homeless Youth (Basic Center) Program and the Transitional Living Program for Homeless Youth, are authorized under the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (Title III of the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974, as amended, hereinafter cited as ``the Act'') and are the subject of the priorities proposed in this notice. The Act specifically authorizes the Secretary to make grants to entities that establish and operate local runaway and homeless youth centers (Basic Centers) to address the immediate needs of at-risk youth. Currently, 348 such projects are being funded. The Act also authorizes activities that support the local centers, and that increase knowledge about the conditions of runaway and homeless youth and their families.
