FR940525-1-00014 FR940525-1-00007 In July 1992, after receiving preliminary recommendations from an interagency staff working group, the FFIEC directed the staff to carry out a study of the likely impact of those recommendations on banking organizations and thrifts, financial markets and other affected parties. As part of that study, the staff held a series of meetings with representatives from thirteen organizations active in the securitization and credit enhancement markets. Summaries of the information provided to the staff and a copy of the staff's letter sent to participants prior to the meetings are in the FFIEC's public file on recourse arrangements and are available for public inspection and photocopying. Additional material provided to the Agencies from financial institutions and others since these meetings has also been placed in the FFIEC's public file. The FFIEC's offices are located at 2100 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., suite 200, Washington, DC 20037. For public convenience, the Agencies have also placed copies of all of the above material in the FRB's public file, located at 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20551, room B&hyph;1122. D. Current Risk-Based Capital Treatments of Recourse and Direct Credit Substitutes Currently, the Agencies' risk-based capital standards apply different treatments to recourse arrangements and direct credit substitutes. As a result, capital requirements applicable to credit enhancements do not consistently reflect credit risk. The Banking Agencies' current rules are also not consistent with those of the OTS. 1. Recourse a. Banking agencies. The Banking Agencies' risk-based capital guidelines prescribe a single treatment for assets transferred with recourse whether the transaction is reported as a financing or a sale of assets in a bank's Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report). In either case, risk-based capital is held against the full, risk-weighted amount of the transferred assets, regardless of the amount of recourse that is provided. 4 4 The Banking Agencies provide a limited exception to this treatment for sales of mortgage loan pools where the bank or bank holding company retains only minimal risk and meets certain other conditions. Assets transferred with any amount of recourse in transactions reported as financings remain on the balance sheet and continue to be subject to the full risk-based capital charge (based on their risk-weight). Assets transferred with recourse in transactions that are reported as sales create off-balance sheet exposures. The entire outstanding amount of the assets sold (not just the amount of the recourse) is converted into an on-balance sheet credit equivalent amount using a 100% credit conversion factor. This capital treatment differs from the accounting treatment for recourse arrangements under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and is intended to ensure that banking organizations that transfer assets and retain the credit risk inherent in the assets maintain adequate capital to support that risk. As is explained below, the Banking Agencies believe that the GAAP accounting treatment would not provide sufficient capital to support recourse arrangements. b. OTS . OTS follows GAAP in according sales treatment to sales with recourse for reporting purposes and for calculating the leverage ratios of thrifts. Under the OTS risk-based capital regulation, thrifts must also hold capital against the full value of assets transferred with recourse in computing their risk-based capital requirements, unless the capital charge would exceed the contractual maximum amount of the recourse provided. If the capital charge would exceed the amount of the recourse, then the thrift is only required to hold dollar-for-dollar capital against the contractual maximum amount of the recourse (the low-level recourse rule). (Footnote 17 below addresses the treatment of recourse liability accounts.) 2. Direct Credit Substitutes a. Banking agencies. Direct credit substitutes are treated differently from recourse under the current risk-based capital standards. Under the Banking Agencies' guidelines, off-balance sheet direct credit substitutes, such as financial standby letters of credit provided for third-party assets, carry a 100% credit conversion factor. However, only the dollar amount of the direct credit substitute is converted into an on-balance sheet credit equivalent so that capital is held only against the face amount of the direct credit substitute. The capital requirement for a recourse arrangement, in contrast, is based on the full amount of the assets enhanced. If a direct credit substitute covers less than 100% of the losses on the assets enhanced, the current capital treatment results in a lower capital charge for a direct credit substitute than for a comparable recourse arrangement. For example, if a direct credit substitute covers losses up to 20% of the amount of the assets enhanced, then the on-balance sheet credit equivalent amount equals that 20% amount. Risk-based capital is held against only the 20% amount. In contrast, required capital for a 20% recourse arrangement is higher because capital is held against the full outstanding amount of the assets enhanced. 5 5 If the direct credit substitute covers 100% of losses on the assets enhanced, then the current capital treatment results in the same capital charge for a direct credit substitute as for an asset sold with recourse. The direct credit substitute is converted into an on-balance sheet credit equivalent equal to 100% of the assets enhanced and capital is required against that amount. Under the Agencies' proposal, the definition of direct credit substitute would also be expanded to include some items that are already partially reflected on the balance sheet, such as purchased subordinated interests. Currently, under the Banking Agencies' guidelines, these interests receive the same capital treatment as off-balance sheet direct credit substitutes. Purchased subordinated interests are placed in the appropriate risk-weight category and then added to the banking organization's risk-weighted assets. In contrast, if a banking organization retains a subordinated interest in connection with the transfer of its own assets, this is considered recourse. The institution must hold capital against the carrying amount of the subordinated interest as well as the outstanding amount of all senior interests that it supports. b. OTS. The OTS risk-based capital regulation treats some forms of direct credit substitutes ( e.g. , financial standby letters of credit) the same as the Banking Agencies' guidelines. However, unlike the Banking Agencies, the OTS treats purchased subordinated interests under its general recourse provisions (except for certain high quality subordinated mortgage-related securities). The risk-based capital requirement is based on the carrying amount of the subordinated interest plus all senior interests, as though the thrift owned the full outstanding amount of the assets enhanced. 3. Problems With Existing Risk-Based Capital Treatments of Recourse Arrangements and Direct Credit Substitutes The Agencies are proposing changes to the risk-based capital standards to address the following major concerns with the current treatments of recourse and direct credit substitutes: •Different amounts of capital can be required for recourse arrangements and direct credit substitutes that expose a banking organization or thrift to equivalent risk of loss. •The standards generally do not reduce the capital requirement for banking organizations that reduce their risk by transferring assets with low levels of recourse. •The capital assessment rate does not recognize the difference in risk of loss between recourse or direct credit substitutes that absorb first losses and recourse or direct credit substitutes that absorb second losses from the underlying assets. •The current standards do not provide uniform definitions of recourse, direct credit substitute, and associated terms. E. GAAP Treatment of Recourse Arrangements
