FR940921-0-00047 FR940921-0-00016 For the reasons just mentioned EPA is finalizing a two-fold approach to refueling emissions for LPG vehicles. First, today's rule includes a requirement that LPG refueling nozzles have no more than 2.0 cm 3 dead space, as measured from the face of the nozzle which seals against the vehicle receptacle ``O'' ring. Second, a refueling standard and SHED-based test consistent with the recently promulgated ORVR requirement is being adopted for LPG-fueled light duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. The vehicle standard, adjusted for the difference in energy density between gasoline and LPG, is 0.15 grams per dispensed gallon of fuel. This approach will ensure that the LPG vehicles will have refueling emissions similar to those of other vehicles meeting the ORVR standards. A certification testing waiver will be available for all classes of LPG vehicles to which this standard applies if the manufacturer can demonstrate, through the use of development or other data, that the vehicle will meet the standard. For a complete discussion of how the 2.0 cm 3 standard for LPG vehicle refueling nozzles was derived please consult the summary and analysis of comments document for this rule. This standard for LPG vehicles will apply to the same classes and model years as the ORVR rule (i.e., three year phase-in beginning with the 1998 model year for light-duty vehicles and the 2001 model year for light-duty trucks). The requirement for the refueling nozzles will take effect January 1, 1998 for high volume stations, with a two year extension until January 1, 2000 for small volume stations (those which dispense less than the energy equivalent of 10,000 gallons of gasoline per month). The Agency believes that this amount of leadtime for refueling stations will allow for the replacement or retrofit of LPG nozzles during the normal course of replacement or repair of in-use nozzles due to wear. 3. LPG Tank Venting Summary of the proposal: Fuel tanks for LPG vehicles currently have a device known as a fixed liquid level valve, or outage valve, at the proper fill level. This is a small orifice which can be opened during refueling in order to indicate that, upon the release of liquid from the valve, the tank is filled and refueling should stop. Although LPG tanks are now constructed with built-in automatic shutoff devices to prevent overfilling, they still have outage valves on them. The Agency proposed a prohibition on all non-safety-related valves on gaseous-fueled vehicles in order to prevent the emissions of LPG from outage valves during refueling. Summary of the comments: The Agency received a variety of comments expressing concern about the proposal to eliminate outage valves from LPG vehicles. First, several commenters pointed out that outage valves are required under the National Fire Protection Association standard 58 (NFPA 58), and that the NFPA code has been adopted by many state and local fire marshals as the applicable fire code. Second, some commenters stated that the regulatory language as proposed precluded the use of all types of valves on gaseous-fueled vehicles, including such things as manual fuel shutoff valves. Third, some comments were received expressing concern that this requirement would preclude the use of liquefied natural gas (LNG) altogether due to the need to occasionally vent excess pressure from LNG fuel tanks to prevent overpressurization. Finally, one commenter expressed concern about the application of this requirement to LPG vehicles already in service and the possibility of having to retrofit those vehicles. EPA response to comments: The Agency understands the apparent conflict between its proposal and the requirements of NFPA 58. EPA believes that with the newer requirement in NFPA 58 for automatic shutoff (overfill prevention) mechanisms, the requirement for outage valves on vehicle fuel tanks is obsolete, and should be removed from NFPA 58. Due to this conflict, however, the Agency has chosen not to finalize its proposed requirements prohibiting outage valves, but is working with the industry and NFPA to have this requirement deleted from NFPA. While the Agency believes it has the authority to preempt NFPA 58 as adopted by fire marshals through the adoption of the proposed requirement to eliminate outage valves, it prefers to work with the industry to remove that requirement from NFPA 58 before superseding state and local law through EPA regulation. Given that the proposed language prohibiting non-safety-related valves is not being finalized, the other concerns expressed in the comments are alleviated. While the Agency is not finalizing the proposed requirements concerning outage valves, they remain a concern as a source of emissions. This is especially true for LPG vehicles which are intended to be certified as ILEVs. Thus, for any LPG vehicle, the above-mentioned refueling test procedure will be performed with the outage valve opened, unless the manufacturer can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that the outage valve or any other such gauges or valves would not be opened during refueling in-use due to inaccessibility or other design features that would prevent or make it very unlikely that they could be opened. D. Standards for CO and Crankcase Emissions
