FR940525-2-00155 FR940525-2-00078 Finally, as discussed above, the Commission also is approving today information barrier procedures for BSE specialists. These procedures ensure that upstairs firms affiliated with BSE specialists will not receive information advantages due to the relationship between the entities. 55 55 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34&hyph;34076 (May 18, 1994) approving BSE's information barrier proposal. Based on the above, the Commission believes it is appropriate to allow the BSE to implement its competing specialist proposal on a one-year pilot basis. In making this determination, the Commission has carefully analyzed the potential benefits from competition, such as better quotes, with the potential for increased internalization of order flow. The Commission believes that the BSE has incorporated features in its proposal to allow it to implement, for a one-year period, a competing specialist system that will allow firms to designate order flow to an affiliated specialist. The Commission, nevertheless, believes that before the BSE proposal will be extended beyond the one-year pilot period or approved on a permanent basis, the BSE will have the burden to prove that its proposal resulted in added depth and liquidity to its market and improved quotations. The Commission emphasizes that if the Commission is dissatisfied with the data or the market effects of the pilot, it would not be inclined to extend the competing specialist program. Accordingly, the Commission requests that the BSE provide, on a quarterly basis, the following information: 1. A list indicating how many competing specialists are on the Exchange. 2. A list identifying, for each competing specialist, the issues in which they are competing. 3. The volume of ``preferenced'' trades in each issue; and the percentage of total volume of trades sent to the BSE for execution in each issue represented by ``preferenced'' volume. 4. The volume of ``preferenced'' share and transaction volume; and the percentage of total BSE share and transaction volume the ``preferenced'' volume represents. 5. BSE's volume attributable to ITS commitments sent by other ITS participant markets; and the percentage of such commitments attributable to ``preferenced'' issues. 6. The number of ``preferenced'' orders executed by the non-designated specialist(s). 7. The number of ``preferenced'' orders effected against the limit order book, both in total and separately for each ``preferenced'' issue. 8. The number of limit orders placed on the book, as compared to before the commencement of this pilot, both for the BSE as a whole and separately for the stocks for which there are competing specialists. 9. BSE's share of Tape trade reports, as compared to before the commencement of this pilot. Further, we request the Exchange to submit a report to the Commission, discussing the data outlined above, eight months from the date of commencement of the competing specialist pilot. The report should discuss such data in terms of the effects of the competing specialist pilot on the quality of the BSE market with respect to depth, liquidity, and quote improvement. 56 56 Should any other exchange attempt to implement a similar system that is acceptable to the Commission, it should be noted that the pilot period would be limited to the same one year period afforded the BSE. At the end of such period, all such systems will be subject to the same rigorous scrutiny regardless of how long they may have been in operation. V. Conclusion The Commission finds preliminarily that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of section 6(b). 57 In particular, the Commission preliminarily believes the proposal is consistent with section 6(b)(5) because it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of free and open market and a national market system. 57 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). It is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 58 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;12) is approved for a period of one year through May 18, 1995. 58 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)92) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 59 59 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12739 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
