FR941227-0-00029 FR941227-0-00006 Executive Order 12778 This interim rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule reduces the accreditation fees for non-Federal analytical chemistry laboratories accredited under the Federal Meat and Poultry Products Inspection Acts and regulations promulgated thereunder. States and local jurisdictions are preempted under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) and the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA) from imposing any requirements with respect to federally inspected premises and facilities, and operations of such establishments, that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the FMIA or PPIA. States and local jurisdictions are also preempted under the FMIA and PPIA from imposing any marking, labeling, packaging, or ingredient requirements on federally inspected meat or poultry products that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the FMIA or the PPIA, as well as preempted from imposing, under the PPIA for poultry products, certain storage and handling requirements. States and local jurisdictions may, however, exercise concurrent jurisdiction over meat and poultry products that are outside official establishments for the purpose of preventing the distribution of meat or poultry products that are misbranded or adulterated under the FMIA or PPIA or, in the case of imported articles, which are not at such an establishment, after their entry into the United States. States and local jurisdictions may also make requirements or take other actions, that are consistent with the FMIA and PPIA, with respect to any other matters regulated under the FMIA and PPIA. Under the FMIA and the PPIA, States that maintain meat and poultry inspection programs must impose requirements that are at least equal to those required under the FMIA or PPIA. These States may, however, impose more stringent requirements on such State-inspected products and establishments. This interim rule will have no retroactive effect and applicable administrative procedures must be exhausted before any judicial challenge to the application of these provisions. Those administrative procedures are set forth in 9 CFR §§306.5, 318.21(h), 381.35, and 381.153(h). Effect on Small Entities There are currently approximately 150 laboratories in the FSIS accredited laboratory program. About one quarter (37) of these are considered small entities. This interim rule reduces the fee charged for FSIS accreditation from $3,500 per accreditation, per year, to $2,500 per accreditation, per year. All small accredited laboratories are affected by this interim rule. Since the payment of fees to begin or renew a laboratory's status as ``accredited by FSIS'' is a very small part of total business costs, FSIS has determined that this rule will not have a significant effect on small entities. List of Subjects 9 CFR Part 318 Meat inspection, Laboratory accreditation. 9 CFR Part 381 Poultry and poultry products inspection, Laboratory accreditation. 9 CFR Part 391 Fees and charges for inspection services, Laboratory accreditation fees. For the reasons discussed in the preamble, FSIS is amending 9 CFR parts 318, 381, and 391, as follows: PART 318_ENTRY INTO OFFICIAL ESTABLISHMENTS; REINSPECTION AND PREPARATION OF PRODUCTS
