FR940418-0-00046 FR940418-0-00012 §1.1 Establishment of the U.S. Postal Service. The U.S. Postal Service is established under the provisions of the Postal Reorganization Act (the Reorganization Act) of August 12, 1970, Public Law 91&hyph;375, 84 Stat. 719, as an independent establishment of the executive branch of the Government of the United States, under the direction of a Board of Governors, with the Postmaster General as its chief executive officer. The Board of Governors of the Postal Service (the Board) directs the exercise of its powers through management that is expected to be honest, efficient, economical, and mindful of the competitive business environment in which the Postal Service operates. The Board consists of nine Governors appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to represent the public interest generally, together with the Postmaster General and Deputy Postmaster General. §1.2 Delegation of authority. Except for powers, duties, or obligations specifically vested in the Governors by law, the Board may delegate its authority to the Postmaster General under such terms, conditions, and limitations, including the power of redelegation, as it finds desirable. The bylaws of the Board are the framework of the system through which the Board monitors the exercise of the authority it has delegated, measures progress toward the goals it has set, and shapes the policies to guide the future development of the Postal Service. Delegations of authority do not relieve the Board of full responsibility for carrying out its duties and functions, and are revocable by the Governors in their exclusive judgment. PART 2_GENERAL AND TECHNICAL PROVISIONS (ARTICLE II) Sec. 2.1␣Office of the Board of Governors. 2.2␣Agent for receipt of process. 2.3␣Offices. 2.4␣Seal. 2.5␣Authority. 2.6␣Severability, amendment, repeal, and waiver of bylaws. Authority: 39 U.S.C. 202, 203, 205(c), 207, 401(2), as enacted by Pub. L. 91&hyph;375, and 5 U.S.C. 552b(f), (g), as enacted by Pub. L. 94&hyph;409. §2.1 Office of the Board of Governors. There shall be located in Washington, DC an Office of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service. It shall be the function of this Office to provide staff support for the Board, as directed by the Chairman of the Board, to enable the Board to carry out effectively its duties under the Reorganization Act. §2.2 Agent for receipt of process. The General Counsel of the Postal Service shall act as agent for the receipt of legal process against the Postal Service, and as agent for the receipt of legal process against the Board of Governors or a member of the Board, in his or her official capacity, and all other officers and employees of the Postal Service to the extent that the process arises out of the official functions of those officers and employees. The General Counsel shall also issue public certifications concerning closed meetings of the Board as appropriate under 5 U.S.C. 552b(f). §2.3 Offices. The principal office of the Postal Service is located in Washington, DC, with such regional and other offices and places of business as the Postmaster General establishes from time to time, or the business of the Postal Service requires. §2.4 Seal. (a) The Seal of the Postal Service is filed by the Board in the Office of the Secretary of State, and is required by 39 U.S.C. 207 to be judicially noticed. The Seal shall be in the custody of the General Counsel, who shall affix it to all commissions of officers of the Postal Service, and use it to authenticate records of the Postal Service and for other official purposes. The following describes the Seal adopted for the Postal Service:
