FR940404-2-00168 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the World Health Assembly, 46th Session, World Health Organization (WHO), Geneva, May 3&hyph;14, 1993 Delegates Walter D. Broadnax (Chief Delegate), Deputy Secretary Designate, Department of Health and Human Services Audrey F. Manley, M.D., Acting Assistant Secretary for Health, Department of Health and Human Services H. Clarke Rodgers, Jr., Charge d'Affaires, United States Permanent Mission to the European Office of the United Nations and Other International Organizations, Geneva Alternate Delegates Neil A. Boyer, Director for Health and Transportation Programs, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State Donald A. Henderson, M.D., Expert Consultant for Science and Immunization, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, United States Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services Melinda L. Kimble, Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Development and Technical Specialized Agency Affairs, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State The Honorable Antonia C. Novello, M.D., Surgeon General, United States Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services James E. Sarn, M.D., Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Health, United States Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services Advisers Rose Belmont, Associate Director for Multilateral Programs, Office of International Health, United States Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services Kenneth Bernard, M.D., Associate Director for Medical and Scientific Affairs, Office of International Health, United States Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services John R. Crook, Counselor for Legal Affairs, United States Mission, Geneva Joe H. Davis, M.D., Assistant Director for International Health, Centers for Disease Control, United States Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, Atlanta Peter D. Eicher, Counselor for Political Affairs, United States Mission, Geneva Philip Schambra, Director, Fogarty International Center, National Institutes of Health, United States Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services Harold P. Thompson, International Health Attache, United States Mission, Geneva Robert Wrin, Acting Director, Office of Health, Bureau for Research and Development, Agency for International Development Private Sector Advisers Virginia Betts, President, American Nurses Association, Washington, District of Columbia Helen Rodriguez-Trias, President, American Public Health Association, Washington, DC David Satcher, President, Meharry Medical College, Nashville, Tennessee Terry Yamauchi, Professor and Vice-Chairman, Department of Pediatrics, Infectious Diseases Division, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences and Arkansas Children's Hospital, Little Rock, Arkansas United States Delegation to the First Meeting of the Telecommunications Standardization Sector (TSS), Study Group 11, Signalling and Switching, International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Geneva, May 3&hyph;19, 1993 Representative Otto J. Gusella, Executive Director, Exchange Carrier Standards Association, Washington, DC Advisers Donald Choi, Electronics Engineer, Defense Information Systems Agency Leslie A. Collica, Computer Scientist, National Institute of Standards Technology, Department of Commerce Wendell R. Harris, Assistant Bureau Chief, International Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission Private Sector Advisers Edward Chien, President, Personal Telecommunication Technologies, Inc., San Jose, California Elmer R. Hapeman, Switching Engineer, BELLCORE, Red Bank, New Jersey Harry Hetz, Manager, Standards Management, Bell Atlantic, Arlington, Virginia Jay R. Hilton, Manager, Technical Standards, GTE Telephone Operations, Irving, Texas Doris Lebovits, Staff Manager, AT&T, Bedminster, New Jersey Anthony Toubassi, Advisory Engineer, MCI Corporation, Richardson, Texas Lawrence A. Young, Director, Technical Standards, Ameritech Services, Hoffman Estates, Illinois
