FR940223-2-00043 FR940223-2-00033 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Swiss Bank Corporation; Application to Engage in Certain Nonbanking Activities Swiss Bank Corporation, Basel, Switzerland (Applicant), has applied pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) (BHC Act) and 225.23 of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23), through its wholly owned subsidiary, SBC Government Securities, Inc., New York, New York (Company), to acquire substantially all the assets and certain of the liabilities of O'Connor & Associates, Chicago, Illinois (OCA), and to engage in the following nonbanking activities: 1 1 Applicant's proposal involves, inter alia , the consolidation into Company of certain activities currently conducted by OCA and two of Applicant's wholly owned subsidiaries, SBC Derivatives, Inc., Chicago, Illinois (SBC Derivatives), and SBCI Swiss Bank Corporation Investment Banking Inc., New York, New York (SBCI). In connection with, and substantially contemporaneously with, this transaction, OCA proposes to acquire certain assets and liabilities of K K & Company, New York, New York (KK). Company, a primary dealer in government securities, currently engages in (i) underwriting and dealing in obligations of the United States and other obligations that state member banks of the Federal Reserve System are authorized to underwrite and deal in, pursuant to 225.25(b)(16) of Regulation Y, and (ii) trading in futures, options, and options on futures with respect to certain bank-eligible securities and money market instruments. See Swiss Bank Corporation , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 759 (1991). OCA engages in trading, for its own account, debt and equity securities, options on debt and equity securities, and options on stock, bond, and commodity indexes. SBC Derivatives currently engages in foreign exchange options trading for its own account. See Swiss Bank Corporation , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 126 (1990). SBCI currently engages in various nonbanking activities, including underwriting and dealing in corporate debt and equity securities. KK currently engages in executing securities transactions for third party customers. The activities of Company and SBC Derivatives are conducted pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act. Applicant controls SBCI pursuant to the grandfather provisions of section 8(c) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3106(c)). SBCI would cease to exist upon consummation of this proposal, and Applicant's grandfather rights relating to SBCI would thereby terminate. 1. Underwriting and dealing in, to a limited extent, all types of debt and equity securities (other than securities issued by open-end investment companies), including sovereign debt securities, municipal revenue bonds, mortgage-related securities, consumer receivable-related securities, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, convertible debt securities, debt securities issued by a trust or other vehicle secured by or representing interests in debt obligations, preferred stock, common stock, American Depositary Receipts, other direct and indirect equity ownership interests in corporations and other entities, and options on debt and equity securities; 2 2 Applicant also proposes that Company engage in certain activities which Applicant maintains are incidental to these proposed underwriting and dealing activities, including engaging in bonds borrowed and other securities lending transactions. 2. Providing discount brokerage services, engaging in related securities credit activities, and conducting activities incidental thereto such as offering custodial services, individual retirement accounts, and cash management services, pursuant to 225.25(b)(15)(i) of Regulation Y; 3. Providing full-service brokerage services, i.e., the discount brokerage activities specified in paragraph 2, above, in combination with investment advisory services permissible under 225.25(b)(4) of Regulation Y, pursuant to 225.25(b)(15)(ii) of Regulation Y; 4. Acting as agent in the private placement of all types of securities, including providing related advisory services; 5. Purchasing and selling all types of securities as a ``riskless principal'' on the order of customers; 6. Providing various types of investment and financial advisory services, including providing financial and transaction advice regarding the structuring and arranging of swaps and similar transactions (including swap derivative products) relating to interest rates, currency rates, and economic and financial indexes, and similar transactions, pursuant to 225.25(b)(4) of Regulation Y; 7. Trading for its own account in futures, options, and options on futures with respect to certificates of deposit and other money market instruments eligible for investment by national banks; 8. Trading for its own account in futures, options, and options on futures with respect to commodity prices and stock, bond, and commodity indexes; 3 3 The specific contracts to be traded by Company for its own account in conducting the activities described in paragraphs 7 and 8 are listed either (i) in SR Letter No. 93-27 (FIS) (May 21, 1993), or (ii) in Appendix A attached hereto. Applicant also expects that Company will engage, in the over-the-counter market, in options transactions based on the underlying prices, indexes, and instruments for the contracts referred to in the preceding sentence. 9. Engaging in the following activities with respect to swaps and swap derivative products: 4 4 For this purpose, the term ``swap derivative products'' means caps, floors, collars, and options on swaps, caps, floors, and collars. (A) Intermediating in the international swap markets by acting as originator and principal for interest rate swap and currency swap transactions; (B) Acting as originator and principal with respect to swap derivative products relating to interest rate swap and currency swap transactions; (C) Acting as agent or broker with respect to interest rate swap and currency swap transactions and swap derivative products relating thereto; (D) Intermediating in the international swap markets by acting as originator and principal for commodity price swap transactions and swap transactions linked to stock and/or bond indexes or to a hybrid of interest rates and such indexes; (E) Acting as originator and principal with respect to swap derivative products relating to the swap transactions described in subparagraph (D), above; and (F) Acting as agent or broker with respect to the swap transactions and swap derivative products described in subparagraphs (D) and (E), above. 10. Acting as a futures commission merchant (FCM) for nonaffiliated persons in the execution and clearance on major commodity exchanges of futures contracts and options on futures contracts based on bullion, foreign exchange, government securities, certificates of deposit and other money market instruments that a bank may buy or sell in the cash market for its own account, pursuant to 225.25(b)(18) of Regulation Y; 5 5 Applicant has proposed that both Company and SBC Derivatives engage in the activities listed in paragraphs 10 through 13. Applicant has stated that SBC Derivatives may execute trades that will be given-up at a customer's request to an unaffiliated FCM for clearance, and that SBC Derivatives may also engage in clearing-only activities. Company may conduct the proposed FCM activities through omnibus customer trading accounts. 11. Providing investment advice with respect to the purchase and sale of futures contracts and options on futures contracts described in paragraph 10, above, pursuant to 225.25(b)(19) of Regulation Y; 12. Acting as a FCM for nonaffiliated persons in the execution and clearance on major commodity exchanges of futures contracts and options on futures contracts based on commodity prices, bonds, and stock and bond indexes; 6 6 The specific contracts with respect to which Company and SBC Derivatives will conduct the activities described in paragraphs 12 and 13 are listed either (i) in SR Letter No. 93-27 (FIS) (May 21, 1993), or (ii) in Appendix A attached hereto. 13. Providing investment advice with respect to the purchase and sale of futures contracts and options on futures contracts described in paragraph 12, above; 14. Trading for its own account in gold and silver bullion, bars, rounds, and coins; 15. Trading for its own account in platinum coin and bullion; 16. Trading for its own account in foreign exchange spot, forward, futures, options, and options on futures transactions; and 17. Making, acquiring, or servicing loans or other extensions of credit for its own account or for the account of third parties, pursuant to 225.25(b)(1) of Regulation Y. Applicant seeks approval to conduct the proposed activities throughout the United States, and plans to conduct the activities on a world-wide basis. Closely Related to Banking Standard Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act provides that a bank holding company may, with Board approval, engage in any activity ``which the Board after due notice and opportunity for hearing has determined (by order or regulation) to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto.'' In determining whether a proposed activity is closely related to banking for purposes of the BHC Act, the Board considers, inter alia , the matters set forth in National Courier Association v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , 516 F.2d 1229 (D.C. Cir. 1975). These considerations are (1) Whether banks generally have in fact provided the proposed services, (2) Whether banks generally provide services that are operationally or functionally so similar to the proposed services as to equip them particularly well to provide the proposed services, and (3) Whether banks generally provide services that are so integrally related to the proposed services as to require their provision in a specialized form. See 516 F.2d at 1237. In addition, the Board may consider any other basis that may demonstrate that the activity has a reasonable or close relationship to banking or managing or controlling banks. Board Statement Regarding Regulation Y , 49 FR 806 (1984). Applicant states that the Board previously has determined by regulation that certain of the proposed activities, when conducted within the limitations established by the Board in its regulations and in related interpretations and orders, are closely related to banking for purposes of section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act. See 12 CFR 225.25(b)(1) (making, acquiring, and servicing loans and other extensions of credit); 12 CFR 225.25(b)(4) and (15) (certain investment and financial advisory services and discount and full-service brokerage activities); and 12 CFR 225.25(b)(18) and (19) (certain FCM services and related advisory activities). Applicant also maintains that the Board previously has determined by order that several of the other proposed activities, when conducted within the limitations established by the Board in its previous orders, are closely related to banking, and, where applicable, consistent with section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act (12 U.S.C. 377). See, e.g., J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated, et al. , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 192 (1989), aff'd sub nom. Securities Industries Ass'n v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , 900 F.2d 360 (D.C. Cir. 1990), Order Approving Modifications to the Section 20 Orders , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 751 (1989), Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, et al. , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 158 (1990), Order Approving Modifications to the Section 20 Orders , 79 Federal Reserve Bulletin 226 (1993), and Supplement to Order Approving Modifications to Section 20 Orders , 79 Federal Reserve Bulletin 360 (1993) (underwriting and dealing activities); Bankers Trust New York Corporation , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 829 (1989) (private placement and riskless principal activities); Swiss Bank Corporation , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 759 (1991) (trading for own account in futures, options, and options on futures contracts based on U.S. government securities and certain money market instruments); The Sanwa Bank, Limited , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 64 (1990) (intermediation, origination, principal, agent, and brokerage activities related to interest rate swap and currency swap transactions and swap derivative products related thereto); Midland Bank, PLC , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 860 (1990) (trading for own account in gold and silver bullion, bars, rounds, and coins); The Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, Limited , 74 Federal Reserve Bulletin 573 (1988) (trading for own account in foreign exchange); and The Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, Limited , 79 Federal Reserve Bulletin 347 (1993) (trading for own account in foreign exchange forward, futures, options, and options on futures transactions). See also SR Letter No. 93-27 (FIS) (May 21, 1993) (listing various futures, options, and options on futures contracts previously approved by order or regulation for FCM services and related advisory activities). Applicant maintains that Company will conduct the foregoing, previously approved activities in conformity with the conditions and limitations established by the Board in prior cases. Applicant further states that the Board has not previously approved, as closely related to banking within the meaning of the BHC Act, some or all of the activities described in paragraphs 7, 8, 9(D), 9(E), 9(F), 12, 13, and 15, above. Applicant maintains, however, that all of these proposed activities are closely related to banking. With respect to the proposal for Company to trade for its own account in various futures, options, and options on futures transactions based on certificates of deposit and other money market instruments eligible for investment by national banks, Applicant maintains that the Board has previously determined that trading in derivative instruments which represent the right to purchase or sell bank-eligible securities is closely related to banking. See Swiss Bank Corporation, 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 759 (1991) (approving such trading for instruments based on U.S. government securities and certain money market instruments). Applicant also proposes that Company trade for its own account, for purposes other than hedging, in futures, options, and options on futures contracts based on commodity prices and stock, bond, and commodity indexes. With respect to this aspect of the proposal, Applicant maintains that the New York State Banking Department (NYSBD) and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) have permitted banks under their respective jurisdictions to engage in these activities, subject to certain limitations. In this regard, Applicant also states that over-the-counter options contracts entered into by Company would represent a form of financial intermediation of the type in which banks have traditionally engaged. Applicant also maintains that Company's portfolio-wide hedging methodology is consistent with the limitations the NYSBD and the OCC have placed upon trading in exchange-traded derivative instruments. Applicant also argues, inter alia , that Company needs to be able to trade in these contracts in order to manage commodity-based risks that may arise from its dealing in securities of issuers with commodity price exposure. With respect to the swap-related activities that have not previously been determined to be closely related to banking, Applicant states that the NYSBD and the OCC have permitted banks under their respective jurisdictions to engage in commodity-based swap activities, and that the NYSBD has permitted banks to offer swaps linked to financial or economic indexes. Applicant also states that the Board has recognized, in an interpretation of the Board's Regulation H, that banks are engaged as principal or broker in swap transactions based on commodity prices, stock and bond indexes, and hybrids of such indexes and interest rates. See 12 CFR 208.128. In addition, Applicant maintains that these types of swap transactions, like interest rate and currency swaps, are a form of the financial intermediation services traditionally offered by banks. Applicant also proposes that Company and SBC Derivatives engage in FCM activities and provide related advisory services with respect to futures contracts and options on futures contracts based on commodity prices, bonds, and stock and bond indexes. Applicant states that the Board has previously determined by order that offering FCM and related advisory services with respect to certain futures contracts and options on futures contracts based on bonds and stock and bond indexes is an activity closely related to banking. See generally SR Letter No. 93-27 (FIS) (May 21, 1993) (listing various futures, options, and options on futures contracts previously approved by order or regulation for FCM services and related advisory activities). Applicant maintains that the bond- and index-based futures contracts and options on futures contracts in this proposal which have not previously been approved by the Board are substantially similar to those which have been so approved. With respect to the proposed instruments based on commodity prices, Applicant states that the OCC has permitted national banks to execute and clear such contracts. Applicant also maintains that the reasons justifying Company's trading in such contracts for its own account should apply equally to Company's and SBC Derivatives' engaging in execution, clearance, and advisory activities with respect to such contracts. Applicant further states that providing these services with respect to commodity-based contracts is functionally equivalent to providing such services with respect to financial futures and options on futures contracts. Applicant also notes that the clearing function of an FCM is a form of extending credit, a primary banking function. With respect to its proposal that Company trade for its own account in platinum coin and bullion, Applicant states that the NYSBD and the OCC have approved this activity for banks under their respective jurisdictions. Applicant also maintains that the Board has approved under section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act the purchase and sale of platinum coins, under limited circumstances. See Standard Chartered PLC , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 681 (1990). Applicant also states that the Board has approved, under Regulation K (12 CFR part 211), trading in platinum by bank holding company subsidiaries located outside the United States. See J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 552 (1990). Proper Incident to Banking Standard In order to approve the proposal, the Board must determine that the proposed activities to be conducted by Company ``can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.'' 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8). Applicant believes that the proposal will produce public benefits that outweigh any potential adverse effects. In particular, Applicant maintains that the proposal will enhance competition and enable Company to offer its customers a broader range of products. In addition, Applicant states that the proposed activities will not result in adverse effects such as an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely in order to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application, and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets or is likely to meet the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing and received by William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551, not later than March 14, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by 262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of the reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors or the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, February 15, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Associate Secretary of the Board. Appendix A Chicago Mercantile Exchange FT-SE 100 Share Index Futures, and options thereon Standard & Poor's Midcap 400 Index Futures, and options thereon Russell 2000 Stock Price Index Futures, and options thereon British Pound Rolling Spot Futures, and options thereon Commodity Exchange, Inc. Eurotop 100 Index Futures, and options thereon Mercado de Futuros Financieros, S.A. Spanish Peseta/Deutsche Mark Futures Spanish Peseta/U.S. Dollar Futures Mibor '90 Futures Mibor '90 Options Montreal Stock Exchange One-Month Canadian Bankers' Acceptance Futures Three-Month Canadian Bankers' Acceptance Futures London International Financial Futures Exchange Spanish Government Bond (Bonos) Futures Three-Month Eurolira Interest Rate Futures Italian Government Bond (BTP) Futures, and options thereon New York Mercantile Exchange Light Sweet Crude Oil Futures, and options thereon New York Harbor Unleaded Gasoline Futures, and options thereon Heating Oil Futures, and options thereon Natural Gas Futures, and options thereon [FR Doc. 94-3974 Filed 2-22-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
