FR940223-2-00242 FR940223-2-00104 c. Community building. Strengthening communities by bringing together both institutions and individuals to cooperate in affecting lasting and constructive change. Each applicant will need to articulate a program mission statement that expresses the program's vision and must specify primary objectives to be achieved with respect to each of these three goals. (Applicants should complete three separate forms to address each goal.) More specific directions can be found on the back of the form. 4. Program narrative. In approximately 10 pages, organized and labeled in the stipulated categories, provide the following information in a narrative form with as much specificity as possible. a. DOT program to be addressed. Identify the DOT Program or Programs to be implemented (see section 2 of the RFP). b. Needs to be met and appropriateness for national service. Identify the nature of the specific needs to be met by the proposed national service program, including how and why these needs are appropriately or uniquely addressed by a national service program. (i) Needs _Identify the specific needs that the program will address. _Explain how these needs relate to the priorities and goals of the selected DOT Program. (ii) Process _Describe the process by which the needs were identified. _Explain who was involved in identifying the needs. _Explain the extent to which the residents of the community to be served were involved in the needs assessment. c. Programs design. Describe the concept and design for the program, including the nature of specific service activities to be performed by participants and how these activities address the identified needs and meet the program objectives. (i) Program concept. _Explain the basic concept of the program. _Describe how the program will be structured. _Describe where it will be located. _Describe any institutional or programmatic collaborations or partnerships that will be involved in operating the program, including the extent to which the program builds on existing infrastructure. _Explain how the program will be cost-effective and how participants will be fully and effectively utilized. (ii) Service activities. _Describe the projects or activities that the participants will conduct. _Explain how these projects or activities will result in direct, measurable service that addresses the identified needs. _Describe a typical week in the life of program participants, giving concrete examples of the types of activities or duties participants will perform. (Please note that projects must do more than just keep participants busy, offer temporary solutions, or provide free labor to organizations.) _State the length of time required to complete the projects or activities (must be at least one year and cannot be more than three years) _State an estimated date when the activities could begin. (Note that DOT will inform applicants as to whether they have been selected to receive DOT funding and/or to be included in DOT's application to the National Service Corporation prior to April 15, 1994, and anticipates that notification of awards of National Service Corporation funds will occur in May or June of 1994.) (iii) Relation to need. _Explain how the service activities respond to the identified needs. (iv) Participant training and support. _Explain how participants will be trained, supported, or otherwise prepared for their assignments.
