FR940407-1-00042 FR940407-1-00012 1. Hypothetical Versus Actual Capital Structure . The WACC may be much lower when the proportion of debt contained in a company's capital structure is relatively high compared to common-stock equity. This is because the interest rate on debt is usually much lower than the cost of common-stock equity. 16 In addition, debt costs the firm and the ratepayer less than equity because equity earnings are subject to income taxes and debt is not. The revenue that a company is allowed to earn on its common-stock equity is increased by amounts added to that revenue for the purpose of paying income taxes. By contrast, since interest is deductible for income tax purposes, earnings to cover debt costs are computed before any income tax calculations, and are not subject to income tax. Consequently, within limits determined by such factors as the risk of a business, the WACC may be lower and ratepayers may pay less when the firm employs a relatively large proportion of debt than when it uses a relatively large proportion of equity. Given this differential, some regulatory commissions compute the WACC using what they believe to be the ``typical,'' or ``ideal,'' capital structure without regard to the actual capitalization of the regulated company in question. Other regulatory commissions base their WACC estimates on either the actual capital structure, or that expected in the near future when rates to be decided will be in effect. 16 There are two reasons for this: (1) debtholders have priority over equityholders as to the remaining assets of the firm in the event that the firm is liquidated; and (2) debtholders must be paid their contractual level of interest ( i.e. , their coupon payment) before equityholders receive any compensation ( i.e. , dividend payments). A company may reduce or eliminate dividend payments to equityholders in the event that it is under financial strain. However, it is far less likely that coupon payments will be eliminated because this could result in bankruptcy if the firm does not take corrective action. Equityholders, therefore, require a higher return than do debtholders. Consequently, it costs a firm more to issue common-stock equity than it does to issue debt. The more expensive common-stock equity financing could be borne by ratepayers in the form of higher rates. There are strong reasons for using a regulated carrier's actual or expected capital structure rather than the alternative of a hypothetical or ideal capital structure in calculating the carrier's WACC. First, a regulated company's current capital structure could be the product of decisions that were logical and efficient at the time they were made, although a different capitalization might be consistent with a lower WACC at the time of a rate investigation and hearing. Although hindsight is always more accurate than foresight, a company must make financial decisions based on an evaluation of the present and projections of future conditions. 17 Second, using a hypothetical or typical capital structure substitutes an estimate of what the WACC would be under conditions that do not exist for what it actually is or will soon be under existing conditions. 18 17 Charles E. Phillips, supra note 4, at 390. 18 James C. Bonbright, Albert L. Danielsen, and David R. Kamerschen, Principles of Public Utility Rates, 2nd ed., Public Utilities Reports, Inc., Arlington, Virginia, 1988, p. 309. Accordingly, the Commission's proposed rule specifies the use of a regulated domestic offshore carrier's expected capital structure in computing the carrier's WACC. The proposed rule stipulates the use of the expected rather than the actual capital structure because the Commission uses a future instead of a historic test year.
