FR941205-1-00045 FR941205-1-00014 6. Other Amendments The proposed rule contains a number of other amendments to the Commission's existing regulations in 46 CFR part 572. For the most part, these amendments are not substantive and are designed to make the existing regulations consistent with the proposed rule, to eliminate certain outdated regulations, or to reorganize certain subparts of the existing regulations. They include the following: •In §572.104, new definitions are added for such terms as ``capacity management or capacity regulation agreements,'' ``monitoring report,'' ``rate'' and ``vessel-operating costs.'' In addition, the present definition of a joint service is revised to eliminate the reference to ``consortium,'' which is a term not defined by the 1984 Act and could include a number of commercial relationships besides joint services. •In subpart C, the exemptions of certain kinds of agreements are revised to eliminate unnecessary references to ``Information Form'' requirements. These changes have no effect on the exemptions themselves. •Subpart D is revised to include existing subpart E, so that all regulations governing the content and organization of filed agreements will be contained within one subpart. Also, proposed §572.401(a)(2) states that five copies of the new Information Form must be filed along with a new agreement; this is the minimum number of copies that will be needed by the Commission in order to review and process an agreement. Subparagraph (h) of present §572.402 is deleted as no longer necessary. Also, the proposed rule eliminates the requirements in current §572.403(a)(2)&hyph;(3) that Information Forms must accompany ``significant modifications'' to effective agreements; they will not longer be necessary since the agreements addressed by those regulations will in all likelihood be subject to ongoing reporting requirements. Also, the standards presently set forth in §572.404 for granting a waiver are revised to remove the requirement that the applicant show that ``beneficial results'' will occur if the waiver is granted, and instead to require that the applicant show that granting the waiver will not impair effective regulation by the Commission, consistent with the language of section 16 of the 1984 Act, 46 U.S.C. app. 1715. Similar language is used in the proposed rule's other waiver provisions in revised subparts E and G. •Section 572.608(b)(2), which sets forth an exception to the confidentiality of submitted material, is revised to more closely reflect the language of section 6(j) of the 1984 Act, 46 U.S.C. app. 1705(j). Similar language is used in the proposed rule's provision on confidentiality in revised subpart G. 7. Carrier Costs and Profits The Commission's obligation under section 6(g) of the 1984 Act to police against agreements that may cause, or have caused, unreasonable increases in transportation rates, and the 1984 Act's purpose of providing an efficient and economic transportation system in the ocean commerce of the United States, 46 U.S.C. app. 1701(2), raise the question whether these policies can or should be pursued by monitoring the costs and/or profitability of the carriers to a particular agreement. The proposed rule does not include provisions on carrier costs or profitability, but the Commission wishes to solicit comments on the lawfulness and feasibility of such provisions. Commenters should address whether such provisions would be inconsistent with Congress's directive that ``[t]he determination whether an agreement is likely to produce an `unreasonable increase in the price of transportation' does not authorize the FMC to engage in the type of ratemaking analysis undertaken by regulators of public utilities or as applied in the domestic offshore trades.'' H.R. Rep. No. 600, 98th Cong., 2d Sess. 35 (1984). That aside, commenters should also address how such provisions might be structured, particularly given the proposed rule's focus on individual country sub-trades; whether costs and/or profitability under a particular agreement can be measured accurately, particularly if the carriers to the agreement have other operations elsewhere; and whether arguments that an agreement is necessary to control costs or to improve profits are better explored in the context of an investigation of a particular agreement, rather than made the subject of regulations applicable to broad classes of agreements.
