FR941003-0-00061 FR941003-0-00013 96. One comment suggested that products whose labeling may not include certain therapeutic indications (due to exclusivity or patent protection) be listed in the Orange Book as not being therapeutically equivalent to the innovator product. FDA addressed this comment in its response to a citizen petition submitted by the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (PMA). The response stated, in pertinent part: In drafting the 1984 Amendments, the only mechanism that Congress provided for enforcing the exclusivity accorded a new indication is the requirement that ANDA's and 505(b)(2) applications be given delayed effective approval for the exclusive indication. During the period that ANDA's and 505(b)(2) applications may not be made effective, pioneers thus have the exclusive right to promote and label their products for the exclusive indication. Nothing in the language of the amended statute or its legislative history, however, suggests that Congress intended the granting of exclusivity for a new indication to alter therapeutic equivalence ratings. Moreover, it would be inconsistent with the established standards for making therapeutic equivalence determinations to rate two products as not therapeutically equivalent simply because one is labeled with fewer than all the approved indications. FDA's standards for therapeutic equivalence determinations * * * have always been based upon scientific considerations relevant to predicting the comparative pharmacological behavior of two products in or on the human body. There is no scientific basis for concluding that differences in recommended indications are relevant to this prediction. For example, the fact that a particular brand of drug is recommended in a medical journal article for an unlabeled use, does not, from a scientific standpoint, render other brands of the same drug therapeutically or biologically inequivalent. Similarly, the fact that a pioneer drug is labeled with a protected indication does not mean that generic copies of the same drug are not therapeutically equivalent to the pioneer. In absence of any suggestion in the statute or legislative history that Congress intended FDA to alter the scientific basis of therapeutic equivalence ratings to enforce exclusivity, FDA declines to consider non-scientific criteria, i.e., the existence of exclusive indications, in making therapeutic equivalence decisions. (Ref. 2) FDA has not changed this position and, therefore, declines to adopt the comment. 97. Many comments objected to the definition of ``active moiety'' and the references to active moieties and new chemical entities throughout proposed ยง314.108. The comments said the definitions lacked statutory support and were contrary to two court decisions, Abbott Laboratories v. Young, 691 F.Supp. 462 (D. D.C. 1988), remanded, 920 F.2d 984 (D.C. Cir. 1990), and Glaxo Operations UK Ltd . v. Quigg, 706 F.Supp. 1224 (E.D. Va. 1989), aff'd, 894 F.2d 392 (Fed. Cir. 1990). Two comments added that the definition of ``active moiety'' was also too restrictive because it excluded chelates, clathrates, and other noncovalent derivatives. The comments, in general, would delete all references to ``active moiety'' and ``new chemical entity'' and refer only to ``active ingredients.'' Some comments would also define ``active ingredient'' as the active ingredient found in the finished dosage form before the drug is administered to the patient. Subsequent to the close of the comment period, the interpretation of the act urged by the comments and adopted by the district court in Abbott Laboratories v. Young (providing 10 years of exclusivity under section 505(j)(4)(D)(i) of the act for products offering the same therapeutic moiety in different active ingredient forms if the salt or ester form was approved subsequent to the pure therapeutic moiety form) was rejected by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Noting that such an interpretation would award exclusivity to both an active moiety and a salt if the application containing the active moiety were submitted first, but would award exclusivity only to the salt if the salt were submitted first, the court of appeals rejected the interpretation as ``farfetched because it is not consistent with any legislative goal'' (see Abbott Laboratories v. Young, 920 F.2d 984, 989). Although the court of appeals appeared to agree with the agency's conclusion that exclusivity should be limited to the first approved product containing the active moiety, the court found the agency's parsing of the operative statutory phrase ``active ingredient (including any salt or ester of the active ingredient)'' to be linguistically impermissible as set forth in the agency's administrative decision denying 10-year exclusivity to Abbott. Rather than interpret the term ``active ingredient'' broadly to include the concept of active moiety, the agency interpreted the term narrowly to refer to the form of the moiety in the product, but interpreted the parenthetical phrase ``(including any salt or ester of the active ingredient)'' broadly to include all active ingredients that are different but contain the same active moiety. Although the court noted that the agency had, subsequent to the administrative decision, voiced the more linguistically permissible construction (interpreting the term ``active ingredient'' to refer to active moiety), the court found that it could not consider this construction because it was not relied upon in the administrative decision. The court thus remanded the case to the district court with instructions to remand the issue to the agency for further consideration. The agency has concluded that the term ``active ingredient,'' as used in the phrase ``active ingredient (including any salt or ester of the active ingredient),'' means active moiety. Thus, the agency declines to adopt the comments suggesting removal of the definition of, and references to, ``active moiety'' from ยง314.108.
