FR940127-1-00086 FR940127-1-00019 (b) Contracts for the sale of individually owned forest products shall be executed by the Indian owner(s) or the Secretary acting pursuant to a power of attorney from the Indian owner(s). Contracts must be approved by the Secretary to be valid. (1) The Secretary may, after consultation with any legally appointed guardian, execute contracts on behalf of minors and Indian owners who are non compos mentis. (2) The Secretary may execute contracts for those persons whose ownership in a decedent's estate has not been determined or for those persons who cannot be located after a reasonable and diligent search and the giving of notice by publication. (3) Upon the request of the owner of an undivided but unrestricted interest in land in which there are trust or restricted Indian interests, the Secretary may include such unrestricted interest in a sale of the trust or restricted interests in the timber, pursuant to this part, and perform any functions required of him/her by the contract of sale for both the restricted and the unrestricted interests, including the collection and disbursement of payments for timber and the forest management deductions from such payments. (4) When consent of only a majority interest has been obtained, the Secretary may execute the sale on behalf of all owners to fulfill responsibilities to the beneficiaries of the trust. In such event, the contract file must contain evidence of the effort to obtain consent of all owners. When an individual cannot be located, the Secretary, after a reasonable and diligent search and the giving of notice by publication, may sign a power of attorney consenting to the sale for particular interests. For Indian forest land containing undivided restricted and unrestricted interests, only the restricted interests are considered in determining if a majority interest has been obtained. §163.21 Bonds required. (a) Performance bonds will be required in connection with all sales of forest products, except they may or may not be required, as determined by the approving officer, in connection with the use of forest products by Indian tribal forest enterprises pursuant to §163.13 or in timber cutting permits issued pursuant to §163.26. (1) In sales in which the estimated stumpage value, calculated at the appraised stumpage rates, does not exceed $15,000, the bond shall be at least 20 percent of the estimated stumpage value. (2) In sales in which the estimated stumpage value exceeds $15,000 but is not over $150,000, the bond shall be at least 15 percent of the estimated stumpage value but not less than $3,000. (3) In sales in which the estimated stumpage value exceeds $150,000, but is not over $350,000, the bond shall be at least 10 percent of the estimated stumpage value but not less than $22,500. (4) In sales in which the estimated stumpage value exceeds $350,000, the bond shall be at least 5 percent of the estimated stumpage value but not less than $35,000. (b) Bonds shall be in a form acceptable to the approving officer and may include: (1) A corporate surety bond by an acceptable surety company; (2) A cash bond designating the approving officer to act under a power of attorney; (3) Negotiable U.S. Government securities supported by appropriate power of attorney; or (4) An irrevocable letter of credit. §163.22 Payment for forest products. (a) The basis of volume determination for forest products sold shall be the Scribner Decimal C log rules, cubic volume, lineal measurement, piece count, weight, or such other form of measurement as the Secretary may authorize for use. With the exception of Indian tribal forest enterprises pursuant to §163.13, payment for forest products will be required in advance of cutting for timber, or removal for other forest products. (b) Upon the request of an Indian tribe, the Secretary may provide that the purchaser of the forest products of such tribe, which are harvested under a timber sale contract, permit, or other harvest sale document to make advanced deposits, or direct payments of the gross proceeds of such forest products, less any amounts segregated as forest management deductions pursuant to §163.25, into accounts designated by such Indian tribe. Such accounts may be in one or more of the following formats:
