FR940503-1-00035 FR940503-1-00010 At the hearing, the Agency has the burden of going forward and proving that the violation occurred and that the proposed penalty is appropriate. After a prima facie case is established, the Respondent has the burden of presenting and going forward with any defense to the allegations in the citation. The matters in controversy are determined by the Presiding Officer upon a preponderance of evidence. The hearing must be transcribed. Within twenty days after the transcript is available, the parties may submit proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law with supporting briefs. Reply briefs are also authorized. The Presiding Officer issues the initial decision, which consists of findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommended civil penalty. In reaching an initial decision, the Presiding Officer is required to consider the statutory penalty assessment criteria listed in section 113(e), section 205(c) or section 211(d) of the Act, as appropriate. For section 113(e), these criteria include: The size of the business; the economic impact of the penalty on the business; the Respondent's full compliance history; the Respondent's good faith efforts to comply; the duration of the violation as established by any credible evidence; payment by the Respondent of penalties previously assessed for the same violation; the economic benefit of noncompliance; the seriousness of the violation; and such other factors as justice may require. If the Presiding Officer recommends a penalty different from the one proposed by the citation, the initial decision must set forth the specific reasons for the increase or decrease. Either party may file a motion to reopen the hearing within twenty (20) days of service of the initial decision. Unless a party appeals to the Environmental Appeals Board (the Board) within twenty (20) days of service, or unless the Board elects to review it sua sponte , the Presiding Officer's initial decision becomes a final order of the Board within forty-five (45) days after service. A final order of the Board shall adopt, modify or set aside the findings and conclusions of the initial decision. The Board is authorized to increase or decrease the assessed penalty, except in the case of a default order. A motion for reconsideration of the final order may be filed with the Board within ten (10) days after service of the final order. Procedural Due Process EPA analyzed the issue of procedural due process with its consolidated APA rules of practice when they were promulgated. See 52 FR 2922 (August 6, 1987) (NPRM) and 57 FR 4316 (February 4, 1992) (FRM). In that analysis EPA evaluated and balanced the three factors specified by the Supreme Court in Mathews v. Eldridge , 424 U.S. 319 (1976) for determining whether the administrative procedure provided to an individual prior to the deprivation of a property interest meets the due process requirements of the Fifth Amendment: the magnitude and nature of the individual interest at stake, the risk of an erroneous deprivation of that interest and the benefit of additional procedures in reducing that risk, and the governmental interest in not providing such additional procedures. EPA's APA style hearing procedures would certainly satisfy procedural due process considerations as well as statutory requirements if employed for hearings on field citations. By statute APA adjudication procedures are not required. The violations are by definition minor in nature and should involve simple and straightforward factual and legal situations. In fact, EPA believes these procedures provide significantly more process than required by the Fifth Amendment for hearings on field citations, and are proposed as an option not because of due process considerations but because of the expected benefits of having a single set of procedures governing all administrative penalty proceedings under the Clean Air Act. EPA is also considering certain revisions to the Part 22 procedures to account for the minor nature of the violations at issue under the field citation program. First, EPA is considering using presiding officers that are not administrative law judges. As with other non-APA situations, the agency's presiding officers would conduct the hearings and take other actions. This would help to conserve the agency's administrative law judge resources for APA hearings, with no expected reduction in the accuracy of the hearing process. The Agency is also considering such revisions as making the prehearing conference optional and changing the deadline for default from twenty to thirty days following service.
