FR940119-2-00005 FR940119-2-00001 Due to the unique circumstances in this case, the Department concludes that Ceramica Santa Julia has met the requirements of ยง355.25(a)(3) based on the following facts: First, both the Government of Mexico and Ceramica Santa Julia have submitted certifications stating that the company had not applied for or received any net subsidy during the review period and would not apply for or receive any net subsidy in the future; second, Ceramica Santa Julia has agreed to the immediate suspension of liquidation and reinstatement of the order if the Department determines that subsequent to revocation the company received a net subsidy; third, in the current review period, we verified the company and found no evidence that they had applied for or received subsidies, and; fourth, the record shows that prior to the year for which there was no review, Ceramica Santa Julia was found to have received no net subsidies in seven consecutive reviews. Based on these unique facts and circumstances, and because there was no clearly articulated policy detailing the requirements of 19 CFR 355.25(a)(3), the Department has decided to revoke Ceramica Santa Julia. The Department finds that under the current regulations, Ceramica Santa Julia clearly would have met requirements for revocation after the seven consecutive reviews in which the Department found no receipt of subsidies. Furthermore, the eight years of non-receipt of subsidies coupled with the company and government certifications of non-receipt are sufficient evidence for a finding of no past subsidy receipt or no likelihood of receipt of subsidies in the future. Final Results of Review After reviewing all of the comments received, we determine the total bounty or grant to be de minimis for all companies for the period January 1, 1991 through December 31, 1991. The Department will instruct the Customs Service to liquidate, without regard to countervailing duties, shipments of this merchandise from all companies exported on or after January 1, 1991 and on or before December 31, 1991. The Department will instruct the Customs Service to collect cash deposits of zero estimated countervailing duties, as provided by section 751(a)(1) of the Act, on shipments of this merchandise from all companies entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice. This deposit requirement shall remain in effect until publication of the final results of the next administrative review. In addition, we have determined that the following companies have met the requirements for revocation from the order: Azulejos Orion, S.A., Ceramica Santa Julia, Eduardo Garcia de la Pena, Jesus Garza Arocha, Ladrillera Monterrey, S.A., Pisos Coloniales de Mexico, S.A., Reynol Martinez Chapa, and Teofilo Covarrubias. We have determined that these companies have not applied for or received any net subsidy for five consecutive years and they have filed the certifications and agreement required by 19 CFR 355.25(b)(3). Based on the foregoing, we also determine that there is no likelihood that these companies will apply for or receive any net subsidy in the future. Therefore, the Department will instruct the Customs Service to terminate suspension of liquidation on entries from these companies and to liquidate, without regard to countervailing duties, merchandise exported by these companies on or after January 1, 1992. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)), 19 CFR 355.22 and 19 CFR 355.25. Dated: January 10, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1263 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
