FR940613-0-00052 FR940613-0-00015 The ISTEA provides that LCV's (including SVC's) must have operated ``on a regular or periodic basis'' on or before June 1, 1991 (23 U.S.C. 127(d)(1)(A)). According to the ISTEA conference report: To be considered ``regular or periodic'' use, operations must have occurred at recurring intervals over a period of time. Moreover, periodic operations must have occurred on an intermittent but consistent basis. Use of an LCV on only one or two occasions pursuant to a special permit would not provide a basis for satisfactorily certifying grandfather rights or operations *␣*␣* . (H.R. Rep. No. 404, 102d Cong., 1st Sess., at 314 (1991)) Because SVC operations on I&hyph;70 did not appear to be ``regular or periodic'' by this standard, the FHWA revised the SNPRM to remove the Goodland segment from the list of authorized Kansas LCV routes. Thirty-seven commenters discussed this subject, and all of them favored restoration of the I&hyph;70 route. Yellow Corporation, the parent company of Yellow Freight, explained in detail how the problem arose. Yellow Freight uses a hub and spoke system. The company commented that ``(w)here distances between hubs do not allow for the journey to be made within the ten-hour federal drivers hours of service limit, Yellow Freight has established driver relay facilities (where) *␣*␣* drivers *␣*␣* are changed, with the equipment moving on to meet customer service demands.'' Yellow Freight has for 25 years maintained a driver relay facility at Goodland which serves vehicles moving between its Kansas City and Denver hubs. ``Linehaul drivers leave Kansas City westbound to Goodland, layover and return eastbound the next day. Goodland-domiciled linehaul drivers operate a turn between Goodland and the Denver hub.'' Colorado authorized triple-trailer and other large combinations in 1989. Unlike competitors with facilities in eastern Colorado, Yellow Freight was unable to use these vehicles between Goodland and Denver because Kansas did not allow them on I&hyph;70. Rather than move its relay facility into Colorado or forgo the economic advantages of ``Triples,'' Yellow Freight asked Kansas in September 1989, to allow SVC's on I&hyph;70 between Goodland and the Colorado line. The Kansas Department of Transportation (KDOT) announced a rulemaking proposal in January 1990, that would have allowed ``Triples'' on all Kansas Interstates. The Kansas Railroad Association (KRA) responded by having a bill to ban ``Triples'' introduced in the legislature; the KDOT withdrew its proposal. Yellow Freight and the KRA negotiated a compromise which, among other things, allowed triple-trailer combinations on the Goodland segment of I&hyph;70. The bill was approved on April 12, 1990, and SVC regulations to implement it were promulgated on March 4, 1991. Yellow Freight ran one ``Triple'' on May 31, 1991, and a second on June 1. Both Yellow Freight and the KDOT place much of the blame for delays in issuing the permits required to start I&hyph;70 operations on the FHWA's failure to clarify its position on the State's grandfather rights in a timely fashion. The FHWA and a number of States_not including Kansas_had long disagreed on the question of whether LCV operations were legitimately grandfathered. One of the purposes of the LCV freeze was to resolve these disputes by ratifying actual operations allowed by State law on June 1, 1991. The KDOT's announced intention to allow SVC's on I&hyph;70 was one more indication of the rapid spread of LCV's in States west of the Mississippi. Because of the desirability of a uniform policy toward all States that allowed LCV operations, the FHWA did not immediately address the question of Kansas' grandfather rights. However, on April 8, 1991, just over a month after the KDOT's regulations authorizing SVC permits became effective, the FHWA asked for an opinion by the Kansas Attorney General (AG). The KDOT requested the opinion on April 26, 1991, and the AG replied on May 30, 1991, that the State's grandfather rights were broad enough to encompass SVC operations on I&hyph;70. Since the issue here is ``regular or periodic'' operations, it would serve no purpose to discuss the AG's grandfather claims. The KDOT quickly issued an annual SVC permit to Yellow Freight and operations began the following day. The State's regulatory process was not completed until March 4, 1991, and the Kansas AG required more than a month to respond to the KDOT's request for an opinion. The FHWA had no part in these delays. It is true, however, that the KDOT made a good faith effort to satisfy the FHWA's legal concerns and postponed the start of SVC operations on I&hyph;70 until the deadline included in the draft ISTEA legislation had nearly passed. We do not wish to penalize Kansas simply for cooperating with the FHWA. Yellow Freight asserted that ``(a)s originally drafted, the Federal LCV freeze date would have been April 1, 1991. Senator Dole's office intervened to move that federal freeze date to June 1, 1991, specifically to accommodate the Goodland triples route.'' In its comments in response to the SNPRM, the ATA said: ATA was deeply involved in the Congressional deliberations leading to the LCV freeze. It is our understanding that the language in the Conference report was designed to preclude establishing LCV operations based on single trip permits for infrequent truck movements. Therefore one or two movements of heavy machinery by a specialized carrier would not create ``grandfathered rights.''
