FR940426-1-00125 FR940426-1-00015 In view of the substantive disclosure required by GAAP and the MD&A, the Commission believes that the schedule of marketable securities_other investments 35 may be eliminated without detriment to investor protection. Similarly, the Commission proposes to eliminate the requirement for ``other investments'' for commercial and industrial companies. 36 35 17 CFR 210.12&hyph;02. 36 The Rule 12&hyph;12 of Regulation S&hyph;X schedule will continue to be required of registered investment companies and employee stock plans. See 17 CFR 210.6&hyph;10 and 17 CFR 210.6A&hyph;05. Comment is requested as to whether the Commission should prescribe by rule the categories of securities into which marketable securities and other investments should be disaggregated for purposes of SFAS 115 disclosures. Comment also is requested as to whether a rule specifying a quantitative threshold for disclosure of material counterparty risk or investment concentration is necessary, and, if so, what that threshold should be. 2. Amounts Receivable From Related Parties and Underwriters, Promoters and Employees Other Than Related Parties and Indebtedness of and to Related Parties Registrants, other than bank holding companies, 37 must furnish a schedule, 38 of material receivables from related parties, underwriters, promoters and employees. The schedule requires disclosure with respect to all such indebtedness exceeding the lesser of $100,000 or one percent of total assets (excluding amounts that relate to the ordinary course of business). These companies also must furnish a schedule of indebtedness of and to related parties which is not classified as a current asset or liability. 39 This schedule must be filed if the total amount of indebtedness to or from related parties exceeds 5% of total assets, with separate disclosure of any balance with a related party that exceeds 2% of total assets. Both schedules require disclosure of beginning and ending balances and changes occurring therein for each year that an income statement is provided. 37 Pursuant to Rule 9&hyph;03.7(e) of Regulation S&hyph;X, bank holding companies are required to disclose in financial statements the aggregate dollar amount and activity in the latest year with respect to loans exceeding $60,000 made to specified related parties, if such aggregate amount exceeds 5% of stockholders' equity. [17 CFR 210.9&hyph;03.7(e)] 38 17 CFR 210.12&hyph;03. 39 17 CFR 210.12&hyph;05. At the time that rules mandating these two schedules were adopted, the Commission indicated that the schedules codified for reporting purposes the auditing concepts of Statement of Auditing Standards No. 6, ``Related Party Transactions'' (``SAS 6'') issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (``AICPA''). The Commission stated further that if comprehensive GAAP requirements for related party disclosures were developed by the FASB in the future, the need for the schedule would be reconsidered. 40 Subsequently, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 57, ``Related Party Transactions'' (``SFAS 57''). As discussed in the background information to that standard, the FASB applied the guidance in SAS 6 in determining the disclosure requirements of SFAS 57, with the intent to extend the reporting principles codified in Regulation S&hyph;X to companies that were not subject to the requirements of the Commission. SFAS 57 requires material related party transactions to be disclosed in the financial statements, accompanied by such other information as deemed necessary for an understanding of their effects on the financial statements. Unlike the schedules, SFAS 57 does not set quantitative thresholds of materiality at which a particular transaction or amount must be disclosed. 40 See Securities Act Release No. 6233 (September 2, 1980) [45 FR 63600] Accounting Series Release No. 280. The Commission proposes to eliminate the requirement for the schedules of related party amounts. Regulation S&hyph;K, Item 404 ``Certain Relationships and Related Transactions'' 41 requires disclosure outside of the financial statements of any transaction between the registrant and any of its subsidiaries and certain other related parties 42 in which the amount exceeds $60,000. In addition, Regulation S&hyph;X 43 requires that material related party transactions be identified in the financial statements, with the amounts stated on the face of the balance sheet, income statement, or statement of cash flows. The Commission believes these requirements, in combination with the requirements of SFAS 57, should provide investors the necessary information about related party transactions. 41 17 CFR 229.404. 42 Parties for whom disclosures are required under Item 404 of Regulation S&hyph;K include any director or executive officer of the registrant; any nominee for election as a director; any security holder who is known to the registrant to own of record or beneficially more than five percent of any class of the registrant's voting securities; or any member of the immediate family of any of the foregoing persons. 43 See 17 CFR 210.4&hyph;08(k). Comment is requested as to whether quantitative disclosure thresholds should be established with respect to transaction amounts or balances involving related parities that must be disclosed in the financial statements, and, if so, what measure should be specified. 3. Property, Plant, and Equipment, and Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion, and Amortization Where the net amount of property, plant and equipment exceeds 25% of total assets, registrants must furnish schedules of the balances of and changes in property, plant and equipment accounts and the related accumulated depreciation. 44 These schedules require presentation of additions, retirements and other changes for each major category. 44 See 17 CFR 210.12&hyph;06 and 12&hyph;07. Some of the information that is included in these schedules is required to be included in financial statements pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles. Balances by major classification are required by Accounting Principle Board Opinion No. 12, (``Omnibus Opinion - 1967''). Information regarding total additions to property, plant and equipment can be determined from the statement of cash flows prepared in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 95, ``Statement of Cash Flows'' (``SFAS 95''). While some analysts may use the more disaggregated data that includes retirements, transfers, currency exchange rate effects, and similar activity in the separate accounts, the data does not appear to be sufficiently useful to justify the cost incurred by many registrants in gathering this data and having it audited. Accordingly, the proposed rules would eliminate the requirement to furnish these schedules. Comment is requested regarding whether any additional breakout of balances and of changes in balances of asset and depreciation accounts should be disclosed in the financial statements, in lieu of furnishing the supplemental schedule. 4. Guarantees of Securities of Other Issuers Registrants also are required to furnish a schedule disclosing guarantees of securities of others. 45 The schedule must include: the name of issuer and title of class of securities guaranteed; total amount guaranteed and outstanding; amount owned by person for which statement is filed; amount in treasury of issuer of securities guaranteed; nature of guarantee; and nature of any defaults. 45 See 17 CFR 210.12&hyph;08.
