FR940621-2-00106 FR940621-2-00068 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20357; File No. 812&hyph;9042] National Home Life Assurance Company, et al. June 14, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``Commission'' or the ``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: National Home Life Assurance Company (``National Home''), National Home Life Assurance Company Separate Account V (the ``Separate Account'') and Capital Values Securities Corporation. RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 6(c) for exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Separate Account under certain flexible premium variable annuity contracts (the ``Contracts'') and any materially similar contracts offered in the future by the Separate Account. FILING DATE: The application was filed on June 9, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on July 11, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o National Home Life Assurance Company, 20 Moores Road, Frazer, PA 19355. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wendy Finck Friedlander, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0682, or Wendell M. Faria, Deputy Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. National Home, a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of Missouri, is wholly-owned by Providian Corporation, a publicly held insurance holding company. National Home is principally engaged in offering life insurance, annuity contracts; and accident and health insurance and is admitted to do business in 40 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. 2. The Separate Account was established by National Home as a separate account under Missouri law to fund the Contracts. The Separate Account is registered as a unit investment trust under the 1940 Act. The Separate Account has eighteen subaccounts, each of which invests solely in a corresponding portfolio (``Portfolio'') of one of seven open-end management investment companies (``Funds''). The Funds are registered under the 1940 Act. 3. Shares of each Portfolio are purchased by National Home for the corresponding subaccount of the Separate Account at net asset value. Shares of each Portfolio are also offered to other affiliated or unaffiliated separate accounts of insurance companies offering variable annuity contracts or variable life insurance policies. 4. The Contract is a flexible premium payment contract that is intended to be used either in connection with a retirement plan qualified under Section 401(a), 403(b), 408, and 457 of the Internal Revenue Code (``Qualified Contract'') or by other purchasers (``Non-Qualified contract''). A Contract owner may allocate purchase payments and/or the accumulation value to the general account of National Home and/or the subaccounts of the Separate Account. The Contract owner may select among annuity payment options that include variable or fixed annuity options. Capital Values Securities Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Providian Corporation, is the principal underwriter of the Contracts.
