FR940407-2-00130 FR940407-2-00065 12. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted and the duties and responsibilities of the Directors with respect to the Multi-Class System will be set forth in guidelines which will be furnished to the Directors. 13. The Fund will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, services, fees, sales loads, deferred sales loads, and exchange privileges applicable to each class of shares in every prospectus, regardless of whether all classes of shares are offered through each prospectus. The Fund will disclose the respective expenses and performance data applicable to all classes of shares in every shareholder report. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Fund as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Fund's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to all classes of shares of such Fund. To the extent that any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares of a Portfolio, it will also disclose the respective expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares of such Portfolio. The information provided by Applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of the Fund's net asset value or public offering price will present each class of shares separately. 14. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the exemptive order requested by the application will not imply Commission approval, authorization of or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that the Fund may make pursuant to its Distribution Plan or Shareholder Services Plan in reliance on the exemptive order. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8286 filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
