FR940505-1-00187 FR940505-1-00012 (2) Changes to Address Federal Approvability. Significant changes in today's rule include deletion or revision of certain sections which exist in the Districts' current rules, as well as the inclusion of new sections to address federal requirements. Federal new source review at 40 CFR 51.165 applies to certain source categories which were exempt from District new source review requirements. Therefore, such exemptions are excluded. Some of the District rules allow trading between different precursors of a secondary pollutant. As EPA does not currently allow trading between either of the ozone precursor criteria pollutants addressed in this rule, this rule does not, as proposed, allow such trading. In addition, 40 CFR 52.3000 contains wording which emphasizes the federal enforceability of an Authority to Construct and its validity for the life of the source. In order to match EPA's enforcement authority over past violations, and to be consistent with requirements in EPA's Operating Permits Program (40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)), today's rule requires retention of records for five years. This rule contains certain other provisions which are not in the current District rules. A subsection is included in this rule to address the minimum offset ratio for emission reductions achieved from mobile sources. Furthermore, the ERC Authorization includes provisions to certify that ERCs are surplus at time of use, that prior shutdown credits are federally approvable, and that ERCs from non-permitted sources are surplus, permanent, enforceable, and quantifiable. (3) Changes to Address Federal Implementation. Some significant changes in the APCD rule are necessary for federal implementation. Today's rule excludes all references to requirements contained in state law. All district fee requirements are removed and are replaced with a provision allowing EPA to collect fees. Upon delegation of authority to implement and enforce any portion of this NSR rule, EPA will cease to collect the fees associated with that portion of this rule, and the delegated agency will calculate and collect fees in accordance with the fee rules of that agency. Language was added to section 52.3001 to provide the opportunity to request a public hearing as provided by 40 CFR 124.12. Language was also added to section 52.3000 to allow for petition to the Environmental Appeals Board for review and reconsideration within 30 days of any final decision issued pursuant to this NSR rule, including decisions made by a delegated agency pursuant to this NSR rule. A petition for review can also be filed with the U.S. Court of Appeals as provided in section 307(b) of the Act. Because this rule is explicitly intended for preconstruction review for ozone precursors, it does not reference other criteria pollutants nor District operating permits programs. The ERC Authorization section of this Rule allows sources to meet the offset requirements of this Rule through use of the existing District banking system. Functions of the District Banks and District Priority Reserve Banks are not affected by today's Rule. e. Dual Permit Application and Review. Today's proposed NSR Rule does not replace the Districts' existing permitting programs. New or modified sources of ozone precursors must continue to meet the applicable District NSR requirements. This may result in sources of such pollutants having to apply for permits from both the EPA and the District in which the source is located. 100 As a practical matter, however, because EPA has maintained the structure and requirements of the existing District Rules, by meeting the requirements of this ``bumped up'' rule, the source will have also met the District NSR requirements. Additional preparation in the form of permit applications, modeling, or research on the part of the applicant would be minimal, if required at all. EPA has no statutory authority to repeal or supplant the existing State or local laws, nor would this be desirable since the existing District permitting programs regulate the emissions of pollutants not covered by this rule. 100 Sources must follow this ``dual'' permitting scheme in any area that does not have authority to implement federally mandated permitting programs. One difficulty EPA has encountered in proposing this ``dual system'' is how to operate federal emission reduction credit ``banks'' that meet federal requirements and still preserve the integrity of existing District banks. As required by the Act and set forth in section 40 CFR 52.3001 of this rule, new sources or modifications that emit ozone precursors above an established threshold must obtain offsets. Under current District programs, emission reduction credits can be certified and obtained from District banks to meet offset requirements. However, to be creditable for use as offsets under this rule, EPA must ensure that the credits in the District banks meet federal approvability criteria as set forth in the Emission Trading Policy Statement (ETPS, 51 FR 43815) and in the General Preamble to Title I at (57 FR 13553). The ERC authorization process described in today's rule would allow emissions reductions to be certified directly by EPA and would also allow sources to use ERCs which have previously been certified by a District rule and authorized to meet federal NSR requirements. EPA requests comment on today's proposal and alternative methods that would preserve the integrity of the District banks under the proposed ``dual'' permitting system. f. Operating Permits. The permits issued by EPA under today's NSR rule will not expire upon issuance of a District operating permit. The Districts are encouraged to include the requirements contained in permits issued by EPA, pursuant to this rule, in their operating permits since sources must continue to comply with the requirements of these EPA issued construction permits. Districts must include conditions contained in permits issued pursuant to this rule in any operating permit issued under a program adopted pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or Title V of the Act, as discussed in section III.J of this preamble.
