FR940721-0-00019 FR940721-0-00009 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 90&hyph;16; Notice 03] RIN 2127&hyph;AD09 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards Seating Systems; Pedestal Seats AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This notice amends Standard 207, Seating Systems, to establish a more appropriate test procedure for pedestal seats. Manufacturers of most pedestal seats will have a choice between the current test procedure or the new test procedure. The current test procedure applies a single load through the center of gravity (cg) of the entire seat. The new test procedure applies two separate loads, one through the cg of the portion of the seat above the adjuster and the other through the cg of the pedestal. This rule is a response to manufacturer concerns that the current Standard No. 207 test procedure imposes excessive loads on the adjuster for pedestal seats when the cg of the seat is located above the seat adjuster. (The adjuster is typically located between the pedestal and the seat.) Manufacturers believed that the current test procedure is inappropriate for seats whose cg is located above the adjuster because a portion of the load applied to the seat, and therefore imposed on the adjuster, represents the weight of the pedestal. In a real crash, only the weight of the seat that is above the adjuster would be imposed on the adjuster. DATES: Effective Date : The amendments made in this rule are effective October 19, 1994. Petition Date: Any petitions for reconsideration must be received by NHTSA no later than August 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Any petitions for reconsideration should refer to the docket and notice number of this notice and be submitted to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Room 5109, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC., 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. William J.J. Liu, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, NRM&hyph;12, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh St., SW., Washington, DC., 20590. Telephone: (202) 366&hyph;2264. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 14, 1990, NHTSA published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) to amend Standard 207, Seating Systems, establish a more appropriate test procedure for pedestal seats (55 FR 33141). Under the proposed test procedure, the pedestal and the seat portion of a pedestal seat would each be separately, but simultaneously, loaded. The NPRM proposed definitions for a ``pedestal seat,'' and parts thereof, to differentiate such seats from other seating systems. March 8, 1993, NHTSA published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (SNPRM) for the same rulemaking (58 FR 12921). The SNPRM and the 1990 NPRM differed in two principal respects. The first concerned the definition of ``pedestal seat.'' Instead of attempting to define and differentiate different parts of a pedestal seat from one another, as was done in the NPRM, the SNPRM simply divided pedestal seats into two portions, that above the adjuster and that below the adjuster. The second difference concerned whether the new test procedure would replace the current procedure or become an alternative to it. The new test procedure proposed in the SNPRM was virtually identical to that proposed in the NPRM, except that the SNPRM gave manufacturers the option of using either the current single load procedure or the new dual load test procedure for testing most pedestal seats. The agency received six comments concerning the March 1993 SNPRM. In general, the commenters supported the SNPRM. All of the comments were considered when formulating this final rule, and the most significant comments are addressed below. Definitions The SNPRM proposed a new definition for ``seat adjuster'' as follows: `` Seat adjuster '' means the part of the seat that allows the seat bench and back to move forward and rearward, and/or to rotate around a vertical axis, including any fixed portion, such as a seat track. The term also means the uppermost seat adjuster in the case of a seat equipped with seat adjusters at different levels. AM General Corp. (AM General), Chrysler Corp. (Chrysler), and Volvo GM Heavy Truck Corp. (Volvo) commented on the proposed definition. AM General and Chrysler commented that the proposed definition excluded nonadjustable pedestal seats and asked that the proposed test procedure also apply to that type of seat. NHTSA agrees with AM General and Chrysler that the amendments proposed in the SNPRM apply only to adjustable pedestal seats. The focus of this rulemaking has always been manufacturer concerns that the current Standard No. 207 test procedure imposes excessive loads placed on the adjusters for pedestal seats. The current test procedure requires a single load to be applied through the center of gravity (cg) of the entire seat. If the cg of a pedestal seat lies at or above the adjuster, the test procedure places the load of the entire seat, including the pedestal, on the adjuster. However, in a real-world crash, the adjuster would not have loads imposed on it from the pedestal. NHTSA does not believe the same concerns apply to non-adjustable pedestal seats. In addition, NHTSA notes that extending this rule to non-adjustable pedestal seats would be outside the scope of notice of this rulemaking. Volvo stated that the: (s)uspension seats in heavy trucks also include a fore and aft slide device which allows the seat to ``float'' and absorb the pitch moment generated by rough roads or uneven loading. Volvo asked that the definition be changed to clarify that the adjuster is the part of the seat that provides forward and rearward positioning of the seat, rather than a part of the seat which allows the seat to move while the vehicle is in motion. NHTSA agrees that the Volvo change clarifies the definition and has adopted the change as suggested. Test Procedure
