FR940317-2-00075 FR940317-2-00050 Notice of Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Alamosa and Socorro Springsnails for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the Alamosa springsnail ( Tryonia alamosae ) and the Socorro springsnail ( Pyrgulopsis noemexicana ) which the Service listed as endangered species on September 30, 1991 (56 FR 43649). These two species occur in slow-velocity water near thermal springheads and/or associated springruns in Socorro County, New Mexico. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before May 16, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the State Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, New Mexico Ecological Services State Office, 3530 Pan American Highway NE., suite D, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87107. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the State Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gerald L. Burton, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Biologist; telephone (505) 883&hyph;7877 or at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened plant or animal to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe site specific management actions considered necessary for conservation and survival of the species, establish objective, measurable criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting species, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The Alamosa springsnail and Socorro springsnail were listed as endangered on October 30, 1991. The draft recovery plan includes new scientific information about the two species gathered since 1991 and provides management procedures for protecting their habitat and expanding their range and abundance to the extent that no natural or human-caused disturbance will result in irrevocable losses. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to the approval of the plan. Authority The Authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533 (f). Dated: March 10, 1994. John G. Rogers, Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6212 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
