FR941102-1-00073 FR941102-1-00018 The NAJ witness continued by explaining that the proposal includes the value of whey protein in the protein price so that all of the protein in the milk would be accounted for. As explained by the proponent witness, the .735 factor was determined by dividing 25 percent, which is the protein left in whey after making cheese, by 34 percent, which is the percent of protein in whey protein concentrate. The resulting value, .735, is multiplied by the monthly average 34 percent whey protein concentrate price to yield the whey contribution to the protein price. The witness stated that the whey protein concentrate price was selected because it is a better indicator of the value of the protein contained in whey than is dry whey or animal feed whey. An economist supporting the NAJ proposal testified that even though the butterfat price is determined at its marginal value, that is, the value of butterfat in butter, the protein price should be determined by the value of protein in the most common use of protein in the five markets included in this proceeding. The witness pointed out that the most common use of protein is in the manufacture of cheese, with 85.9 percent of the milk marketed in 1992 in Wisconsin being used in the manufacture of cheese. The witness testified that the appropriate cheese price to be used in computing the protein price was the block price because it is a ``conservative estimate of the price actually received for block cheddar cheese''. The witness went on to explain that the reported block price is closer to what manufacturing plants receive for barrel cheese than is the reported barrel price because when the customary premiums are added to the reported barrel cheese price the result is approximately equal to the block price. The academic NAJ witness reiterated the NAJ position that the value of whey protein should be included in the protein price because the total value of the protein in producer milk would thus be reflected in the protein price, giving producers an incentive to produce more protein. A witness for Central Milk Producers Cooperative (CMPC) explained that the CMPC proposal would use the monthly average Green Bay Cheese Exchange barrel price (barrel price) instead of the block price, and would not include the value of whey protein. The witness for CMPC testified that the barrel price better represents the value of cheese than the block price because there is a greater volume of trading in barrel cheese than in block cheese. The resulting protein price would be lower than the protein price computed under the NAJ proposal. A witness for CMPC explained that their proposed protein price was based on the understanding that Federal order prices are minimum prices, and that the CMPC proposal, using the barrel cheese price and not including a value for whey protein, would result in a minimum price for protein.
