FR940512-0-00054 FR940512-0-00018 (h) Transportation costs of early intervention component participants for regularly scheduled component activities. (i) Transportation, meals, and overnight accommodations for staff members if they are required to accompany participants in program activities such as field trips. (j) Costs of remedial and special classes if_ (1) These classes are limited to early intervention component participants; and (2) Identical instruction is not readily available through another Federal program or a State, local, or privately funded program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;22) ยง693.51 What are nonallowable costs that may not be charged to administration of the early intervention component? A State may not use its NEISP Program funds for costs incurred for the early intervention component of the NEISP Program such as_ (a) Duplication of services that are available to participants through_ (1) State, local, or private sources not included in the State plan under ยง693.11; or (2) Other Federal programs, such as projects under the Federal TRIO programs; (b) Research not directly related to the evaluation or improvement of the program; (c) Purchase of any equipment, unless the State demonstrates to the Secretary's satisfaction that purchase is less expensive than renting or leasing; (d) Meals for program staff except as provided in ยง693.50. (e) Clothing; (f) Construction, renovation, or remodeling of any facilities; or (g) Tuition, stipends, or any other form of student financial support for program staff. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;22) ยง693.52 What requirements must a State meet in preparing and submitting an evaluation report? (a) Each State receiving an allotment under this part shall prepare and submit to the Secretary every two years an evaluation of the early intervention component of its NEISP Program. The report must summarize and evaluate a State's activities under the program and the performance of the student participants. Each State's evaluation report design must include measures that permit the State to track all participating students progress throughout each student's participation in the program. (b) The biennial evaluation report of the early intervention component of the program must include, but is not limited to_ (1) Quantifiable information on the extent to which the State's program is fulfilling the program objectives; (2) The effect of the program on the student recipients being served by the program, including measurable outcomes such as improved academic performance, increased postsecondary education enrollment and retention, increased elementary and secondary school grade retention, reduced elementary and secondary school dropout rates, and reduced financial barriers to attendance at institutions of higher education; (3) The barriers to the effectiveness of the program and recommendations for changes or improvements to the program; (4) The cost-effectiveness of the program; (5) The extent to which the student recipients comply with the requirements of the program; (6) Key program information listed on an annual and biennial basis; (7) Other pertinent program measurements concerning the early intervention component that the State believes would be useful to the Secretary, which may be displayed through analytical charts, tables, and graphs; and (8) Any other information required by the Secretary in order to carry out the evaluation report function. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;26) (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1840&hyph;0677) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11499 Filed 5&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
