FR940628-1-00011 FR940628-1-00001 The definition of disease in §53.1 also refers to ``lethal avian influenza (a disease of poultry caused by any form of H5 influenza virus that has been determined by the Administrator to have spread from the 1983 outbreak in poultry in Pennsylvania).'' This description is outdated, and we are proposing to replace it with a description that reflects current understanding of the disease. We would replace the reference to ``lethal avian influenza'' with a reference to ``highly pathogenic avian influenza'' and would describe the disease as that caused by any influenza virus that results in not less than 75 percent mortality within 8 days in at least 8 healthy susceptible chickens, 4 to 8 weeks old, inoculated by the intramuscular, intravenous, or caudal airsac route with bacteria-free infectious allantoic or cell culture fluids. We would also revise the definitions of person and State in §53.1 to clarify our intent as to their meaning, and make nonsubstantive wording and format changes to the remainder of the definitions. Finally, we would eliminate an unnecessary cross reference in §53.2(b). Part 71 Part 71 of Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, contains general provisions regarding the interstate transportation of animals and animal products. The regulations in Part 71 contain a reference to psittacosis or ornithosis. We are proposing to amend this reference to use the updated name for the disease: chlamydiosis. Part 71 also contains regulations concerning cleaning and disinfecting. Section 71.7 explains methods of cleaning and disinfecting means of conveyance, facilities, and premises. Section 71.10(a) lists ``substances permitted for use in disinfecting cars, boats, other vehicles, and premises.'' Neither of these sections covers cages, coops, containers, troughs, and other equipment, although the cleaning and disinfectants listed are suitable and effective for cleaning and disinfecting them. The current regulations in part 82 (§§82.4(d), 82.5(b), and 82.5(c)) require coops, containers, troughs, and other ``accessories'' to be cleaned and disinfected with a disinfectant listed in §71.10. We propose to retain this reference to part 71. Therefore, we are proposing to amend §71.10 to state that the disinfectants listed in that section can be used on cages and other equipment. We are also proposing to amend the cleaning and disinfection instructions in §71.7 to cover cages and other equipment. Part 92 Part 92 of Title 9, Code of Federal Regulations, contains requirements for the importation of certain animals into the United States. Part 92 contains references to ornithosis. We are proposing to amend those references to use the updated name for the disease: chlamydiosis.
