FR940930-0-00057 FR940930-0-00009 (a) Criteria for approval of alternative standards. Upon application by a qualified party as defined under paragraph (b) of this section, the Director, Division of Mammography Quality and Radiation Programs (the Director), may approve an alternative to a quality standard under §900.12, when the Director determines that: (1) The proposed alternative standard will be at least as effective in assuring quality mammography as the standard it proposes to replace, and (2) The proposed alternative: (i) Is too limited in its applicability to justify amending the standard, or (ii) Offers an expected benefit to public health which is so great that the time required for the processing of an amendment to the standard would present an unjustifiable risk to public health, and (3) The granting of the alternative is in keeping with the purposes of the Mammography Quality Standards Act of 1992. (b) Applicants for alternatives. (1) Mammography facilities and accreditation bodies may apply for alternatives to the quality standards of §900.12. (2) State governments that are not accrediting bodies may apply for alternatives to the standards of §900.12(a). (3) Manufacturers and assemblers of equipment used for mammography may apply for alternatives to the standards of §900.12 (b), (c), and (d). (c) Application for approval of an alternative standard. An application for approval of an alternative standard or for an amendment or extension of the alternative standard shall be submitted in an original and two copies to the Director, Division of Mammography Quality and Radiation Programs, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;240), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. The application for approval of an alternative standard shall include the following information: (1) Identification of the original standard for which the alternative standard is being proposed and an explanation of why it is believed necessary to propose the alternative; (2) A description of the manner in which the alternative is proposed to deviate from the original standard; (3) A description, supported by data, of the advantages to be derived from such deviation; (4) An explanation, supported by data, of how such a deviation would assure equal or greater quality of production, processing, or interpretation of mammograms than the original standard; (5) The suggested period of time that the proposed alternative standard would be in effect; and (6) Such other information required by the Director to evaluate and act on the application. (d) Ruling on applications. (1) The Director may approve or deny, in whole or in part, a request for approval of an alternative standard or any amendment or extension thereof, and shall inform the applicant in writing of this action. The written notice will state the manner in which the requested alternative standard differs from the agency standard and a summary of the reasons for approval or denial of the request. If the request is approved, the written notice will also include the effective date and the termination date of the approval, a summary of the limitations and conditions attached to the approval, and any other information that may be relevant to the approved request. Each approved alternative standard will be assigned an identifying number. (2) Notice of an approved request for an alternative standard or any amendment or extension thereof will be placed in the public docket file in the office of the Dockets Management Branch and may also be in the form of a notice published in the Federal Register . The notice will state the name of the applicant, a description of the published agency standard, and a description of the approved alternative standard, including limitations and conditions attached to approval of the alternative standard. (3) Summaries of approved alternative standards, including information on their nature and number, will be provided to the National Mammography Quality Assurance Advisory Committee. (4) All applications for approval of alternative standards and for amendments and extensions thereof and all correspondence (including written notices of approval) on these applications will be available for public disclosure in the Dockets Management Branch, excluding patient identifiers and confidential commercial information. (e) Amendment or extension of an alternative standard. An application for amending or extending approval of an alternative standard shall include the following information: (1) The approval number and the expiration date of the alternative standard; (2) The amendment or extension requested and the basis for the amendment or extension; and (3) An explanation, supported by data, of how such an amendment or extension would assure equal or greater quality of production, processing, or interpretation of mammograms than the original standard. (f) Applicability of the alternative standards. Any approval of an alternative standard, amendment, or extension may be implemented only by the entity to which it was granted and under the terms under which it was granted, except that when an alternative standard is approved for a manufacturer of equipment, any facility using that equipment will also be covered by the alternative standard. Other entities interested in similar or identical approvals must file their own application by following the provisions of §900.18(c). (g) Withdrawal of approval of alternative standards. The Director shall amend or withdraw approval of an alternative standard whenever the Director determines that this action is necessary to protect the public health or otherwise is justified by §900.12. Such action will become effective on the date specified in the written notice of the action sent to the applicant, except that it will become effective immediately upon notification of the applicant when the Director determines that such action is necessary to prevent an imminent health hazard. Dated: September 26, 1994. William K. Hubbard, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24354 Filed 9&hyph;28&hyph;94; 12:40 pm] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;P
