FR941028-2-00125 FR941028-2-00089 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34885/October 24, 1994] Customer Service Plan of the Securities and Exchange Commission In response to Executive Order 12862 issued as part of the Vice President's National Performance Review, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) developed a customer service plan. The goal of the plan is to enhance investor protection through an improved investor education effort and a redirection of resources to augment the SEC's responsiveness to investor concerns and complaints. The plan submitted to the Vice President on September 8, 1994 was modified slightly on October 24, 1994. The modified plan is as follows: The SEC is responsible for protecting investors through enforcement of the federal securities laws and oversight and regulation of the securities markets. Individual and institutional investors have trillions of dollars invested in securities and mutual funds in the United States and abroad. While the SEC does not approve or guarantee any investments, it is responsible for ensuring that securities issuers provide full disclosure of material information to investors and that markets adhere to fair standards. Investors deal directly with the SEC through its Office of Consumer Affairs, which is responsible for processing and responding to inquiries and complaint letters from the public. In fiscal 1993, the SEC received over 34,700 investor complaints and inquiries. Although the SEC has no authority to provide legal representation to investors, the SEC may request information from brokerage firms and securities exchanges regarding particular problems. The SEC obtains invaluable leads from investors; approximately 18% of investigations each year have resulted, at least in part, from investor complaints. The general public also deals directly with the SEC through its Public Reference Rooms located in Washington, D.C., New York City, and Chicago. These facilities maintain a library of corporate filings, Commission releases, and other documents for use by the public. The SEC staff provide assistance to the public in locating and obtaining information and in using the agency's electronic filing system, known as EDGAR. In fiscal 1993, these facilities had nearly 45,000 visitors requesting nearly 63,000 documents and microfiche, and over 121,000 telephone inquiries. In its role of supervising the public securities markets, the SEC processes and reviews the filings of more than 13,000 entities that are required to file prospectuses, annual and quarterly reports, proxy statements and other informational documents. It also acts on the rule filings of the various stock exchanges and self-regulatory organizations. Efficiency is paramount for these time-sensitive filings. Because of its diverse customer base and the importance of its work to investors and the financial markets, efficient and effective customer service is a top priority at the SEC. The SEC has undertaken several initiatives to improve its ``user- friendliness'' and to educate investors. Mutual Fund Surveys
