FR940127-2-00116 FR940127-2-00074 Accordingly, OCC is amending its By-Laws by adding definitions of ``associated market-maker'' 7 and ``proprietary market-maker'' 8 and by including language to prohibit associated market-makers and proprietary market-makers from participating in the combined market-makers' account. 9 An associated market-maker so excluded can maintain its positions in a separate market-maker's account. 10 Because each separate market-maker's account is restricted to the transactions of a single market-maker, the positions of an associated market-maker that are maintained in such an account will not be commingled with the positions of other market-makers or with the positions of the clearing firm. 11 Under OCC rules, a clearing member that maintains a separate market-maker's account for its proprietary market-maker positions (``proprietary market-maker account'') may elect to have the positions in that account combined with the positions in its firm account for purposes of margin calculations 12 as a clearing member may elect to have its associated market-makers' positions treated as proprietary positions so that the associated market-makers' positions are combined with firm positions for purposes of margin calculation. 7 OCC By-laws, Article I, Section 1.A(10). 8 Under the proposal, Article I, Section 1.P(5) of OCC By-Laws defines proprietary market-maker as a market-maker, specialist, stock market-maker, stock specialist, or registered trader that is (A) a non-customer of the carrying clearing member or (B) a related person of the clearing member that (1) is not a customer of the clearing member for purposes of Commission Rule 15c3&hyph;3 [17 CFR 240.15c3&hyph;3], (2) does not carry the accounts of persons who are customers for purposes of Commission Rule 15c3&hyph;3, and (3) has consented to be treated as a proprietary market-maker. Thus, a proprietary market-maker account can be maintained by not only the clearing member itself but also by any non-customer of the clearing member. See also OCC's Amendment No. 2, discussed supra note 3. 9 OCC By-laws, Article VI, Section 3(c). A parallel change is made to Article VI, Section 3(e) with respect to combined registered traders' accounts. 10 OCC By-Laws, Article VI, Section 3(b). In the case of a registered trader, positions can be maintained in a separate registered trader's account established under paragraph (e). 11 It is generally advantageous to a clearing member to maintain positions in a combined market-makers' account rather than in a separate market-maker's account. Market-makers' positions in the combined market makers' account can be used as offsets or hedges against each other which may result in a lower margin requirement for the clearing member. 12 OCC Rules 601(c)(3) and 602(c)(4). III. Discussion
