FR940217-1-00132 FR940217-1-00015 (B) A list of agencies or officials in regularly visited ports. When this is not feasible, the master must obtain details concerning local reporting procedures upon arrival in port; and (C) A list of all parties with a financial interest in the ship, including, but not limited to, ship and cargo owners, insurers, and salvage interests. (D) A list which specifies who will be responsible for informing the parties listed and the priority in which they must be notified. (iii) A record of annual reviews and changes. (7) Non-mandatory provisions. If this section is included by the shipowner, it should include the following types of information or any other information that may be appropriate: (i) Diagrams; (ii) Response equipment; (iii) Public affairs practices; (iv) Recordkeeping; and (v) Plan exercising. §151.27 Plan submission and approval. (a) No ship subject to this part may operate unless it carries on board a shipboard oil pollution emergency plan approved by the Coast Guard. For new ships, plans must be submitted at least 60 days before the ship intends to begin operations. For existing ships, plans must be submitted at least 60 days prior to April 4, 1995, and an approved plan must be on board by April 4, 1995. (b) An owner or operator of a ship to which this part applies shall prepare and submit two English language copies of the shipboard oil pollution emergency plan to the Captain of the Port (COTP) or Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) at the ship's home port, for review and approval. (c) Combined shipboard oil pollution emergency plans and response plans meeting the requirements of subparts D and E of part 155 of this chapter must be prepared according to §155.1030(j) of this chapter and submitted to the Coast Guard at the following address: Commandant (G&hyph;MEP&hyph;6), U.S. Coast Guard, 2100 Second Street SW., Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001. (d) If the Coast Guard determines that the plan meets all requirements of this section, the Coast Guard will notify the owner or operator of the ship and return one copy of the approved plan along with an approval letter. The approval period for a plan expires 5 years after the plan approval date. (e) If the Coast Guard determines that the plan does not meet all of the requirements, the Coast Guard will notify the owner or operator of the plan's deficiencies. The owner or operator must then resubmit two copies of the revised plan, or corrected portions of the plan, within 45 days of receipt of the notice of deficiency. §151.28 Plan review and revision. (a) An owner or operator of a ship to which this part applies must review the shipboard oil pollution emergency plan annually and submit a letter to the COTP or OCMI at the ship's home port certifying that the review has been completed. This review must occur within 1 month of the anniversary date of Coast Guard approval of the plan. (b) The owner or operator shall submit any plan amendments to the COTP or OCMI at the ship's home port for information or approval. (c) The entire plan must be resubmitted to the COTP or OCMI at the ship's home port for reapproval 6 months before the end of the Coast Guard approval period identified in §151.27(d) of this subpart. (d) A record of annual review and changes to the plan must be maintained in the appropriate appendices. (e) The owner or operator shall submit revisions or amendments to an approved plan for information or approval after there is_ (1) A significant change in the ship's configuration that affects the information included in the plan; (2) A significant change in the ship's procedures to control a discharge; and (3) A change in the owner or operator of the ship; or (4) Any other significant changes that affect implementation of the plan. §151.29 Foreign ships. (a) Each oil tanker of 150 gross tons and above and each other ship of 400 gross tons and above, operated under the authority of a country other than the United States that is party to MARPOL 73/78, shall carry on board a shipboard oil pollution emergency plan approved by its flag state while in the navigable waters of the United States or while at a port or terminal under the jurisdiction of the United States. (b) Each oil tanker of 150 gross tons and above and each other ship of 400 gross tons and above, operated under the authority of a country that is not a party to MARPOL 73/78, must comply with §151.21 of this subpart while in the navigable waters of the United States. Dated: February 10, 1994. A.E. Henn, Rear Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3522 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
