FR940713-1-00004 FR940713-1-00001 Basis of Inspection All post-mortem inspection is based on the use of an organoleptic method of inspection. That is, inspectors and veterinarians rely on the use of their five senses in making decisions regarding the disposition of poultry carcasses and their parts. Additionally, FSIS personnel monitor chemical residues and microbial baselines by taking random samples of inspected birds for laboratory microbiological or chemical analyses. Laboratory analysis can be utilized to confirm post-mortem dispositions or suspected chemical residues. The organoleptic method has proven reliable over many years in the detection of diseases or abnormalities that could be dangerous and are certainly objectionable to consumers. Nevertheless, the organoleptic method is not capable of detecting microbial pathogens that may be present on raw, ready-to-cook product. Because of the continuing and increasing threat of foodborne pathogens, including pathogens known to be carried on the surfaces of dressed poultry carcasses and in feces, the focus of meat and poultry inspection must shift towards enhancing public health. Pathogen Reduction Initiatives In this regard other FSIS initiatives include prevention programs for use on the farm and during live-animal transit, the development of rapid detection methods using the latest technologies, the collection of microbiological baseline data, the development of risk analysis methods applicable to meat and poultry inspection, microbial detection and reduction activities in both slaughtering and processing plants, and an intensified education program directed at retail outlets, food handlers, and consumers. Some of these initiatives will obviously take longer than others to carry out. Some in-plant activities will depend on the development of new technology. Even though all critical research questions have not yet been answered, FSIS recognizes and accepts its obligation to proceed with activities that are likely to succeed based on current theories about pathogen control. The agency also has the opportunity to introduce useful microbial detection technologies into the present inspection program as they become available, not waiting for the fully developed new system. This proposal includes several activities which are based on present knowledge, especially that which suggests that pathogen presence on carcasses is likely associated with fecal contamination and that careful process control can reduce the potential for contamination. Current Inspection Systems Several poultry post-mortem inspection systems are currently operated in federally inspected establishments_traditional, New Line Speed (NELS), New Turkey Inspection System (NTIS), and the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS). Within each of these current systems no product with visible fecal contamination is permitted to enter the chiller, but the assurance of this standard is based on monitoring samples; inspectors do not have the opportunity to continuously verify that fecal contamination doesn't enter the chiller. Traditional Under traditional inspection, the oldest system, one inspector examines a whole bird and is responsible for its proper disposition, including directing and verifying any required trimming by an establishment employee who is the ``inspector's helper,'' before the bird leaves the area of inspection. A sample of inspected product is reinspected for processing nonconformances through an acceptable quality level (AQL) statistical program. Line speeds for traditional inspection were based on work-measurement studies and were set at the limit at which an inspector could carry out the organoleptic examination and manipulation of each carcass presented for inspection. Also, industry was not capable of producing birds at a higher speed and therefore, these line speeds were acceptable. SIS In the mid-1970's, the development of automated evisceration equipment, as well as improvements in genetics, nutrition, health, and flock management, allowed the poultry industry to present uniform lots of birds to inspectors faster than inspectors could inspect using traditional methods. In 1978, the FSIS approved the use of a new inspection method known as Modified Traditional Inspection (MTI). MTI allowed industry to run an eviscerating line at speeds of up to 70 birds per minute. In 1985, USDA designed a new system to replace MTI that would permit the industry to continue to operate at 70 birds per minute but require fewer on-line inspectors. This system became known as the Streamlined Inspection System (SIS). SIS, which is currently the standard form of inspection for young chickens, requires one or two inspectors to be positioned on each processing line after the birds have been eviscerated. Each inspector performs a whole-bird inspection involving the examination of the outside, inside, and viscera of the birds presented for inspection. The one-inspector form of SIS is known as SIS&hyph;1; the two-inspector version, called SIS&hyph;2, is the most widely used (about 140 plants, compared with only about 3 plants for SIS&hyph;1).
