FR940223-2-00223 FR940223-2-00103 Wednesday February 23, 1994 Part X Department of Education Star Schools Program; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 36␣/␣Wednesday, February 23, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Star Schools Program AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of final priorities for Fiscal Year 1994. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces priorities for fiscal year 1994 under the Star Schools program. The Secretary takes this action to focus the services provided by the Star Schools distance education projects on assisting participating elementary and secondary students in public and private schools and others to work toward achieving the National Education Goals, and to focus the Star Schools dissemination projects on nationwide services. EFFECTIVE DATE: These priorities take effect either 45 days after publication in the Federal Register or later if the Congress takes certain adjournments. If you want to know the effective date of these priorities, call or write the Department of Education contact person. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard Lallmang or Deborah Williams, U.S. Department of Education, 555 New Jersey Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20208&hyph;5644. Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;1770. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice contains three absolute priorities for distance education projects under the Star Schools program. Under the distance education projects competition, the Star Schools program provides grants to telecommunications partnerships to support the use of distance education technologies. The notice also contains one absolute priority for dissemination projects under the Star Schools program. Dissemination projects provide information and technical assistance concerning distance education technologies to local and State education agencies. On October 5, 1993 the Secretary published a notice of proposed priorities for this competition in the Federal Register (58 FR 51960). Public Comment In the notice of proposed priorities, the Secretary invited comments on the proposed priorities. The Secretary received one comment in support of the proposed priorities. Note: This notice of final priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under these competitions is published in a separate notice in this issue of the Federal Register . Priorities Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3), the Secretary gives an absolute preference for applications that meet the following priorities. The Secretary funds under the relevant competition only applications that meet one or more of the absolute priorities established for that competition. Star Schools Distance Education Projects Absolute Priority 1_National Education Goals Projects that develop and deliver instructional programming for elementary or secondary school students, or both, that supports achievement of one or more of the National Education Goals, and that is consistent with challenging national or State content standards. Absolute Priority 2_Preparation for Work Projects that develop and deliver instructional programming to enhance the workplace and literacy skills of high school students, or young adults who are not in school, or both, in order to prepare students for responsible citizenship, further learning, and productive employment, and make the school-to-work transition more successful. Absolute Priority 3_Preservice and Inservice Teacher Education Projects that develop and deliver programming for preservice teachers attending colleges and universities, or professional development for practicing teachers and other educational personnel, or both. In meeting this priority, projects must provide information about the National Education Goals, emerging national or State content standards, and ways in which standards-driven systemic reform can help ensure that all students have opportunities to reach high levels of achievement. In addition, projects must provide professional development activities that include strong academic content and subject-specific pedagogical components to help teachers provide challenging learning experiences in the core academic subjects for their students. Star Schools Dissemination Projects Absolute Priority: Dissemination projects that will provide services nationwide. Intergovernmental Review The program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive Order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 4081&hyph;4086. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.203 Star Schools Program) Dated: February 17, 1994. Sharon P. Robinson, Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4058 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
