FR940127-1-00054 FR940127-1-00015 The Ohlone tiger beetle's adult morphology, geographic distribution, habitat distribution (both historic and current), phenology, phylogenetic relationships, and distinguishing features, as well as concerns for its future, were described by Freitag et al. (1993). Species determination was based on external morphological characteristics, especially male and female genitalia, and phenology. The larvae of Cicindela ohlone have not been found; therefore, information on their life history requirements is unknown. In general, however, the larvae of other members of the genus Cicindela construct burrows that are usually perpendicular to the soil surface (Kaulbars and Freitag 1993). Development of tiger beetle larvae takes approximately 2 years (Lindroth 1974). The Ohlone tiger beetle is known from only four locations in Santa Cruz County, California: (1) The west side of the city of Santa Cruz, (2) Soquel (the type locality) (Kavanaugh, in litt. , 1992), (3) upper or north campus of the University of California at Santa Cruz, and (4) city of Scotts Valley (Morgan, in litt. , 1993; Freitag et al. 1993; R. Morgan, pers. comm., 1993). All locations are within an approximate range of 16 square miles. There are six other locations with suitable habitat where the Ohlone tiger beetle may occur in Santa Cruz County. One is at another site at the north campus of the University of California at Santa Cruz; a second location is at Pogonip Open Space Preserve adjacent to the University of California; a third area is in Soquel near the type locality; and a fourth is at another site in Scotts Valley. The remaining two locations are northwest of Cabrillo College and near Seascape (Morgan, in litt. , 1993). Additional sites in Santa Cruz County appear to have suitable habitat for the species, but survey results yielded no Ohlone tiger beetles in 1991 or 1992. The habitat for the adult Ohlone tiger beetle consists of coastal terraces with remnant stands of open native grassland containing Stipa pulchra (purple needlegrass), Danthonia californica (California oat grass), Perideridia gairdneri (Gairdner's yampa), and/or Perideridia kelloggii (Kellogg's yampa) (Morgan, in litt. , 1992; Freitag et al. 1993). Soils at these level or nearly level sites are shallow, poorly-drained pale clay or sandy clay soils over bedrock of Santa Cruz Mudstone (Freitag et al. 1993). Adult tiger beetles generally occupy sun-exposed or open areas within their habitat to thermoregulate (Lindroth 1974, Knisley et al. 1990). Suggested microhabitat for the larval form of the Ohlone tiger beetle is the same native grassland habitat used by adults but in areas where the vegetation is taller and denser (Freitag et al. 1993). Of about 20,000 acres of pristine and disturbed grassland habitat remaining in Santa Cruz County, only 200 to 300 acres contain the right combination of substrate, slope, and exposure to be deemed suitable habitat for the Ohlone tiger beetle (Morgan, in litt. , 1992; Freitag et al. 1993). This habitat is currently limited to small disjunct areas near the coast in central Santa Cruz County. The habitat type for this species was once more widespread and almost contiguous, ranging from the just west of the city of Santa Cruz east along the coast and near-coastal areas to Seascape (Freitag et al. 1993; Morgan, in litt. , 1993). This area has been developed for residential, commercial, and agricultural use and includes the communities of Santa Cruz, Capitola, and Live Oak. In adjacent Monterey County, these clay-based marine terrace grasslands have already been urbanized (Freitag et al. 1993). Limited suitable habitat may occur at low and mid-elevation coastal areas southwest of the Santa Cruz Mountains in extreme southwestern San Mateo County (Freitag et al. 1993). Of the four areas where the Ohlone tiger beetle has been documented, two are threatened by proposed residential development (Freitag et al. 1993; Morgan, in litt. , 1993). At a third site, adult tiger beetles have been killed by bicycle traffic along a trail where the adult beetles congregate. The University of California also plans to expand and construct university housing in habitat of the Ohlone tiger beetle (Chris Aldecoa, University of California, Santa Cruz, pers. comm., 1993). At the Soquel site, preliminary biological studies on vegetation have been completed for a proposed residential development (Morgan, in litt. , 1992). This site and another near Pogonip Open Space Preserve are threatened by non-native Eucalyptus sp. and Cytisus monspessulanus (French broom) (Morgan, in litt. , 1992). These non-native plants convert sunny, open grassland habitat needed by adult Ohlone tiger beetles to habitat dominated by a woody overstory that would shade the grasses and eliminate areas necessary for thermoregulation.
