FR940303-2-00127 FR940303-2-00071 Permanent records are compiled to document all technical and quality related activities of the Certification and Testing Division. The system for controlling all technical and quality records is described in the Quality Assurance Manuals for each CSA Office. CSA claims that it has a comprehensive system for handling complaints and ultimately providing an unbiased review of any controversial matter. All complaints and disputes shall be resolved, whenever possible, by those directly involved with the work contested or at the level of authority appropriate for the nature of the complaint/dispute. If the issue cannot be resolved, there are specific steps, including appeals, which may be followed. The applicant states that it provides for the implementation of control procedures for identifying the listed and labeled equipment or materials, inspection of the production run of such items at factories for product evaluation purposes to assure conformance with applicable test standards, and the conducting of field inspections to monitor and to assure the proper use of its identifying mark or labels on products. A submitter must enter into a written contract (service agreement) with CSA to permit the use of the CSA Mark on the product. This agreement clearly specifies the submitter's responsibilities and the terms and conditions for maintaining certification, such as the right of access by CSA inspection staff to listed factories, or notifying CSA when changes are made to certified products. These terms and conditions are designed to protect the integrity of the CSA Marks. CSA establishes a comprehensive field services program to ensure that manufactured products bearing any of the CSA Marks continue to meet the applicable requirements. The program consists of three elements: Follow-up Inspections; Re-examination Testing; and Field Monitoring. Follow-up inspections are conducted at the point of manufacturing and labeling to ensure, among other things, that: _The CSA Mark is applied only to certified products; _That the terms of the Agreement are met when the CSA Mark is used; _Defects noted during previous inspections have been corrected; _The manufacturer is aware of any new services, requirements, and effective dates; The inspections are unaccounted and are based on performing a minimum of four inspections per factory per year. The frequency varies with production volumes, the types of products and the manufacturer's track record. When products fail to meet the requirements, Field Service Representatives take action to have the manufacturer correct the defect immediately, quarantine the stock until the products can be reworked or re-evaluated by certification staff, and remove the CSA Mark from the product. In cases where it is difficult to determine if a product or component complies with the requirements strictly by visual examination, such products are re-examined and tested on a yearly basis. CSA has an independent, special investigation unit, the Audits and Investigations Group, to monitor products in the field, investigate field complaints, and produce feedback to the standards writing and certification process.
