FR940317-2-00051 FR940317-2-00037 III. Discussion 6. The Policy Statement we adopt here, as set forth in the Appendix, re-establishes the base forfeiture amount for violations of the broadcast EEO rules at $12,500. It also provides guidance on what situations may generally lead to such a forfeiture. In addition, it describes upward and downward adjustment criteria that may be used to adjust the forfeiture in particular cases. The adjustment guidelines reflect the factors set forth in Section 503(b) of the Act, §1.80 of our rules and case precedent. See 47 U.S.C. 503(b)(2)(D); 47 CFR 1.80(b)(4). All of these factors will not necessarily be relevant in each individual case and other adjustments may also be made as appropriate in particular cases. The Appendix also provides guidance regarding when short-term renewals may be appropriate in particular cases. We believe that these guidelines will assist the Commission and its staff in determining broadcast EEO forfeitures in a generally consistent manner that furthers the public interest while nevertheless ensuring that the Commission and the staff retain the discretion to decide each case based on the specific facts and circumstances at issue. At the same time, we believe these guidelines will give licensees and the public greater guidance regarding which types of forfeitures may result from particular types of EEO violations. 7. Finally, we stress that we do not intend this Policy Statement to limit our flexibility. In particular cases, forfeitures that are higher or lower than those reflected by the guidelines may be imposed. In this regard, what we have said in connection with our prior forfeiture policy statements applies here as well: [T]he Policy Statement simply describes the general approach the Commission may take in forfeiture cases and is not binding on any licensees or the Commission. The Policy Statement does not impose any obligations on [licensees] or require the Commission to issue a forfeiture of any particular magnitude_or any forfeiture at all *␣*␣*. * * * * * [W]e reiterate that while the Policy Statement may guide us and the staff in particular cases, we do not intend for the Commission or the staff to be bound by it. In addition, both the Commission and the staff intend to apply these guidelines flexibly. In particular, we and the staff remain committed to deciding every forfeiture case on the basis of the specific facts and equities presented in the record of that case. 7 FCC Rcd at 5339 (internal citations omitted). IV. Conclusion 8. Accordingly, it is ordered that this Policy Statement is adopted, to the effective upon adoption. 9. The notice and comment and effective date provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act do not apply to this Policy Statement. 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A), (d)(2). Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
