FR940804-2-00147 FR940804-2-00082 The trades would be cleared pursuant to the BSE member's agreement with a Canadian correspondent to clear and settle trades at the Canadian Depository for Securities (``CDS'') on their behalf. BSE members would give up a valid CDS account at execution and would be treated like a customer of the Canadian correspondent. This is the clearing arrangement that U.S. broker/dealers currently utilize in clearing trades in Canadian stocks. The ME is an affiliate member of the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') and as such has elected to participate in the ISG investigative procedures. 5 This structure will enhance the level of cooperation between the BSE and ME surveillance departments with regard to transactions executed through the link, as is currently done today with southbound orders. Essentially, each northbound trade will be entered into the ME's electronic book and will therefore be subject to the ME's on-line stock trading monitoring system (``SECMA''). The ME currently focuses its trading reviews on insider trading, trading on non-public market information (``front running''), price manipulation (Market fraud of various types), short squeeze, short sales down ticking, normal course issue of bid up ticking, and restrictions on trading by members involved in a distribution. 5 As an affiliate member of ISG, the ME has agreed to abide by the requirements of the ISG Affiliate Agreement. In conducting these types of trading reviews, the ME utilizes price alerts, volume alerts, exception reports based on high-lows and closing prices, as well as other technical information analysis and graphics that are available. 2. Statutory Basis The basis under the Act for the proposed rule change is Section 6(b)(5) in that the rule is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and in general, to protect investors and the public interest; and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the BSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;01 and should be submitted by August 25, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18968 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
