FR941003-0-00023 FR941003-0-00005 (h) Nonprofit set-aside _(1) Determination of set-aside . Under section 42(h)(5) and ยง1.42&hyph;1T(c)(5), at least 10 percent of a State housing credit ceiling in any calendar year must be set aside exclusively for projects involving qualified nonprofit organizations (the nonprofit set-aside). However, credit allocated from the nonprofit set-aside in a calendar year and returned in a subsequent calendar year does not retain its nonprofit set-aside character. The credit becomes part of the returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling for the calendar year that the credit is returned and must be included in determining the nonprofit set-aside of the State housing credit ceiling for that calendar year. Similarly, credit amounts that are not allocated from the nonprofit set-aside in a calendar year and are returned in a subsequent calendar year become part of the returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling for that year and are also included in determining the set-aside for that year. (2) Allocation rules. An Agency may allocate credit from any component of the State housing credit ceiling as part of the nonprofit set-aside and need not reserve 10 percent of each component for the nonprofit set-aside. Thus, an Agency may satisfy the nonprofit set-aside requirement of section 42(h)(5) and ยง1.42&hyph;1T(c)(5) in any calendar year by setting aside for allocation an amount equal to at least 10 percent of the total State housing credit ceiling for the calendar year. (i) National Pool _(1) In general . The unused housing credit carryover of a State for any calendar year is assigned to the Secretary for inclusion in a national pool of unused housing credit carryovers (National Pool) that is reallocated among qualified States the succeeding calendar year. The assignment to the Secretary is made on Form 8610. (2) Unused housing credit carryover . The unused housing credit carryover of a State for any calendar year is the excess, if any, of the unused carryforward component of the State housing credit ceiling for the calendar year over the excess, if any, of_ (i) The total housing credit dollar amount allocated for the year; over (ii) The sum of the population and returned credit components of the State housing credit ceiling for the year. (3) Qualified State _(i) In general . The term qualified State means, with respect to any calendar year, any State that has allocated its entire State housing credit ceiling for the preceding calendar year and for which a request is made by the State, not later than May 1 of the calendar year, to receive an allocation of credit from the National Pool for that calendar year. Except as provided in paragraph (i)(3)(ii) of this section, a State is not a qualified State in a calendar year if there remains any unallocated credit in its State housing credit ceiling at the close of the preceding calendar year that was apportioned to any Agency within the State for the calendar year.
