FR940217-1-00115 FR940217-1-00014 (B) The guaranty agency has not made other satisfactory arrangements to pay the amount of the liability. (d)(1) The Secretary follows the procedures described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, applicable to fine proceedings against schools, in imposing a fine against a lender, guaranty agency, or third-party servicer. References to ``the institution'' in those regulations shall be understood to mean the lender, guaranty agency, or third-party servicer, as applicable, for this purpose. (2) The Secretary also follows the provisions of section 432(g) of the Act in imposing a fine against a guaranty agency or lender. * * * * * 37. Section 682.414 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(1)(i) to read as follows: ยง682.414 Records, reports, and inspection requirements for guaranty agency programs. (a) Records. (1)(i) The guaranty agency shall maintain current, complete, and accurate records of each loan that it holds, including, but not limited to, the records described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. The records must be maintained in a system that allows ready identification of each loan's current status, updated at least once every 10 business days. Any reference to a guaranty agency under this section includes a third-party servicer that administers any aspect of the FFEL programs under a contract with the guaranty agency, if applicable. * * * * * 38. A new ยง682.416 is added to subpart D to read as follows: ยง682.416 Requirements for third-party servicers and lenders contracting with third-party servicers. (a) Standards for administrative capability. A third-party servicer is considered administratively responsible if it_ (1) Provides the services and administrative resources necessary to fulfill its contract with a lender or guaranty agency, and conducts all of its contractual obligations that apply to the FFEL program in accordance with FFEL program regulations; (2) Has business systems that are capable of meeting the requirements of part B of Title IV of the Act and with the FFEL program regulations; and (3) Has adequate personnel who are knowledgeable about the FFEL programs. (b) Standards of financial responsibility. The Secretary applies the provisions of 34 CFR 668.13(c), (d), (g), and (h) to determine that a third-party servicer is financially responsible under this part. References to ``the institution'' in those provisions shall be understood to mean the third-party servicer, for this purpose.
