FR940223-2-00052 FR940223-2-00035 Order I It is ordered, That for purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: ``Respondent'' or ``TAALS'' mean The American Association of Language Specialists, its directors, trustees, general assemblies, councils, committees, working groups, boards, divisions, chapters, officers, representatives, delegates, agents, employees, successors, and assigns. ``Fees'' means any cash or non-cash charges, rates, prices, benefits or other compensation received or intended to be received for the rendering of interpretation, translation, or other language services, including but not limited to, salaries, wages, transportation, lodging, meals, allowances (including subsistence and travel allowances), reimbursements for expenses, cancellation fees, compensation for time not worked, compensation for travel time and preparation or study time, cancellation fees, and payments in kind. ``Cancellation fee'' means any fee intended to compensate for the termination, cancellation or revocation of an understanding, contract, agreement, offer, pledge, assurance, opportunity, or expectation of a job. ``Interpretation'' means the act of expressing, in oral form, ideas in a language different from the language used in an original spoken statement. ``Translation'' means the act of expressing, in written form, ideas in a language different from the language used in an original writing. ``Other language service'' means any service that has as an element the conversion of any form of expression from one language into another or any service incident to or related to interpretation or translation, including briefing or conference preparation, equipment rental, conference organizing, teleconferencing, précis writing, supervision or coordination of interpreters, reviewing or revising translations, or providing recordings of interpretations. ``Interpreter'' means one who practices interpretation. ``Translator'' means one who practices translation. ``Language specialist'' means one who practices interpretation, translation, or any other language service. ``Unbiased'' means lacking any systematic errors that would result from the selection or encouragement of one outcome or answer over others. ``Person'' means any individual, partnership, association, company, or corporation, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, lessee, or personal representative of any person herein defined. II It is further ordered, That respondent, directly or indirectly, or through any person, corporation, or other device, in or in connection with its activities in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, cease and desist from: A. Creating, formulating, compiling, distributing, publishing, recommending, suggesting, encouraging adherence to, endorsing, or authorizing any list or schedule of fees for interpretation, translation, or any other language service, including but not limited to fee guidelines, suggested fees, proposed fees, fee sheets, standard fees, or recommended fees; B. Entering into, adhering to, or maintaining any contract, agreement, understanding, plan, program, combination, or conspiracy to construct, fix, stabilize, standardize, raise, maintain, or otherwise interfere with or restrict fees for interpretation, translation, or other language services; C. Suggesting, urging, encouraging, recommending, or attempting to persuade in any way interpreters, translators, or other language specialists to charge, pay, offer, or adhere to any existing or proposed fee, or otherwise to charge or refrain from charging any particular fee; D. For a period of ten (10) years after the date this order becomes final, continuing a meeting of interpreters, translators, or other language specialists, after (1) any person makes a statement, addressed to or audible to the body of the meeting, concerning the fees charged or proposed to be charged for interpretation, translation, or any other language service and TAALS fails to declare such statement to be out of order, (2) any person makes two such statements and TAALS fails to eject him or her from the meeting, or (3) two people make such statements;
