FR940114-1-00069 FR940114-1-00014 Goals for Subcontracting Plan (XXX 1993) (a) Maximum practicable utilization of small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business concerns as subcontractors is a matter of national interest with both social and economic benefits. The General Services Administration's (GSA's) commitment to ensuring that maximum practicable opportunity is provided to small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business concerns to participate as subcontractors in the performance of this contract, consistent with its efficient performance, must be reflected in the offeror's subcontracting plan submitted pursuant to FAR 52.219&hyph;9. In addressing the eleven elements described at FAR 52.219&hyph;9(d), the offeror shall demonstrate that its subcontracting plan represents an aggressive program for involving small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business concerns in performing this contract. The subcontracting plan shall include a description of the offeror's subcontracting strategies used in previous contracts, significant achievements, and how this plan will build upon those earlier achievements. Additionally, the offeror shall demonstrate through its's plan that it understands the small business subcontracting program's objectives, GSA's expectations, and actions necessary to meet these goals and expectations. (b) GSA believes that this contract provides significant opportunities for the use of small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business concerns as subcontractors. Accordingly, it is anticipated that an acceptable subcontracting plan will contain at least the following goals: Small Business: XX percent Small Disadvantaged Business: XX percent Women-Owned Small Business: XX percent Note: Target goals are expressed as a percentage of planned subcontracting dollars. (c) In determining the acceptability of a subcontracting plan, the Contracting Officer will_ (1) Review the plan to verify that the offeror has demonstrated an understanding of the small business subcontracting program's objectives and GSA's expectations with respect to the program and has included all the information, goals, and assurances required by FAR 52.219&hyph;9; (2) Consider previous goals and achievements of contractors in the same industry; (3) Consider information and potential sources obtained from agencies administering national and local preference programs and other advocacy groups in evaluating whether the goals stated in the plan adequately reflect the anticipated potential for subcontracting to small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business concerns; and (4) Review, when applicable, the offeror's description of strategies, historical performance and significant achievements in placing subcontracts for the same or similar products or services with small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business concerns. (d) Failure to submit an acceptable subcontracting plan and/or correct deficiencies in the plan within the time specified by the Contracting Officer shall make the offeror ineligible for award. (End of Provision) Alternate I (XXX 1993) The Contracting Officer, as prescribed in 519.708(c) shall delete paragraph (b) of the basic provision and redesignate paragraphs (c) and (d) as paragraphs (b) and (c). Dated: December 21, 1993. Richard H. Hopf, III, Associate Administrator for Acquisition Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;491 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;61&hyph;M
