FR940802-2-00117 FR940802-2-00059 Appendix Labeling Instructions for Alcohol Screening Devices Intended Use Provide the intended use including the specimen matrix (e.g. saliva, breath), the assay type (quantitative, semi-quantitative) the purpose of performing the assay and the individual designated to perform the assay. e.g. This product is intended for the (quantitative, semiquantitative) determination of alcohol in_define matrix (for e.g., saliva, breath, sweat) to perform screening alcohol assays. This product is recommended for use by individuals who have been trained in the administration of screening devices. Description of Testing System Provide the principles of the procedure for performing the alcohol screening assay. e.g. This product uses alcohol dehydrogenase, infrared technology, etc. to perform the test. Chemical Reaction Sequence Describe the chemical reaction sequence, if applicable. Reagents List the concentration, strength, composition of the reactive ingredients. List the non-reactive ingredients. Reagent Preparation and Storage Provide instructions for preparing the reagents, if appicable. Provide instructions for storing the reagents, if applicable. Provide any signs of deterioration of the reagents, if applicable. Provide the reagent's shelf life and opened expiration dating, if applicable. e.g. Unopened tests are stable until the date printed on the product container when stored at 22&hyph;28 ○C. Opened test must be used at once. Provide a caution not to use the reagents beyond the expiration dating. Precautions: 1. List any reagents that may be hazardous such as caustic compounds, sodium azide or other hazardous reagents and instructions for disposal, if applicable. 2. If visually read, warn the user the result should not be interpreted by readers who are color-blind or visually impaired. 3. Provide warning to user to treat all samples as potentially infective. Include instructions for handling and disposal of the sample. Speciment Collection Provide instructions for collecting and handling the sample. Provide criteria for specimen rejection, if applicable. Calibration Disposable tests are pre-calibrated. No additional calibration is required. Reusable (Instrumented) tests require calibration. Provide information regarding how calibrations are to be conducted, if applicable, including the number and concentration of calibrators, and the frequency of calibration. Provide instructions for calibration and recalibration. Provide the criteria for acceptabiity of calibration. Test Procedure (Disposable) Provide adequate step-by-step instructions for performing the test. If the test is disposable (non-instrumented) and involves a color reaction, include the time frame for which the test must be read and recorded. e.g. Read within 15 minutes. Test Procedure (Reusable/Instrumented) Provide adequate step-by-step instruction for performing the test. Provide the installation procedures and, if applicable, any special requirements. Provide the space and ventilation requirements. Provide the description of the required frequency of equipment maintenance and function checks. Provide the instructions for any remedial action to be taken when the equipment performs outside of operating range. Provide any operational precautions and limitations. Provide instructions for the protection of equipment and instrumentation from fluctuations or interruptions in electrical current that could adversely affect test results and reports, if applicable. Quality Control (QC) Disposable Tests If applicable, the function and stability of the test can be determined by examination of the procedural ``built in'' controls contained in the product. If these controls are not working, the test is invalid and must be repeated. Disposable/Instrumented Devices If external quality control materials are used, provide number, type, matrix and concentration of the QC materials. Provide directions for performing quality control procedures. Provide an adequate description of the remedial action to be taken when the QC results fail to meet the criteria for acceptability. Provide directions for interpretation of the results of quality control samples. Results Describe how the user obtains the test results, from a colored bar, instrument read-out, printout, etc. Describe the results in terms of blood alcohol concentration. Describe what concentration indicates a positive result and what concentration indicates a nagative result. Limitations List the substances or factors that may interfere with the test and cause false results including technical or procedural errors. Dynamic Range Provide the operating range of the product. Precision and Accuracy Precision and Accuracy specifications are included in the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's (NHTSA's) Model Specifications for Alochol Screening devices. Only devices that meet these model specificiations will be included on NHTSA's Conforming Products List for alcohol screening devices. Specificity List the substances that have been evaluated with your product that do or do not interfere at the concentration indicated. References Provide pertinent bibliography Technical Assistance List an 800 number the user may contact for further information or technical assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18750 Filed 7&hyph;28&hyph;94 4:30 pm] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59-M
