FR941103-0-00047 FR941103-0-00007 4. Network Service The Staff Discussion Paper defined network service as allowing the user to vary its schedule and points of delivery and receipt without paying additional charges for each change. Commenters were asked to discuss the reasonableness of this definition and to provide recommendations on pricing network service. Most IOUs assert that utilities cannot provide third party transmission users with unlimited flexibility in choosing and switching points of receipt and delivery. Unless the transmission customer specifies the points of receipt and delivery, the nature of the generation, and the loads to be served, the transmitting utility will have no way to determine the impact of the proposed network arrangement on its system in terms of either reliability or cost. Unlimited flexibility could require transmission upgrades and make long term planning more difficult (with the potential for overbuilding). If network service is to include unlimited scheduling flexibility, it should be considered a premium service (priced higher than point-to-point service) since it requires higher transmission capacity margins to ensure reliability. Most Muni/Coops, Regulatory/Government entities, NUGs/IPPs and some Other commenters agree with the Commission's definition of network service. Most Muni/Coops, NUGs/IPPs and some Other commenters insist that network service should be priced on an average embedded cost basis (with no non-cost-based network rate premiums or percentage adders). These commenters argue that such premiums would place network customers at a permanent competitive disadvantage in obtaining economical generation sources and in generation sales, compared to the transmitting utility. Many commenters agree that network access should not be totally flexible, nor be unduly rigid with reservation requirements and excessively advanced scheduling requirements; rather, they believe it should be subject to the same conditions faced by the transmitting utility, and provide access to transmission on an ``as if owned'' basis. APPA asserts that it is not aware of any party that is seeking network access without regard to the control area utility's own transmission needs, or that is requesting network service with total flexibility, i.e., no scheduling or backup requirements. APPA adds that it agrees with EEI on two points concerning utilities receiving network service: ``they should state in planning models the sources of power that most probably will be used to serve loads, and they should schedule generation to serve load with the transmitting utility.'' Regulatory/Government entities generally agree that accurate pricing of network service will depend on the nature of the network and any revenue pooling between transmission providers. Therefore, Regulatory/Government entities urge the Commission to be flexible and not mandate any particular method for pricing network service. 5. Ancillary Services The Staff Discussion Paper gave examples of ancillary services and requested comments on other examples (including how such services should be priced). Most IOUs recommend that unless third party customers obtain ancillary services elsewhere, they should compensate the wheeling utility for the services provided to prevent the native load customers from subsidizing these services. IOUs note that as bulk power markets are becoming more competitive and independent power producers are supplying ever increasing amounts of generation, these support type services that were once provided on a reciprocal basis among utilities are not being provided by many suppliers because they are either unwilling or unable to provide such service. One of the main concerns of the Muni/Coops commenters is that costs associated with ancillary services should not already be included in the average cost-based transmission rate. Additionally, several commenters insist that transmission customers should be given the option to provide such services themselves, or obtain them from other utilities, and receive full credit. These commenters also express concern regarding discriminatory pricing. Such commenters urge that any charges for ancillary services assessed to a transmission customer should be the same as the costs faced by the transmitting utility for the same service.
