FR940920-1-00048 FR940920-1-00007 Table 4._ MACT Floor Emission Levels for New MWC's 1Pollutant 1MACT floor emission level a,b SO 2 30 ppmv or 80-percent reduction. HCl 25 ppmv or 95-percent reduction. Pb 0.10 mg/dscm. Cd 0.010 mg/dscm. PM 15 mg/dscm. Hg 0.65 mg/dscm. Dioxins/furans 20 ng/dscm total mass or about 0.40 ng/dscm TEQ. NO X 180 ppmv (large MWC plants) Uncontrolled (small MWC plants). a All emission levels are corrected to 7 percent O 2 , dry basis. b Most of the MACT floor requirements for large MWC plants are more stringent than the 1991 subpart Ea NSPS (see table 2). The MACT floor for new sources (best control) could be constructed in a number of different ways including a technology basis (this proposal), a permit basis, or an emission data basis. For example, under the permit basis the most stringent MWC operating permit limitation might determine the floor. Other approaches are also possible. The different approaches would result in noticeably different MACT floor performance levels. The EPA specifically requests comment on what approach is most appropriate and the rationale for that approach. Based on the EPA's review of comments received on this issue, as well as reanalysis of the data submitted, the MACT floor for the promulgated NSPS may be noticeably higher or lower than the floor included in the proposal. b. MACT for Sulfur Dioxide. Uncontrolled SO 2 emission levels at both small and large MWC plants are, on average, 160 ppmv. The best emission control system for controlling SO 2 emissions is an SD/FF. The EPA's analysis of test data from existing MWC's with SD/FF systems indicates that an SO 2 emission level of either 30 ppmv or an 80-percent reduction of SO 2 emissions can be continuously achieved over a 24-hour block averaging period. Therefore, the MACT floor for SO 2 emissions is either 30 ppmv or 80-percent reduction, whichever is less stringent. The proposed MACT standard for SO 2 for MWC's at both small and large MWC plants is the MACT floor level of 30 ppmv or 80-percent reduction, whichever is less stringent. c. MACT for Hydrogen Chloride. Uncontrolled HCl emission levels at both small and large MWC plants are, on average, 500 ppmv. The best emission control system for controlling HCl emissions is an SD/FF. The EPA's analysis of test data from existing MWC's with SD/FF systems indicates that an HCl emission level of either 25 ppmv or a 95-percent reduction in HCl emissions can be achieved. Compliance with the HCl limit is determined by an annual stack test rather than CEMS, so there is no CEMS data averaging period associated with this level of performance. Based on the EPA's analysis, the MACT floor for HCl emissions is either 25 ppmv or 95-percent reduction, whichever is less stringent. The proposed MACT standard for HCl for MWC's at both small and large MWC plants is the MACT floor level of either 25 ppmv or 95-percent reduction, whichever is less stringent. d. MACT for Particulate Matter. Uncontrolled PM emission levels at small and large MWC plants are, on average, 1,500 and 3,700 mg/dscm, respectively. The best emission control system for controlling PM emissions is an SD/FF. The EPA's analysis of recent test data has shown that SD/FF systems can continuously achieve a PM emission level of 15 mg/dscm, which represents greater than 99-percent reduction. Therefore, the MACT floor for PM emissions is 15 mg/dscm. The proposed MACT standard for PM for MWC's at both small and large MWC plants is the MACT floor level of 15 mg/dscm.
