FR940324-2-00162 FR940324-2-00091 4. Criterion IV: Organizational Experience in Program Area and Staff Responsibilities (Maximum: 30 points). a. Organizational experience in program area (0&hyph;10 points). Documentation provided indicates that projects previously undertaken have been relevant and effective and have provided significant benefits to low-income youth. Information provided should also address the achievements and competence of the participating institutions. b. Management history (0&hyph;10 points). Applicants must fully detail their ability to implement sound and effective management practices and if they have been recipients of other Federal or other governmental grants, they must also detail that they have consistently complied with financial and program progress reporting and audit requirements. Applicants should submit any available documentation on their management practices and progress reporting procedures. Applicant should also submit a statement by a Certified or Licensed Public Accountant as to the sufficiency of the applicant's financial management system to protect any Federal funds which may be awarded under this program. c. Staffing skills, resources and responsibilities (0&hyph;10 points). Applicant must briefly describe the experience and skills of the proposed project director showing that the individual is not only well qualified but that his/her professional capabilities are relevant to the successful implementation of the project. If the key staff person has not been identified, the application should contain a comprehensive position description which indicates that the responsibilities assigned to the project director are relevant to the successful implementation of the project. The application must indicate that the applicant and the subgrantees or delegate institutions have adequate facilities and resources (i.e. space and equipment) to successfully carry out the work plan. The application must clearly show that sufficient time of the project director and other senior staff will be budgeted to assure timely implementation and oversight of the project and that the assigned responsibilities of the staff are appropriate to the tasks identified for the project. 5. Criterion V: Adequacy of Budget (Maximum: 10 points). Budget is adequate and funds requested are commensurate with the level of effort necessary to accomplish the goals and objectives of the program. The applicant presents a reasonable administrative cost. The estimated cost of the project to the government is reasonable in relation to the anticipated results. Part E_Contents of Application and Receipt Process 1. Contents of Application Each application package should include one original and two additional copies of the following: a. A signed Application for Federal Assistance (SF&hyph;424); b. Budget Information_Non-Construction Programs (SF&hyph;424A); c. A signed_Assurances_Non-construction Programs (SF&hyph;424B); and d. A Project Narrative consisting of the following elements preceded by a consecutively numbered Table of Contents that describes the project in the following order: (i) Eligibility confirmation. (ii) Number and location of Institutions of Higher Education committed to the program and their accessibility to youth from economically disadvantaged areas. (iii) Organization experience and staff responsibilities. (iv) Work program (including Executive Summary) (v) Appendices, including Bylaws; Articles of Incorporation; proof of non-profit status; résumé of project director; statement by a Certified or Licensed Public Accountant as to the sufficiency of the applicant's financial management system to protect Federal funds; and Single Point of Contact comments, if available. The total number of pages for the entire application package should not exceed 50 pages. Applications should be two holed punched at the top and fastened separately with a compressor slide paper fastener or a binder clip. The submission of bound applications, or applications enclosed in binder, is especially discouraged. Applications must be uniform in composition since OCS may find it necessary to duplicate them for review purposes. Therefore, applications must be submitted on white 81/2 x 11 inch paper only. They should not include colored, oversized or folded materials. Do not include organizational brochures or other promotional materials, slides, films, clips, etc. in the proposal. They may be discarded, if included. 2. Acknowledgement of Receipt All applicants will receive an acknowledgement postcard with an assigned identification number. Applicants are requested to supply a self-addressed mailing label with their application which can be attached to this acknowledgement postcard. The assigned identification number must be referred to in all subsequent communications with ACF concerning the application. If an acknowledgement is not received within three weeks after the deadline date, please notify ACF by telephone (202) 401&hyph;9230.
