FR940825-2-00094 FR940825-2-00064 Bureau of Mines Santa Cruz In Situ Copper Mining Research Project; Draft Environmental Assessment; Public Meeting AGENCY: Bureau of Mines, Interior. ACTION: Notice of availability of draft environmental assessment (EA) prepared for the Santa Cruz In Situ Copper Mining Research Project and notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: In accordance with section 102 (2) (C) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), a draft EA has been prepared for the Santa Cruz In Situ Copper Mining Research Project and is currently available for public review and comment. The proposed action is the in situ mining of copper from a copper oxide zone using a pattern of injection and recovery test wells, and fabrication and operation of a pilot-scale solvent extraction-electrowinning (SX&hyph;EW) facility to remove dissolved copper from solution. The project site is located approximately 7 miles west of the city of Casa Grande, Arizona. A public meeting to receive comments on the draft EA is scheduled. Individual copies of the draft EA may be requested directly from the Bureau or viewed at the Casa Grande city library. DATES: The public meeting will be held on September 14, 1994, beginning at 7 p.m. MST. The meeting room will be open at 6:30 p.m. for review of displays and informal discussions with project personnel. Comments on the draft EA must be received no later than September 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: The public meeting will be held at the Holiday Inn, 777 North Pinal Avenue, Casa Grande, AZ. Comments on the draft EA should be sent to: Daniel J. Millenacker, U.S. Bureau of Mines, Twin Cities Research Center, 5629 Minnehaha Avenue South, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55417&hyph;3099. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For information or to obtain a copy of the draft EA, contact Daniel J. Millenacker at the address identified above or by phone at (612) 725&hyph;4588. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In situ copper mining involves the injection of a dilute sulfuric acid solution through a well or wells completed into an otherwise undisturbed ore zone; selective dissolution of copper as the solution moves through and contacts copper oxide mineralization located along natural fractures; collection of copper-bearing solution by recovery wells; removal of the dissolved copper from collected solution using a conventional SX&hyph;EW plant located on the surface; rejuvenation of solution to its original strength; and solution reinjection back into the ore zone to repeat the cycle. The project well field will consist of one injection test well in the center of a square measuring 127 ft to a side, and a recovery test well located at each of the four corners of the square. This arrangement is referred to as a ``five-spot'' well pattern. Injection of solution will occur at a rate of about 10 to 50 gal/min. The total area to be occupied by the various components of the project (including injection and recovery test wells, ground water monitor wells, and SX&hyph;EW facility) is 8 1/2-acres. The research project is a cooperative effort of the Bureau of Mines and the Santa Cruz Joint Venture (a joint venture formed between ASARCO Santa Cruz, Inc., and Freeport Copper Company). The goal of the research project is to determine the technical, economic, and environmental feasibility of in situ mining of copper oxide minerals. The research plan calls for in situ mining to continue until sufficient data are collected to evaluate the mining technique. This time period is presently estimated to require 18 months to complete, but it may extend for up to 4 years. In addition to an environmental review performed under NEPA, this project is subject to Federal, State, and local environmental permitting requirements. Dated: August 18, 1994. Lewis V. Wade, Research Director, Twin Cities Research Center. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20858 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;53&hyph;P
