FR941031-2-00073 FR941031-2-00054 The proposed consent order contains provisions designed to remedy the violations charged and to prevent the respondent from engaging in similar acts and practices in the future. The term ``volatile organic compound'' (VOC) is defined in the consent order in accordance with the definition adopted by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in a February 3, 1992, rulemaking. To assist the public and the industry in understanding the coverage of this order, those compounds that EPA expressly excluded from the definition of VOC at the time the definition was promulgated are listed in the order. Because EPA could in the future modify the definition based on evolving scientific evidence, the term VOC as used in the order will vary depending upon EPA's definition of the term. Those compounds that EPA may decide should be excluded from the definition of VOC because of negligible photochemical reactivity will thus be excluded under the consent order. Likewise any compounds that EPA may decide should be defined as VOCs will be covered by the order. The proposed order also defines Class I and Class II ozone-depleting substances, incorporating the definitions established in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Class I substances currently listed under the Act include CFCs, halons, carbon tetrachloride, and 1,1,1-trichloroethane. Class II substances currently consist of HCFCs. Part I of the proposed order requires the respondent to cease and desist from representing that any product or package containing volatile organic compounds is ``environmentally safe,'' ``environmentally safe, contains no fluorocarbons,'' contains ``no fluorocarbons,'' or through the use of any other term or expression, that any such product or package will not harm the environment or the atmosphere, unless the respondent possesses competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence, that substantiates the representation. Part II of the proposed order requires the respondent to cease and desist from representing that any product or package containing any Class I or Class II ozone-depleting substance contains ``no fluorocarbons'' or representing, in any manner, that any such product or package will not deplete, destroy, or otherwise adversely affect ozone in the upper atmosphere or otherwise harm the atmosphere. Under the Clean Air Act Amendments, the EPA has authority to add new chemicals to the Class I and Class II lists. In fact, EPA has added methyl bromide and hydrobromofluorocarbons (HBFCs) to the list of Class I substances. Thus, the order's definitions of Class I and Class II ozone-depleting substances include these and any other substances that may be added to the lists. If additional substances are added to the Class I or II lists, Part II of the order becomes applicable to claims made for products containing those substances after the substances are added to the lists. Part III of the proposed order requires that the respondent cease and desist from misrepresenting, in any manner, directly or by implication, with respect to any product or package the extent to which it is capable of being recycled or the extent to which recycling collection programs are available. Part III also contains a proviso that allows the respondent to advertise high-density polyethylene caps and aluminum aerosol cans as recyclable without violating Part III of the order. The respondent may do so if it truthfully represents that such packaging is capable of being recycled; discloses clearly, prominently and in close proximity to such claim (a) that such packaging is recyclable in the few communities with recycling collection programs for high-density polyethylene caps or aluminum aerosol cans; or (b) the approximate number of U.S. communities with recycling collection programs for such packaging; or (c) the approximate percentage of U.S. communities or the U.S. population to which recycling collection programs for such packaging is available; and in addition, in the case of the high-density polyethylene cap, the cap itself bears a clear identification of the specific plastic resin(s) from which it is made. Part IV of the proposed order provides that if the respondent represents in advertising or labeling that any product or package offers any environmental benefit, it must have a reasonable basis consisting of competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence, that substantiates the claims. The proposed order also requires the respondent to maintain materials relied upon to substantiate the claims covered by the order, to distribute copies of the order to certain company officials, to notify the Commission of any changes in corporate structure that might affect compliance with the order, and to file one or more reports detailing compliance with the order. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26932 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
