FR940505-1-00210 FR940505-1-00012 For flexibility, EPA is also proposing optional engine-based standards for diesel-powered and incomplete vehicle engines used in MDVs with GVWR between 8,501 and 14,000 pounds. (Under CARB's motor vehicle control program, such MDV engines have the option to certify to engine-based standards.) Manufacturers of such MDV engines may elect to comply with the chassis-based program discussed in this section or they may elect to certify to the engine-based standards described in Section B. of this appendix. The reader is directed to that section for more information on the proposed engine-based standards and other MDV/engine requirements under this program. c. Authority. As explained above in Section III.A.2.a of the preamble, in promulgating a FIP under section 110(c), EPA may take any actions that the state could take. As section 209 of the CAA provides that California is not preempted from adopting and implementing a motor vehicle emissions control program provided its program satisfies the criteria of section 209(b), EPA believes that it, acting on behalf of California in the context of a FIP, may adopt a motor vehicle program or supplement California's own motor vehicle program provided that EPA's actions would satisfy the criteria of section 209(b) for a waiver of federal preemption. That section provides that EPA is to grant California a waiver of preemption if the State determines that its standards ``will be, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as applicable federal standards.'' Section 209(b) further provides that no waiver is to be granted if EPA finds that (A) the determination of the State that the standards are, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as the otherwise applicable federal standards is arbitrary and capricious, (B) State standards are not needed to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions, or (C) the State standards and accompanying enforcement procedures are not consistent with section 202(a). EPA has interpreted the consistency criterion as meaning that California motor vehicle standards and accompanying enforcement procedures must satisfy the leadtime requirements of section 202(a)_that they be technologically feasible within the leadtime provided, taking into account the cost of compliance_and not impose inconsistent certification test procedure requirements such that the same vehicle could not be used to comply with both state and federal certification requirements (see e.g., 43 FR 32182 (July 25, 1978), 40 FR 30131 (July 18, 1975), 43 FR 1839 (January 12, 1978)). EPA believes that the enhanced in-use compliance program for light and medium-duty vehicles that would be applicable to vehicles and engines in California under the proposed FIP would satisfy the section 209 waiver criteria. Thus, California could undertake the enhanced in-use compliance program described in this appendix, and, therefore, EPA has authority under section 110(c) to undertake the proposed programs. With respect to the protectiveness of the standards, all of the proposed standards are at least as protective as the otherwise applicable federal standards (e.g., the Tier 1 NO X and NMHC standards in the case of light-duty vehicles and the generally applicable NO X and NMHC standards in the case of the vehicles and engines covered by the medium-duty and heavy-duty aspects of the enhanced in-use compliance program). Indeed, these standards are at least as stringent as the comparable standards that California has already adopted and for which waivers have already been granted. With respect to the need to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions, EPA has repeatedly found that California's air quality problems satisfy the need criterion of section 209(b) (see, e.g., 49 FR 18887 and 18890 (May 3, 1984), 58 FR 4144 (January 13, 1993)). Moreover, the magnitude of the reductions in emissions needed to reach attainment in the FIP areas, including mobile source emissions (discussed above in Section III.H.2 of the preamble), provides ample evidence of the need for more stringent motor vehicle emission standards in California. Finally, with respect to the criterion of consistency with section 202(a), EPA believes that its proposed enhanced in-use compliance program is consistent with both the technological feasibility and certification elements of that criterion. For the reasons explained below, EPA believes that the enhanced in-use compliance program is technologically feasible within the leadtime provided, taking into account the cost of compliance. Moreover, no aspect of the enhanced in-use compliance program establishes any new certification test procedures that are inconsistent with either existing federal or California test procedure requirements. Consequently, EPA believes that its proposed enhanced in-use compliance programs satisfy this prong of section 209 as well. 3. Enhanced In-use Compliance Recall Program Historically, EPA has enforced emissions standards through an in-use testing program commonly referred to as the ``recall'' program (39 FR 44375, Dec. 23, 1974), as provided by section 207(c) of the CAA. This section requires manufacturers to take remedial actions if EPA finds that a ``substantial'' number of vehicles, although properly maintained and used, fail to conform to an applicable emissions standard during their useful life. EPA is proposing a recall program under the enhanced in-use compliance program that is different in several aspects compared to the program established pursuant to CAA section 207(c) for 49 state vehicles and engines. The differences and the rationale for them are described fully in the paragraphs below. The recall provisions described in this section apply to 1999 and later model year light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium- duty vehicles certified to the chassis-based standards described in the previous section. These recall provisions also apply to on-highway HDEs and nonroad engines, except as noted in the recall provisions contained in section B for HDEs and section C for nonroad engines below. EPA has based the enhanced in-use compliance recall program on its current recall program, where possible. Thus, aspects of the program not specifically discussed here will be the same as in the current program (see 40 CFR part 85 subpart S). For example, all test procedures utilized will be current Federal procedures, with the exception of ambient temperatures used in the evaporative emission and running loss testing and the fuel used in all testing. EPA will utilize CARB's ambient temperatures and CARB Phase II reformulated gasoline in recall testing. If CARB decides to enforce the enhanced in-use compliance recall program and assume responsibility for the recall program, CARB will likely use its own detailed recall methodologies, for which it has received waivers under section 209 of the CAA, with appropriate changes to ensure compliance with the changes described below. EPA requests comments on the use of current recall practices where not modified below, as well as the possible performance of recall testing by CARB using their procedures. The proposed enhanced in-use compliance recall program is discussed in detail in the following sections: (a) Recall standards (b) consideration of maintenance, tampering, and abuse, (c) test vehicle selection, (d) testing throughout the vehicles' useful life, (e) vehicle family selection, (f) criteria for requiring recall, (g) mandatory owner participation in recall repairs, (h) geographic extent of recall, (i) technical feasibility, and (j) alternatives.
