FR941202-1-00040 FR941202-1-00005 Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this proposed regulation is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. Accordingly, this proposal is not subject to the analysis required by this Executive Order. Regulatory Flexibility Act It is hereby certified that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Any benefit derived from the use of a viticultural area name is the result of the proprietor's own efforts and consumer acceptance of wines from a particular area. No new recordkeeping or reporting requirements are proposed. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. Paperwork Reduction Act The provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. chapter 35, and its implementing regulations, 5 CFR part 1320, do not apply to this notice of proposed rulemaking because no requirement to collect information is proposed. Public Participation ATF requests comments from all interested parties. We are particularly interested in comments concerning the proposed western boundary, Euclid Avenue. Comments received on or before the closing date will be carefully considered. Comments received after that date will be given the same consideration if it is practical to do so, but assurance of consideration cannot be given except as to comments received on or before the closing date. ATF will not recognize any comment as confidential. Comments may be disclosed to the public. Any material which a commenter considers to be confidential or inappropriate for disclosure to the public should not be included in the comment. The name of the person submitting a comment is not exempt from disclosure. During the comment period, any person may request an opportunity to present oral testimony at a public hearing. However, the Director reserves the right to determine, in light of all circumstances, whether a public hearing will be held. Drafting Information The principal author of this document is Marjorie D. Ruhf, Wine, Beer and Spirits Regulations Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. List of Subjects in 27 CFR Part 9 Administrative practices and procedures, Consumer protection, Viticultural areas, and Wine. Authority and Issuance Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, part 9, American Viticultural Areas, is proposed to be amended as follows:
