FR941005-2-00063 FR941005-2-00041 [FRL&hyph;5081&hyph;8] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden; where appropriate, it includes the actual data collection instrument. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before November 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information or a copy of this ICR contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response Title: Exports from and Imports to the United States Under the OECD Decision (ICR No. 1647.01). This ICR requests approval for a new collection. Abstract: This ICR is required to ensure implementation of the Organization For Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) Council Decision C(92)39/FINAL on the Control of Transfrontier Movements of Wastes Destined for Recovery Operations (OECD Decision), adopted by the Council at its 778th Session on 30 March 1992. This decision is legally binding upon the U.S., a member of the OECD, and obligates U.S. exporters and importers of hazardous waste destined for recovery within the OECD to new notification and tracking requirements, which are detailed in the ICR. To implement the OECD Decision in the U.S., the EPA must modify certain regulations under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and has developed a Final Rule to codify the requirements of the OECD Decision as it will be implemented in the U.S. The OECD Decision does not significantly change the current hazardous waste export/import requirements under 40 CFR parts 262. For U.S. exporters, it will require the submittal of additional information as part of the Notification of Intent to Export; also, some additional information required to be included in the tracking document exceeds that presently required for the hazardous waste manifest. For U.S. importers, it requires the signing and transmitting of additional copies of the tracking document and requires an expeditinG of this process (3 working days instead of 30 days). No additional recordkeeping burden is imposed by the OECD Decision. It is EPA's interpretation that the regulations under RCRA codifying the terms of the OECD Decision are applicable only to hazardous waste destined for recovery that is: (1) Subject to the RCRA manifest requirements under the Federal regulations when it is sent for recovery; and (2) sent to or received from a other OECD member country. Wastes not within the scope of the OECD Decision will remain subject to the current RCRA export and import requirements in 40 CFR part 262, subparts E and F. EPA's Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance will use the information to determine compliance with applicable OECD regulatory provisions, and to provide data on hazardous waste imports and exports for tracking purposes and for reporting to the OECD. Burden Statement: The respondent burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 4 hours per response. This estimate includes all aspects of the information collection including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Respondents: U.S. exporters and importers of hazardous waste destined for recovery. Estimated Number of Respondents: 437 exporters, and 771 importers. Estimated Number of Responses Per Respondent: Varies. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 4,814 hours. Frequency of Collection: On-Occasion. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. and Jonathan Gledhill, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503. Dated: September 29, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24645 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
