FR941026-1-00010 FR941026-1-00005 1. What cost might airlines incur if the use of child safety seats was required by regulation? There are several subordinate issues related to cost. For example: (a) Would air carriers provide child safety seats? (b) What would it cost air carriers to purchase and maintain child safety seats? (c) How often would child safety seats have to be replaced? (d) How many times annually would child safety seats be used on air carrier aircraft? (e) How many child safety seats would be purchased during a year by air carriers? 2. For a family traveling with infants, what is the price elasticity of demand for air travel? (a) What fares doe air carriers now charge for infants currently seated in child safety seats? (b) If parents had to purchase a ticket for their child under the age of two and the price of the seats on their flight of choice was such that their only alternatives would be to (1) drive or (2) fly paying discount fares during off-peak hours (or a non-direct flight), which alternative would they choose? (c) Is there a difference in the elasticity of short versus long trips_(less than 300 miles and 300 miles or greater)? (d) Is 300 miles the appropriate demarcation for a short versus a long trip for a family traveling with infants? What, if any, is a relevant demarcation? (e) What is the cross-price elasticity of demand for air and automobile travel for families traveling with infants? 3. What are the profiles of families with infants who drive? What are the profiles of families with infants who fly? For example: (a) How many infants are enplaned annually aboard domestic air carriers? (b) How many infants would be represented in an average size family that flies? (c) What is the average number of individuals in a family that flies? (d) How many families fly annually? (e) Of those families with infants who fly, what percent of families currently use child safety seats? 4. What are the infant and adult mortality rates for air travel, automobile travel, and other modes of transportation? There are several subordinate issues related to mortality rates. For example:
