FR940630-2-00096 FR940630-2-00077 [Civil Action No. 92&hyph;2854 (GHR), D.D.C.] United States v. Airline Tariff Publishing Company, et al.; Public Comments and Response on Proposed Final Judgment Pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), the United States publishes below a comment received on the proposed Final Judgment in United States v. Airline Tariff Publishing Company, et al., Civil Action No. 92&hyph;2854 (SSH), United States District Court for the District of Columbia, together with the response of the United States to the comments. Copies of the response and the public comments are available on request for inspection and copying in room 3235 of the Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Tenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20530, and for inspection at the Office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, United States Courthouse, Third Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001. Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations. United States' Response To Public Comments United States of America, Plaintiff, v. Airline Tariff Publishing Company, et al., Defendants. Pursuant to section 2(d) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(d) (the `APPA'' or ``Tunney Act''), the United States responds to public comments on the proposed Final Judgement submitted for entry in this civil antitrust proceeding. This action began on December 21, 1992, when the United States filed a Complaint charging eight major domestic airlines 1 and the Airline Tariff Publishing Company (``ATP'') with violations of the antitrust laws. The first count of the Complaint alleges that each of the airline defendants engaged in various combinations and conspiracies with other of the airline defendants and co-conspirators, consisting of agreements to fix prices by increasing fares, eliminating discounted fares, and setting fare restrictions. The Complaint alleges that these agreements were reached using the computerized fare dissemination services of ATP to exchange proposals, negotiate fare changes, and trade fare increases in one or more markets for fare increases in other markets (or to other fare types). As a result of these agreements, consumers paid higher fares for airline tickets. 1 American Airlines, Inc., Alaska Airlines, Inc., Continental Airlines, Inc., Delta Air Lines, Inc., Northwest Airlines, Inc., Trans World Airlines, Inc., United Air Lines, Inc., and USAir, Inc. The second count of the Complaint alleges that the airline defendants, ATP, and co-conspirators engaged in a combination and conspiracy consisting of an agreement to create, maintain, operate, and participate in the ATP fare dissemination system in a manner that unnecessarily facilitates the ability of the airline defendants and their co-conspirators to coordinate changes to their fares. As a result of this agreement, consumers have paid higher prices for airline tickets. The Complaint seeks an injunction barring the defendants from entering into agreements with one another with respect to fares, and from disseminating the information concerning proposed changes to fares that has enabled them to increase prices collusively and illegally. Simultaneously with the filing of the Complaint, the United States filed a proposed Final Judgment, a Competitive Impact Statement (``CIS''), and a stipulation signed by two of the defendants, United and USAir, for entry of a proposed Final Judgement. After reviewing the proposed Final Judgment pursuant to the Tunney Act, the Court concluded that the Judgment was in the public interest within the meaning of the Tunney Act, and it became final with respect to United and USAir on November 1, 1993. On March 17, 1994, the United States, ATP, Alaska, American, Continental, Delta, Northwest, and TWA filed with the Court a Stipulation consenting to the entry of a new proposed Final Judgment with respect to the remaining defendants. This proposed Final Judgment is substantially identical to the Final Judgment entered against United and USAir with the following exceptions. Section V(B) clarifies that the proposed Final Judgment does not prohibit an airline defendant from selling management services to another airline. Section V(C) permits the airline defendants to disseminate last ticket dates through ATP in some specified circumstances where the United/USAir decree prohibits the use of last ticket dates. The record keeping provisions in Section VI(E) have been changed to reflect the changes to Section V(C). Finally, Section IV(B) provides the relief the United States is seeking against defendant ATP. As required by the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, on March 25, 1994, American, Alaska, Delta, and ATP filed with this Court a description of written and oral communications on their behalf within the reporting requirements of section 15(g) of the APPA. Continental, Northwest and Trans World filed their notifications of written and oral communications with the Court on March 28, 1994. A summary of the terms of the proposed Final Judgment and CIS, and directions for the submission of written comments relating to the proposed decree were published in the Washington Post for seven days over a period beginning March 27, 1994. The proposed Final Judgment and CIS were published in the Federal Register on March 31, 1994. 59 FR 15225.
