FR940607-0-00078 FR940607-0-00017 3. Section 225.63 is amended by revising the section heading, revising paragraph (a), redesignating paragraphs (b) and (c) as paragraphs (d) and (e) and adding new paragraphs (b) and (c) to read as follows: ยง225.63 Appraisals required; transactions requiring a State certified or licensed appraiser. (a) Appraisals required. An appraisal performed by a State certified or licensed appraiser is required for all real estate-related financial transactions except those in which: (1) The transaction value is $250,000 or less; (2) A lien on real estate has been taken as collateral in an abundance of caution; (3) The transaction is not secured by real estate; (4) A lien on real estate has been taken for purposes other than the real estate's value; (5) The transaction is a business loan that: (i) Has a transaction value of $1 million or less; and (ii) Is not dependent on the sale of, or rental income derived from, real estate as the primary source of repayment; (6) A lease of real estate is entered into, unless the lease is the economic equivalent of a purchase or sale of the leased real estate; (7) The transaction involves an existing extension of credit at the lending institution, provided that: (i) There has been no obvious and material change in market conditions or physical aspects of the property that threatens the adequacy of the institution's real estate collateral protection after the transaction, even with the advancement of new monies; or (ii) There is no advancement of new monies, other than funds necessary to cover reasonable closing costs; (8) The transaction involves the purchase, sale, investment in, exchange of, or extension of credit secured by, a loan or interest in a loan, pooled loans, or interests in real property, including mortgaged-backed securities, and each loan or interest in a loan, pooled loan, or real property interest met Board regulatory requirements for appraisals at the time of origination; (9) The transaction is wholly or partially insured or guaranteed by a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency; (10) The transaction either: (i) Qualifies for sale to a United States government agency or United States government sponsored agency; or (ii) Involves a residential real estate transaction in which the appraisal conforms to the Federal National Mortgage Association or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation appraisal standards applicable to that category of real estate; (11) The regulated institution is acting in a fiduciary capacity and is not required to obtain an appraisal under other law; or (12) The Board determines that the services of an appraiser are not necessary in order to protect Federal financial and public policy interests in real estate-related financial transactions or to protect the safety and soundness of the institution. (b) Evaluations required. For a transaction that does not require the services of a State certified or licensed appraiser under paragraph (a)(1), (a)(5) or (a)(7) of this section, the institution shall obtain an appropriate evaluation of real property collateral that is consistent with safe and sound banking practices. (c) Appraisals to address safety and soundness concerns. The Board reserves the right to require an appraisal under this subpart whenever the agency believes it is necessary to address safety and soundness concerns. * * * * * 4. Section 225.64 is revised to read as follows: ยง225.64 Minimum appraisal standards. For federally related transactions, all appraisals shall, at a minimum: (a) Conform to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice promulgated by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation, 1029 Vermont Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20005, unless principles of safe and sound banking require compliance with stricter standards; (b) Be written and contain sufficient information and analysis to support the institution's decision to engage in the transaction; (c) Analyze and report appropriate deductions and discounts for proposed construction or renovation, partially leased buildings, non-market lease terms, and tract developments with unsold units; (d) Be based upon the definition of market value as set forth in this subpart; and (e) Be performed by State licensed or certified appraisers in accordance with requirements set forth in this subpart. 5. Section 225.65 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: ยง225.65 Appraiser independence. * * * * * (b) Fee appraisers. (1) If an appraisal is prepared by a fee appraiser, the appraiser shall be engaged directly by the regulated institution or its agent, and have no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or the transaction. (2) A regulated institution also may accept an appraisal that was prepared by an appraiser engaged directly by another financial services institution, if: (i) The appraiser has no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or the transaction; and (ii) The regulated institution determines that the appraisal conforms to the requirements of this subpart and is otherwise acceptable. Appendix A to Subpart G [Removed] 6. Appendix A to subpart G, part 225, is removed. Dated: May 25, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board.
