FR940203-2-00143 FR940203-2-00068 Selection Criteria_Student Participation Comment: One commenter felt that under the ``Student Participation'' selection criterion insufficient attention is accorded to the adequacy of plans to reach and serve out-of-school youth effectively and suggested adding a specific question to address this perceived deficiency. Another commenter said that the description of ``all students'' in the selection criteria is inconsistent with the definition of the term in the notice's ``Definitions'' section, which includes students with limited-English proficiency. The commenter would have this population added to the selection criterion. Discussion: The priority established in this notice requires State plans to include realistic strategies and programs to ensure that all students have the opportunity to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities systems. With regard to the comment on service to out-of-school youth, the Secretaries note that the definition of the term ``All students'' has been modified to include students who have dropped out of school. The Secretaries recognize that the definition of ``All students'' includes individuals with limited-English proficiency and agree that, for consistency, the reference to students with limited-English proficiency also should be included in this criterion. Changes: The ``Student Participation'' criterion has been modified to include specific reference to students with limited-English proficiency. Comment: One commenter was concerned that the children of migrant and seasonal farmworkers are often overlooked by States and suggested that the Secretaries add ``migrant and seasonal farmworker children'' among those explicitly intended to be served under the program. The commenter also suggested that States be encouraged to provide early intervention for youth, particularly youth at risk of dropping out of school at an early age. Discussion: As written, the ``Student Participation'' criterion calls for realistic strategies and programs to included all students. In States with migrant workers and seasonal farmworkers, this would include the children of those individuals. The Secretaries expect those students to be provided with the opportunity to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs. Additionally, the Secretaries strongly encourage States to provide early intervention for youth, particularly youth at risk of dropping out of school at an early age. Change: None. Selection Criteria_Local Programs Comment: One commenter suggested that the ``Local programs'' selection criterion be modified to permit supported employment as a part of work-based learning. The commenter was also concerned about the participation of special education students and suggested that the phrase ``or alternative certificate'' be added after ``award of a high school diploma.'' The commenter also felt that the phrase ``including those funded under JTPA, IDEA, Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (Perkins Act), the Rehabilitation Act, and JOBS'' should be added following the question ``Have promising existing programs been considered for adaptation?'' Discussion: With regard to the suggestion that the ``Local programs'' selection criterion be modified to permit supported employment as a part of work-based learning, such a change would make the selection criterion inconsistent with the priority, which includes a safeguard prohibiting the use of funds awarded under this competition for the payment of wages to students. The Secretaries encourage grantees to use other Federal, State, local, public, and private resources to provide supported employment, work study, and cooperative education where these approaches facilitate work-based learning. With regard to the comment suggesting that alternative certificates be accepted in lieu of high school diplomas for disabled students, the clause ``or its equivalent'' is added to this part of the notice to provide for alternative certificates for disabled students. Finally, while the Secretaries agree with the commenter that programs under the JTPA, IDEA, Perkins Act, Rehabilitation Act, and JOBS have produced practices that should be considered for adaptation, other Federal, State, and local programs have also developed promising programs that States and locals may wish to consider. The Secretaries encourage States and localities to adapt all promising programs to their School-to-Work Opportunities systems in a manner that best suits the systems they plan to implement.
