FR940216-0-00063 FR940216-0-00010 D. Range/Extrapolation Like all regression models, the complex model is not valid for all possible input values. The range of fuel parameter values over which the complex model accurately predicts vehicle emissions is given in Table IV&hyph;3. These ranges are based on the range of data used to develop the models and on comments received by the Agency on this issue. The limits proposed in the February 1993 were, in some cases, narrower than the range of data used to develop the complex model. In addition, the limits proposed in the NPRM would have prevented a number of very low emitting fuels from being certified using the model. Table IV&hyph; 3._ Parameter Ranges for Which the Complex Model Can Be Used 1Fuel Parameter 1Valid range for: 2Reformulated fuel 2Conventional fuel Aromatics, vol % 0&hyph;50 0&hyph;55 E200, % 30&hyph;70 30&hyph;70 E300, % 70&hyph;100 70&hyph;100 Olefins, vol % 0&hyph;25 0&hyph;30 Oxygen, vol % 0&hyph;3.7 0&hyph;3.7 RVP, psi 6.4&hyph;10 6.4&hyph;11 Sulfur, ppm 0&hyph;500 0&hyph;1000 Benzene, vol % 0&hyph;2.0 0&hyph;4.9 EPA has received a number of comments requesting alterations in the model's range. After considering these comments and re-evaluating the data on which the complex model is based, EPA has modified the range limits. In some cases, EPA has chosen to extrapolate the complex model slightly beyond the range for which data were available in order to allow additional fuels, both conventional and reformulated, to be evaluated using the model without recourse to expensive and time-consuming vehicle testing. These extrapolations are limited to those parameters whose effects appear to be well-characterized by the complex model. A detailed discussion of the limits of the available data, EPA's rationale for extending the valid range of the model for some parameters, and the extrapolation method used to extend the model can be found in Section IV.D of the RIA. E. Winter While the VOC performance standard for reformulated fuels applies only in the summer, the toxics and no-NO x -increase requirements apply year-round. EPA therefore recognized the need to model the exhaust toxics and NO x emissions performance of reformulated gasolines during the winter months as well as during the high ozone season. Modeling winter emissions performance, however, presented a number of difficulties. First, the data sources described earlier provided data on emissions performance only under summer conditions and for gasolines with RVP levels typical of summer gasolines. Second, the RVP levels of fuels included in the complex model database ranged from 7 to 10 psi, while winter fuels tend to have RVP levels in the 11.5 psi range and are not restricted by other regulations. Hence the complex model cannot be used directly for fuels with typical winter RVP levels. RVP's impact on canister loading and subsequent purging is thought to be the primary cause of its effects on exhaust emissions. Since data do not exist on the effects of winter fuels on canister loading under winter conditions, the Agency is not able at this time to model the effects of winter RVP levels on exhaust emissions. To avoid making unsound or speculative predictions, EPA proposed and is now promulgating a requirement that for purposes of evaluating emissions effects using the complex model, the RVP of winter fuels be set at the summer statutory baseline RVP value. In effect, this requirement builds into the model the assumption that the RVP level of winter gasolines has no effect on NO x or exhaust toxics emissions. As a result, refiners will not be required to alter the RVP levels of winter gasolines. Refiners will receive neither benefit nor penalty for changing the RVP of their winter gasolines. To evaluate winter fuels using the complex model, an RVP value equal to that of summer baseline gasoline (8.7 psi) must be used instead of the fuel's actual RVP. Doing so effectively removes the contribution of RVP to winter exhaust emissions. When sufficient data is developed on the emissions impact of winter RVP levels under winter ambient conditions, EPA will be able to revise the complex model accordingly. Until then, EPA believes it is more appropriate to assume that RVP levels have winter exhaust emission effects than to speculate about the magnitude of such impacts. In its prior proposals, EPA had proposed that winter nonexhaust emissions, including winter nonexhaust benzene emissions, be considered zero. EPA received a number of comments requesting that both baseline emissions and the nonexhaust toxics model include winter nonexhaust benzene emissions. This request was based on the belief that the year-round benzene limits would result in reduced nonexhaust benzene emissions in the winter months. EPA has evaluated this claim, taking into account temperature ranges and the effects of inspection and maintenance programs on such emissions. EPA acknowledges the validity of this claim, since winter nonexhaust emissions, including nonexhaust benzene emissions, are likely to be nonzero under all winter temperature ranges. In the past, the lack of sufficient data on nonexhaust emissions under winter temperature conditions has prevented EPA from developing reliable, accurate models of winter nonexhaust emissions. The commenters provided a limited quantity of data on winter nonexhaust emissions to support their claim. However, the data submitted in support of this claim were based on measurements of nonexhaust emissions from vehicles with very low nonexhaust emissions. EPA's analysis indicates that these vehicles are not representative of in-use vehicles. In addition, the chemical composition of the measured nonexhaust emissions were characteristic of resting losses (losses that occur due to permeation through fuel system components) rather than of diurnal, hot soak, or running loss emissions. Resting losses are not included in EPA's baseline emission estimates, so EPA does not consider it appropriate to include resting losses in its nonexhaust emission models. Finally, no data were submitted on nonexhaust benzene emissions from fail vehicles under winter conditions. Since nonexhaust benzene emissions from such vehicles will comprise a significant portion of winter nonexhaust benzene emissions, EPA is concerned that a model based on the submitted data would not provide accurate estimates of such emissions. Given the theoretical merits of the claim, however, EPA will consider including a model of winter benzene nonexhaust emissions in the complex model in the future when sufficient data become available.
