FR940513-1-00073 FR940513-1-00017 Because today's proposed regulation involves the application of both RACT and MACT, impacts for each standard were determined separately. In order to avoid overestimation or double-counting, and because the requirements for RACT are more stringent than MACT, the impacts for facilities affected by RACT (i.e., facilities with gasoline throughputs of greater than 790 million L/yr (5 million bbl/yr) or crude oil throughputs of greater than 16 billion L/yr (100 million bbl/yr)) were calculated first, and were discounted when determining the impacts for facilities affected by MACT (i.e., facilities emitting greater than 1 Mg/yr of HAP). 3. RACT Threshold Determination The Administrator is proposing Regulatory Alternative II as the regulatory threshold for the RACT standard. Regulatory Alternative II would require controls for crude oil loadings at facilities with an crude oil marine throughput of approximately 15,900 L/yr (100 million bbl/yr) or more, and gasoline loadings at facilities with a gasoline throughput of approximately 795 million L/yr (5 million bbl/yr). Approximately 25 terminals (1.5 percent of all terminals) will be affected if the thresholds for Regulatory Alternative II are implemented. In addition, under this alternative, only a small volume of U.S. marine vessels will need to be retrofitted. It is anticipated that only those vessels that are least costly to retrofit would be retrofitted. Approximately 76 percent of the VOC emissions from all marine terminals would be controlled at an average cost effectiveness of approximately $770/Mg of VOC reduced under Regulatory Alternative II. The Administrator believes that the incremental cost effectiveness ($5,000/Mg) of going beyond Regulatory Alternative II is inappropriate given this standard. Regulatory Alternative III was strongly considered. However, the additional 35 terminals controlled under Regulatory Alternative III would produce only an additional eight percent reduction in nationwide emissions. Of those 35 additional terminals, as many as 25 could be under increased competitive pressure, compared to only up to five terminals under Regulatory Alternative II. (Increased competitive pressure refers to the situation where the controlled terminal is in direct competition with a much smaller or larger terminal. The smaller terminal may not be controlled and the larger terminal may be able to control vapors more effectively on a per-barrel basis. The controlled terminal could be forced to absorb some of the control costs, reduce throughput, substitute nonregulated products, or close the facility.) Additionally, the more stringent regulatory alternatives considered involved control of commodities which have vapor pressures much lower than gasoline and crude oil. Emissions generally correspond to the vapor pressure of the commodity being loaded. Gasoline and crude oil generally have the highest vapor pressures, and therefore present better control alternatives. Because the economic and other environmental impacts of Regulatory Alternative II are reasonable and should not place an undue burden on industry or the environment, the Administrator selected Regulatory Alternative II as representative of RACT. 4. Selection of Emission Control Technologies and Emission Control Standards for RACT Control of marine vessel loading emissions requires the capture of displaced vapors and efficient control of vapors once captured. Vessels loading at facilities with controls must install a vapor collection system and pass one of three tank vessel tightness alternatives to ensure good capture of vapors. The tightness alternative may be one of the following: (1) A leak check performed during loading on all components using Method 21 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60; (2) a pressure test, where the internal tanks are pressurized and the pressure drop is monitored over time to determine if the vessel is tight; or (3) for noninerted vessels (i.e., vessels having tanks that are not blanketed with nonreactive gas during loading to ensure that vapors in the tanks are below the explosive range), load the vessel at less than atmospheric pressure. These tightness alternatives are the same as those promulgated in the NESHAP for benzene (40 CFR part 61 subpart BB). The EPA does not have sufficient data necessary to determine at what point vessel leaks affect the operation and efficiency of the control system; however, the Agency believes that the three tightness alternatives proposed are sufficient to provide for the collection of nearly all displaced vapors. The EPA believes that once assured of good capture and collection of the vapors through the tightness tests, facilities can concentrate on the operation and maintenance of the control device as a means of ensuring compliance. The EPA is proposing that vapor emissions captured from marine tank vessel loading operations can be controlled using one of two primary methods: Combustion or recovery. The primary devices used for combustion of vapors are flares, enclosed flares (often referred to as thermal oxidizers), catalytic incinerators, and thermal incinerators. The primary methods for recovery of vapors include carbon adsorption, absorption, refrigeration, and vapor balancing. In States with marine tank vessel loading standards that allow both combustion and recovery, the control devices are evenly split between enclosed flares and carbon adsorption.
