FR940207-1-00029 FR940207-1-00002 2. Days in compounding period . Institutions using the special annual percentage yield earned formula must use the actual number of days in the compounding period. Appendix B to Part 230_Model Clauses and Sample Forms 1. Modifications . Institutions that modify the model clauses will be deemed in compliance as long as they do not delete information required by the act or regulation or rearrange the format so as to affect the substance or clarity of the disclosures. 2. Format . Institutions may use inserts to a document (see Sample Form B&hyph;4) or fill-in blanks (see Sample Forms B&hyph;5, B&hyph;6 and B&hyph;7, which use double underlining to indicate terms that have been filled in) to show current rates, fees or other terms. 3. Disclosures for opening accounts . The sample forms illustrate the information that must be provided to a consumer when an account is opened, as required by ยง230.4(a)(1). (See ยง230.4(a)(2), which states the requirements for disclosing the annual percentage yield, the interest rate, and the maturity of a time account in responding to a consumer's request.) 4. Compliance with Regulation E . Institutions may satisfy certain requirements under Regulation DD with disclosures that meet the requirements of Regulation E. (See ยง230.3(c).) The model clauses and sample forms do not give examples of disclosures that would be covered by both this regulation and Regulation E (such as disclosing the amount of a fee for ATM usage). Institutions should consult appendix A to Regulation E for appropriate model clauses. 5. Duplicate disclosures . If a requirement such as a minimum balance applies to more than one account term (to obtain a bonus and determine the annual percentage yield, for example), institutions need not repeat the requirement for each term, as long as it is clear which terms the requirement applies to. 6. Guide to model clauses . In the model clauses, italicized words indicate the type of disclosure an institution should insert in the space provided (for example, an institution might insert ``March 25, 1993'' in the blank for ``(date)'' disclosure). Brackets and diagonals (``/'') indicate an institution must choose the alternative that describes its practice (for example, [daily balance/average daily balance]). 7. Sample forms . The sample forms (B&hyph;4 through B&hyph;8) serve a purpose different from the model clauses. They illustrate various ways of adapting the model clauses to specific accounts. The clauses shown relate only to the specific transactions described. B&hyph;1 Model Clauses for Account Disclosures B&hyph;1(h) Disclosures Relating to Time Accounts 1. Maturity . The disclosure in Clause (h)(i) stating a specific date may be used in all cases. The statement describing a time period is appropriate only when providing disclosures in response to a consumer's request. B&hyph;2 Model Clauses for Change in Terms 1. General . The second clause, describing a future decrease in the interest rate and annual percentage yield, applies to fixed-rate accounts only. B&hyph;4 Sample Form (Multiple Accounts) 1. Format . The sample form has been marked with an ``X'' to indicate it is for a NOW account and provides for both a fee schedule insert and a rate sheet insert. 2. Rate sheet insert . In the rate sheet insert, the calculations of the annual percentage yield for the three-month and six-month certificates are based on 92 days and 181 days respectively. B&hyph;6 Sample Form (Tiered-Rate Money Market Account) 1. General . Sample Form B&hyph;6 uses Tiering Method A (discussed in Appendix A and Clause (a)(iv)) to calculate interest. It gives a narrative description of a tiered-rate account; institutions may use a different format (for example, a chart similar to the one in Sample Form B&hyph;4), as long as all required information for each tier is clearly presented. The form does not contain a separate disclosure of the minimum balance required to obtain the annual percentage yield; the tiered-rate disclosure provides that information. B&hyph;9 Sample Form (Money Market Account Advertisement) 1. General . The advertisement is for a tiered-rate money market account that uses Tiering Method A. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, January 28, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2505 Filed 2&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
