FR940216-0-00216 FR940216-0-00010 (b) Alternatively, candidate vehicles may be screened for their exhaust THC emissions with the IM240 short test procedure. 1 The results from the IM240 shall be converted into results comparable with the standard exhaust FTP as detailed in this paragraph (b) to place the vehicles within their respective emitter groups in accordance with the requirements of §80.60. 1 EPA Technical Report EPA&hyph;AA&hyph;TSS&hyph;91&hyph;1. Copies may be obtained by ordering publication number PB92104405 from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia 22161. (1) A candidate vehicle with IM240 test results <0.367 grams THC per vehicle mile shall be classified as a normal emitter. (2) A candidate vehicle with IM240 test results "0.367 grams THC per vehicle mile shall be classified as a higher emitter. §§80.63&hyph;80.64 [Reserved] §80.65 General requirements for refiners, importers, and oxygenate blenders. (a) Date requirements begin. The requirements of this subpart D apply to all gasoline produced, imported, transported, stored, sold, or dispensed: (1) At any location other than retail outlets and wholesale purchaser-consumer facilities on or after December 1, 1994; and (2) At any location on or after January 1, 1995. (b) Certification of gasoline and RBOB. Gasoline or RBOB sold or dispensed in a covered area must be certified under §80.40. (c) Standards must be met on either a per-gallon or on an average basis. (1) Any refiner or importer, for each batch of reformulated gasoline or RBOB it produces or imports, shall meet: (i) Those standards and requirements it designated under paragraph (d) of this section for per-gallon compliance on a per-gallon basis; and (ii) Those standards and requirements it designated under paragraph (d) of this section for average compliance on an average basis over the applicable averaging period; except that (iii) Refiners and importers are not required to meet the oxygen standard for RBOB. (2) Any oxygenate blender, for each batch of reformulated gasoline it produces by blending oxygenate with RBOB shall, subsequent to the addition of oxygenate, meet the oxygen standard either per-gallon or average over the applicable averaging period. (3)(i) For each averaging period, and separately for each parameter that may be met either per-gallon or on average, any refiner shall designate for each refinery, and any importer or oxygenate blender shall designate, its gasoline or RBOB as being subject to the standard applicable to that parameter on either a per-gallon or average basis. For any specific averaging period and parameter all batches of gasoline or RBOB shall be designated as being subject to the per-gallon standard, or all batches of gasoline and RBOB shall be designated as being subject to the average standard. For any specific averaging period and parameter a refiner for a refinery, or any importer or oxygenate blender, may not designate certain batches as being subject to the per-gallon standard and others as being subject to the average standard. (ii) In the event any refiner for a refinery, or any importer or oxygenate blender, fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and for a specific averaging period and parameter designates certain batches as being subject to the per-gallon standard and others as being subject to the average standard, all batches produced or imported during the averaging period that were designated as being subject to the average standard shall, ab initio, be redesignated as being subject to the per- gallon standard. This redesignation shall apply regardless of whether the batches in question met or failed to meet the per-gallon standard for the parameter in question. (d) Designation of gasoline. Any refiner or importer of gasoline shall designate the gasoline it produces or imports as follows: (1) All gasoline produced or imported shall be properly designated as either reformulated or conventional gasoline, or as RBOB. (2) All gasoline designated as reformulated or as RBOB shall be further properly designated as: (i) Either VOC-controlled or not VOC-controlled; (ii) In the case of gasoline or RBOB designated as VOC-controlled, either intended for use in VOC-Control Region 1 or VOC-Control Region 2 (as defined in §80.71); (iii) Either oxygenated fuels program reformulated gasoline, or not oxygenated fuels program reformulated gasoline. Gasoline or RBOB must be designated as oxygenated fuels program reformulated gasoline if such gasoline: (A) Contains more than 2.0 weight percent oxygen; and (B) Arrives at a terminal from which gasoline is dispensed into trucks used to deliver gasoline to an oxygenated fuels control area within five days prior to the beginning of the oxygenated fuels control period for that control area; (iv) For gasoline or RBOB produced, imported, sold, dispensed or used during the period January 1, 1995 through December 31, 1997, either as being subject to the simple model standards, or to the complex model standards;
