FR940222-1-00050 FR940222-1-00008 (iii) Except as provided in ยง417.550, appropriately apportioned among the Medicare enrollees, other enrollees, and nonenrolled patients of the HMO or CMP. (2) Cost reimbursement principles . In determining fair and equitable payment to the HMO or CMP, HCFA generally applies the cost reimbursement principles set forth in ยง413.5 of this chapter. (b) Presumptive limit _(1) Applicability. The provisions of this paragraph apply to cost HMOs and CMPs and to HCPPs that furnish any inpatient services in general, acute care, short stay hospitals (as distinguished from psychiatric, chronic, or rehabilitation hospitals that are long-stay hospitals). In this paragraph, references to HMOs and CMPs must be read as applicable also to HCPPs that furnish inpatient services in acute care hospitals. (2) Criteria for reasonableness. In judging whether costs are reasonable, HCFA applies, as a presumptive limit on the total amount payable on behalf of Medicare enrollees, the weighted average of the AAPCCs for those enrollees. (3) Terminology. As used in this paragraph_(i) Overclaim means a claim for costs in excess of the presumptive limit; and (ii) Final overclaim means that portion of an overclaim that the HMO or CMP cannot document as ``reasonable'' under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. (4) Exceptions to presumptive limit. HCFA may accept and pay claims for costs that exceed the presumptive limit if the HMO or CMP documents that those excess costs are reasonable because of either of the following circumstances: (i) The Medicare enrollees of the HMO or CMP have special needs and require a volume and intensity of services that exceed the average for Medicare beneficiaries of the same age and sex living in the same geographical area. (ii) There were extraordinary occurrences beyond the control of the HMO or CMP including, but not limited to, strikes, fire, earthquake, flood, or similar unusual happenings that had substantial cost effects. (5) Conditions for additional payments. If an HMO or CMP seeks additional payments as an exception to the presumptive limit, it must comply with HCFA instructions for the exception process described in paragraphs (a)(6) through (a)(10) of this section. (6) Response to first notice _(i) Timing of response. Within 60 days after receipt of a first notice indicating that its costs exceed the presumptive limit, the HMO or CMP must submit the required information to HCFA. (ii) Required information. The required information is any information that HCFA identifies as necessary for it to evaluate whether the HMO or CMP qualifies for an exception to the presumptive limit. It may include, but is not limited to, data on costs of services furnished to individual enrollees, documenting the volume and intensity of services required by the Medicare enrollees. (iii) Consequences of failure to provide required information. If the HMO or CMP fails to submit the information requested by HCFA, the HMO or CMP forgoes the option of seeking additional payments, and is subject to the final adjustment procedures of ยง417.576(c). (7) Determination and notice of determination. If the HMO or CMP submits the information requested by HCFA, HCFA considers that information, determines whether the HMO or CMP meets the conditions for additional payments, and gives the HMO or CMP notice of that determination. (8) Response to notice of adverse determination. (i) If HCFA's determination under paragraph (a)(7) of this section does not provide for additional payments, or provides for them in amounts that the HMO or CMP considers to be less than the special needs of its Medicare enrollees justify, the HMO or CMP may submit additional materials to support its position that its costs in excess of the presumptive limit are the result of one of the circumstances specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, or that the special needs specified in that paragraph justify larger additional payments. (ii) The HMO or CMP must submit the additional materials within 60 days of receipt of the notice of adverse determination. (9) Verification. All information submitted by HMOs and CMPs seeking additional payments is subject to verification by HCFA or its authorized representatives. HCFA may seek verification from sources such as Medicare intermediaries or carriers and State and local agencies. For example, the local chapter of the American Red Cross might be able to confirm the impact of a natural disaster. (10) Determination and notice of final overclaim. HCFA determines whether there is a final overclaim and gives the HMO or CMP written notice of that determination as follows: (i) After the notice of presumptive overclaim, if the HMO or CMP does not timely submit required information under paragraph (b)(6) of this section. (ii) After a notice of adverse determination under paragraph (b)(7) of this section, if the HMO or CMP does not submit additional justification under paragraph (b)(8) of this section.
