FR941004-1-00081 FR941004-1-00018 •Enhancing parents' ability to create safe, stable and nurturing home environments that promote healthy child development; •Assisting children and families to resolve crises, connect with necessary and appropriate services, and remain safely together in their homes; •Avoiding unnecessary out-of-home placement of children; and •Helping children already in out-of-home care to be returned to and be maintained with their families or in another planned, permanent living arrangement. Currently, a number of program models, approaches, and levels of family preservation services are in operation. In this NPRM, the term ``family preservation'' is used to include all such service options. We do not plan to require and do not endorse any specific program model for implementation. Some activities, such as respite care, home visiting, and assistance in obtaining services, may be considered either a family support or a family preservation service. Section 1357.15(a)␣Scope Section 1357.15 contains the requirements we are proposing for the development of the comprehensive five-year Child and Family Services Plan (CFSP). We solicit comment on the overall requirements of the plan and welcome suggestions which could result in minimizing the collection and analysis of information and the reporting requirements in the plan. This section consists of twenty-two paragraphs (a) through (v). The paragraphs cover discrete topics such as general provisions related to scope, eligibility for funds, and required assurances; paragraphs on the specific content of the comprehensive plan, including a vision statement, goals, and objectives; requirements for the description of the services to be provided, the populations to be served, and the geographic areas to be targeted; specific proposals for the planning process leading to the development of the plan; and other provisions focused on the continuum of services, permanency planning efforts, and other statutory requirements. Paragraph (a)(1) of this section specifies the overall scope of the plan by proposing the consolidation into one comprehensive five-year plan of both the family preservation and family support services and the child welfare services programs under title IV&hyph;B of the Social Security Act. Paragraph (a)(2) proposes that the plan must include information on the Independent Living Program (ILP) and two formula grant programs under the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA).
