FR940512-2-00110 FR940512-2-00055 (7) The fees received by the independent fiduciary for serving in such capacity, combined with any other fees derived from the Employer or related parties, will not exceed 1% of his annual income for each fiscal year that he continues to serve in the independent fiduciary capacity with respect to the transactions described herein; (8) The independent fiduciary evaluated the proposed transactions described herein and deemed them to be administratively feasible, protective and in the interest of the Plan; (9) The independent fiduciary will monitor the terms and the conditions of the exemption and the Lease throughout its initial term plus the two Renewal terms and will take whatever action is necessary to protect the Plan's rights; (10) The Plan will bear no costs or expenses with respect to the proposed transactions; and (11) The Employer will file form 5330 and pay the appropriate excise taxes for the period beginning June 9, 1989, to the date this proposed exemption, if granted, is published in the Federal Register , within ninety (90) days of the publication date. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ekaterina A. Uzlyan, U.S. Department of Labor, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8883. (This is not a toll-free number). General Information The attention of interested persons is directed to the following: (1) The fact that a transaction is the subject of an exemption under section 408(a) of the Act and/or section 4975(c)(2) of the Code does not relieve a fiduciary or other party in interest of disqualified person from certain other provisions of the Act and/or the Code, including any prohibited transaction provisions to which the exemption does not apply and the general fiduciary responsibility provisions of section 404 of the Act, which among other things require a fiduciary to discharge his duties respecting the plan solely in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of the plan and in a prudent fashion in accordance with section 404(a)(1)(b) of the act; nor does it affect the requirement of section 401(a) of the Code that the plan must operate for the exclusive benefit of the employees of the employer maintaining the plan and their beneficiaries; (2) Before an exemption may be granted under section 408(a) of the Act and/or section 4975(c)(2) of the Code, the Department must find that the exemption is administratively feasible, in the interests of the plan and of its participants and beneficiaries and protective of the rights of participants and beneficiaries of the plan; (3) The proposed exemptions, if granted, will be supplemental to, and not in derogation of, any other provisions of the Act and/or the Code, including statutory or administrative exemptions and transitional rules. Furthermore, the fact that a transaction is subject to an administrative or statutory exemption is not dispositive of whether the transaction is in fact a prohibited transaction; and (4) The proposed exemptions, if granted, will be subject to the express condition that the material facts and representations contained in each application are true and complete and accurately describe all material terms of the transaction which is the subject of the exemption. In the case of continuing exemption transactions, if any of the material facts or representations described in the application change after the exemption is granted, the exemption will cease to apply as of the date of such change. In the event of any such change, application for a new exemption may be made to the Department. Signed at Washington, DC, this 6th day of May, 1994. Ivan Strasfeld, Director of Exemption Determinations, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11528 Filed 5&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;29&hyph;P
