FR941202-2-00181 FR941202-2-00098 The following considerations should be taken into account by on-site assessors when evaluating the areas listed in section 3.6.1: 3.6.4.1␣Facility Assessment The assessor(s) should tour the laboratory facility with the laboratory management representative. Usually the tour will occur during the initial phase of the on-site visit, perhaps after the opening conference. During the tour, the assessor should visually inspect the facility with respect to general housekeeping, cleanliness, lighting, bench space and continuous temperature monitoring (if required). The assessor should note whether the appropriate laboratory services (e.g., vacuum system, compressed air, gases, etc.) are available. It may be necessary to have the laboratory representative demonstrate that certain pieces of equipment are working properly, for example, a fume hood may be turned on to assure that it does indeed exhaust air from the laboratory. This type of demonstration is not intended to certify that the hood meets design specifications or safety requirements, but merely that it is operational. During the tour, the assessor(s) should determine if sample storage areas are sufficient and whether there are problems with laboratory operations which would affect data quality. For example, an extraction operation located in the same room where volatile organic analyses are performed could contribute contamination to the volatile organic analyses. Any problems or deficiencies with the laboratory facility should be brought to the attention of the laboratory management at the time of the tour and reinforced at the closing conference. If discrepancies are noted between statements made by the laboratory representative and visual observations, it may be necessary to interview other laboratory personnel to obtain an explanation of the situation. As with all areas of the on-site assessment, the experience and training of the on-site assessor are critical to the success of the facilities evaluation. 3.6.4.2␣Organization Assessment The assessor should review laboratory QA plans, SOPs, organizational charts and/or other documentation to determine the laboratory's operational structure. If a documented organizational plan exists, the assessor should ascertain during subsequent interviews with laboratory personnel if the laboratory operation follows the documented plan. The assessor should interview laboratory management to determine the roles of management and how laboratory policy is created. The absence of a documented organizational structure, clearly defined functional responsibilities, and lines of communication, should be considered a deficiency. 3.6.4.3␣Personnel Assessment The assessor should review the laboratory's written qualification requirements for each position, and the qualifications of those persons currently holding the positions. Key personnel, e.g., laboratory management staff, quality assurance coordinator, section managers, chief analysts, etc., should be interviewed to verify their qualifications for their positions. These interviews may be conducted concurrently with interviews on analytical and biological procedures, quality control requirements, etc., in order to expedite the process. The assessor should be cautious when making judgments on personnel qualifications, and must be aware that experience may be an acceptable substitute for formal education. When in doubt concerning personnel qualifications, the assessor should conduct an in-depth interview with the individual to determine his/her expertise in a given area. Note: Section 5, Quality Systems, contains details on personnel qualifications. 3.6.4.4␣Sample Handling Assessment
