FR941220-0-00050 FR941220-0-00010 The Etowah River is one of three major upper Coosa River system tributaries, the others being the Conasauga and Oostanaula Rivers. The Etowah joins the Oostanaula River in Rome, Georgia, to form the Coosa River. The Coosa River itself is the major eastern tributary of the Mobile Basin and empties into the Gulf of Mexico in southwest Alabama. The Etowah River system drains portions of the Blue Ridge, Piedmont, and Valley and Ridge physiographic provinces. All streams in the drainage are upland in nature and characterized by high gradients and rocky substrates. Land use patterns of the Etowah system are largely of a rural agrarian economy, with scattered municipalities, including the encroaching Atlanta metropolitan area. The diversity of the aquatic fauna is commensurate with the diversity of physiographic provinces comprising the basin. Many of the aquatic organisms reported from the Etowah system are rare. Records of federally protected species are known for an endangered fish (amber darter, Percina antesella ), four endangered mussels (upland combshell, Epioblasma metastriata; southern clubshell, Pleurobema decisum; ovate clubshell, P. perovatum; and triangular kidneyshell, Ptychobranchus greeni ), and a threatened mussel (Alabama moccasinshell, Medionidus acutissimus ). In addition, several Category 2 candidate species from the Service's animal notice of review published in the Federal Register of November 21, 1991 (56 FR 58804) are also known from the Etowah River system. These include a mussel (Tennessee heelsplitter, Lasmigona holstonia ), five fishes (rock darter, Etheostoma rupestre ; freckled darter, Percina lenticula; bronze darter, P. palmaris; lined chub, Hybopsis lineapunctata; and frecklebelly madtom, Noturus munitus ), and at least three aquatic snails (spindle elimia, Elimia capillaris; coldwater elimia, E. gerhardti; and rough hornsnail, Pleurocera foremani ). It is estimated that 35 of the potentially 50 freshwater mussel species that once inhabited the Etowah River system have been extirpated (Burkhead et al. 1992); several of these species are now considered extinct. The Etowah River system at one time contained a significant portion of the aquatic biodiversity of the upper Mobile Basin. Cherokee Darter A small percid fish, the Cherokee darter is subcylindrical in shape, and has a relatively blunt snout with a subterminal mouth. The body shade is white to pale yellow. The side of adults is pigmented with usually eight small dark olive black blotches that develop into vertically elongate, slightly oblique bars in breeding adults, especially in males. The back usually has eight small dark saddles and intervening pale areas. The Cherokee darter has proven to be distinct from the Coosa darter, E. coosae, a species with which it was previously confused, by peak nuptial males never having five discrete color bands in the spinous dorsal fin. Cherokee darters inhabit small to medium size warm-water creeks of moderate gradient, with predominately rocky bottoms. It is usually found in shallow water in sections of reduced current, typically in runs above and below riffles and at the ecotones of riffles and backwaters. The Cherokee darter is associated with large gravel, cobble, and small boulder substrates, and is uncommonly or rarely found over bedrock, fine gravel, or sand. It is most abundant in stream sections with relatively clear water and clean substrates (little silt deposition). The Cherokee darter is intolerant of heavy to moderate silt deposition. The Cherokee darter, like other members of the subgenus Ulocentra, is intolerant of impoundment. The Cherokee darter is endemic to the Etowah River system in north Georgia, where it is primarily restricted to streams draining the Piedmont physiographic province, and to a lesser extent, the Blue Ridge physiographic province. The Cherokee darter occurs in about 20 small to moderately large tributary systems of the middle and upper Etowah River system. However, only a few sites contain healthy populations of this species. The largest populations occur in northern tributaries upstream of Allatoona Reservoir. Populations are smaller in tributaries draining the southern portion of the system. The southern tributary systems tend to drain areas exhibiting less relief and are on the average much more degraded. Cherokee darter populations are found primarily above Allatoona Reservoir. Downstream of Allatoona Dam, populations are restricted to two tributary systems. The Cherokee darter exhibits a disjunct and discontinuous distribution pattern indicating fragmentation and isolation of populations. The placement of Allatoona Reservoir in the middle Etowah River system has caused much of the fragmentation of this species' populations. One major tributary system in the upper Etowah system, Amicalola Creek, apparently naturally lacks populations of Cherokee darters, but contains a relatively close relative and also a narrow endemic, the holiday darter, E. brevirostrum . The Cherokee darter is allopatric (i.e., the ranges of the species do not overlap) with the other two Ulocentra species in the watershed, the holiday darter and Coosa darter. A formal description of the Cherokee darter is awaiting publication (Bauer et al . in press). Etowah Darter The Etowah darter is a small-sized percid fish that is moderately compressed laterally, and has a moderately pointed snout with a terminal, obliquely angled mouth. The body ground shade is brown or grayish-olive. The side is usually pigmented with 13 or 14 small dark blotches just below the lateral line. The breast in nuptial males is dark greenish-blue. The Etowah darter has proven distinct from the greenbreast darter, E. jordani, a species with which it has previously been confused, by the absence of red marks on the sides and anal fins of male specimens.
