FR941222-0-00073 FR941222-0-00011 (6) Any settlement reached under the auspices of a settlement judge shall be subject to approval in accordance with the provisions of ยง101.9 of the Board's Statements of Procedure. 3. Section 102.42 is revised to read as follows: ยง102.42 Filings of briefs and proposed findings with the administrative law judge and oral argument at the hearing. Any party shall be entitled, upon request, to a reasonable period at the close of the hearing for oral argument, which may include presentation of proposed findings and conclusions, and shall be included in the stenographic report of the hearing. In the discretion of the administrative law judge, any party may, upon request made before the close of the hearing, file a brief or proposed findings and conclusions, or both, with the administrative law judge, who may fix a reasonable time for such filing, but not in excess of 35 days from the close of the hearing. Requests for further extensions of time shall be made to the chief administrative law judge in Washington, D.C., to the deputy chief judge in San Francisco, California, to the associate chief judge in New York, New York, or to the associate chief judge in Atlanta, Georgia, as the case may be. Notice of the request for any extension shall be immediately served on all other parties, and proof of service shall be furnished. Three copies of the brief or proposed findings and conclusions shall be filed with the administrative law judge, and copies shall be served on the other parties, and a statement of such service shall be furnished. In any case in which the administrative law judge believes that written briefs or proposed findings of fact and conclusions may not be necessary, he or she shall notify the parties at the opening of the hearing or as soon thereafter as practicable that he or she may wish to hear oral argument in lieu of briefs. 4. ยง102.45, paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: ยง102.45 Administrative law judge's decision; contents; service; transfer of case to the Board; contents of record in case. (a) After hearing for the purpose of taking evidence upon a complaint, the administrative law judge shall prepare a decision. Such decision shall contain findings of fact, conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefor, upon all material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record, and shall contain recommendations as to what disposition of the case should be made, which may include, if it be found that the respondent has engaged in or is engaging in the alleged unfair labor practices, a recommendation for such affirmative action by the respondent as will effectuate the policies of the Act. The administrative law judge shall file the original of his decision with the Board and cause a copy thereof to be served on each of the parties. If the administrative law judge delivers a bench decision, promptly upon receiving the transcript the judge shall certify the accuracy of the pages of the transcript containing the decision; file with the Board a certified copy of those pages, together with any supplementary matter the judge may deem necessary to complete the decision; and cause a copy thereof to be served on each of the parties. Upon the filing of the decision, the Board shall enter an order transferring the case to the Board and shall serve copies of the order, setting forth the date of such transfer, on all the parties. Service of the administrative law judge's decision and of the order transferring the case to the Board shall be complete upon mailing. * * * * * Dated, Washington, DC, December 16, 1994. By direction of the Board: 1 1 Chairman Gould and Members Devaney and Browning; Members Stephens and Cohen dissenting in part. The dissenting opinion by Members Stephens and Cohen is attached. John C. Truesdale, Executive Secretary. Dissenting Opinion of Members Stephens and Cohen 1. Introduction We are not opposed to the provision regarding settlement judges. We have some concerns that the provision may tempt respondents to delay settlement talks with the Regional Offices and thereby upset the highly successful settlement efforts of those offices. However, we are willing, in light of the one-year sunset provision, to join our colleagues in promulgating this provision. We are strongly opposed, however, to the rules that give Administrative Law Judges (ALJs or Judges) the discretion to dispense with briefs and to issue bench decisions. 2. Statutory Issue As a threshold matter, we note that, under established Board law, the provision for bench decisions directly contravenes the Act. In Plastic Film Products Corp., 232 NLRB 722 (1977), the Board held that such decisions fail to comply not only with Section 102.45 of the Board's Rules and Regulations, but also with Section 10(c) of the Act. Id. at 722. See also Local Union No. 195 (Stone & Webster Engineering Corp.), 237 NLRB 931 (1978) (oral grant of motion for summary dismissal of complaint at close of hearing violates Section 10(c) as well as Section 102.45 of Board's Rules and Regulations). 2 Thus, the Board's new rule reverses established Board law. 2 Contrary to the assertion of our colleagues, it is clear that Section 10(c) was indeed one of the obstacles to the oral decisions in these cases. Only one Member (Murphy) relied solely on the Rules. The majority relied on Section 10(c) and the Rules.
