FR940811-2-00076 FR940811-2-00048 09&hyph;70&hyph;6001 System name: Medicaid Statistical Information System (MSIS). Security classification: None. System location: Health Care Financing Administration, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207&hyph;5187. (Contact system manager for location of computerized records.) Categories of individuals covered by the system: Persons enrolled in Medicaid in participating States. Categories of records in the system: Medicaid enrollment records, paid health care claims records, and drug data. Authority for maintenance of the system: Section 1902(a)(6) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(6)). Purpose(s): 1. To establish an accurate and timely database on the Medicaid program for the purpose of Federal administration of the Medicaid program by collecting from State programs standardized enrollment and paid claims data that will be reported, verified, and maintained on an ongoing basis. 2. To establish a single source of Medicaid data at the Federal level for maintaining a single, accurate, and comprehensive Medicaid database that can be analyzed to produce statistical reports; to support research of important policy, of quality and effectiveness of care, and of epidemiological issues; to support actuarial forecasting; to support statistical profiling; and to support the detection of fraud, abuse, and waste in regard to the Medicaid program. 3. To eliminate the need for special data collection efforts to support special studies. 4. To reduce the State reporting burden by eliminating redundant reporting and the need to prepare complex, time-consuming summary information. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the Purposes of such uses: Disclosure may be made: 1. To a contractor for the purpose of collating, analyzing, aggregating, or otherwise refining or processing records in this system, or for developing, modifying and/or manipulating it with ADP software. Data would also be available to a contractor incidental to consultation, programming, operation, user assistance, or maintenance for an ADP or telecommunications system containing or supporting records in the system. 2. To the congressional office of an individual, in response to an inquiry from that congressional office at the request of the individual involved. 3. To the Department of Justice, to a court or other tribunal, or to another party before such tribunal, when (a) HHS, or any component thereof; or (b) Any HHS employee in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any HHS employee in his or her capacity where the Department of Justice (or HHS, where it is authorized to do so) has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States or any agency thereof where HHS determines that the litigation is likely to affect HHS or any of its components; is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and HHS determines that the use of such records by the Department of Justice, the tribunal, or the other party is relevant and necessary to the litigation and would help in the effective representation of the governmental party, provided, however, that in each case, HHS determines that such disclosure is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. 4. To an individual or organization for a research, evaluation, or epidemiological project related to the prevention of disease or disability, the restoration or maintenance of health, or the study of the costs of providing health care, if HCFA: (a) Determines that the use of disclosure does not violate legal limitations under which the record was provided, collected, or obtained. (b) Determines that the purpose for which the disclosure is to be made:
