FR941206-0-00171 FR941206-0-00019 C. 90-Day Tanks and Containers Requirements Today's final rulemaking amends subparts I and J of 40 CFR part 265 to add a requirement that 90-day tanks and containers covered by these subparts also have to comply with air emission control requirements in subparts AA, BB, and CC. The rule adds these provisions as conditions with which generators must comply to not be required to obtain a permit for on-site tanks and containers used to accumulate hazardous waste. D. Amendments to Subparts AA and BB Standards Today's action adds new requirements for TSDF owners and operators using activated carbon adsorption systems to comply with the control device requirements of subparts AA and BB under 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. These requirements specify the procedures for managing the spent carbon removed from the control devices, and are consistent with the requirements promulgated today in subpart CC under 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. VIII. Implementation of Final Rule A. Existing Sources Today's action by the EPA modifies the ``permit-as-a-shield'' practice for implementation of RCRA rules by owners and operators of existing TSDF for which final RCRA permits have been issued by the EPA. The EPA is amending 40 CFR 270.4 to require that owners and operators of TSDF that have been issued final permits prior to June 5, 1995, comply with the air standards under 40 CFR part 265, subparts AA, BB, and CC until the facility's permit is reviewed or reissued by the EPA. This amendment eliminates application of the ``permit-as-a-shield'' practice for these air standards but does not require that the EPA or the TSDF owner or operator initiate a permit modification to add the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subparts AA, BB, or CC. The EPA believes that this will minimize the administrative burden on the TSDF owner or operator as well as limit the additional burden on the permitting resources of the EPA. However, when a permit is reopened or subject to renewal, or when a TSDF owner or operator submits a Class 3 modification request pertaining to an existing unit or addition of a new unit subject to these standards (e.g., a modification regarding a tank, surface impoundment, or container), then the applicable requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subparts AA, BB, and CC shall be incorporated into the permit conditions. The subpart CC standards promulgated today are implemented on the following schedule by owners and operators of existing TSDF (except for tanks in which waste stabilization activities are performed as of December 6, 1994, as explained in section VI.F of this preamble): (1) All owners and operators of existing TSDF become subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subparts AA, BB, and CC effective June 5, 1995. (2) Beginning June 5, 1995, each TSDF owner or operator is required to be in compliance with 40 CFR part 265, subparts AA, BB, and CC. Implementation of the leak detection and repair program required by the subpart BB standards is required by this date. At a facility where the air emission controls required by the subpart AA, BB, and CC standards are not in place, the owner or operator must have one of the following in the facility's operating record: An implementation schedule for the air emission controls in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of the rule or the facility's waste determination that indicates that air emission controls are not required. (3) No later than December 8, 1997, the air emission controls required by 40 CFR part 265, subparts AA, BB, and CC must be installed and in operation. All final permits, or Class 3 permit modifications, issued by the EPA after June 5, 1995, must incorporate the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subparts AA, BB, and CC. The owner and operator of an interim status TSDF who have submitted Part B applications to the EPA but have not received a draft permit as of June 5, 1995, are required to modify the Part B application to incorporate the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subparts AA, BB, and CC prior to a draft permit being issued by the EPA. However, if the owner and operator have received a draft permit as of June 5, 1995, then the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subparts AA, BB, and CC must be incorporated into the permit conditions prior to final permit determination. The Regional Administrator may establish, on a case-by-case basis, a reasonable date for submittal of the revised Part B application. An existing solid waste management unit (or facility) may become a hazardous waste management unit (or facility) requiring a RCRA permit when a waste becomes newly listed or identified as hazardous. Owners and operators of TSDF not previously requiring a RCRA permit who have existing units handling newly listed or identified hazardous waste can submit a Part A application and gain interim status. The air standards being promulgated today are implemented at these facilities on the following schedule: (1) 180 days following the date the waste is listed or identified as hazardous waste, the standards become effective; all facilities become subject to the standards. (2) Beginning June 5, 1995, each TSDF owner or operator is required to be in compliance with the subpart AA, BB, and CC standards. At a facility where the air emission controls required by the subpart AA, BB, and CC standards are not in place, the owner or operator must have one of the following in the facility's operating record: an implementation schedule for the air emission controls in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of the rule, or the facility's waste determination that indicates that air emission controls are not required. (3) No later than December 8, 1997, the controls required by the standards must be installed at all facilities.
