FR940223-2-00115 FR940223-2-00066 NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION NASA's Procurement Policies and Practices; Meeting AGENCY: National Aeronautics and Space Administration. ACTION: Notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: NASA will conduct an open forum meeting to solicit questions, views and opinions of interested persons/firms concerning NASA's procurement policies and practices. The purpose of the meeting is to have an open discussion between NASA's Associate Administrator for Procurement and industry/public. There will be a brief presentation by the Associate Administrator for Procurement, followed by a question and answer period. Procurement issues will be discussed including NASA policies used in the award and administration of contracts. DATES: March 30, 1994; 2 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. Doors to the auditorium will open at 1:30 p.m. Admittance will be on a first-come, first-served basis. Auditorium capacity is limited to approximately 200 persons, therefore, a maximum of two representatives per firm is requested. No reservations will be accepted. Questions for the open forum should be presented at the meeting and should not be submitted in advance. Position papers are not being solicited. The format for the meeting will be as described above. ADDRESSES: The meeting will be held at NASA Headquarters, West Lobby Auditorium, 300 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20546. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susie Marucci, NASA Headquarters Office of Procurement (Code H), Washington, DC 20546, (202) 358-1896. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In addition to the general discussion mentioned above, NASA invites comments or questions relative to its ongoing Procurement Initiatives, some of which include: (i) Small Business and Small Disadvantaged Business Utilization. NASA is committed to an increased focus on developing opportunities for small and disadvantaged business participation in NASA contracting; (ii) Change Order Reduction and Process Change. NASA is attempting to improve overall change order management through the use of better technical definition, realistic cost estimates and more effective and timely negotiations; (iii) Contractor Metrics. The Contractor Metrics initiative has been implemented throughout NASA as a new reporting system to provide summary level reporting on contract performance; (iv) Award Fee Initiative. NASA has published new regulations for Award Fee policy; (v) MidRange Procurement Procedure. A test program for a third category of procurement between $25,000 and $500,000 (annually) is underway. Marshall Space Flight Center is the designated test site; and (vi) Procurement Reinvention Laboratory. The NASA Headquarters Acquisition Division is participating in this initiative which grew out of the National Performance Review. This Procurement Reinvention Laboratory is one of several procurement reinvention labs underway across the Government. Thomas S. Luedtke, Deputy Associate Administrator for Procurement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3956 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7510&hyph;01&hyph;M
