FR940126-2-00039 FR940126-2-00020 (17) Should anyone have reason to suspect that EFSP funds are being used for purposes contrary to the law and guidelines governing the program, the National Board recommends taking action to assist in bringing such practices to a halt. The National Board requires that the Office of the Inspector General, FEMA, be contacted immediately when fraud, theft, or other criminal activity is suspected in connection with the use of EFSP funds, or the operation of a facility receiving EFSP funds. This notification can be made by calling the FEMA Inspector General's Hotline at 1&hyph;800&hyph;323&hyph;8603, or by writing to: Office of the Inspector General, FEMA, 500 C Street SW., Washington, DC 20472. The complainant should include as much information as possible to support the allegation and preferably furnish his/her name and telephone number so that the special agents assigned to the Inspector General's office may make a follow-up contact. The confidentiality of any communication made with the Office of Inspector General is protected by Federal law. A complainant desiring to remain totally anonymous should make a follow-up phone call to the Office of the Inspector General within 30 days from the date of the original complaint so that any follow-up questions may be asked. Follow-up calls should be made to 1&hyph;202&hyph;646&hyph;3894 during normal business hours, Eastern Standard Time (charges may be reversed). The caller should advise that he/she is making a follow-up call regarding a prior anonymous complaint. The Office of the Inspector General, FEMA, will appropriately notify both local law enforcement authorities and the National Board concerning the substance of the allegations and the results of the investigation. (18) Reports to the National Board on LROs' expenditures shall be submitted as the date each LRO's second/third check is requested and a final report should be submitted one month after the jurisdiction's end-of-program date. (19) After the close of the program, the accuracy of all LROs' reports and documentation shall be reviewed. Documentation for specified LROs should be forwarded to the National Board as requested. In the event of expenditures violating the eligible costs under this award, the Local Board must require reimbursement to the National Board. Local Boards are required to remain in operation until all program and compliance requirements of the National Board have been satisfied. All records related to the program must be retained for three (3) years from the end-of-program date. (20) Each jurisdiction will be granted the option to extend its spending period by 30, 60, or 90 days. This option will be offered during the summer of each phase. The extension applies to the entire jurisdiction. Should the jurisdiction receive a grant in the next phase, that phase's spending period will begin the day after the chosen end-date. (e) Local Recipient Organization . (1) In selecting LROs to receive funds, the Local Board must consider the demonstrated ability of an organization to provide food and shelter assistance. LROs should be selected to receive funds to supplement and extend eligible ongoing services, not be funded in anticipation of a needed service (e.g., victims of fire, flood, or tornado); neither should agencies be selected for funding due to budget shortfalls nor for cuts in other funding sources. Local participation in the program is not limited to organizations that are part of any State or national organization. Agencies on Indian reservations are eligible to receive EFSP funds if they meet LRO requirements as set forth in the program manual. Organizations that received awards from previous legislation may again be eligible provided that the organization still meets eligibility requirements. (2) For a local organization to be eligible for funding it must: (i) Be nonprofit or an agency of government; (ii) Have an accounting system or an approved fiscal agent; (iii) Have a Federal employer identification number (FEIN), or be in the process of securing FEIN (Note: contact local Internal Revenue Service (IRS) office for more information on securing FEIN and the necessary form [SS&hyph;4]; (iv) Conduct an independent annual audit (Note: if LRO was funded in previous phase, information regarding annual audit must be included on final report; no funds will be issued until annual audit has been conducted); (v) Practice nondiscrimination. Those agencies with a religious affiliation wishing to participate in the program must agree not to refuse services to an applicant based on religion or require attendance at religious services as a condition of assistance, nor will such groups engage in any religious proselytizing in any program receiving EFSP funds; and,
