FR940826-2-00026 FR940826-2-00020 Notice of Floodplain and Wetlands Involvement at the Pantex Plant, Amarillo, TX ACTION: Notice of floodplain and wetland involvement. SUMMARY: DOE proposes to conduct various activities within floodplains and wetlands on or surrounding the Pantex Plant in Carson County, 17 miles northeast of Amarillo, Texas. The proposed activities would include Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) or Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) site characterization investigations such as environmental monitoring and surveillance activities as well as wastewater and storm water discharges. In accordance with 10 CFR part 1022, DOE will prepare a floodplain/wetland assessment and will perform these proposed actions in a manner so as to avoid or minimize potential harm to or within the affected floodplain and wetlands. DATES: Comments on the proposed action must be received by September 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments concerning this Notice should be addressed to: Floodplain and Wetlands Comments, Tom Walton, Public Affairs Officer, Public Affairs Office, U.S. Department of Energy, Amarillo Area Office, P.O. Box 30020, Amarillo, Texas 79177, (806) 477&hyph;3120, (806) 477&hyph;3185 (Fax). Information on this proposed action, including a map of proposed activity locations, is also available. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Information on general DOE floodplain and wetland environmental review requirements is available from: Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;4600 (800) 472&hyph;2756. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: DOE proposes to conduct various activities within floodplains and wetlands on and surrounding the Pantex Plant. Site characterization activities would be conducted in support of the Permit for Industrial Solid Waste Management Site issued by the Texas Water Commission (now known as the Texas Natural Resources Conservation Commission) as part of DOE's effort to determine the nature and extent of any environmental contamination resulting from Pantex operations. These activities would occur within Solid Waste Management Units (SWMU) 6 (Playa Basin 1), SWMU 7 (Playa Basin 2), SWMU 8 (Playa Basin 3), SWMU 9 (Playa Basin 4), and SWMU 10 (Pantex Lake). Additional characterization may be required as a result of the site being listed on the National Priorities List. Specific activities would include but not be limited to the following: 1.1␣Installation of monitoring wells. Monitoring wells would be drilled into the perched groundwater zone if found to be present in the proposed locations. If the perched groundwater is not present, wells may be completed into the High Plains Aquifer (locally known as the Ogallala Aquifer). Well drilling would involve limited driving of heavy equipment into the proposed areas for the purpose of drilling and boring. Twenty-four-hour pump tests would be conducted following completion of any monitoring wells. Water produced from any pump tests would be discharged to the playas if the analytical testing results allow for such disposition. 1.2␣Surface water samples, ditch sediment samples, and vadose zone samples. Surface water sampling would consist of collecting a sample bottle for surface water. Site access would be by wading. Sediment sampling would consist of taking a sample of the sediment with a hand auger or with a vibrating core sampling device. The sediment samples would typically be two inches in diameter and one foot deep. Access would be by walking or wading if water is present. Proposed boreholes for vadose zone samples would include borings ranging in depths from 4 feet to 30 feet. Borehole drilling would involve driving a drilling rig to the site, drilling the boreholes, and collecting the core samples as the drilling progresses. The boreholes would be closed by backfilling with the cuttings and/or five percent bentonite/cement. 1.3␣Environmental monitoring and surveillance activities. DOE would conduct activities including: collection of groundwater, surface water, vegetation, soil, and sediment samples, installation and maintenance of environmental monitoring equipment, and routine monitoring and downloading of information from installed instrumentation in various locations within the wetlands and floodplains. In addition, DOE would continue to discharge industrial and storm water from existing outfalls to Playas 1, 2, and 4; discharge storm water to Playa 3, and discharge treated domestic wastewater to Playa 1. DOE proposes to assess any floodplains/wetlands impacts associated with Texas Tech University's agricultural operations including grazing in the wetlands and floodplains, and farming and related activities in the floodplains. In accordance with DOE regulations for compliance with floodplain and wetlands environmental review requirements (10 CFR Part 1022), DOE will prepare a floodplain/wetland assessment for these proposed DOE actions which may be incorporated into the appropriate National Environmental Policy Act documentation. After DOE issues the assessment, a floodplain statement of findings will be published in the Federal Register . Issued in Washington, D.C., on August 12, 1994. Ned B. Larson, Director, Office of Southwestern Area Programs, Environmental Restoration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21131 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
