FR940803-1-00027 FR940803-1-00004 A flat fee, such as a monthly service fee Fees imposed to share and deposit, withdraw or transfer funds, including per-check or per-transaction charges (for example, $.25 for each withdrawal, whether by check, in person or at an ATM owned by the credit union) Examples of fees that are not maintenance or activity fees include: Fees that are not required to be disclosed under ยง707.4(b)(4) Check printing fees of any type Fees for obtaining copies of checks, whether or not the original checks have been truncated or returned to the member periodically Balance inquiry fees Fees assessed against a dormant account Fees for using an ATM not owned by the account-issuing credit union Fees for electronic transfer services that are not required to obtain an account, such as preauthorized transfers or home electronic credit union services Stop payment fees and fees for returned share draft or checks 4. Similar terms. An advertisement may not use a term such as ``fees waived'' if a maintenance or activity fee may be imposed because it is similar to the terms ``free'' or ``no cost.'' 5. Specific account services. Credit unions may advertise a specific account service or feature as free as long as no fee is imposed for that service or feature. For example, credit unions that provide free access to their ATMs could advertise that fact. 6. Free for limited time. If an account or a specific account service is free only for a limited period of time_for example, for one year following the account opening_the account or service may be advertised as free as long as the time period is stated. 7. Conditions not related to share accounts. Credit unions may advertise accounts as ``free'' for members that meet conditions not related to share accounts such as age. For example, credit unions may advertise a share draft aaccount as ``free for persons over 65 years old,'' even though a maintenance or activity fee may be assessed on accounts held by members that are 65 or younger. (b) Permissible rates 1. Tiered-rate accounts. An advertisement for a tiered-rate account that states an annual percentage yield must also state the annual percentage yield for each tier, along with corresponding minimum balance requirements. Any dividend rates stated must appear in conjunction with the annual percentage yields for the applicable tier. 2. Stepped-rate accounts. An advertisement that states a dividend rate for a stepped-rate account must state each dividend rate and the time period each rate is in effect. 3 Representative examples. An advertisement that states an annual percentage yeild for a type of account (such as a term share account) need not state the annual percentage yield applicable to every variation offered by the credit union. For example, if rates vary depending on the amount of the initial share and deposit and term of a term share account, credit unions need not list each balance level and term offered. Instead, the advertisement may: Provide a representative example of the annual percentage yields offered, clearly described as such. For example, if a credit union offers a $25 bonus on all term share accounts and the annual percentage yield will vary depending of the term selected, the credit union may provide a disclosure of the annual percentage yield as follows: ``For example, our 6-month term share certificate of deposit currently pays a 3.15% annual percentage yield.'' Indicate that various rates are available, such as by stating short-term and longer-term maturities along with the applicable annual percentage yields that depend on the maturity you choose. For example, our one-month CD earns a 2.75% APY. Or, earns a 5.25 APY for a three-year CD.'' (c) When additional disclosures are required 1. Trigger terms. Disclosures are triggered by statements such as ``We will pay a bonus of 1% over our current rate for one-year term share certificates of deposit opened before April 15, 1995.'' The following are examples of information stated in advertisements that are not ``trigger'' terms: ``One, three, and five year CDs available'' ``Bonus rates available'' (c)(2) Time annual percentage yield is offered 1. Specified recent date. If an advertisement discloses an annual percentage yield as of a specified date, that date must be recent in relation to the publication or broadcast frequency of the media used. For example, the printing date of a brochure printed once for an account promotion that will be in effect for six months would be considered ``recent,'' even though rates change during the six-month period. Interest rates published in a daily newspaper or on television must be a rate offered shortly before (or on) the date the rates are published or broadcast. Similarly, dividend rates published in a daily newspaper or on television must be a rate reflecting either the preceding dividend period, or a prospective rate, and the option chosen should be noted. (c)(5) Effect of fees 1. Scope. This requirement applies only to maintenance or activity fees as described in paragraph 8(a). (c)(6) Features of term share accounts (c)(6)(i) Time requirements 1. Club accounts. If the maturity date of a club account is set but the term may vary depending on when the account is opened, credit unions may use a phrase such as: ``The term of the account varies depending on when the account is opened. However, the maturity date is November 15.'' (c)(6)(ii) Early withdrawal penalties 1. Discretionary penalties. Credit unions that impose early withdrawal penalties on a case-by-case basis my disclose that they ``may'' (rather than ``will'') impose a penalty if that accurately describes the account terms. (d) Bonuses 1. General reference to ``bonus.'' General statements such as ``bonus checking'' or ``get a bonus when you open a checking account'' do not trigger the bonus disclosures. (e) Exemption for certain advertisements (e)(1) Certain media (e)(1)(iii) 1. Tiered-rate accounts. Solicitations for tiered-rate accounts made through telephone response machines must provide all annual percentage yields and the balance requirements applicable to each tier. (e)(2) Indoor signs (e)(2)(i) 1. General. Indoor signs include advertisements displayed on computer screens, banners, preprinted posters, and chalk or peg boards. Any advertisement inside the premises that can be retained by a member (such as a brochure or a printout from a computer) is not an indoor sign. 2. Members outside the premises. Advertisements may be ``indoor signs'' even though they may be viewed by members from outside. An example is a banner in a credit union's glass-enclosed branch office, that is located behind a teller facing customers but also may be seen by passersby. (e)(3) Newsletters
