FR940805-1-00151 FR940805-1-00014 (3) That before committing funds to a project, the participating jurisdiction will evaluate the project in accordance with guidelines that it adopts for this purpose and will not invest any more HOME funds in combination with other federal assistance than is necessary to provide affordable housing; (e) Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS. For jurisdictions that seek funding under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS program, a certification is required by the jurisdiction that: (1) Activities funded under the program will meet urgent needs that are not being met by available public and private sources; and (2) Any property purchased, leased, rehabilitated, renovated, or converted with assistance under that program shall be operated for not less than 10 years for the purpose specified in the plan, or for a period of not less than three years in cases involving non-substantial rehabilitation or repair of a building or structure. §91.435 Monitoring. The plan must describe the standards and procedures that the consortium will use to monitor activities carried out in furtherance of the plan and will use to ensure long-term compliance with requirements of the programs involved, including the comprehensive planning requirements. Subpart F_Other General Requirements §91.500 HUD approval action. (a) General. HUD will review the plan upon receipt. The plan will be deemed approved 60 days after HUD receives the plan, unless before that date the Department has notified the jurisdiction that the plan is disapproved. (b) Standard of review. HUD may disapprove a plan or a portion of a plan if it is inconsistent with the purposes of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act or if it is substantially incomplete. A plan is substantially incomplete, among other things, if HUD has determined, after inspecting the evidence and providing due notice and opportunity to the jurisdiction for comment, that the plan fails to address all the required elements in the regulations. Disapproval of a plan with respect to one program does not affect assistance distributed on the basis of a formula under other programs. (c) Written notice of disapproval. Within 15 days after HUD notifies a jurisdiction that it is disapproving its plan, it must inform the jurisdiction in writing of the reasons for disapproval and actions that the jurisdiction could take to meet the criteria for approval. (d) Revisions and resubmission. The jurisdiction may revise or resubmit a plan within 45 days after the first notification of disapproval. HUD must respond to approve or disapprove the plan within 30 days of receiving the revisions or resubmission. §91.505 Amendments to the consolidated plan. (a) Amendments to the plan. The jurisdiction shall amend its approved plan whenever it makes one of the following decisions: (1) To make a substantial change in its allocation priorities or a substantial change in the method of distribution of funds; (2) To carry out an activity, using funds from any program covered by the consolidated plan (including program income), not previously described in the action plan; or (3) To substantially change the purpose, scope, location, or beneficiaries of an activity. (b) Criteria for substantial change. The jurisdiction shall identify in its citizen participation plan the criteria it will use for determining what constitutes a substantial change for this purpose. (c) Submission to HUD. The amendment must be made public and submitted to HUD before it implements changes embodied in the amendment. See §91.105 for the public notice procedures applicable to any amendment. For any amendment affecting the HOPWA program that would involve acquisition, rehabilitation, conversion, lease, repair or construction of properties to provide housing, an environmental review of the revised proposed use of funds must be completed by HUD in accordance with 24 CFR 574.510. (d) Citizen participation. When a jurisdiction decides to make a change that requires an amendment of the plan, in accordance with §91.105, it shall provide citizens or, as appropriate, units of general local government, with reasonable notice of the change and an opportunity to comment on it. The jurisdiction must consider the comments received and must make the amendment available to the public at the time it is submitted to HUD. §91.510 Consistency determinations. A jurisdiction's certification that an application is consistent with its consolidated plan means the jurisdiction's plan shows need, the proposed activities are consistent with the jurisdiction's strategy, and the location of the proposed activities is consistent with the geographic areas specified in the plan. The jurisdiction shall provide the reasons for the denial when it fails to grant a certification of consistency. To receive funding from HUD that is based on a formula allocation, a certification of consistency of the proposed activities with this consolidated plan shall be necessary.
