FR940830-0-00068 FR940830-0-00013 Response: The comments present a rather rigid structure. HUD prefers to work with the HAs on a case-by-case basis and tailor its technical assistance to HAs based on their specific needs before requiring an alternative strategy. HUD would only require alternative management by a third party after a corrective action order had been issued and the HA failed to comply with the order. Examples of technical assistance that may be provided include but are not limited to: 1. Helping the HA with budget revisions that will use the oldest funds first by substituting work items which are ready to go to contract award; 2. Working with the HA to acquire in-house capability for managing the modernization program, including hiring additional staff or staff training, or requiring alternative oversight of the modernization program through contracting with another entity for oversight; 3. Facilitating the sharing of information and cross-training among HAs, such as arranging for a HA with problems obligating funds to receive assistance from a HA that is a high performer in this area; and 4. Training the HA on the use of an indefinite quantity A/E contract or the issuance of a solicitation to procure a pool of qualified A/E firms, rather than just one firm, to provide services, as a means to contract quickly for critical services in a timely manner. §§905.672 and 968.320␣Comprehensive Plan (Including Five-Year Action Plan) Notice of Submission Date Comment: It was proposed that HUD shall notify HAs of the requested date for submitting or updating a Comprehensive Plan. For planning purposes, HAs may use the amount they received under CGP in the prior year in developing their Comprehensive Plan or they may wait for the annual HUD notification of formula amount. One commenter conditionally supported this proposal, and explained that without the formula amount, forms cannot be completely or accurately filled out. If there is a major change in the formula amount, the planning and meetings with residents, staff, architects, governmental agencies would have to be repeated. While the proposal may help, it was noted that it has the potential to also do a lot of harm by creating more work and putting a HA into a very awkward and damaging position with staff, residents and local agencies. IHA commenters were in favor of these changes. One commenter objected to the removal of the 30-day notice for resident groups upon HUD's indication of the estimated funding level.
