FR941102-1-00124 FR941102-1-00020 II. Discussion A. Definition and Quantification of Payment for Order Flow The proposed amendments would require broker-dealers to provide more detailed information to customers regarding payment for order flow. The proposed amendments would require broker-dealers receiving monetary payment for order flow to disclose the range of payments received on a per share basis and the aggregate amount of payment for order flow received on an annual basis, and, for non-monetary payment for order flow, to disclose an estimate of the range of non-monetary payment for order flow received by the broker-dealer on a per share basis and on an aggregate basis annually. 1. Definition of Payment for Order Flow The Commission, in the Adopting Release, adopted a definition of payment for order flow that includes monetary payments, services, property or any other benefit offered for order flow that results in remuneration to the firm in return for the routing of customer orders for execution. As discussed below, the proposed amendments would establish definitions of monetary and non-monetary payment for order flow, defining monetary payment for order flow as any monetary payment, discount, rebate or reduction of fee to the extent that the payment, discount, rebate or reduction exceeds the fee charged. At the same time, however, the Commission is concerned that other practices used by market centers are designed to induce broker-dealers to direct order flow, and, therefore, may present issues similar to those practices currently defined as payment for order flow in the Adopting Release. The Commission is soliciting comment on whether to expand the definition of payment for order flow. Specifically, the Commission is considering expanding the definition to include volume discounts, rebates, reductions or other inducements for order flow, even if not in excess of the execution fee charged by a market center. 5 Commenters should specifically indicate which practices should be included in the definition to provide the maximum benefit to investors and encourage equivalent regulatory treatment among competing market centers consistent with the purposes of the Act. 5 Some commenters have suggested that there is no distinction between cash payment for order flow and these inducements. See ``Inducements for Order Flow,'' A Report to the Board of Governors, NASD, July 1991. The Commission also requests the views of commenters as to whether a differential in fees between competing market centers should be considered as the economic equivalent of payment for order flow for either or both general disclosure and quantification purposes. This differential might be viewed as affecting the order routing determination of a broker-dealer in a manner similar to payment for order flow. Commenters also are asked to address why payment for order flow should exist in certain instances, but not others, when the inducement for order flow to be routed to one market center or another is identical in both instances. For example, assume that one market center currently pays $.02 per share for order flow, while a competing market center charges a fee of $.05 per share to handle customer orders, resulting in an overall differential of $.07 per share. Under the current definition, the first market center would be deemed to be paying for order flow, quantified as $.02 per share. Why should payment for order flow be deemed to no longer exist where, as a result of a $.02 per share increase in costs uniformly incurred by all market centers, the first market center simply ceased paying for order flow in favor of handling customer orders without charge, while its competitor proportionately increased the fees charged for handling customer orders to $.07 per share? In this instance, the first market center maintains the identical differential in terms of the inducement to broker-dealers to direct order flow to the first market center, as opposed to the second. In a related manner, commenters are requested to indicate whether the proposed quantification of payment for order flow (discussed more fully in the next Section) accurately reflects the inducement to a broker-dealer to route orders to a particular market center. For instance, in the example noted above, is the amount of the inducement that should be disclosed in connection with payment for order flow paid by the first market center $.02 per share, as would be the case under the current definition of payment for order flow in Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3, or does the $.07 per share differential more accurately reflect the level of inducement for order flow?
