FR941110-0-00118 FR941110-0-00016 A few commenters proposed minimizing the time between identification of remedies and imposition of remedies by instituting deadlines in an expedited hearing process. These commenters proposed imposing time periods for filing of documents by all parties, and mandatory deadlines for decisions by hearing officers. Some commenters proposed allowing States to follow their own Administrative Procedure Act provisions. Some submitted State license laws for our consideration. For example, under one State's license law, deficiencies are classified based on whether there is a substantial probability of death or serious mental or physical harm (Class A), a direct threat to health, safety or welfare of a resident (Class B), or no direct threat to health, safety or welfare of a resident (Class C). Class A violations require immediate abatement, subject to a Court injunction for failure to abate; Class B or C violations require a plan of correction within 10 days (extendable to 30). Timeframes are included, providing generally for requesting hearings within 10 days after notice, and providing hearings within 30 days of request. Response: We are not accepting suggestions that would require pre-sanction hearings because we continue to believe that residents are best served if remedies are imposed promptly. The residents are the beneficiaries of the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and their best interests are the motivating force behind OBRA '87 and these regulations. We are not mandating post-remedy hearings. We are merely not requiring a hearing to be completed before imposing any sanction but civil money penalties. Depending on the size of the case load and processing times, a State could complete a hearing prior to the imposition of a remedy, but to be consistent with these regulations any hearing would need to be conducted and concluded very shortly after noncompliance was identified. However, we acknowledge that the ability to provide a pre-sanction hearing would be difficult for most States. We are not accepting the various proposals on timing events within the hearing process itself. With respect to Medicare, some of these time periods are established by the Act, as is true, for example, for the 60 day period in which to appeal. With respect to both Medicare and Medicaid, hearings are held by independent hearing officers who are in a far better position than HCFA to determine how quickly various hearings can be held. We do not believe that State license law is analogous to Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements. As we stated above, providers have entered into agreements with Medicare and Medicaid in which they have agreed to comply with Federal requirements, including the requirements applicable to remedies for noncompliance.
