FR941103-0-00092 FR941103-0-00013 (3) Second Harvest is the Second Harvest National Foodbank Network, 116 South Michigan Avenue, Suite 4, Chicago, IL 60603&hyph;6001. Second Harvest affiliates are Certified Affiliate Food Banks throughout the United States that have a contract with Second Harvest and are officially part of their National Foodbank Network. Agents of Second Harvest are the individual charities that distribute or serve food to the needy from the Affiliate Food Banks, or a business designated by letter from Second Harvest to transport donated food between the foodbank and the charity. (b) Vessels. The owner, or their operator, of a vessel that has been selected to participate in the donation program and so notified in writing by the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division, may retain swordfish from the North Atlantic swordfish stock that are in excess of the trip allowance for undersized swordfish specified in §630.23(b) under the following terms and conditions. No person may land a swordfish in excess of the trip allowance for undersized swordfish other than in accordance with these terms and conditions; any such landing constitutes a violation of the prohibition specified in §630.7(q). (1) The vessel's selection letter from the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division, must be carried on board the fishing vessel and the operator must present it for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer. (2) The vessel's owner or operator must release any swordfish that is less than the minimum allowable size specified in §630.23(a) and that is alive when brought aboard the vessel, in a manner that will ensure maximum probability of survival. If caught by hook, such fish must be released by cutting the line near the hook without removing the swordfish from the water. The owner or operator must make a reasonable effort to tag each swordfish released under this paragraph (b)(2). In addition, participants are encouraged to tag all released small bluefin tuna, big eye tuna, yellowfin tuna and sharks where possible. Tags will be provided by the Science and Research Director. A record of each tag and release must be maintained and submitted to the Science and Research Director on forms provided with the tags. (3) The vessel's owner or operator must retain any swordfish that is dead when brought aboard the vessel. (4) The vessel's owner or operator must tag any swordfish that is retained under the donation program of this subpart prior to its off-loading from a vessel at the facility of a selected dealer, using a non-reusable, individually numbered donation tag provided by the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division. The donation tag is not to be removed by the vessel crew, dealer, or Second Harvest until the carcass is processed. (5) All tags assigned to a vessel by NMFS Highly Migratory Species Division, used or unused, must be accounted for by the owner/operator at the request of any authorized officer. (6) The vessel's owner or operator must off-load any swordfish that is retained under the donation program of this subpart only at a specified facility of a dealer who has been selected by the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division, to participate in the donation program. Off-loading must begin between the hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. local time. An owner or operator must notify the Chief, NMFS Office of Enforcement, by telephone at numbers given in the vessel owner's selection letter, and a selected dealer, at least 24 hours prior to off-loading swordfish under the donation program, unless stated otherwise in the vessel owner's selection letter. (7) The Assistant Administrator, upon consulting with industry representatives and NMFS Office of Enforcement, may change the requirements for off-loading by notification in the Federal Register . (8) All swordfish harvested during a trip by a vessel participating in this pilot program must be off-loaded at the same facility to a dealer participating in this donation program. (9) No vessel owner or operator may sell, trade, or barter, or attempt to sell, trade, or barter, any swordfish or any part thereof that is retained under the donation program of this subpart. (c) Dealers. A dealer who has been selected and so notified in writing by the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division, to participate in the donation program may receive and retain swordfish from the North Atlantic swordfish stock that are in excess of a vessel's trip allowance for undersized swordfish specified in §630.23(b) under the following terms and conditions. Possession of an undersized swordfish other than in accordance with these terms and conditions constitutes a violation of the prohibition specified in §620.7(a) of this chapter. (1) Dealers must have available on their premises, or facility, the dealer selection letter from the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division, and must present it for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer. (2) A dealer may receive swordfish in excess of a vessel's trip allowance for undersized swordfish only from a vessel that has been selected by the Chief, Highly Migratory Species Division, to participate in the donation program. (3) A swordfish that is received under the donation program must be kept separate from other swordfish possessed by the dealer. The donation tag on such swordfish may not be removed. (4) No dealer may sell, trade, or barter, or attempt to sell, trade, or barter, any swordfish, or any part thereof, that is retained under the donation program of this subpart. (5) A dealer may transfer any swordfish that is received under the donation program only to Second Harvest, and such swordfish may be transported only by Second Harvest or their designated agent. The dealer must obtain the receipt specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section from Second Harvest or their designated agent. A copy of the receipt must be furnished by the dealer to the harvesting vessel.
