FR940527-2-00154 FR940527-2-00119 14. To compensate it for assuming these risks, Principal Mutual deducts from each Division a charge each valuation period equivalent to an annual rate of 1.25% of the average daily net assets of the division, consisting of .80% for mortality risks and .45% for expense risks. The rate of the mortality and expense risk charge cannot be increased, and the charge is assessed only during the period prior to the commencement of annuity payments. If the charge is insufficient to cover the actual cost of the mortality and expense risk undertaking. Principal Mutual will bear the loss. Conversely, if the charge proves more than sufficient, the excess will be profit to Principal Mutual and will be available for any proper corporate purpose including, among other things, payment of distribution expenses. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the Act requires that all payments received under periodic payment plan certificates by held by a qualified trustee or custodian and held under arrangements which prohibit any payment to the depositor or principal underwriter except for the payment of a fee, not exceeding such reasonable amount as the Commission may prescribe, for bookkeeping and other administrative services. 2. Applicants submit that Principal Mutual is entitled to reasonable compensation for its assumption of mortality and expense risks and Applicants represent that the 1.25% charge for the Contracts is within the range of industry practice for comparable annuity products. Applicants state that this representation is based upon an analysis by Principal Mutual of publicly available information about selected similar industry products. Principal Mutual shall maintain at its principal office, available to the Commission upon request, a memorandum setting forth in detail the products analyzed in the course of, and the methodology and results of, the comparative survey made. 3. Applicants acknowledge that the surrender charge under the Contracts will be insufficient to cover all costs relating to the distribution of the Contracts and that if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge, all or a portion of such profit may be offset by distribution expenses not reimbursed by the surrender charge. In such circumstances a portion of the mortality and expense risk charge might be viewed as providing for a portion of the costs relating to distribution of the Contracts. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Principal Mutual has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangements made with respect to the Contracts will benefit Separate Account B and the Contract owners. The basis for the conclusion is set forth in a memorandum which will be maintained by Principal Mutual at its principal office and will be available to the Commission upon request. 4. Principal Mutual represents that Separate Account B will invest only in underlying mutual funds which undertake, in the event such funds should adopt any plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 to finance distribution expenses, to have such plan formulated and approved by a board of directors, a majority of the members of which are not ``interested persons'' of such fund within the meaning of section 2(a)(19) of the Act. Conclusion Applicants submit that for the reasons and upon the facts set forth above, their request for exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the Act is necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12940 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
