FR940621-0-00019 FR940621-0-00007 (c) Exception to requirements. Insurance already purchased by the IHA or contractor and in force on the date this rule is effective which provides coverage for the hazards involved in the testing for and abatement of lead-based paint, shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this rule until the expiration of the policy. This rule is not applicable to architects, engineers, or consultants who do not physically perform lead-based paint testing and abatement work. (d) Insurance for the existence hazard. An IHA may also purchase special liability insurance against the existence hazard of lead-based paint, although it is not a required coverage. An IHA may purchase this coverage if, in the opinion of the IHA, the policy meets the IHA's requirements, the premium is reasonable, and the policy is obtained in accordance with applicable procurement standards of this subpart B. If this coverage is purchased, the premium must be paid from funds available under the Performance Funding System or from reserves. 3. A new §905.585 is added to subpart H, to read as follows: §905.585 Insurance coverage. For the requirements concerning an IHA's obligation to obtain reasonable insurance coverage with respect to the hazards associated with testing for and abatement of lead-based paint, see §905.195. PART 965_PHA-OWNED OR LEASED PROJECTS_MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION 4. The authority citation for part 965 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437, 1437a, 1437d, 1437g, 3535(d). Subpart H is also issued under 42 U.S.C. 4821&hyph;4846. 5. A new §965.215 is added to subpart B, to read as follows: §965.215 Lead-based paint liability insurance coverage. (a) General. The purpose of this section is to specify what HUD deems reasonable insurance coverage with respect to the hazards associated with testing for and abatement of lead-based paint that the PHA undertakes, in accordance with the PHA's ACC with HUD. The insurance coverage does not relieve the PHA of its responsibility for assuring that lead-based paint testing and abatement activities are conducted in a responsible manner. (b) Insurance coverage requirements. When the PHA undertakes lead-based paint testing and abatement, it must assure that it has reasonable insurance coverage for itself for potential personal injury liability associated with those activities. If the work is being done by PHA employees, the PHA must obtain a liability insurance policy directly to protect the PHA. If the work is being done by a contractor, the PHA may obtain, from the insurer of the contractor performing this type of work in accordance with a contract, a certificate of insurance providing evidence of such insurance and naming the PHA as an additional insured; or it may obtain such insurance directly. Insurance must remain in effect during the entire period of testing and abatement and must comply with the following requirements: (1) Named insured. If purchased by the PHA, the policy shall name the PHA as insured. If purchased by an independent contractor, the policy shall name the contractor as insured and the PHA as an additional insured, in connection with performing work under the PHA's lead-based paint testing and abatement contract. If the PHA has executed a contract with a Resident Management Corporation (RMC) to manage a building/project on behalf of the PHA, the RMC shall be an additional insured under the policy in connection with the lead-based paint testing and abatement contract. (The duties of the RMC are similar to those of a real estate management firm.) (2) Coverage limits. The minimum limit of liability shall be $500,000 per occurrence written, with a combined single limit for bodily injury and property damage. (3) Deductible. A deductible, if any, may not exceed $5,000 per occurrence. (4) Supplementary payments. Payments for such supplementary costs as the costs of defending against a claim must be in addition to, and not as a reduction of, the limit of liability. However, it will be permissible for the policy to have a limit on the amount payable for defense costs. If a limit is applicable, it must not be less than $250,000 per claim prior to such costs being deducted from the limit of liability. (5) Occurrence form policy. The form used must be an ``occurrence'' form, or a ``claims made'' form that contains an extended reporting period of at least five years. (Under an occurrence form, coverage applies to any loss regardless of when the claim is made.) (6) Aggregate limit. If the policy contains an aggregate limit, the minimum acceptable limit is $1,000,000. (7) Cancellation. In the event of cancellation, at least 30 days' advance notice is to be given to the insured and any additional insured. (c) Exception to requirements. Insurance already purchased by the PHA or contractor and in force on the date this rule is effective which provides coverage for the hazards involved in testing for and abatement of lead-based paint, shall be considered as meeting the requirements of this rule until the expiration of the policy. This rule is not applicable to architects, engineers, or consultants who do not physically perform lead-based paint testing and abatement work. (d) Insurance for the existence hazard. A PHA may also purchase special liability insurance against the existence hazard of lead-based paint, although it is not a required coverage. A PHA may purchase this coverage if, in the opinion of the PHA, the policy meets the PHA's requirements, the premium is reasonable, and the policy is obtained in accordance with applicable procurement standards. (See 24 CFR part 85 and §§965.205.) If this coverage is purchased, the premium must be paid from funds available under the Performance Funding System or from reserves. 6. A new §965.705 is added to subpart H, to read as follows: §965.705 Insurance coverage. For the requirements concerning a PHA's obligation to obtain reasonable insurance coverage with respect to the hazards associated with testing for and abatement of lead-based paint, see §965.215. Dated: June 13, 1994. Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14981 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;33&hyph;P
