FR940825-0-00002 FR940825-0-00001 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Part 591 RIN 3206&hyph;AE36 Allowances and Differentials; Uniform Allowances agency: Office of Personnel Management. action: Final rule. summary: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is issuing final rules to provide procedures for an agency to establish a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate in exceptional circumstances. Such a rate is applicable in certain situations where the typical basic uniform required by the agency for the affected category of civilian Federal employees involves a high initial outlay of funds. effective date: September 26, 1994. for further information contact: Bruce W. Valoris, (202) 606&hyph;2858. supplementary information: On May 5, 1993, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) published proposed regulations (58 FR 26694) that would apply to an employee who is required to wear a uniform by statute, regulation, or an agency's written administrative procedures. OPM invited interested parties to comment during a 60-day period following the publication of the proposed regulations. During the comment period, OPM received comments from seven agencies, two labor organizations, and three employees. Of these commenters, four agencies and one employee supported the regulations as proposed. A summary of the comments and a description of the revisions in the proposed regulations follow. Definitions One agency was confused about the definition of ``uniform'' and believed the proposed regulatory language implied that shoes, boots, and hats were mandatory items. OPM did not intend to make these items a mandatory part of a uniform. The agency also requested a clearer definition of ``protective equipment.'' OPM has clarified the definition of ``uniform'' and has provided a statutory cross-reference for protective equipment (5 U.S.C. 7903). Another agency did not understand the meaning of the term ``category of employees.'' The proposed term was used to refer to a group of employees for whom an agency is establishing a higher initial maximum uniform allowance. The agency asked whether the term means an occupational group, a type of appointment, an organizational category or refers to how often the uniform is worn. To clarify this matter, OPM has added a new definition of ``category of employees'' to the final regulations to clarify that the term means any group of employees designated by an agency that has the same basic uniform requirements. Governmentwide Maximum Uniform Allowance Rate A labor organization commented that the provision authorizing a Governmentwide maximum uniform allowance rate was somewhat ambiguous. The labor organization was concerned that the proposed regulation might allow an agency the option of not paying an annual maintenance uniform allowance to an employee in the years following the payment of a higher initial uniform allowance. The proposed regulation stated that unless a higher initial rate is payable, the head of the agency shall pay an allowance not to exceed $400 a year or furnish a uniform at a cost not to exceed $400 a year. In other words, while a higher initial rate is an exception to the annual maintenance rate, the agency head is required to pay a uniform allowance rate when all the regulatory requirements are met. Therefore, OPM believes no change is necessary in the proposed regulation authorizing a Governmentwide maximum uniform allowance. Notification Process One agency would prefer to avoid the requirement to publish a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate in the Federal Register for public notice and comment. Instead, the agency would like freedom to implement changes in agency requirements regarding uniforms without any restrictions. While OPM agrees that agencies need flexibility to administer uniform allowances, OPM believes that the requirement for advance publication and consideration of comments is not overly burdensome. Rather, such publication will foster the development of well-defined agency policies and will provide other agencies, employees, interested parties, and the public an opportunity to consider and comment on Federal civilian uniform allowance policies that may require a high initial outlay of funds. Therefore, OPM has not changed the proposed regulation in this regard. Two agencies objected to the proposed requirement in ยง591.104(c) that OPM must approve the continuation of a higher initial maximum rate in the year following the 1st year the employee becomes subject to wearing a uniform. The agencies argued that the purpose of continuing a higher initial rate for more than 1 year is to spread an extremely high cost over a 2-year period_necessary only in the most unusual situations_and that the process would be administratively burdensome. OPM agrees. The final regulations allow an agency to pay an allowance for an extremely high-cost minimum basic uniform over a 2-year period. This means that agencies may continue to pay the amount of the higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate in the year following the year the employee first becomes subject to wearing a uniform. However, the agency must publish its intention to continue the payments for a 2nd year in the Federal Register in accordance with ยง541.104(c). The agency may choose to publish its intent in the initial Federal Register notice, or it may republish the following year. New Style or Type of Basic Uniform Several commenters would like agencies to be able to establish a higher initial maximum uniform allowance rate the 1st year a new style or type of minimum basic uniform is required by an agency if the cost of replacing the obsolete uniform is especially high. The commenters maintain that workers who are required to purchase new basic uniforms involving a high initial outlay of funds should be allowed to benefit from the proposal.
