FR940727-0-00053 FR940727-0-00024 2. In ยง672.20, paragraphs (f) and (h)(1) are revised to read as follows: ยง672.20 General limitations. * * * * * (f) Halibut PSC limits . (1) Notification of proposed halibut PSC limits . NMFS will publish annually in the Federal Register proposed and final halibut PSC limits and apportionments thereof authorized under this paragraph (f), in the notification required under paragraph (c) of this section. Public comment will be accepted by NMFS on the proposed halibut PSC limits, and apportionments thereof, for a period of 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . NMFS will consider comments received on proposed halibut limits and, after consultation with the Council, will publish notification in the Federal Register specifying the final halibut PSC limits and apportionments thereof. (i) Trawl gear fisheries . (A) After consultation with the Council, NMFS will publish notification in the Federal Register specifying the proposed halibut PSC limit for vessels using trawl gear. The halibut PSC limit specified for vessels using trawl gear may be further apportioned as bycatch allowances to the fishery categories listed in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section, based on each category's proportional share of the anticipated halibut bycatch mortality during a fishing year and the need to optimize the amount of total groundfish harvest under the halibut PSC limit. The sum of all bycatch allowances will equal the halibut PSC limit established under this paragraph (f)(1)(i). (B) For purposes of apportioning the trawl halibut PSC limit among fisheries, the following fishery categories are specified and defined in terms of round-weight equivalents of those groundfish species for which a TAC has been specified under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section: ( 1 ) Shallow-water species fishery . Fishing with trawl gear during any weekly reporting period that results in a retained aggregate catch of pollock, Pacific cod, shallow-water flatfish, flathead sole, Atka mackerel, and ``other species'' that is greater than the retained aggregate amount of other groundfish species or species group. ( 2 ) Deep-water species fishery . Fishing with trawl gear during any weekly reporting period that results in a retained catch of groundfish and is not a shallow-water species fishery as defined under paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B)( 1 ) of this section. (ii) Hook-and-line and pot gear fisheries . After consultation with the Council, NMFS will publish notification in the Federal Register specifying the proposed halibut PSC limits for the hook-and-line gear fisheries. The notification also may specify a halibut PSC limit for the pot gear fisheries. The proposed halibut PSC limit for hook-and-line gear fisheries may be further apportioned, as bycatch allowances, to the directed fishery for demersal shelf rockfish in the Southeast Outside District of the Eastern Regulatory Area and to all other hook-and-line gear fisheries. (iii) Seasonal apportionments . (A) NMFS, after consultation with the Council, may apportion each halibut PSC limit or bycatch allowance specified under this paragraph (f) on a seasonal basis. NMFS will base any seasonal apportionment of a halibut PSC limit or bycatch allowance on the following types of information: ( 1 ) Seasonal distribution of halibut; ( 2 ) Seasonal distribution of target groundfish species relative to halibut distribution; ( 3 ) Expected halibut bycatch needs, on a seasonal basis, relative to changes in halibut biomass and expected catches of target groundfish species; ( 4 ) Expected variations in bycatch rates throughout the fishing year; ( 5 ) Expected changes in directed groundfish fishing seasons; ( 6 ) Expected start of fishing effort; and ( 7 ) Economic effects of establishing seasonal halibut allocations on segments of the target groundfish industry. (B) Unused seasonal apportionments of halibut PSC limits specified for trawl, hook-and-line, or pot gear will be added to the respective seasonal apportionment for the next season during a current fishing year. (C) If a seasonal apportionment of a halibut PSC limit specified for trawl, hook-and-line, or pot gear is exceeded, the amount by which the seasonal apportionment is exceeded will be deducted from the respective apportionment for the next season during a current fishing year.
