FR940511-1-00042 FR940511-1-00011 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Maritime Administration 46 CFR Part 381 [Docket No. R&hyph;153] RIN 2133&hyph;AB13 Cargo Preference_U.S.-Flag Vessels; Available U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels AGENCY: Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This proposed amendment to the cargo preference regulations of the Maritime Administration (MARAD) states that the requirement for the carriage of preference cargoes on privately-owned ``available'' U.S.-flag commercial vessels would be satisfied, during a one-season trial period, by U.S.-flag commercial vessels calling at a Canadian transshipment terminal outside the St. Lawrence Seaway, to load bulk agricultural commodity cargoes subject to the cargo preference laws that are transshipped from U.S. ports on the Great Lakes by U.S.-flag or foreign-flag vessels; and determinations of ``fair and reasonable rates for United States commercial vessels'' would include through bills of lading for such available U.S.-flag commercial vessels. This amendment would allow Great Lakes ports to compete for agricultural commodity preference cargoes. DATES: Comments on the one-season trial period for this rule must be received on or before May 31, 1994, while comments on a permanent rule or a rule of greater duration than the one-season trial period must be received July 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send an original and two copies of comments to the Secretary, Maritime Administration, room 7300, 400 7th St., SW., Washington DC 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John E. Graykowski, Deputy Maritime Administrator for Inland Waterways and Great Lakes, Maritime Administration, Washington, DC, 20590, Telephone (202) 366&hyph;1718. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: United States law requires that at least 50 percent of cargo ``impelled'' by Federal programs (preference cargoes), and transported by sea, be carried on privately-owned United States-flag commercial vessels, to the extent that such vessels are available at fair and reasonable rates. See sections 901(b) (the ``Cargo Preference Act'') and 901b, Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as amended (``the Act''), 46 App. U.S.C. 1241(b) and 1241f. The Secretary of Transportation is desirous of administering that program so that all ports and port ranges may participate. As discussed below, to achieve these objectives, MARAD is proposing to amend its cargo preference regulations to allow Great Lakes ports to compete for agricultural commodity preference cargoes for a one-season trial period, corresponding to the Great Lakes shipping season when the St. Lawrence Seaway system is in use. For a number of reasons, United States-flag commercial vessels in foreign commerce do not serve the Great Lakes. Consequently, cargoes subject to cargo preference are not loaded at Great Lakes ports, resulting in significantly less cargo for these ports in comparison with ports on other United States coasts. MARAD proposes to permit cargoes to be counted toward the preference requirements if they are loaded at Great Lakes ports for the trip along the St. Lawrence Seaway and then transferred to United States-flag vessels for the ocean portion of their carriage. The registry (``flag'') of the vessel loading the cargo on the Great Lakes and carrying it through the Seaway would not be relevant. This rule would be in effect during a trial period corresponding to the current Great Lakes shipping season. MARAD has issued a regulation governing compliance with cargo preference requirements by shipper agencies, which is published at 46 CFR 381.8. This proposed rule would add a new section 381.9 to MARAD's cargo preference regulations. It would state that: (1) For a one-season trial period, the requirement for ``available'' U.S.-flag commercial vessels under the Act would be satisfied by U.S.-flag commercial vessels calling at a Canadian transshipment terminal outside the St. Lawrence Seaway to carry bulk agricultural commodity cargoes subject to the cargo preference laws, transshipped from U.S. ports on the Great Lakes by U.S.-flag or foreign-flag vessels; and (2) determinations of ``fair and reasonable rates for United States commercial vessels'' under section 901(b) would include through bills of lading for such available U.S.-flag vessels. Such combination foreign/U.S.-flag voyages would not be allowed if, in the future, all-U.S.-flag carriage, at fair and reasonable rates for U.S.-flag commercial vessel service, becomes available to load bulk agricultural commodities at U.S. Great Lakes ports. Based on experience during the trial period, and after reviewing comments on this rulemaking, MARAD will consider whether to make this rule permanent, or extend it for a period of time longer than the one-season trial period. The need for this rulemaking arises due to changing shipping conditions affecting U.S.-flag vessels operating in the Great Lakes, resulting in the absence of all-U.S.-flag vessel availability for the carriage of cargo between U.S. Great Lakes ports and foreign countries. We do not believe that this proposal is precluded by any rulings of the Comptroller General. Specifically, in 1960, the Comptroller General examined a practice involving shipment of preference cargoes from U.S. Great Lakes ports to Canadian St. Lawrence River ports on foreign-flag vessels for ``topping off'' U.S.-flag ocean-going vessels which had partially loaded at U.S. Great Lakes ports. No. B&hyph;140872, 39 Comp. Gen. 758 (1960). The Comptroller General's opinion found no basis to criticize a regulation of the Department of Agriculture holding that 50 percent of the cargo 1 moving between the U.S. Great Lakes ports and Canadian St. Lawrence River ports must move on U.S.-flag vessels. It should be noted that at that time there was some all-U.S.-flag service to U.S. Great Lakes ports. 1 The Comptroller General's 1960 decision predated the 75 percent requirement instituted by the Food Security Act of 1985. Dramatic changes in shipping conditions have occurred since 1960, including the disappearance of any all-U.S.-flag commercial ocean-going service to foreign countries from U.S. Great Lakes ports. The static configuration of the St. Lawrence Seaway system and the evolving greater size of commercial vessels is one significant shipping change. In 1960, the average U.S.-flag general cargo vessel had a deadweight tonnage of 10,976; while in 1993, the average U.S.-flag general cargo vessel had a deadweight tonnage of 17,464. 2 In addition, the average size of U.S.-flag vessels used for the carriage of bulk agricultural product cargoes has increased greatly during the past ten years. 2 Source: Maritime Administration, Office of Trade Analysis and insurance.
