FR941110-0-00070 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We recognize the value of family input in the survey process, and direct surveyors when interviewing to provide the opportunity for all interested parties to give what they believe is pertinent information. We expect this to include accommodating family members who wish to speak with the survey team but are unable to be at the facility at the time of the survey. It is possible for family members to call surveyors at the facility and be either interviewed over the telephone or scheduled for a personal meeting as the survey schedule allows. The survey team is in a better position than HCFA to know how to best accommodate these groups within the time and personnel constraints of the standard survey, and for this reason it would be unduly restrictive of us to require evening and week-end meetings. Neither will we require that there be an exit conference specifically for family groups. If survey teams conduct an exit conference for facility residents, family members are not prohibited from attending. If such a conference does not take place, family members still have many other opportunities to learn about the outcome of a survey. Survey results are available to family members whenever they visit a facility, because facilities are required to accessibly post the results of the most recent survey. These survey reports are thorough and detailed, and if a family member has any difficulty understanding the results, he or she may resolve it by contacting either the long-term care ombudsman or the State survey agency. Comment: One commenter proposed that we allow the survey team to expand the standard survey when it identifies substandard quality of care instead of requiring it to conduct an extended or partial extended survey to investigate the extent of the facility's problems. Response: We must reject this proposal. We are bound by sections 1819(g)(2)(B) and 1919(g)(2)(B) of the Act which require a facility to be subject to an extended survey when it is found to have provided substandard quality of care during the standard survey. Comment: One commenter proposed that we specify that the audit of written plans of care outlined at proposed §488.155(a)(3) must include an investigation of whether the written plans were implemented and subsequently reevaluated and revised, as necessary. Response: In Appendix P of State Operations Manual Transmittal No. 250, surveyors are directed, when conducting an audit of written plans of care, to determine whether care plans were consistently implemented, evaluated, and revised as necessary. We believe such detailed instruction is more appropriate in the manual than in the regulation itself, and so we are not including it in the regulation. Section 488.307␣Unannounced Surveys Comment: Many commenters agreed that all surveys should be unannounced. Some commenters stated that survey schedules should be more unpredictable and one suggested that there should be even more unannounced inspections. Several commenters emphasized that many nursing homes are aware that they are about to be surveyed. One commenter stated that randomness of surveys has not yet been achieved and that HCFA should require States to demonstrate through survey scheduling that chronically substandard facilities have been targeted. Another commenter stated that annual licensure cycles, such as billings and certificates, may compromise unannounced surveys. Several commenters suggested that we require that the States provide a randomization plan or scheduling methods which would ensure that the timing of inspections is not predictable.
