FR940119-0-00012 FR940119-0-00002 (C) That if the household timely elects allotment reduction, such reduction will begin with the first allotment issued after such election, as provided in §273.12(c)(2) of this part; and (D) That if the household fails to make a timely election, the reduction will begin with the first allotment issued 10 days after the date of the demand letter, as provided in §273.12(c)(2) of this part. * * * * * (4) Further collection actions. (i) Inadvertent household error claims. Participating households which are liable for inadvertent household error claims shall be deemed to have elected allotment reduction unless they notify the State agency of their choice of repayment method within 20 days of the date an initial demand letter, or a demand letter for payment following a fair hearing which sustains the claim, is mailed or otherwise delivered to them. (ii) Intentional Program violation claims. Participating households which are liable for intentional Program violation claims shall elect a method of repayment on the date of receipt of the demand letter required in §273.16(e)(9) and (g)(3) of this part (or if the date of receipt is not a business day, on the next business day) or be deemed to have elected allotment reduction. Each State agency shall determine a deadline for receipt of such elections for them to be considered timely. In no event shall that deadline exceed 10 days from the date the demand letter is mailed or otherwise delivered to liable households. * * * * * (iv) *␣*␣* The State agency may also pursue other collection actions, as appropriate, to obtain restitution of a claim against any household which fails to respond to a written demand letter for repayment of any inadvertent household error or administrative error claim. *␣*␣* * * * * * (h) Retention rates. The following retention rates shall apply for claims collected by the State agency, including the value of allotment reductions for the purpose of collecting claims but not allotment reductions due to disqualification: (1) For amounts collected prior to October 1, 1990, the State agency shall retain 25 percent of the value of inadvertent household error claims collected and 50 percent of the value of intentional Program violation claims collected; (2) For amounts collected during the period October 1, 1990 through September 30, 1995, the State agency shall retain 10 percent of the value of inadvertent household error claims collected and 25 percent of the value of intentional Program violation claims collected; (3) For amounts collected on or after October 1, 1995, the State agency shall retain 25 percent of the value of inadvertent household error claims collected and 50 percent of the value of intentional Program Violation claims collected; (4) The State agency shall not retain any percentage of the value of administrative error claims collected. (i) Submission of payments. (1) The State agency shall retain the value of funds collected for inadvertent household error, intentional Program violation, or administrative error claims rather than forwarding the payments to FNS. This amount includes the total value of allotment reductions to collect claims, but does not include the value of benefits not issued as a result of a household member being disqualified. The State's grant and letter of credit will be established or amended on a quarterly basis to reflect the State agency's retention of the value of claims collected as specified in paragraph (h) of this section unless the State agency requests or has requested that payment be by check. The State agency may request that FNS accept checks from the State for FNS&hyph;209 amounts due FNS, or that FNS pay the State by check for FNS&hyph;209 amounts due the State. If the State agency fails to pay FNS the amount due as reported on the FNS&hyph;209, FNS shall offset the amount due from the State's letter of credit. For FNS&hyph;209 reporting purposes, State agencies shall calculate the retention amount using the appropriate rate specified in paragraph (h) of this section which is in effect during the reporting period for the report. For those claims collected in Fiscal Year 1990 or earlier for which adjustments are made and reported in Fiscal Year 1991 or 1992, States may request a correction to reflect the difference between the old, higher rate (paragraph (h)(1) of this section) which is applicable to those claims, and the new, lower rate (paragraph (h)(2) of this section) at which the adjustments to those claims were reported on the FNS&hyph;209. One request for correction for each of fiscal years 1991 and 1992 may be filed with FNS after the fiscal year, but no later than November 30, 1991 for Fiscal Year 1991 reporting and no later than November 30, 1992 for Fiscal Year 1992 reporting. The request must be in writing, must include appropriate verifying documentation, and must reflect the net effect of all increases and decreases resulting from the application of the old retention rate. * * * * * PART 276_STATE AGENCY LIABILITIES AND FEDERAL SANCTIONS 6. The authority citation for part 276 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 2011&hyph;2032. 7. In §276.2 paragraph (e)(3) is revised to read as follows: §276.2 State agency liabilities. * * * * * (e) Title IV reimbursements. *␣*␣* (3) The State agency shall reimburse FNS through an adjustment to the Letter of Credit (LOC) unless it requests or has requested that it be allowed to pay by check. The reimbursement amount shall be reported quarterly on the Form FNS&hyph;209, Status of Claims Against Households, to be offset against LOC credit adjustments reported on that form. The State agency may request that FNS accept checks from the State for the amount due FNS. If a State agency fails to pay FNS the amount due as reported on the FNS&hyph;209, FNS shall offset the amount due from the State agency's Letter of Credit. The State agency shall maintain monthly records which detail the computation of reimbursement amounts reported on the Form FNS&hyph;209 for audit purposes. PART 277_PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS OF STATE AGENCIES 8. The authority citation for part 277 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 2011&hyph;2032. 9. In §277.4: a. Paragraph (b)(1) is revised; and b. New paragraphs (b)(11) and (b)(12) are added. The revision and additions read as follows: §277.4 Funding. * * * * * (b) Federal Reimbursement Rate. *␣*␣*
