FR941206-0-00084 FR941206-0-00011 (D) Repeat the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section three times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control device. (ii) The Tedlar bag sampling procedure in section 7.1 of Method 18 may be used to collect samples of inlet and exhaust gas throughout a 1-hour test run. (A) Continuously sample a slipstream of the control device inlet and outlet into a Tedlar bag by having a Tedlar bag attached to the slipstream for the entire duration of the run for an integrated bag sample. Whenever a Tedlar bag is full, a new bag must be reattached immediately. Note the time the bag is changed so the sample time and corresponding flow rates can be determined for each bag. (B) Follow the procedures in section 6 of Method 18 and choose the appropriate column, analytical apparatus, and calibration gases for the analysis of the bag samples collected. The bag samples shall be analyzed within 8 hours of collection. (C) Follow the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B)( 2 )( ii ) through ( iv ) of this section. (D) Determine control device efficiency (% Eff) using the equation in paragraph (d)(1)(i)(C) of this section. (E) Repeat the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section three times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control device. (2) Chamber exhaust vent (not manifolded). For determining the efficiency of non-manifolded chamber exhaust vent control devices, either of the following test methods (paragraph (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section) may be used: (i) The direct interface sampling and analysis procedures described in Method 18, section 7.2 or 7.3, may be used to continuously monitor ethylene oxide concentration at the inlet and outlet of the control device using a GC/FID or GC/PID; these procedures may be used only if a vent may be sampled and analyzed by the GC/FID or GC/PID once per minute for the duration of each cycle when the chamber exhaust vent is operated. (A) Follow the procedures in section 6 of Method 18 and choose the appropriate column, analytical apparatus, and calibration gases for the analysis of the sample. (B) Follow the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B)( 2 )( ii ) through ( iv ) of this section. (C) Determine control device efficiency (% Eff) using the following equation: where: E:GRAPHICSER06DE94.033 where: % Eff = percent efficiency W i = mass flow rate into the control device W o = mass flow rate out of the control device (D) Repeat the procedures in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section three times. The arithmetic average percent efficiency of the three runs shall determine the overall efficiency of the control device. (ii) The Tedlar bag sampling procedure in section 7.1 of Method 18 may be used to collect samples of inlet and exhaust gas for the duration of each cycle when the chamber exhaust vent is operated. (A) Continuously sample a slipstream of the control device inlet and outlet into a Tedlar bag by having a Tedlar bag attached to the slipstream for the entire duration of the run for an integrated bag sample. Whenever a Tedlar bag is full, a new bag must be reattached immediately. Note the time the bag is changed so the sample time and corresponding flow rates can be determined for each bag. (B) Follow the procedures in section 6 of Method 18 and choose the appropriate column, analytical apparatus, and calibration gases for the analysis of the bag samples collected. The bag samples shall be analyzed within 8 hours of collection. (C) Follow the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(iv)(B)( 2 )( ii ) through ( iv ) of this section. (D) Determine control device efficiency (% Eff) using the equation in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(C) of this section.
