FR941004-1-00113 FR941004-1-00018 (t) Staff training, technical assistance, and evaluation. (1) The State's CFSP must include a staff development and training plan in support of the goals and objectives in the CFSP which addresses both of the title IV&hyph;B programs covered by the plan. This training plan also must be combined with the training plan under title IV&hyph;E as required by 45 CFR 1356.60(b)(2). (2) The State's CFSP must describe the technical assistance activities that will be undertaken in support of the goals and objectives in the plan. (3) The State's CFSP must describe any evaluation and research activities underway or planned with which the State agency is involved or participating and which are related to the goals and objectives in the plan. (u) Quality assurance. The State must include in the CFSP a description of the quality assurance system it will use to regularly assess the quality of services under the CFSP and assure that there will be measures to address identified problems. (v) Distribution of the CFSP and the annual progress and services report. The CFSP must include a description of how the State and the Indian tribe will make available to interested parties the CFSP and the Annual Progress and Services Report. (See 45 CFR 1355.21(c) and 45 CFR 1357.16(d).) State agencies and Indian tribal organizations within the State must exchange copies of their CFSPs and their annual services reports. 14. A new ยง1357.16 is added to read as follows: ยง1357.16 Annual progress reviews and services reports. (a) Annual progress reviews and services reports. Annually, each State and each Indian tribe must conduct an interim review of the progress made in the previous year toward accomplishing the goals and objectives in the plan, based on updated information. In developing paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(4), the State and the Indian tribe must involve the agencies, organizations, and individuals who are a part of the on-going CFSP-related consultation and coordination process. On the basis of this review, each State and Indian tribe must prepare and submit to ACF, and make available to the public, an Annual Progress and Services Report which must include the following_ (1) A report on the specific accomplishments and progress made in the past fiscal year toward meeting each goal and objective, e.g., toward improved outcomes for children and families and a more comprehensive, coordinated, effective child and family services continuum; (2) Any revisions in the statement of goals and objectives, if necessary, to reflect changed circumstances; (3) For Indian tribes, a description of the child welfare and/or family preservation and family support services to be provided in the upcoming fiscal year highlighting any changes in services or program design and including the information required in 45 CFR 1357.15(n); (4) For States, a description of the child protective, child welfare, family preservation, family support, and independent living services to be provided in the upcoming fiscal year highlighting any additions or changes in services or program design and including the information required in 45 CFR 1357.15(n); (5) Information on activities in the areas of training, technical assistance, research, evaluation, or management information systems that will be carried out in the upcoming fiscal year in support of the goals and objectives in the plan;
