FR941020-2-00131 FR941020-2-00079 The other SRO participants will also file the revised specifications for approval by the Commission. The Phlx intends to commence use of the revised examination, specifications and content outline jointly with the other SROs, upon approval of the proposed rule changes of all of the other SRO participants. The statutory basis for the Series 7 examination lies in Section 6(c)(3)(B) of the Act. Under that Section, it is the Exchange's responsibility to prescribe standards of training, experience and competence for persons associated with Exchange members and member organizations. Pursuant to this statutory obligation, the Exchange has developed examinations that are administered to establish that persons associated with Exchange members and member organizations have attained specified levels of competence and knowledge. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Phlx believes that the proposal does not impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Phlx. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;50 and should be submitted by November 10, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26060 Filed 10&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
