FR940919-2-00042 FR940919-2-00032 9. State Laws Nothing in this permit shall be construed to preclude the institution of any legal action or relieve the permittee from any responsibilities, liabilities, or penalties established pursuant to any applicable State law or regulation under authority preserved by Section 510 of the Act. 10. Property Rights The issuance of this permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privileges, nor does it authorize any injury to private property or any invasion of personal rights, nor any infringement of Federal, State or local laws or regulations. 11. Severability The provisions of this permit are severable, and if any provision of this permit, or the application of any provision of this permit to any circumstance, is held invalid, the application of such provision to other circumstances, and the remainder of this permit, shall not be affected thereby. 12. Duty to Provide Information The permittee shall furnish to the Permit Issuing Authority, within a reasonable time, any information which the Permit Issuing Authority may request to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating this permit or to determine compliance with this permit. The permittee shall also furnish to the Permit Issuing Authority upon request, copies of records required to be kept by this permit. Section B. Operation and Maintenance of Pollution Controls 1. Proper Operation and Maintenance The permittee shall at all times properly operate and maintain all facilities and systems of treatment and control (and related appurtenances) which are installed or used by the permittee to achieve compliance with the conditions of this permit. Proper operation and maintenance also includes adequate laboratory controls and appropriate quality assurance procedures. This provision requires the operation of back-up or auxiliary facilities or similar systems which are installed by a permittee only when the operation is necessary to achieve compliance with the conditions of the permit. 2. Need to Halt or Reduce not a Defense It shall not be a defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the condition of this permit. 3. Bypass of Treatment Facilities a. Definitions (1) Bypass means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a treatment facility, which is not a designed or established operating mode for the facility. (2) Severe property damage means substantial physical damage to property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production. b. Bypass not exceeding limitations. The permittee may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause effluent limitations to be exceeded, but only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to the provisions of Paragraphs c. and d. of this section. c. Notice (1) Anticipated bypass. If the permittee knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit prior notice, if possible at least ten days before the date of the bypass; including an evaluation of the anticipated quality and effect of the bypass. (2) Unanticipated bypass. The permittee shall submit notice of an unanticipated bypass as required in Section D, Paragraph D&hyph;4 (24-hour notice). d. Prohibition of bypass. (1) Bypass is prohibited and the Permit Issuing Authority may take enforcement action against a permittee for bypass, unless: (a) Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe and extensive property damage; (b) There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as maintenance of sufficient reserve holding capacity, the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, waste hauling, or maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and (c) The permittee submitted notices as required under Paragraph c. of this section. (2) The Permit Issuing Authority may, within its authority, approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the Permit Issuing Authority determines that it will meet the three conditions listed above in Paragraph d.(1) of this section.
