FR940325-2-00180 FR940325-2-00085 Cover Letter for RI 20&hyph;63, Decision About A Survivor Annuity For A Current Spouse Name: Address: CSA Number: Dear ␣␣␣␣␣: You may elect a survivor annuity for a spouse you married after retirement. You must make you election within two years of your marriage. Your election cannot be effective sooner than nine months after your marriage. Your annuity will be reduced to reflect the benefit payable to your spouse upon your death. There will be two reductions to your annuity. The first reduction will be for the regular cost of a survivor benefit. The reduction will be eliminated should your marriage end. This reduction is currently $␣␣␣ per month and it will provide a survivor benefit of $␣␣␣ per month. The survivor benefit will increase with the cost-of-living. The second reduction is permanent (even if your marriage ends) and represents the amount your annuity would have been reduced for the survivor benefit (plus interest) had you been married since the date of your retirement. As of ␣␣␣, this amount is $␣␣␣ and the monthly reduction to pay it back is $␣␣␣␣. The reduction is based on your life expectancy and the amount you owe. These amounts will increase each month as principal and interest accumulates and as you age (that is on your birthday), up until the time we receive your election. Therefore, the amount shown below as your reduced gross annuity rate may be smaller if you delay your election. Taken together, the reductions to provide a survivor benefit will reduce your current gross annuity of $␣␣␣ to $␣␣␣ per month. We computed the above costs of the survivor benefit assuming you elect the maximum possible benefit. If you want to provide the maximum benefit, please complete and return the enclosed election within the time limit. You may elect a smaller survivor benefit at proportionately less cost. If you want to know the exact cost of a smaller benefit, enter the amount you want your spouse to receive each month below and return this letter to the Office of Personnel Management, Retirement Operations Center, ATTN: PRM-STOP, Boyers, PA 16017. I want to provide a monthly survivor benefit of $ XXXX . (Specify a whole dollar amount.) If you are requesting information on the cost for a smaller benefit, do not complete the enclosed election at this time because an election cannot be revoked or changed once we receive it. If you have not already submitted them, please furnish the following: *If you were married at retirement and later divorced, a complete copy of your divorce decree, and related agreements or amendments. *A copy of the marriage certificate for your current spouse. If we can be of further assistance, please let us know. ␣␣␣Sincerely, ␣␣␣␣␣␣␣ Benefits Specialist, Claims Correspondence Section, (412) 794&hyph;8442. Enclosure
