FR940719-1-00083 FR940719-1-00015 Economic Impacts The proposed ventilation rule would have a minimal impact upon labor productivity, profits, prices, mining output, and mining employment in underground coal mines. However, there is the potential that some individual mines may incur significant compliance costs associated with several provisions. First, some mines may be affected by the provision that would establish the minimum oxygen level and maximum carbon dioxide level for the air in bleeder entries and worked-out areas where persons work or travel. In order to obtain a complete and accurate cost of this proposed requirement, MSHA is requesting data on the number of mines that would encounter an air quality problem where a miner would be required to work or travel, the types of actions needed for compliance, and the expected incremental costs of these actions. Second, mines with deep cut sections would likely have difficulty conducting methane measurements at the face. Therefore, MSHA is requesting data on alternative compliance measures for deep cut mining operations. Finally, mines may experience some difficulty reconfiguring operations to address requirements concerning equipment in primary escapeways. Regulatory Flexibility Certification The Regulatory Flexibility Act requires that agencies evaluate and include, wherever possible, compliance alternatives that minimize any adverse impact on small businesses when developing regulatory standards. MSHA has not exempted small mines from any provision of the proposed rule and small mines would benefit from some of the proposed provisions and the proposed alternative compliance methods. MSHA determined that these proposed revisions would not generate a substantial cost increase for small mines. The lack of a substantial cost increase for small mines, in conjunction with the fact that similar hazards exist in both large and small mining operations, indicates that regulatory relief is not warranted for small mining operations. Therefore, MSHA has determined that these proposed provisions would not have a significantly adverse impact upon a substantial number of small entities. The incremental costs for small and large mines are listed by provision in Table II.
