FR940328-2-00084 FR940328-2-00051 In its orders approving the pilot procedures, 14 the Commission asked the CHX to study the effects of stopping stock in a minimum variation market. Specifically, the Commission requested information on (1) the percentage of stopped orders executed at the stop price, versus the percentage of such orders receiving a better price; (2) whether limit orders on either side of the specialist's book were being bypassed due to the execution of stopped orders at a better price (and to this end, the Commission requested that the CHX conduct a one-day review of all book orders in the five stocks receiving the greatest number of stops); and (3) specialist compliance with the pilot program's procedures. 14 See supra , notes 4&hyph;6. On March 2, 1993, June 1, 1993, and December 6, 1993, the Exchange submitted to the Commission monitoring reports regarding its proposed interpretation of Rule 37. The Commission believes that, although these monitoring reports provide certain useful information concerning the operation of the pilot program, the CHX must provide further data before the Commission can fairly and comprehensively evaluate the CHX's use of the pilot procedures. To allow such additional information to be gathered and reviewed, the Commission believes that it is reasonable to extend the pilot program until March 21, 1995. During this extension, the Commission expects the CHX to respond fully to the concerns set forth below. First, the December monitoring report indicates that less than half of orders stopped in minimum variation markets received price improvement. However, given that the CHX's prior results were substantially higher, the Commission believes that further study is necessary. The Commission also notes that, under the Exchange's procedures, whether a stopped order receives price improvement depends largely on price movements in the primary market, 15 and not on the effectiveness of the pilot program itself. Thus during the pilot extension, the Commission requests that the Exchange instead calculate the percentage of stopped orders that do not benefit from the CHX proposal ( i.e. , orders which receive an out-of-range execution despite having been stopped). 16 In addition, the CHX should continue to monitor the percentage of stopped orders which are for 2,000 shares or less. 15 The Commission notes that this pilot program is intended to prevent orders from being executed outside the primary market range for the day ( i.e. , from establishing a new high or new low). Consistent with that policy, the CHX requires the specialist to execute stopped stock based on the next primary market sale. Specifically, if the next sale is at a better price, the stopped stock may, depending on the depth of the specialist's limit order book at that price, receive price improvement. However, if the next primary market sale is at the stop price (or worse), the order receives the stop price. In the Commission's opinion, if an order is executed at the stop price because the next sale creates a new primary market range, the pilot program may still have provided a benefit to investors, by preventing what would have been an out-of-range execution. 16 The Commission notes that, in a minimum variation market, a stopped order could ultimately receive an out-of-range execution if, by the close, (1) the primary market has not traded at the stop price and (2) all pre-existing limit orders on the CHX specialist's book at the better price have not been executed.
