FR940725-0-00059 FR940725-0-00008 d. The Early Intervention Program Services Coordinator who has been working with the family since the initial referral of the infant or toddler or who has been designated as responsible for the implementation of the IFSP. e. A person or persons directly involved in conducting the evaluation and assessments. f. Persons who will be providing services to the infant, toddler, or family, as appropriate. g. If a person or persons listed in paragraph C.2 of this section is unable to attend a meeting, arrangements must be made for involvement through other means, including: (1) Participating in a telephone call. (2) Having a knowledgeable authorized representative attend the meeting. (3) Making pertinent records available at the meeting. 3. The IFSP shall be developed within a reasonable time after the assessment. With the parent's consent, early intervention services may start before the completion of such an assessment under an IFSP. 4. The IFSP shall be in writing and contain: a. A statement of the infant's or toddler's present levels of physical development, cognitive development, communication development, social or emotional development, and adaptive development, based on acceptable objective criteria. b. A statement of the family's resources, priorities, and concerns for enhancing the development of the family's infant or toddler with a disability. c. A statement of the major outcomes expected to be achieved for the infant or toddler and the family, and the criteria, procedures, and timelines used to determine the degree to which progress toward achieving the outcomes is being made and whether modifications or revisions of the outcomes or services are necessary. d. A statement of the specific early intervention services necessary to meet the unique needs of the infant or toddler and the family, including the frequency, intensity, and the method of delivering services. e. A statement of the natural environments in which early intervention services shall be provided. f. The projected dates for initiation of services and the anticipated duration of such services. g. The name of the Early Intervention Program Service Coordinator. h. The steps to be taken supporting the transition of the toddler with a disability to preschool services or other services to the extent such services are considered appropriate. 5. The contents of the IFSP shall be fully explained to the parents by the Early Intervention Program Service Coordinator, and informed written consent from such parents shall be obtained before the provision of early intervention services described in such plan. If the parents do not provide such consent with respect to a particular early intervention service, then the early intervention services to which such consent is obtained shall be provided. D. Procedural Safeguards for the Early Intervention Program 1. The procedural safeguards include: a. The timely administrative resolution of complaints by the parent(s), including hearing procedures (appendix C to this part). b. The right to protection of personally identifiable information under 32 CFR part 310.
