FR940803-1-00063 FR940803-1-00014 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish And Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC63 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Proposed Endangered Status for Five Freshwater Mussels and Proposed Threatened Status for Two Freshwater Mussels From Eastern Gulf Slope Drainages of Alabama, Florida, and Georgia AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes to list seven freshwater mussels: The fat three-ridge ( Amblema neislerii ), shiny-rayed pocketbook ( Lampsilis subangulata ), Gulf moccasinshell ( Medionidus penicillatus ), Ochlockonee moccasinshell ( Medionidus simpsonianus ), and oval pigtoe ( Pleurobema pyriforme ) as endangered, and the Chipola slabshell ( Elliptio chipolaensis ) and purple bankclimber ( Elliptoideus sloatianus ) as threatened under the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended. These mussels are endemic to eastern Gulf Slope streams draining the Apalachicolan Region of southeast Alabama, southwest Georgia, and north Florida. They are currently known from localized portions of from one to four isolated marine river systems, mostly in the eastern portion of the Apalachicolan Region. Impoundments and deteriorating water and benthic (bottom) habitat quality resulting from channel modification, siltation, agricultural runoff, silvicultural activities, mining activities, pollutants, poor land use practices, increased urbanization, and waste discharges have resulted in the restriction and fragmentation of these mussels current ranges. In addition, the Service has little evidence to suggest that populations of these seven species of mussels are reproductively viable. DATES: Comments from all interested parties must be received by November 1, 1994. Public hearing requests must be received by September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Jacksonville Field Office, 6620 Southpoint Drive South, Suite 310, Jacksonville, Florida 32216 (904/232&hyph;2580). Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Robert S. Butler at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The fat three-ridge, shiny-rayed pocketbook, Gulf moccasinshell, Ochlockonee moccasinshell, oval pigtoe, Chipola slabshell, and purple bankclimber are freshwater mussels endemic to eastern Gulf Slope streams draining the Apalachicolan Region (streams from the Escambia to the Suwannee river systems in southeast Alabama, southwest Georgia and north Florida). The Apalachicolan Region primarily drains the Coastal Plain Physiographic Province. Only the headwaters of the Flint and Chattahoochee rivers, in the Apalachicola River system, occur above the Fall Line in the Piedmont Physiographic Province in west-central Georgia. Streams draining the East Gulf Coastal Plain are generally low gradient and have substrates of sand, silty sand, mud, and gravel. Some streams, particularly in the Apalachicola River system, have coarser substrates of cobble, boulders, and bedrock in addition to areas with softer bed materials. The seven species of mussels being considered for listing inhabit medium-sized streams to large rivers with substrates of silty sand, sand, or gravel, and mixtures of these substrates. All are generally found in areas with water currents, often in stream channels swept free of silt. The life histories of these seven species of mussels are unknown and little biological information is available. The Apalachicolan Region is known for its high level of endemicity, harboring nearly 30 species of endemic mussels (Butler 1989), at least a dozen fishes, over 20 aquatic snails, and nearly two dozen species of crayfish. In addition, several candidate species from the Service's animal notice of review published on November 21, 1991 (56 FR 58804) are also known from the Apalachicolan Region, the majority being endemic to these drainages. One of these candidates, the Ochlockonee arc-mussel is thought to be extinct (Turgeon et al. 1988), last reported in the early 1930's (Williams and Butler, in press). A recent status survey for candidate species of mussels in the Apalachicola River system did not locate any populations of the winged spike and lined pocketbook, species endemic to this system that were last sighted in 1958 and 1967, respectively. Between 1991 and 1993, the Service's National Fisheries Research Center, now the National Biological Survey, Biological Science Center, in Gainesville, Florida, completed field surveys for mussels in both the Apalachicola (325 collections at 315 sites) and Ochlockonee (77 collections at 72 sites) river systems. These surveys are summarized by Butler (1993), and the information is sufficient to support a status recommendation of endangered for the fat three-ridge, shiny-rayed pocketbook, Gulf moccasinshell, Ochlockonee moccasinshell, and oval pigtoe, and a status recommendation of threatened for the Chipola slabshell and purple bankclimber. Common and scientific nomenclature used in this rule follows that suggested by Turgeon et al. (1988).
