FR941103-1-00006 FR941103-1-00002 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 35 Request for Comments Regarding Potential Modifications of NRC's Therapy Regulations AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Request for comments regarding potential modification of NRC's medical therapy regulations. SUMMARY: A major revision of the regulations governing the medical use of byproduct material, and associated licensing and inspection guidance is planned, to more easily accommodate changes in current technology and patterns of medical use. The staff discussed the need for additional regulations and guidance for brachytherapy (in particular, high-dose-rate brachytherapy) with NRC's Advisory Committee for the Medical Uses of Isotopes (ACMUI). The ACMUI advised the staff to solicit additional information from the regulated community to sufficiently identify and evaluate the problems and determine what additional regulations and guidance are necessary to further prevent errors. The NRC seeks input from the medical community with regard to the adequacy of existing standards and procedures for brachytherapy and radiopharmaceutical therapy and would like to discuss the future direction of guidelines and regulations. As one aspect of these objectives, NRC is publishing this list of issues and questions for comment and response by members of the medical community and any other interested parties. DATES: Submit comments by March 3, 1995. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but the Commission is able to ensure consideration only for comments received before this date. ADDRESSES: Send written comments, responses, or suggestions to the Chief, Rules Review and Directives Branch, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Copies of comments received may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. Obtain individual copies of the list of issues and questions from Patricia K. Holahan, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone: (301) 415&hyph;7847. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia K. Holahan, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;7847. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Because of several recent incidents, the NRC has increasingly focussed on the medical use of byproduct material for manual and remote afterloading brachytherapy and radiopharmaceutical therapy. The NRC has been notified of brachytherapy errors that have included computer errors (treatment planning and data entry), misplaced sources, dislodged sources, patient intervention, and human error. In particular, several incidents have been reported involving an error in fractionated doses for brachytherapy and radiopharmaceutical therapy. In addition, there has been an increased use of beta-emitting radiopharmaceuticals for therapeutic purposes in both nuclear medicine and radiation oncology. This list of issues and questions is being provided to allow the medical community to voluntarily provide comments and responses regarding those areas of medical use of byproduct material that are currently being reviewed by NRC, to determine if additional or revised regulations are warranted. Any party interested in providing input regarding these issues may provide a written response to the address above. 1. What constitutes a significant error, for a given fraction (for fractionated doses), that would require you to make an adjustment in the prescribed treatment regimen or that might result in unexpected clinical consequences? High-Dose-Rate Brachytherapy XX 10 percent XX 20 percent XX 30 percent All Other Brachytherapy XX 10 percent XX 20 percent XX 30 percent Radiopharmaceutical Therapy XX 10 percent XX 20 percent XX 30 percent 2. Should the error tolerance for overdoses be different than that for underdoses? Please explain. XX Yes␣␣ XX No 3. At your facility, how is the accuracy of your computer treatment planning system verified? High-Dose-Rate Brachytherapy 4. NRC regulations require that the written directive for high-dose-rate remote afterloading (HDR) brachytherapy include the radioisotope, treatment site, and total dose. What additional information do you typically include in your written directives and why? XX Dose per fraction XX Number of fractions XX Treatment volume XX Other (please specify) 5. If more than one fraction is to be administered, should the written directive be prepared to include the specifics for the entire course of therapy or should a written directive be prepared for each individual fraction?
