FR941122-0-00023 FR941122-0-00005 (3) Director of Equal Employment Opportunity. Under the direction and supervision of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Management, the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity is delegated authority to develop policies and to implement and direct the Service's programs relating to equal employment opportunity for all employees and applicants. The Director is responsible for the Service's efforts to comply with provisions of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Department of Justice programs and directives affecting discrimination in employment. The Director supervises, coordinates, directs, and evaluates the affirmative employment and discrimination complaint program of the Service. (4) Director of Files and Forms Management. Under the direction and supervision of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Management, the Director of Files and Forms Management is delegated authority to develop policies, plan, coordinate, evaluate, counsel, and direct the Service's National Records Center, Forms Center, SAVE Program, centralized FOIA/PA, records policy, and correspondence files programs. (5) Associate Commissioner for Human Resources and Administration. Under the direction and supervision of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Management, the Associate Commissioner for Human Resources and Administration is delegated authority to develop policies, plan, develop, coordinate, evaluate, counsel, and direct the personnel, career development, contracting, engineering, facility, and administrative programs of the Service. The Associate Commissioner for Human Resources and Administration provides direction to, and supervision of, the: (i) Assistant Commissioner for Human Resources and Development; and (ii) Assistant Commissioner for Administration. (6) Associate Commissioner for Finance. Under the direction and supervision of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Management, the Associate Commissioner for Finance is delegated authority to develop policies, plan, develop, coordinate, evaluate, counsel, and direct the Service's resource requirements and utilization. The Associate Commissioner for Finance is responsible for all aspects of financial management, including budgeting, reporting, internal controls, and analysis. The Associate Commissioner for Finance is responsible for the presentation of internal reports to management, the preparation of external reports and certifications required by statute or regulation, and the representation of the Service before the Congress, and agencies of the Executive Branch on matters related to financial activities. The Associate Commissioner for Finance is also delegated authority to settle claims of $10,000 or less under 28 U.S.C. 2672 and to compromise, suspend, or terminate collection of claims of the United States not exceeding $50,000 (exclusive of interest) under 31 U.S.C. 3711. The Associate Commissioner for Finance provides direction to, and supervision of, the: (i) Associate Commissioner for Budget; and (ii) Assistant Commissioner for Financial Management. (7) Associate Commissioner for Information Resources Management. Under the direction and supervision of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Management, the Associate Commissioner for Information Resources Management is delegated authority to develop policies, plan, develop, coordinate, evaluate, counsel, manage and direct the Service's Automated Data Processing, Telecommunication, Radio, and Electronic programs. The Associate Commissioner for Information Resources Management provides direction to, and supervision of, the: (i) Assistant Commissioner for Data Systems; and (ii) Assistant Commissioner for Systems Integration.
