FR940826-0-00068 FR940826-0-00016 III. Rules Prohibiting Settlements and Collusion 25. Petitions and Oppositions . The collusion rules adopted in the Third Report and Order prevent bidders for narrowband PCS licenses from entering into settlement agreements after applications are filed. AIDE asserts that narrowband bidders should be allowed to enter into settlement agreements, as encouraged by §24.429(b), and asserts that the Commission's decision to avoid post-filing settlements was impermissibly based on consideration of potential revenues. Quentin L. Breen (Breen) urges us to act on AIDE's petition to liberalize treatment of full market settlements. Breen states that the Budget Act does not relieve the Commission of its obligation in the public interest to continue to use means such as negotiation to avoid mutual exclusivity, nor does the Act oblige us to adopt anti-collusion regulations. Instead of permitting applicants to avoid the uncertainties and inefficiencies of the auction process, Breen states that the rules effectively mandate that parties will go to end of the auction without being able to consider settlement. 50 PageNet, conversely, urges the Commission to prohibit any settlement negotiations during the competitive bidding process. 51 According to PageNet, there is no way for mutually exclusive applicants to come to an agreement on settlement without exchanging the same kinds of information that would be exchanged for the formation of collusive strategies in auction bidding. Accordingly, PageNet asserts that settlement discussions should be prohibited prior to selection of a winner from among the Form 175 applicants. 52 Furthermore, PageNet contends, that there is little likelihood of an all-market settlement in any given market, because if any one applicant declines to settle, the settlement is defeated. 53 50 Breen Opposition at 1&hyph;4. 51 PageNet Opposition at 20&hyph;26. 52 Id. at 22 & n.11. 53 Id. at 24. 26. Discussion . As stated in our reconsideration of the Second Report and Order , we have decided to retain the existing collusion rules, to the extent that they prevent settlements after applications are filed. 54 These rules were designed to avoid formation of anticompetitive agreements among bidders, although we intend to continue reliance on the antitrust laws as our primary method of avoiding bidder collusion. 55 As we indicated in the Second Report and Order , we believe that our rules prohibiting collusion will serve the objectives of the Budget Act by preventing applicants, especially the largest companies, from entering into agreements to use bidding strategies that divide the market to the disadvantage of other bidders. 56 We also seek to ensure that entities will not file applications solely for the purpose of demanding payment from other bidders in exchange for settlement or withdrawal of their applications. 54 See Second Memorandum Opinion and Order at ¶54. 55 See Second Report and Order, ¶¶221&hyph;224. 56 Id. 27. Accordingly, to ensure that the bidding process is competitive and to encourage formation of a competitive post-auction market structure, we are retaining the collusion rules in the narrowband PCS context. 57 Furthermore, to make clear that we recognize that these rules effectively prohibit post-filing settlements, we are amending our rules to eliminate Section 24.429(b). We believe that this is the most straightforward approach, given our strong concerns that collusion could have an extremely harmful impact upon competition. 57 See id., ¶223. 28. However, in order to provide bidders sufficient time and greater flexibility to attract capital, we make several modifications to our collusion rules adopted in the Third Report and Order . First, in the Second Memorandum Opinion and Order , we clarified the applicability of the collusion rules to cases where an applicant has a common ownership interest with another applicant. 58 In that item we stated that, unless the second applicant is expressly identified as an entity with whom the first applicant has an agreement concerning bidding, we will prohibit these parties from communicating concerning their bidding strategies. This prohibition will hold even if the other bidder is identified on the applicant's short-form application as having a common ownership interest with the applicant. 58 Second Memorandum Opinion and Order at ¶55. 29. Furthermore, where common non-controlling ownership exists between two or more bidders, those bidders may win more licenses cumulatively than a single entity is entitled to hold. In such cases we will permit divestiture of non-controlling interests to bring the entities into compliance with the license aggregation limits provided such divestiture is completed within 90 days of grant of the license. Such post-auction divestiture will enable investors to finance more than one bidder without risking default penalties if both bidders win licenses which in combination exceed our aggregation limits. 30. In addition, we wish to modify our rules regarding amendments to short-form applications. Section 24.413 of the Commission's rules requires all applicants to list certain ownership information including all partners, subsidiaries, affiliates and all persons holding five percent or more of the stock, warrants, options or debt securities of the applicant. Section 24.422(b) currently prohibits amendments to the short-form application to make ownership changes or changes in the parties to bidding consortia after the application filing deadline has passed. As a result of our experience in the nationwide narrowband PCS auction we believe that it is necessary to allow applicants to amend their FCC Form 175 applications to make ownership changes after the filing deadline has passed, provided such changes do not result in a change in control of the applicant and provided that discussions leading up to such changes do not violate our anti-collusion rules. Such amendments must be made within two business days of any such change. Permitting such amendments will provide bidders with flexibility to seek additional capital after applications have been filed, while ensuring that the real party in interest does not change. Accordingly, we will modify rule 24.422(b) to permit applicants to amend their FCC Form 175 applications to reflect ownership changes that do not result in a change in control of the applicant. Such changes shall not be regarded as major amendments to an application, provided they do not result in a transfer of control of the applicant. 31. In addition, we are modifying our collusion rules, which currently prohibit bidders from communicating with one another after short form applications have been filed regarding the substance of their bids or bidding strategies and which also prohibit bidders from entering into consortia arrangements or joint bidding agreements of any kind after the deadline for short form applications has passed. In order to permit bidders to respond to higher than expected license prices by combining their resources during an auction, we will now permit bidders who have not filed Form 175 applications for any of the same licenses to engage in discussions and enter into bidding consortia or joint bidding arrangements during the course of an auction. We conclude that where bidders have not applied for any of the same licenses there is little risk of anticompetitive conduct with respect to a single license and therefore we believe that it is appropriate to relax our collusion rules to permit bidders in this context to have greater flexibility to increase their competitiveness in the auction by combining their resources, provided that no change of control of any applicant takes place.
