FR941121-1-00016 FR941121-1-00006 All comments must not exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address given above, and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation. 49 CFR Part 512. All comments received before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above for the proposal will be considered, and will be available for examination in the docket at the above address both before and after that date. To the extent possible, comments filed after the closing date will also be considered. Comments received too late for consideration in regard to the final rule will be considered as suggestions for further rulemaking action. Comments on the proposal will be available for inspection in the docket. The NHTSA will continue to file relevant information as it becomes available in the docket after the closing date, and it is recommended that interested persons continue to examine the docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed, stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. Effective Date The effective date of the final rule would be [30 days after publication in the Federal Register ]. Because the final rule establishes no additional burden on any party, it is hereby tentatively found for good cause shown that an effective date for the amendments to Standard No. 108 that is earlier than 180 days after their issuance would be in the public interest. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This action has not been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. It has been determined that the rulemaking action is not significant under Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures. The purpose of the rulemaking action is to afford a further optional means of compliance with the headlamp requirements of Standard No. 108. While a final rule could result in higher prices for buyers of glass-lensed headlamps of certain types, these initial costs could be offset by reduced repair costs during the life of the vehicle or the headlamp. These cost impacts are not deemed significant and preparation of a full regulatory evaluation is not warranted. National Environmental Policy Act NHTSA has analyzed this rulemaking action for the purposes of the National Environmental Policy Act. It is not anticipated that a final rule based on this proposal would have a significant effect upon the environment. The design and composition of headlamps which take advantage of this option may change from those presently in production but it is anticipated that the kind of materials used will be the same. Regulatory Flexibility Act The agency has also considered the impacts of this rulemaking action in relation to the Regulatory Flexibility Act. I certify that this rulemaking action would not have a significant economic impact upon a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, no regulatory flexibility analysis has been prepared. Manufacturers of motor vehicles and headlamps, those affected by the rulemaking action, are generally not small businesses within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Further, small organizations and governmental jurisdictions would not be significantly affected because the price of new vehicles and the optional headlamps would be only minimally impacted. While the price of new vehicle equipment might be somewhat higher if the optional headlamp is used, the cost of repair of such equipment will be significantly lessened. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) This rulemaking action has also been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and NHTSA has determined that this rulemaking action does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Civil Justice A final rule based on this proposal would not have any retroactive effect. Under 49 U.S.C. 30103 (formerly section 103(d) of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 1392(d)), whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a state may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance which is not identical to the Federal standard. Section 30163 (formerly 15 U.S.C. 1394) sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 571 Imports, Motor vehicle safety, Motor vehicles.
