FR941116-0-00143 FR941116-0-00022 ยง1413.36 ELS cotton crop program payment yields. (a) For ELS cotton, the crop program payment yield in pounds per acre for the current year shall be the average of the actual yields per harvested acre for the farm for the 3 preceding years, adjusted as follows: (b)(1) If no acreage of the crop was grown on the farm for a year, a yield for the crop shall be assigned by the county committee for the farm for such year based upon the actual yields for at least 3 similar farms in the county or surrounding area. (2) The county committee may consider an assigned yield for ELS cotton as an actual yield, but may assign a yield for any year only if: (i) Zero acreage was reported; or (ii) Zero acreage was not reported, but evidence indicates that a cotton crop was not planted on the farm for the year involved. (c) If any yield in the 3-year period preceding the current year is affected adversely as the result of a natural disaster or other condition beyond the producer's control, the county committee may temporarily adjust the yield for any such year upward to no more than the simple average of the highest 4 actual yields of the most recent 5 years. (d) A report of ELS cotton production is required to determine the actual yield per harvested acre. The actual yield for ELS cotton shall be computed by dividing the total production by the total acreage harvested for lint, rounded to the nearest pound. Such acreage is the planted acreage, unless a smaller acreage is reported as harvested. If the total of such planted acreage is not harvested by the producer, the actual yield for such acreage shall be zero. (e) If the planted acreage of ELS cotton on the farm is significantly less than the normal planting on the farm and the county committee determines that the reduction in planted acreage caused the ELS cotton yield on the farm to be unreasonably high, then the county committee may reduce the yield for the crop. ยง1413.37 Submitting ELS cotton production evidence. (a) Production evidence for ELS cotton shall be submitted according to ยง1413.19 by a final date: (1) Established by the State ASC Committee, (2) Which shall be no later than April 1 of the crop year following the current crop year. (b) Production evidence for ELS cotton shall be certified on either form ASCS&hyph;658&hyph;1, Certification of Deliveries to Handlers, or form ASCS&hyph;503, Identification of Cotton Production, at the option of the county committee. Subpart G_Program Options for Program Crops ยง1413.41 0/85/92 provisions for wheat and feed grains. (a) 0/85. If an ARP is in effect for the 1994 and 1995 crops of wheat and feed grains and producers file form CCC&hyph;477, Intention to Participate in the Price Support and Production Adjustment Programs, for such a crop with the county ASCS office and such producers devote a portion of the maximum payment acres for wheat and feed grains equal to more than 15 percent of such acreage to conservation uses; such producers shall be eligible to receive deficiency payments on such portion of the maximum payment acres in excess of 15 percent of such acreage devoted to conservation uses at a per bushel rate that will be established by the Secretary, except that the rate may not be established at less than the projected deficiency payment rate. (b) Exceptions to 0/85. (1) In the case of each of the 1994 and 1995 crops of wheat and feed grains, producers on a farm shall be eligible to receive deficiency payments for such crops not to exceed 92 percent of the maximum payment acreage, if an ARP is in effect for the crops, and (i) Producers have been determined to be prevented from planting the crop, or have a reduced yield of a program crop on a farm because of a natural disaster, and such producers elect to designate such prevented planted or reduced yield acreage as CU for payment for such crop and devote more than 8 percent of the wheat or feed grains acreage to CU for payment; or (ii) Producers elect to devote a portion of the maximum payment acres for wheat and feed grains in excess of 8 percent of such maximum payment acres to minor oilseeds and IOC's. (2) If producers elect to devote a portion of the maximum payment acres for wheat and feed grains in excess of 8 percent of the maximum payment acres to a combination of minor oilseeds, IOC's, and CU for payment, a weighted average amount of between 8 percent and 15 percent of the maximum payment acres shall be determined by: (i) Multiplying 92 percent times the minor oilseed and IOC acreage divided by the total of the minor oilseed, IOC, and CU for payment acreage; and
