FR940725-0-00054 FR940725-0-00008 (yy) Special instruction. This term includes: (1) Designing learning environments and activities that promote the infant's, toddler's, preschool child's or child's acquisition of skills in a variety of developmental areas, including cognitive processes and social interaction. (2) Planning curriculum, including the planned interaction of personnel, materials, and time and space, that leads to achieving the outcomes in the infant's, toddler's, preschool child's or child's IEP or IFSP. (3) Providing families with information, skills, and support related to enhancing the skill development of the infant, toddler, or preschool child or child. (4) Working with the infant, toddler, preschool child, or child to enhance the infant's, toddler's, preschool child's or child's development and cognitive processes. (zz) Specific learning disability. A disorder in one or more of the basic psychological processes involved in understanding or in using spoken or written language that may manifest itself as an imperfect ability to listen, think, speak, read, write, spell, or do mathematical calculations. The term includes such conditions as perceptual disabilities, brain injury, minimal brain dysfunction, dyslexia, and developmental aphasia. The term does not include preschool children or children who have learning problems that are primarily the result of visual, hearing, or motor disabilities, mental retardation, emotional disturbance, or environmental, cultural, or economic differences. (aaa) Speech and language impairments. A communication disorder, such as stuttering, impaired articulation, voice impairment, or a disorder in the receptive or expressive areas of language that adversely affects a preschool child's or child's educational performance. (bbb) Superintendent. The chief official of a Section 6 School Arrangement responsible for the implementation of this part on his or her installation. (ccc) Transition services. A coordinated set of activities for a toddler that may be required to promote movement from early intervention, preschool, and other educational programs into different programs or educational settings. For a student 14 years of age and older, transition services are designed within an outcome-oriented process, which promotes movement from school to post-school activities, including post-secondary education, vocational training, integrated employment (including supported employment), continuing and adult education, adult services, independent living, or community participation. The coordinated set of activities shall be based upon the individual student's needs, taking into account the student's preferences and interests, and shall include instruction, community experiences, the development of employment and other post-school adult living objectives, and when appropriate, acquisition of daily living skills and functional vocational evaluation. (ddd) Traumatic brain injury. An injury to the brain caused by an external physical force or by an internal occurrence, such as stroke or aneurysm, resulting in total or partial functional disability or psychosocial maladjustment that adversely affects educational performance. The term includes open or closed head injuries resulting in mild, moderate, or severe impairments in one or more areas, including cognition; language, memory; attention; reasoning; abstract thinking; judgment; problem solving; sensory; perceptual and motor abilities; psychosocial behavior; physical function; and information processing and speech. The term does not include brain injuries that are congenital or degenerative or brain injuries that are induced by birth trauma. (eee) Vision services. Services necessary to ameliorate the effects of sensory impairment resulting from a loss of vision. (fff) Visual impairment. A sensory impairment including blindness that, even with correction, adversely affects a preschool child's or child's educational performance. The term includes both partially seeing and blind preschool children and children.
