FR941004-2-00111 FR941004-2-00068 The United States cannot at present commit to a larger contribution to the CITES budget. The United States is the largest single contributor; under the United Nations scale, the United States is asked to provide 25 percent of the annual operating budget. In Fiscal Year 1994, Congress appropriated approximately $1 million to the Department of State for this purpose. However, the United States recognizes the heavier workload being imposed on the Secretariat, Standing Committee, and both the Animals and Plants Committees. 4. External Funding No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. External funding refers to the financial support by Party governments and non-governmental organizations for projects that have been approved by the Standing Committee. The CITES Parties have established a process whereby the Standing Committee approves projects and approves donors, to avoid even the appearance of a conflict of interest. The Secretariat's report on this issue is expected to summarize approved donors, approved projects, projects that have been funded, and approved projects that are awaiting funding. The Service, the Department of State, and the National Marine Fisheries Service have made substantial contributions to externally funded projects, including travel of delegates from developing countries to COPs, support for committee meetings, facilitating a meeting of the Working Group on the Transport of Live Specimens, biological studies of significantly traded species, review of national laws for the implementation of the Convention, numerous enforcement-related projects, and other similar projects. XII. Committee Reports and Recommendations 1. Animals Committee No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. This agenda item has two subitems in the provisional agenda: (a) Report of the Chairman (b) Regional representation on the Animals Committee The United States supports the active role of the Animals Committee in scientific and management issues pertaining to animal species listed in the CITES Appendices. Encourage membership which will continue the active role of the Animals Committee, and selection of a Chair with a strong commitment to a proactive Animals Committee. The Animals Committee report may contain information or recommendations dealing with Appendix II species subject to significant trade, marking techniques, crocodilian tagging, sea turtle ranching, care for and reintroduction of seized live animals, and various other issues. The United States has actively participated in the work of the Animals Committee since COP8, and will continue to be an active participant in Animals Committee functions. The Animals Committee is currently composed of individuals representing the six CITES geographic regions: North America, Central and South America and the Caribbean, Asia, Oceania, Africa, and Europe. Each CITES Region currently has one representative on the Animals Committee. The Regional representatives are selected by their respective regional caucuses, at the COP. A new Chair will be selected by the new Animals Committee, most likely during a meeting to be held at the close of COP9. 2. Plants Committee No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. The United States supports the continued activities of the Plants Committee to improve the effectiveness of CITES for plants, with a focus on the following: publication of checklists and identification guides; significant trade in orchids, succulents, and other species; review of the timber trade; and trade in artificially propagated plants. Encourage membership which will continue the active role of the Plants Committee, and selection of a Chair with a strong commitment to a proactive Plants Committee.
