FR940825-1-00007 FR940825-1-00002 The revision to the existing alternate standard provides types of ATCT construction and methods of operation which enhance the fire detection and notification, fire resistance, smoke control, and emergency response features for ATCTs. These features provide early warning of the presence of fire or smoke, flame and smoke spread control, and automatic notification of emergency response units such that a level of fire safety equivalent to two means of egress are afforded ATCT occupants. FAA contends that the alternate standard provides equivalent or greater protection for the affected employees because of enhancements such as, but not limited to: •An ATCT stairway smoke control system; •Fire resistant rated materials for stairway enclosures and openings; •Self-closing or automatic fire doors; •ATCT fire alarm system wiring in accordance with NFPA 72 reliability standards; •Automatic smoke detection; •Automatic fire detection, alarm, and signaling systems with automatic fire department and ATCT notification and ATCT cab annunciator panels with battery backup; •Prohibition of storage of high hazard materials or use of more then minimal amounts of high hazard materials for specific duties; •Occupancy above the level of exit discharge only be able-bodied persons; •Prescribed quality and type of interior finish materials; •Specified levels of fire resistant rated opening protective to base buildings. Commenters are requested to comment on FAA's finding of equivalency as well as on the appropriateness of the enhancements. Comments are requested on the following: (1) Is an alternate standard necessary, or are technologies such that two means of egress are possible in ATCTs? (2) Should an alternate standard be designed and formatted like equivalent OSHA standards? (3) Does this alternate standard provide equivalent protection for affected employees as does the equivalent OSHA standard? (4) What interim measures should be in effect while approval for this alternate standard is being considered? (5) Should Chapter 12 be revised in accordance with the new Life Safety Codes (LSC)? (6) Are there requirements set forth in Chapter 12 which are inappropriate? (7) Should there be requirements proposed in Chapter 12 which go beyond the concept of allowing a single means of egress, e.g. width of steps, slopes of ladders, etc.? Public Participation Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and comments with respect to this alternate standard. These comments must be postmarked on or before (insert date 30 days after publication in the Federal Register ), and submitted in quadruplicate to the Docket Office, Docket No. F&hyph;01, Room N2625, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. Comments limited to 10 pages or less also may be transmitted by facsimile to (202) 219&hyph;5046, provided the original and three copies are sent to the Docket Office thereafter. Written submissions must clearly identify the provisions of the alternate standard which are being addressed and the position taken with respect to each issue. The data, views, and comments that are submitted will be available for public inspection and copying at the above address. Signed at Washington, DC this 12th day of August, 1994. Joseph A. Dear, Assistant Secretary of Labor.
