FR940711-2-00172 FR940711-2-00073 The allocation areas were established by the HUD field offices to ensure sufficient competition among HAs (including State and regional or multi-county HAs) operating housing programs within the HUD-established allocation areas. (3) Program Type This notice announces the fair share allocation of housing assistance budget authority (See Attachment 1) for the Rental Voucher Program and for the Rental Certificate Program to each HUD State or Area Office for designated allocation areas, based on the housing needs factors. The allocation of housing assistance budget authority to each allocation area, however, is the total for both programs. The allocations have been structured to give HUD State or Area Offices flexibility in approving HA applications for the rental voucher program or the rental certificate program. It is not necessary that each allocation area within a HUD State or Area Office jurisdiction be provided both rental vouchers and rental certificates. This notice also provides, for each allocation area, an estimate of the total number of rental vouchers and rental certificates that could be funded from the housing assistance available in the allocation area. These estimates are based on the average fair market rents for two-bedroom units in the HUD State or Area Office's jurisdiction. The actual number of units assisted will vary from these estimates in the actual bedroom size mix that is funded in a given area. (4) Potential Additional Funding If additional rental voucher or rental certificate funding becomes available for incremental use during Fiscal Year 1994, the Department plans to distribute any additional funding to HUD State or Area Offices using the same percentage distribution as reflected in Attachment 1 to this NOFA. Any additional funding will be used under the competitive requirements of this NOFA to fund HA applications which were approvable but not funded, or approved and funded at less than 100 percent of the requested amount. C. Family Self-Sufficiency Program Unless specifically exempted by HUD, any rental voucher or rental certificate funding reserved in FY 94 (except funding for renewals or amendments) will be used to establish the minimum size of a PHA's FSS program. D. HA Eligibility All HAs are invited by this notice to submit applications for the incremental funding for the Rental Voucher Program (24 CFR part 887) and the Rental Certificate Program (24 CFR part 882). II. Application Process A. Application Requirements All the items in Section III of this NOFA must be included in the application submitted to the HUD State or Area Office/Native American Programs Office. The application may include an explanation of how the application meets, or will meet, the selection criteria listed in this NOFA. The maximum point total available under the selection criteria in this NOFA is 95. B. Selection Criteria/Rating Factors (1) Selection Criterion 1 HA Administrative Capability (40 points). (a) Description: Overall HA administrative capability in the Rental Voucher, Rental Certificate, and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs is either excellent or good. Administrative Capability is evidenced by factors such as leasing rates and correct administration of housing quality standards (HQS), compliance with the portability requirements for rental vouchers and rental certificates, compliance with Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity program requirements, assistance payment computation, timely submission of budgets and financial statements, and rent reasonableness requirements. For purposes of this NOFA, an HA administering a Rental Voucher, Rental Certificate, or Moderate Rehabilitation Program will not be rated on the administration of its Public or Indian Housing Program. If an HA is not administering a Rental Voucher, Rental Certificate, or Moderate Rehabilitation Program, HUD will rate HA administration of the Public or Indian Housing Program. If an HA is not administering a Rental Voucher, Rental Certificate, Moderate Rehabilitation, Public Housing or Indian Housing Program, HUD will assess the administrative capability of the HA based on such factors as experience of staff, support of the HA by the local government, and the HA's administrative experience with non-HUD housing programs. (b) Rating and Assessment: (i) HUD review of HA Operations: •8 Points_Assign 8 points if HA has no review findings outstanding, or all review findings have been corrected, for HUD HA management reviews, Fair Housing & Equal Opportunity reviews, or Inspector General audits as of the deadline date for submission of applications under this NOFA. •5 Points_Assign 5 points if HA has less than five review findings outstanding and all findings are being addressed. •2 Points_Assign 2 points if HA has five or more review findings outstanding and all findings are being addressed. •0 Points_Assign 0 points if HA has any review findings outstanding and the findings are not being addressed.
