FR940505-1-00391 FR940505-1-00012 ( 1 ) EPA Method 2 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A); or ( 2 ) The continuous flow measuring system installed pursuant to paragraph (g)(3)(i)(D) of this section. The continuous flow measuring system shall be used if the entire flow it measures is directed to the control device being tested. (C) The exhaust flow shall be determined during the collection of grab samples using EPA's design standard for flares, as described in §60.18. (v) NMOC emissions from the control device shall be determined using the following equation: Q e = F e × NMOC out × 3.69 × 10 ^8 where: Q e = NMOC emissions from the control device, in pounds per hour, F e = Exhaust flow in standard cubic feet per hour at the actual (measured) oxygen concentration, from paragraph (g)(6)(iv)(C) of this section, NMOC out = NMOC concentration in exhaust in ppm, from paragraph (g)(6)(iv)(A) of this section, and 3.69 × 10 ^8 assumes a molecular weight of 14.2 for NMOC as carbon, and 385 cubic feet per pound-mole. (vi) NO X and CO emissions from a control device in pounds per million BTU shall be determined using: (A) EPA Method 7E (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for NO X . (B) EPA Method 10 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for CO. (C) ASTM D1826&hyph;77 for the gross (higher) calorific value (GCV) of landfill gas. (D) EPA Method 3A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for Oxygen Concentration. (E) The calculations contained in §60.45(f)(5) and §60.46b(f). (h) Emissions from Livestock Waste. (1) Applicability. On or after January 1, 1998, any owner or operator of a dairy cattle operation shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(6) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, the affected areas include the Sacramento Metro Area, the Los Angeles-South Coast Air Basin Area, and the Ventura County Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (h) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. Covered lagoon means a holding pond with a floating impermeable cover that effectively captures volatile organic compound and methane emissions, recovers them through a collection device and uses the methane for on-farm heating or cooling, electricity generation, or other end use technology. Dairy cattle mean cows and calves managed as a dairy cattle operation. Dairy cattle operation means any facility managing greater than 400 cows for the purpose of producing milk or milk products. Digester means an enclosed non-pressurized vessel in which influent is managed to maximize the generation of methane for utilization in on-farm heating or cooling or electricity generation. End use technology means the equipment powered by recovered methane gas and its use. Examples of end use technologies are internal combustion engines for generating electricity, boiler and space heaters to produce heat for various operations, and gas-fired chillers to be used for refrigeration. Influent means manure-containing liquid from the feed apron and milk parlor areas of a dairy cattle operation, which flows to a covered lagoon or digester. Livestock waste means livestock excrement including liquid wastes, fecal material, and decomposing manure. Recovery system means a covered lagoon or digester. Stockpile is manure that is temporarily stored at a designated location prior to shipment for handling at another on-site or off-site location. (3) Specific Provisions. (i) Dairy cattle operations shall install a recovery system, such as a covered lagoon or digester, to collect and recover livestock waste influent.
