FR941027-2-00009 FR941027-2-00008 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Institute of Standards and Technology [Docket Number 940980&hyph;4280] Announcement of Available Funding for Competitions-Advanced Technology Program (ATP) agency: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Technology Administration, Commerce. action: Notice. summary: The Technology Administration's National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) announces available funding for various competitions under the Advanced Technology Program (ATP). During 1995, the ATP will hold the following competitions: (1) General Competition 95&hyph;01 in which proposals in all areas of technology meeting the ATP criteria are solicited, and, (2) Several Program Competitions focused on specific technology or technology application areas. This notice provides general information for all the competitions planned for 1995. Proposal due dates, program competition topics, and other competition-specific instructions for the General Competition and each of the Program Competitions will be published in the Commerce Business Daily (CBD) at a later date. Those interested in applying for ATP funding must contact the ATP at the address shown later in this notice to obtain application materials. The Proposal Preparation Kit available upon request from the ATP contains the application forms, background material, and instructions referenced in this notice. The new ATP Proposal Preparation Kit may be used either for General Competitions or Program Competitions. The Advanced Technology Program is Program Number 11.612 in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. Due dates for the general and program competition will be published in the CBD at the time each competition is announced. Should there ever be an extension of the due date for any ATP competition, that information will be provided via a notice published in the CBD as well as a recorded message on the ATP toll-free ``Hotline'' number (1&hyph;800&hyph;ATP&hyph;FUND). For this reason, we recommend that applicants check this recorded message prior to the closing date. The specific date and location will be announced in the CBD regarding a public meeting for parties considering applying for funding in the ATP General Competition 95&hyph;01. Attendance at this public meeting is not required of potential proposers. The purpose of the meeting is to provide general information regarding the ATP procedures, selection process, and proposal preparation to potential applicants unfamiliar with the ATP. No discussion of specific proposals will occur at this meeting. Dates and times of analogous public meetings for the program competitions will be announced in the CBD, transmitted to those on the ATP mailing list, and described on the ATP toll-free Hotline. for further information contact: To request a copy of the ATP Proposal Preparation Kit and to have your name added to the ATP mailing list for future mailings use whichever of these four options is the most convenient for you: (1) Call the ATP toll-free number, 1&hyph;800&hyph;ATP&hyph;FUND. You will have the option of hearing recorded messages regarding the status of the ATP or speaking to one of our customer representatives who will take your name and address. If our representatives are all busy when you call, leave a message after the tone. To ensure that the information is entered correctly, please speak distinctly and slowly and spell the words that might cause confusion. Leave your phone number as well as your name and address. (2) Contact ATP via fax at (301) 926&hyph;9524. A backup fax number is (301) 869&hyph;1150. (3) Contact ATP via electronic mail at atp@micf.nist.gov. Include your name, full mailing address and phone number. (4) Write to the ATP at the address shown below: Advanced Technology Program, Administration Building (101), Room A430, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Quince Orchard at Clopper Road, Gaithersburg, MD 20899&hyph;0001. Note that the ATP is mailing new Proposal Preparation Kits to all those individuals whose names are currently in the ATP computer data base. Such individuals need not contact the ATP to request a kit. The anticipated mailing date is sometime this winter. The ATP toll-free Hotline message stated above will report when this mailing is made.
