FR941005-0-00016 FR941005-0-00006 II. The EPA Response to the Petitions The EPA is responding to these petitions by taking action in this notice to add PCBTF and VMS to the list of compounds appearing in 40 CFR 51.100(s) that are excluded from the definition of VOC. By this final action, PCBTF and VMS are excluded from the VOC definition. The EPA's conclusions concerning the exclusion of PCBTF are based on the report ``Loss Processes For 4-Chlorobenzotrifluoride Under Atmospheric Conditions,'' by Roger Atkinson et al. (University of California/Riverside), October 1984. This report along with other information was submitted by Occidental Chemical Corporation and has been placed in the docket for this action. The Atkinson et al. report indicated that the k OH reactivity of PCBTF (2.3×10 ^13 cm 3 molecule ^1 sec ^1 ) is somewhat lower than, but statistically indistinguishable from, that of ethane (2.7×10 ^13 cm 3 molecule ^1 sec ^1 ). Ethane is currently the most reactive of the compounds currently excluded as VOC due to negligible photochemical reactivity. It is conceivable, however, that there are other processes, e.g., photodissociation, reaction with ozone or with nitrogen trioxide (NO 3 ) radicals, that might enhance the ozone-forming reactivity of PCBTF. Atkinson et al. explored to some extent these possibilities by studying experimentally the photodissociation of PCBTF and its reaction with ozone. They found a negligibly low rate of reaction with ozone and no measurable photolysis of PCBTF. The photolysis detection limit, however, was 2.7×10 ^6 sec ^1 , which is a rate somewhat higher than that of the reaction rate with hydroxyl radicals (OH) in typical mid-day urban atmospheres (1.4×10 ^6 sec ^1 ). Thus, significant, though nonmeasurable, photodissociation of PCBTF in the atmosphere cannot be precluded. On the other hand, it is not known whether dissociation, even if it does occur, would enhance the ozone-forming reactivity of PCBTF. In the absence of measurable photodissociation, Atkinson et al. could not obtain evidence on the nature and follow-up chemistry of the photodissociation products. In summary, the evidence available indicates that: (1) The k OH reactivity of PCBTF is not higher than that of ethane, and (2) there is no evidence of processes (other than reaction with OH) that might increase the ozone-forming reactivity above that of ethane. The EPA's decision concerning the exclusion of VMS as VOC is based on the following: ``Investigation of the Ozone Formation Potential of Selected Volatile Silicone Compounds,'' by William P. L. Carter et al. (University of California/Riverside), November 1992; ``Determination of the Atmospheric Lifetimes of Organosilicon Compounds,'' by Roger Atkinson et al. (University of California/Riverside), September 1990; and ``Kinetics of the Gas Phase Reactions of a Series of Organosilicon Compounds with OH and NO 3 Radicals and O 3 at 297 # 2K,'' by R. Atkinson et al. (Environmental Science & Technology, 25 , p.863, 1991). These reports were submitted, along with other materials by Dow Corning, in support of its petition. This information has been placed in the docket for this action. The Atkinson et al. studies indicated that volatile methyl siloxanes have k OH reactivities higher than that of ethane, and suggested that follow-up smog chamber studies should be conducted to determine their ozone-forming potentials. Such a chamber study is the subject of the Carter et al. report. Carter produced evidence for hexamethyldisiloxane (MM), octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane (D 4 ), and decamethylcyclopentasiloxane (D 5 ) that showed these siloxanes have negative ozone-forming potentials for commonly-occurring ambient conditions. However, the degradation pathways (mechanism) are still not well understood. Nevertheless, the investigators concluded that the ozone-forming reactivities of these siloxanes cannot be higher than that of ethane.
