FR940111-2-00005 FR940111-2-00002 District Ranger Decision Bears Ears District: Northwest Colorado Daily Press, published daily in Craig, Moffat County, Colorado. In addition, notice of decisions by the District Ranger will also be published in the Hayden Valley Press, published weekly in Hayden, Routt County, Colorado, and in the Steamboat Pilot, published weekly in Steamboat Springs, Routt County, Colorado. Yampa and Hahns Peak Districts: Steamboat Pilot, published weekly in Steamboat Springs, Routt County, Colorado. Middle Park District: Middle Park Times, published weekly in Kremmling, Grand County, Colorado. Noarth Park District: Jackson County Star, Published weekly in Walden, Jackson County, Colorado. San Juan National Forest, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decision Durango Herald, published daily in Durango, La Plata County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions Durango Herald, published daily in Durango, La Plata County, Colorado. White River National Forest, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions The Glenwood Post, published Monday through Friday in Glenwood Springs, Garfield County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions Aspen District: Aspen Times, published weekly in Aspen, Pitkin County, Colorado. Blanco District: Meeker Herald, published weekly in Meeker, Rio Blanco County, Colorado. Dillon District: Summit Sentinel, published twice weekly in Frisco, Summit County, Colorado. Eagle District: Eagle Valley Enterprise, published weekly in Eagle, Eagle County, Colorado. Holy Cross District: Vail Trail, published weekly in Minturn, Eagle County, Colorado. Rifle District: Rifle Telegram, published weekly in Rifle, Garfield County, Colorado. Sopris District: Valley Journal, published weekly in Carbondale, Garfield County, Colorado. Nebraska National Forest, Nebraska Forest Supervisor Decisions The Rapid City Journal, published daily in Rapid City, Pennington County, South Dakota for decisions affecting National Forest System lands in the State of South Dakota. The Omaha World Herald, published daily in Omaha, Douglas County, Nebraska for decisions affecting National Forest System lands in the State of Nebraska. District Ranger Decisions Bessey District: The North Platte Telegraph, published daily in North Platte, Lincoln County, Nebraska. Samuel R. McKelvie National Forest: The Valentine Newspaper, published weekly in Valentine, Cherry County, Nebraska. Fall River and Wall Districts: The Rapid City Journal, published daily in Rapid City, Pennington County, South Dakota. Pine Ridge District: The Chadron Record, published weekly in Chadron, Dawes County, Nebraska. Black Hills National Forest, South Dakota and Eastern Wyoming Forest Supervisor Decisions The Rapid City Journal, published daily in Rapid City, Pennington County, South Dakota. District Ranger Decisions The Rapid City Journal, published daily in Rapid City, Pennington County, South Dakota. Bighorn National Forest, Wyoming Forest Supervisor Decisions Sheridan Press, published daily in Sheridan, Sheridan County, Wyoming. In addition, for decisions affecting an individual district(s), the local district(s) newspaper will be used (see listing below). District Ranger Decisions Tongue District: Sheridan Press, published daily in Sheridan, Sheridan County, Wyoming. Buffalo District: Buffalo Bulletin, published weekly in Buffalo, Johnson County, Wyoming. Medicine Wheel District: Lovell Chronicle, published weekly in Lovell, Big Horn County, Wyoming. Tensleep District: Northern Wyoming Daily News, published daily in Worland, Washakie County, Wyoming. Paintrock District: Greybull Standard, published weekly in Greybull, Big Horn County, Wyoming. Medicine Bow National Forest, Wyoming Forest Supervisor Decisions Laramie Daily Boomerang, published daily in Laramie, Albany County, Wyoming. District Ranger Decisions Laramie District: Laramie Daily Boomerang, published daily in Laramie, Albany County, Wyoming. Douglas District: Casper Star-Tribune, published daily in Casper, Natrona County, Wyoming. Brush Creek and Hayden Districts: Rawlins Daily Times, published daily in Rawlins, Carbon County, Wyoming. Shoshone National Forest, Wyoming Forest Supervisor Decisions Cody Enterprise, published twice weekly in Cody, Park County, Wyoming. District Ranger Decisions Clarks Fork District: Powell Tribune, published twice weekly in Powell, Park County, Wyoming. Wapiti and Greybull Districts: Cody Enterprise, published twice weekly in Cody, Park County, Wyoming. Wind River District: The Dubois Frontier, published weekly in Dubois, Teton County, Wyoming. Lander District: Wyoming State Journal, published twice weekly in Lander, Fremont County, Wyoming. Dated: January 3, 1994. Elizabeth Estill, Regional Forester. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;598 Filed 1&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
