FR940426-1-00060 FR940426-1-00006 (c) Reports requested by the regional director (compliance) _(1) General. When required in writing by the regional director (compliance), an industry member shall submit a written report containing information on sponsorships, advertisements, promotions, and other activities pertaining to its business subject to the Act conducted by, or on behalf of, or benefiting the industry member. (2) Preparation. The report will be prepared by the industry member in letter form, executed under the penalties of perjury, and will contain the information specified by the regional director (compliance). (3) Filing. The report will be filed in accordance with the instructions of the regional director (compliance). (27 U.S.C. 202(c) and (d)) Par. 46. Section 8.11 is amended by removing the definition for the term ``retail establishment'' and by adding definitions for ``ATF officer,'' ``Director'' and ``regional director (compliance)'' as follows: §8.11 Meaning of terms. * * * * * ATF officer. An officer or employee of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) authorized to perform any function relating to the administration or enforcement of this part. Director. The Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, the Department of the Treasury, Washington, DC. * * * * * Regional director (compliance). The principal ATF regional official responsible for administering regulations in this part. * * * * * Par. 47. Section 8.23 is revised to read as follows: §8.23 Third party arrangements. Industry member requirements, by agreement or otherwise, with non-retailers that result in a retailer being required to purchase the industry member's products are within the exclusive outlet provisions. These industry member requirements are covered whether the agreement or other arrangement originates with the industry member or the third party. For example, a supplier enters into a contractual agreement or other arrangement with a third party. This agreement or arrangement contains an industry member requirement as described above. The third party, a ballclub, or municipal or private corporation, not acting as a retailer, leases the concession rights and is able to control the purchasing decisions of the retailer. The third party, as a result of the requirement, by agreement or otherwise, with the industry member, requires the retailer to purchase the industry member's products to the exclusion, in whole or in part, of products sold or offered for sale by other persons in interstate or foreign commerce. The business arrangements entered into by the industry member and the third party may consist of such things as sponsoring radio or television broadcasting, paying for advertising, or providing other services or things of value. Par. 48. Part 8 is amended by adding a new Subpart D to read as follows: Subpart D_Exclusion 8.51␣Exclusion, in general. 8.52␣Practices which result in exclusion. 8.53␣Practices not resulting in exclusion. 8.54␣Criteria for determining retailer independence. Subpart D_Exclusion §8.51 Exclusion, in general. (a) Exclusion, in whole or in part occurs: (1) When a practice by an industry member, whether direct, indirect, or through an affiliate, places retailer independence at risk by means of a tie or link between the industry member and retailer or by any other means of industry member control over the retailer, and (2) Such practice results in the retailer purchasing less than it would have of a competitor's product. (b) Section 8.52 lists practices that result in exclusion. Section 8.53 lists practices not resulting in exclusion. Section 8.54 lists the criteria used for determining whether other practices can put retailer independence at risk. §8.52 Practices which result in exclusion. The practices specified in this section result in exclusion under section 105(a) of the Act. The practices specified here are examples and do not constitute a complete list of such practices: (a) Purchases of distilled spirits, wine or malt beverages by a retailer as a result, directly or indirectly, of a threat or act of physical or economic harm by the selling industry member. (b) Contracts between an industry member and a retailer which require the retailer to purchase distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages from that industry member and expressly restrict the retailer from purchasing, in whole or in part, such products from another industry member. §8.53 Practices not resulting in exclusion. The practices specified in this section are deemed not to result in exclusion under section 105(a) of the Act: (a) A supply contract for one year or less between the industry member and retailer under which the industry member agrees to sell distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages to the retailer on an ``as needed'' basis provided that the retailer is not required to purchase any minimum quantity of such product. (b) [Reserved] §8.54 Criteria for determining retailer independence. The criteria specified in this section are indications that a particular practice, other than those in §8.52 and 8.53, places retailer independence at risk. A practice need not meet all of the criteria specified in this section in order to place retailer independence at risk. (a) The practice restricts or hampers the free economic choice of a retailer to decide which products to purchase and the quantity in which to purchase them for sale to consumers. (b) The industry member obligates the retailer to participate in the promotion to obtain the industry member's product. (c) The retailer has a continuing obligation to purchase or otherwise promote the industry member's product. (d) The retailer has a commitment not to terminate its relationship with the industry member with respect to purchase of the industry member's products. (e) The practice involves the industry member in the day-to-day operations of the retailer. For example, the industry member controls the retailer's decisions on which brand of products to purchase, the pricing of products, or the manner in which the products will be displayed on the retailer's premises. (f) The practice is discriminatory in that it is not offered to all retailers in the local market on the same terms without business reasons present to justify the difference in treatment. PART 10_COMMERCIAL BRIBERY Par. 49. The authority citation for part 10 is revised to read as follows:
