FR940207-1-00045 FR940207-1-00010 Based upon one-half hour per respondent and approximately 35,000 respondents, the additional burden will be 17,500 hours. List of Subjects in 48 CFR Parts 516 and 552 Government procurement. Accordingly, it is proposed to amend 48 CFR parts 516 and 552 as follows: 1. The authority citation for 48 CFR parts 516 and 552 continues to read as follows: Authority: 40 U.S.C. 486(c). PART 516_TYPES OF CONTRACTS 2. Section 516.505 is revised to read as follows: 516.505 Contract clauses. (a) The contracting officer shall insert the clause at 552.216&hyph;73, Placement of Orders, in solicitations and contracts for stock or special order program items when the contract authorizes agencies other than FSS to issue delivery orders. If only FSS will issue delivery orders under any of its supply programs, use Alternate I. If a Federal Supply Schedule contract (single or multiple award) permits other agencies to issue delivery orders, use Alternate II. (b) The contracting officer shall insert the provision at 552.216&hyph;74, Ordering Information, in solicitations for stock items and in other Federal Supply Service solicitations when FSS alone will issue delivery orders. If the contract will authorize paper delivery orders, use Alternate I. If a Federal Supply Multiple Award Schedule contract permitting other agencies to issue delivery orders is contemplated, use Alternate II. 3. Section 552.216&hyph;73 is revised to read as follows: 552.216&hyph;73 Placement of orders. As prescribed in 516.505(a), insert the following clause: Placement of Orders (XXX 1993) (a) Delivery orders (orders) will be placed by: [Contracting Officer insert names of Federal agencies] (b) Orders may be placed through Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) or mailed in paper form. EDI orders shall be placed using the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) X12 Standard for Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) format. (c) GSA's Federal Supply Service (FSS), if specified in paragraph (a) above, will place all orders by EDI using computer-to-computer EDI, whenever possible. If computer-to-computer EDI is not possible, an alternative method allowing the Contractor to receive orders by facsimile transmission will be used. Subject to the Contractor's agreement, other agencies may place orders by EDI. (d) When computer-to-computer EDI procedures will be used to place orders, the Contractor shall enter into one or more Trading Partner Agreements (TPA) with each Federal agency placing orders electronically in order to ensure mutual understanding by the parties of certain electronic transaction conventions and to recognize the rights and responsibilities of the parties as they apply to this method of placing orders. The TPA must identify, among other things, the third party provider(s) through which electronic orders are placed, the transaction sets used, security procedures, and guidelines for implementation. (e) The Contractor shall be responsible for providing its own hardware and software necessary to transmit and receive data electronically. Additionally, each party to the TPA shall be responsible for the costs associated with its use of third party provider services. (f) Nothing in the TPA will invalidate any part of this contract between the Contractor and the General Services Administration. All terms and conditions of this contract that otherwise would be applicable to a mailed order shall apply to the electronic order. (g) The basic content and format of the TPA will be provided by: General Services Administration, Systems Inventory and Operations Management Center (FCS), Washington, DC 20406, Telephone: [Contracting Officer insert, FAX: appropriate telephone numbers] Alternate I (XXX 1993). As prescribed in 516.505(a), substitute the following paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) for paragraphs, (a), (b), (c), and (d), of the basic clause: (a) All delivery orders (orders) under this contract will be placed by the General Services Administration's Federal Supply Service (FSS). The Contractor is not authorized to accept orders from any other agency. Violation of this restriction may result in termination of the contract pursuant to the default clause of this contract. (b) All orders shall be placed by Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) using the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) X12 Standard for Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) format.
