FR941117-0-00191 FR941117-0-00013 Unlike the significant obligor concept in the Proposed Amendments, there is no need to include a specified percentage of payment in the definition of obligated person, because the issuer and other participants will determine at the time of preparation of the final official statement which obligated persons are material to an Offering. 79 In making that materiality determination, the parties to a financing will evaluate the facts of the Offering. 80 79 Under the revised amendments, the concerns of some commenters that the definition of significant obligor failed to take into account short term arrangements ( i.e. the arrangements with persons providing cash flow were shorter than the term of the securities) is also alleviated in two ways. First, the issuer determines at the outset if an obligated person is material to the offering. Second, assuming an obligated person is included in the final official statement, the undertaking to continue to provide information on such obligated person may be terminated once it no longer has liability for any obligation on or relating to repayment of the municipal securities. See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(5)(iii); Letter of APPA; Letter of Hawkins Delafield & Wood. 80 Guidelines and practices that have developed in other contexts may be useful in analyzing both the materiality of an obligated person to the municipal financing and the appropriate level of disclosure relating to such obligated person. For example, in connection with securitization of non-recourse commercial mortgage loans, the 10 percent and 20 percent property assets concentration tests described in Staff Accounting Bulletins 71 and 71A are applied. These percentages are applied by analogy in other asset-backed financings. Determining the obligated persons in pooled financings requires more flexibility, because the composition of the pool may vary over time. Rather than identifying the specific persons for which information will be provided on a continuing basis, under the amendments, bond pools must describe in their official statements, and the undertaking, the objective criteria (presumably including percentage of payment support) they will apply consistently, both in the final official statement and on a continuing basis, in determining whether information concerning an obligated person will be provided. 81 The amendments permit, but do not require this approach for non-pooled issuers. The objective criteria approach ensures that financial information and operating data will be provided about those persons that, at the time of disclosure, meet the objective standards described in the undertakings. Obligated persons could commit to the issuer, at the time of initial participation in a pooled financing, through an undertaking to provide information when and if they satisfy that criteria. Obligated persons that no longer meet the objective criteria will no longer need to provide ongoing information. In order to ensure that the selection method is incorporated into the undertaking, the amendments require that Participating Underwriters reasonably determine that the undertakings identify those persons for which the information will be provided, either by name or by the objective criteria to be used to select such persons. 82 81 Although the amendments do not specify the scope of the objective criteria, the criteria description should be clear as to when and how they are applied. 82 See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(b)(5)(ii). Commenters were divided on whether providers of bond insurance, letters of credit, and other liquidity facilities, should be excluded from the definition of significant obligor. 83 The concept of ``obligated person'' encompasses these entities because they are committed, at least conditionally, to support payment of principal and interest obligations. Moreover, these persons normally are material to an understanding of the security, and, therefore, official statements should contain financial information concerning such persons either directly or by reference to publicly available materials. A number of commenters stated, however, that it would be inappropriate to put the onus on the issuer to provide information on such providers on an annual basis, particularly where that information is otherwise available to investors either upon request or in public reports that have been submitted to appropriate regulatory authorities. 84 83 See, e.g. , Letter of ABA Urban Law Section; Letter of Blackwell Industrial Authority, Blackwell, Oklahoma; Letter of Davis Polk & Wardwell; Letter of IDS Financial Corporation; Letter of Kutak Rock; Letter of Oregon Economic Development Department; Letter of Realvest Capital Corporation; Letter of Thacher Proffitt & Wood. Some commenters also were concerned as to whether the definition would encompass providers of guaranteed investment contracts and other investments. See, e.g. , Letter of ABA Urban Law Section; Letter of Kutak Rock, on behalf of AMBAC Indemnity Corporation, Capital Markets Assurance Corporation, Capital Reinsurance Company, Enhance Reinsurance Company, Financial Guaranty Insurance Company, Financial Security Assurance, Inc., and Municipal Bond Investors Assurance Corporation (``Kutak Rock on behalf of Financial Guaranty Insurers''). A functional approach determines whether providers of investments should provide ongoing information. For example, if the proceeds of an Offering are invested in guaranteed investment contracts (``GICs''), and the income from the GICs is the predominant source of revenue to repay the obligations on the securities, information about the provider may be material to the Offering, including on an ongoing basis. If, however, other sources of revenue are committed to support payment of the obligations, the relative importance of the provider of the GIC to investors may be diminished. 84 See, e.g. , Letter of ABA Urban Law Section; Letter of Smith, Gambrell & Russell; Letter of Texas Water Development Board. Some commenters noted difficulty in obtaining information from credit enhancers. See Letter of Association of Bay Area Governments; Letter of New York State Housing Finance Agency; Letter of State of Washington, Office of the Treasurer.
