FR941222-2-00075 FR941222-2-00063 Environmental, historic preservation, or other trail use/rail banking conditions will be imposed, where appropriate, in a subsequent decision. It is ordered: 1. Subject to the conditions set forth above, KCS may discontinue service, cancel tariffs for the lines on not less than 10 days' notice to the Commission, and salvage track and material consistent with interim trail use/rail banking after the effective date of this notice of exemption and NITU. Tariff cancellations must refer to this notice by date and docket number. 2. If an interim trail use/rail banking agreement is reached, then with respect to the rights-of-way, it must require the trail user to assume, for the term of the agreement, full responsibility for management of, for any legal liability arising out of the transfer or use of (unless the user is immune from liability, in which case it need only indemnify KCS from any potential liability), and for the payment of any and all taxes that may be levied or assessed against, the rights-of-way. 3. Interim trail use/rail banking is subject to the future restoration of rail service and to the user's continuing to meet the financial obligations for the rights-of-way. 4. If interim trail use is implemented and subsequently the user intends to terminate trail use, it must send the Commission a copy of this notice of exemption and NITU and request that it be vacated on a specified date. 5. If an agreement for interim trail use/rail banking is reached by the 180th day after service of this decision and notice, interim trail use may be implemented. If no agreement is reached by that time, KCS may fully abandon the lines. 6. Provided no formal expression of intent to file an offer of financial assistance has been received, this notice of exemption and NITU will be effective on January 21, 1995. Decided: December 15, 1994. By the Commission, David M. Konschnik, Director, Office of Proceedings. Vernon A. Williams, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31448 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
