FR940906-2-00097 FR940906-2-00076 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of the Secretary Privacy Act of 1974 DOT/ALL 11 Integrated Personnel and Payroll System (IPPS) System of Records The Department of Transportation (DOT) herewith publishes a notice of proposal to replace the DOT/FAA 806, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Employee Payable System and DOT/OST 034, Personnel Records systems of records with DOT/ALL 11 Integrated Personnel and Payroll System (IPPS) system of records. The proposed system does not duplicate any existing agency or government-wide systems of records. Any person or agency may submit written comments on the proposed IPPS system of records to the Office of Secretary, M&hyph;39, ATTN: Mr. Carl Creager, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Comments to be considered must be received by October 5, 1994. If no comments are received, the proposed changes will become effective 40 days from the date of issuance. If comments are received, the comments will be considered and, where adopted, the document will be republished with the changes. Issued in Washington, DC, August 25, 1994. Paul Weiss, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Administration. Narrative Statement for the Department of Transportation, Office of the Secretary The Office of the Secretary of Transportation proposes to replace two systems of records, DOT/FAA 806, Federal Aviation Administration Employee Payable System and DOT/OST 034, Personnel Records with DOT/ALL 11 Integrated Personnel and Payroll System (IPPS) system of records. The purpose of this Notice is to update and align DOT's payroll and personnel systems of records with the IPPS personnel and payroll integrated database. The IPPS database is a product of IPPS, an integrated personnel and payroll management information system currently under development. The first phase of the system will begin in August 1994. The possibility of adverse effects of this proposal concerning privacy interests of the general public is minimal as the new system combines the information currently held in DOT/FAA 806 and DOT/OST 034 systems of record. A description of the steps taken to safeguard these records is given under the appropriate heading of the Federal Register system of records. The changes include amendments to: System number, system name, security classification, system location, categories of individuals covered by the system, categories of records in the system, authority for maintenance of the system, routine uses of records maintained in the system including categories of users and the purposes of such uses, disclosure to consumer reporting agencies, policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system, retrievability, safeguards, retention and disposal, systems managers and address, notification procedure, record access procedures, contesting record procedures, record source categories. The authority for maintenance of the system is 5 U.S.C. 2957 and 5 U.S.C. 2954. The purpose of this report is to comply with the Office of Management and Budget Circular, A&hyph;130, Appendix I, dated July 15, 1994.
