FR940506-2-00162 FR940506-2-00087 (7) To determine how projects funded under the CMAQ program affect greenhouse gases. (C) Approach The review will be conducted by the FHWA and the FTA, in cooperation with the EPA. It will be conducted in an open way to solicit concerns, recommendations and issues from all interested parties, including environmental groups, transportation agencies, energy interests, State air quality agencies and others. A public meeting will be held to solicit ideas from any group wishing to comment, especially national transportation and air quality groups, State and local agencies, environmental interest groups, industry groups, and other interested parties. Those commenting should address the structure of the review, relevant policy questions, and their experience in program implementation. The need for a second meeting to describe review findings will be determined as the evaluation progresses. The review will focus on the effectiveness of current policies and guidance as implemented at the project level. As such, the review will begin and end with policy considerations, but any potential changes in policy will be based on a review of specific projects and existing coordination processes. Issues will be examined from both a public policy and legal perspective with review of the CMAQ provisions of the ISTEA (Section 1008) and other relevant provisions of the ISTEA or CAA, as necessary. (D) Policy Questions Several policy questions have arisen as CMAQ program implementation has progressed. They serve as a starting point for the review. Other policy considerations will be evaluated as they arise. Current questions include: (1) Have the needed coordination mechanisms between the transportation and air quality communities at the Federal, State and local levels been established? Have they been effective? What have the impediments been? What can Federal agencies do to smooth coordination processes? (2) How effective are the projects that have been funded under the CMAQ program in reducing transportation emissions? How can their effectiveness be improved? Is it possible at this time to identify the types of projects that have the greatest air quality impact? (3) What are the short term and long term impacts of funded projects? How should these considerations be included in the determination of funding priorities under the CMAQ program? (4) Will the low obligation rate for the first two years of the program ultimately result in the lapsing of Federal funds? What can be done to avoid this? (5) How should projects that have the potential to increase oxides of nitrogen be treated? Should they be eligible as long as aggregate emissions are reduced in line with the Clean Air Act's conformity requirements? (6) Under current guidance, new or expanded rideshare services are eligible for CMAQ funds, but the routine funding of existing services for ridesharing, transit, traffic control and inspection and maintenance programs, etc., is ineligible. Is the current policy too restrictive because it assumes that further emission reductions will not result by funding currently existing services? (7) Traffic flow improvements are legislatively eligible for CMAQ funding as a transportation control measure identified in the Clean Air Act. What are the pros and cons of funding these projects for emission reduction purposes? Should changes be pursued to exclude them from eligibility? (8) Under the current legislation, projects in a nonattainment area are no longer eligible for CMAQ funds once the area achieves attainment of the NAAQS and is redesignated as a maintenance area. Would a change to allow the use of CMAQ funds in newly redesignated areas constitute good public policy even if the State's remaining nonattainment areas lose CMAQ funds as a result? (9) Projects that are not expected to contribute to emission reductions prior to the scheduled attainment date under the Clean Air Act are not eligible for CMAQ funds. Should any project which reduces emissions be eligible even if it is scheduled for completion after the attainment date?
