FR940603-2-00056 FR940603-2-00039 5. Program Personnel_10% Demonstrate that the proposed program staff is qualified and appropriate, and the time allocated for them to accomplish program activities is adequate. With limited funds available, the applicant must demonstrate that an infrastructure exists within the health department that will allow for full participation in the surveillance system with partial ATSDR financial support. Such in-kind support can include existing support staff, technical staff (e.g., epidemiologist, data management staff, environmental health scientists, emergency response personnel, computer specialists), and computer hardware. 6. Program Budget_(Not scored) Budget must be reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with intended use of cooperative agreement funds. B. Review Criteria for States with Existing HSEES 1. Appropriateness and Knowledge of Surveillance System_25% Applicant must demonstrate experience in collecting emergency event surveillance information within the State. This should include, but not be limited to, an assessment of the extent of hazardous substances emergencies and/or the morbidity and mortality associated with these events. Additionally, the applicant should demonstrate an understanding of the needs, limitations, and experience with surveillance systems as a means of assessing the impact of hazardous substances on public health. 2. Proposed Methodology_25% Applicant must demonstrate experience in HSEES. This should include the development, implementation, and evaluation of an HSEES system in accordance with the surveillance Protocol. 3. Capability and Coordination Efforts_20% Applicant must demonstrate the ability to develop, maintain, or expand a formal or an informal working relationship with agencies outside of the State health departments that receive notifications of hazardous substances emergencies. This is necessary to assure that State health departments are notified of all hazardous substances emergencies. 4. Quality of Information Collection_20% Applicant should describe previous experience in HSEES systems, including collecting information for which the organization is responsible in a consistent format. Of critical importance to the success of the surveillance project is the timely submission of data for analysis. The applicant must demonstrate experience in, or the ability to collect, enter, and transfer data on a timely basis. 5. Program Personnel_10% Demonstrate that the proposed program staff is qualified and appropriate, and the time allocated for them to accomplish program activities is adequate. With limited funds available, the applicant must demonstrate that an infrastructure exists within the health department that will allow for full participation in the surveillance system with partial ATSDR financial support. Such in-kind support can include existing support staff, technical staff (e.g., epidemiologist, data management staff, environmental health scientists, emergency response personnel), and computer hardware. 6. Program Budget_(Not scored) Budget must be reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with intended use of cooperative agreement funds. C. Review of Noncompeting Continuation Applications Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of the following criteria: 1. Satisfactory progress has been made in meeting project objectives;
