FR940216-0-00132 FR940216-0-00010 EPA recognizes that the term ``carrier'' covers an array of carriage and distribution operations. Pipelines, barge operations, ship operations, tank trucks, and storage facilities may all meet the definition of a carrier. Each type of carrier has unique capacities for conducting quality assurance sampling and testing programs. For instance, pipelines, barge and ship carriers, and storage facilities typically deal with large volumes of gasoline. EPA believes that these high volume operations already conduct sampling and testing programs during the normal course of business that normally will satisfy the quality assurance defense element. In fact, commenters observed that barge carriers typically sample and test loads both before and after shipment to ensure the integrity of their product. The unique circumstances of tank truck carriers have been considered in the final rule. Truck carriers, like other carriers, will be asked to present evidence of a quality assurance program only where EPA documents a violation at the carrier's facility. 64 In addition, truck carriers may rely on a properly conducted quality assurance program carried out by another party over the carrier's operation (most likely the product owner). Moreover, quality assurance sampling involving gasoline delivery trucks may be accomplished using samples collected at retail stations following truck deliveries (discussed more fully above), providing carriers with additional flexibility in meeting this defense element. It is also relevant that under the existing gasoline volatility and diesel sulfur programs carriers, including truck carriers, are required to conduct quality assurance sampling and testing in order to establish a defense for violations. As a result, the carrier quality assurance defense element in the reformulated gasoline program is merely an extension of the carriers' current quality assurance responsibilities. 64 Carriers are liable under two circumstances: when a violation is found at the carrier's facility, and where EPA shows the carrier caused a violation found elsewhere. The quality assurance defense element would have application only in the first circumstance, however, because in a case where EPA establishes the carrier caused a violation the carrier would not be able to establish a defense even if the carrier conduced a quality assurance program. EPA intends to exercise its enforcement discretion to provide carriers with flexibility to satisfy the quality assurance sampling and testing defense element if another party, most likely the product owner, carries out an adequate sampling and testing program over the gasoline stored or transported by the carrier. The product owner is required to conduct a quality assurance program in order to establish a defense against its own liability, so that an arrangement between the carrier and the product owner in this regard would be little additional burden for the product owner. Carriers also may seek contractual indemnification from the product owner against liability for violations detected at the carrier's facility. EPA believes that the traditional allocation of risk through contract is an appropriate method for carriers to safeguard their interests within the fuel distribution system. Contractual indemnification combined with a contractual commitment by the product owner to carry out an effective quality assurance sampling and testing program would provide a carrier with reasonable protection against financial exposure for liability for violations for which the carrier is not responsible. EPA has analyzed the costs associated with voluntary carrier sampling and testing. First year per-party costs 65 are calculated to be approximately $2,672 for pipelines, $1,042 for truckers acting as oxygenate blenders, and $517 for other truckers. Costs during 1996 and 1997 are estimated at $2,437, $673 and $480, respectively. Moreover, EPA assumes that many of these costs will be shared among carriers and the owners of the product. EPA has concluded that these costs are reasonable given the importance of the quality assurance program to the success of the reformulated gasoline program. 65 First year costs include: analyzing RFG regulatory provisions; planning activities; training; field testing for conventional gasoline marker; sampling and testing for reform properties (though this is partially a customary and usual business practice by virtue of required testing for RVP and oxygenates for federal and state programs). Pipelines already routinely test for other properties as well.
