FR940223-1-00048 FR940223-1-00008 POSTAL RATE COMMISSION 39 CFR Part 3001 [Docket No. RM91&hyph;1] RIN 3209&hyph;AA04, 3209&hyph;AA15 and 3211&hyph;AA00 Rules of Practice and Procedure AGENCY: Postal Rate Commission. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking; public comment period. SUMMARY: This serves as notice of, and a request for, comments on proposed changes to the Commission's rules of practice and procedure that the Commission is considering for adoption. The proposed rules evolved out of the Commission's Docket RM91&hyph;1 proceeding. Participants to that proceeding developed specific proposals for improvements to the Commission's rules of practice. Adoption of these proposed rules is expected to enhance the efficiency of Commission proceedings and ease the burdens on participants in Commission proceedings. DATES: Written comments responding to this document must be submitted on or before April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to Charles L. Clapp, Secretary of the Commission, Suite 300, 1333 H Street NW., Washington, DC 20268&hyph;0001 (telephone: 202/789&hyph;6840). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen Sharfman, Legal Advisor, Postal Rate Commission, Suite 300, 1333 H Street NW., Washington, DC 20268&hyph;0001 (telephone: 202/789&hyph;6820). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission's Office of the Consumer Advocate (OCA) has filed a motion requesting that the Commission consider a Stipulation and Agreement on proposed changes to the Commission's rules of practice and procedure. All documents relating to the RM91&hyph;1 proceeding are available for public inspection at the Commission's H Street offices. The proposed rule changes resolve some, but not all, of the outstanding issues in this proceeding. Fifteen participants support proposed changes to the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, 39 CFR 3001, which would alter the service requirements applicable to requests for written discovery and the answers thereto; restrict transcript corrections to material, substantive errors; require limited participators to respond to discovery requests specifically directed to testimony they sponsor; alter production specifications relating to margins, line spacing and choice of typeface; and allow a ten-day grace period for filing signature pages to interrogatory responses under specified conditions. Additionally, nine participants support adding a new rule 10(d), 39 CFR 3001.10(d), which would require that certain documents be filed in electronic form (on diskettes) within five working days of their being formally filed in hard copy. Adoption of these proposed rules is expected to enhance the efficiency of Commission proceedings and ease the burdens on participants in Commission proceedings. Punctuation within the attachment to the Stipulation and Agreement might be interpreted to propose elimination of certain provisions not discussed in the motion. It is the understanding of the Commission that there was no intent to propose changes other than those explained in the proposed Stipulation and Agreement. To avoid any possible misunderstandings, the full text of affected subsections, as they would appear if the changes proposed herein were adopted, are set forth below. Additionally, to improve clarity, an article has been added to the next to last sentence in Rule 26(c), 39 CFR 3001.26(c). One of the signatories to the Stipulation and Agreement, McGraw-Hill, Inc., also filed a comment noting that the language describing the service requirements of discovery questions and objections differed from the language in the rules applicable to service requirements for discovery answers and compelled answers. Compare for example proposed rule 25 (a)(c), with rule 25(b)(d). The comment indicates that parties to the Stipulation intended that the rules for service of discovery requests, answers, objections, and compelled answers be identical. Conforming adjustments have not been proposed at this time to allow interested persons to comment on the specific language submitted in the Stipulation. Absent comments in opposition submitted in response to this notice, conforming changes would be made in the final rule to reflect that, for documents described in rules 25, 26, and 27, special requests for service will be honored; and the final sentence in proposed rule 12(b), 39 CFR 3001.12(b) would be changed to read as follows: Special requests for service are used for obtaining service of discovery requests and answers, and any objections and compelled answers related thereto. Participants may serve special requests for service on any other participant requesting service of discovery requests directed to specified witnesses or participants; or answers provided by specified witnesses or that participant.
