FR940505-1-00506 FR940505-1-00012 (11) Calculation of emissions_offsets trigger for ROC and NO X . The potential to emit for each calendar quarter for a stationary source shall be the sum of the potential to emit, including fugitive emissions, for all emissions units based on current Authority to Construct permits, information contained in current Permits to Operate, the pending application, and banked authorized emission reduction credits. (12) Calculation of emissions_offsets general. The emissions change for a new or modified emissions unit shall be calculated by subtracting historic potential emissions from proposed emissions. Calculations shall be performed separately for each pollutant and each emissions unit for each calendar quarter. Negative emissions changes shall be processed under the procedures specified in ยง52.3002, Emissions Reduction Credit Authorization. (13) Calculation of emissions_offsets required for ROC and NO X . The cumulative net emissions increase pursuant to paragraph (d)(12) of this section for a stationary source shall be the sum of emissions from each of the following for each calendar quarter expressed in terms of pounds per quarter. (i) The potential to emit including associated fugitive emissions not previously offset, for all emissions units installed after September 21, 1993, based on current Authority to Construct permits, information contained in current Permits to Operate, and the pending application. (ii) All emission increases, including associated fugitive emissions not previously offset, from the modification to emissions units installed before September 21, 1993, as determined by procedures specified in paragraph (d)(12) of this section. Any emissions increase represented by an Authority to Construct, which has been canceled by the EPA or has expired, shall not be included in the cumulative emissions increase calculation. (e) Fees. (1) The EPA will collect permit fees calculated in accordance with the fee requirements imposed in the district, not to exceed the costs to EPA to issue permits and administer the permit program. (2) If this section is delegated, the delegated agency will collect fees calculated in accordance with the fee requirements imposed in the district. Upon delegation of any portion of this section, the EPA will cease to collect fees imposed in conjunction with that portion. (f) Monitoring and records. The following records shall be maintained for five years and shall be provided to the EPA upon request. (1) Emergency electrical generating equipment. Records of operation for maintenance purposes, for actual interruptions of power. (2) Portable and temporary equipment. Records of operating location and corresponding dates of operation. ยง52.3002 Emissions reduction credit authorization (Sacramento). (a) Purpose. To provide an administrative mechanism for authorizing surplus emission reductions for transfer to other sources as offsets pursuant to ยง52.3001, New Source Review. Actual emission reductions certified in a district bank shall be reevaluated and authorized under the requirements and procedures specified in this section. (b) Applicability. This section shall apply to all emissions reduction credits which are to be used for offsets pursuant to ยง52.3001, New Source Review. (c) Standards. (1) Authorization. Only actual emission reductions shall become authorized ERCs. Such actual emission reductions shall meet the following requirements to be authorized as ERCs: (i) Be certified in accordance with a district banking rule except as provided in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. (ii) Receive written approval of the EPA, as described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. (iii) If the emission reduction is created from an emission unit where the demand for the services or product could shift to other similar sources in the district, submittal of data to document that such reductions will result in district-wide emission reductions may be required by the EPA. Such documentation must be approved by the EPA. (iv) Emissions reductions shall be prescribed by enforceable emission limitations contained in Authority to Construct permits.
