FR940503-2-00131 FR940503-2-00086 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20247; File No. 812&hyph;8872] IDS Life Insurance Company of New York, et al. April 25, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of Application for an Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: IDS Life Insurance Company of New York (``IDS Life of New York''), IDS Life of New York Accounts 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, and 11 (``Variable Accounts''), and IDS Financial Services Inc. RELVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the 1940 Act granting exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) thereof. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Variable Accounts under a group, fixed/variable annuity contract and related certificates to be issued in connection with retirement plans. FILING DATE: The application was filed on March 8, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on May 20, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: Mary Ellyn Minenko, Counsel, IDS Life Insurance Company, IDS Tower 10, Minneapolis, MN 55440. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Thomas Conner, Attorney, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management, at (202) 942&hyph;0670. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. IDS Life of New York is a stock life insurance company organized under the laws of New York and is a wholly owned subsidiary of IDS Life Insurance Company (``IDS Life'') of Minneapolis, Minnesota. IDS Life is a wholly owned subsidiary of IDS Financial Corporation, which, in turn, is a wholly owned subsidiary of the American Express Company. IDS Financial Services Inc. is the principal underwriter of the Variable Accounts and also is a subsidiary of IDS Financial Corporation. 2. Variable Accounts 4, 5, and 6 were established on November 12, 1981. Variable Account 9 was established on February 12, 1986. Variable Accounts 10 and 11 were established on October 8, 1991. All Variable Accounts were established as separate accounts under New York law to fund variable annuity contracts issued by IDS Life of New York. The Variable Accounts are registered together as a single unit investment trust under the 1940 Act. 3. IDS Life of New York proposes to issue and distribute a group deferred annuity contract (``Contract'') that is designed primarily to fund retirement plans. The owners of the group Contracts are the employers or other organizations that sponsor the plans. Participation in the Contract will be accounted for separately by the issuance of certificates showing the participants' interests under the Contract. Purchase payments may be accumulated before retirement on a variable and/or fixed basis, and annuity payments will be received after retirement on a variable and/or fixed basis. A registration statement on Form N&hyph;4 has been filed with the Commission in connection with the Contracts. 4. The Contracts provide for allocation of purchase payments to the Variable Accounts or to a fixed account of IDS Life of New York. The Variable Accounts, in turn, will invest solely in the shares of the IDS Life Retirement Annuity Mutual Funds (``Funds''). The Funds are registered with the Commission as diversified open-end management investment companies. 5. The Contracts and related certificates provide for certain charges. IDS Life of New York will make a charge against the certificate value for any premium taxes to the extent the taxes are payable. 6. IDS Life of New York will deduct an annual administrative charge of $30 from the value of each certificate. This annual administrative charge can not be increased and does not apply after retirement payments begin. The administrative charge represents reimbursement for only the actual administrative costs expected to be incurred over the life of the certificates. 7. No sales charge is collected or deducted at the time purchase payments are applied under the Contracts and related certificates. A contingent deferred sales charge (``surrender charge'') will be assessed on certain full or partial surrenders. A surrender charge applies if all or part of the certificate value is withdrawn within the first eleven certificate years. The surrender charge is 8 percent of the amount surrendered in the first through fourth certificate years, and then declines by 1 percent from 7 percent in the fifth certificate year to 1 percent in the eleventh certificate year. In no event will the aggregate surrender charges exceed 8.5 percent of purchase payments made to a certificate. The surrender charge can not be increased during the life of the Contracts and related certificates.
