FR941117-2-00038 FR941117-2-00033 GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION Finding of No Significant Impact; Proposed Federal Building_Courthouse, Central Islip, NY Description of Action The proposed action involves the construction and operation of a new Federal Building_Courthouse complex on a 29-acre site in Central Islip, Long Island, New York by the United States General Services Administration (GSA). The complex will be developed in two phases and will provide space for the Untied States Courts for the Eastern District of New York and other Federal agencies. The first phase of the development is scheduled for completion by 1998 and will contain approximately 900,000 gross square feet of floor area, with 450,000 occupiable square feet allocated to U.S. Courts and office space and 170,000 square feet (480 spaces) to covered parking. The second phase of the development, depending upon future needs, is anticipated to be completed between the years 2006 and 2011, and would consist of an additional building with a floor area of approximately 200,000 occupiable square feet. The site of the proposed development is the former grounds of the Central Islip State Psychiatric Hospital, located at exit 43A of the Southern State (Heckscher) Parkway on Long Island. The site is bounded by North Spur Drive to the south, Carleton Avenue to the west, the John P. Cohalan, Jr. County Courts Complex to the north, and the cemetery of the Central Islip State Psychiatric Hospital to the east. The site contains a pond and landscaped grounds associated with the recently completed County complex, as well as surface parking for the complex and a groundwater recharge basin. The site is owned by Suffolk County. Finding Pursuant to the provisions of GSA Order ADM P 100.2B and the Regulations issued by the Council on Environmental Quality, November 29, 1978, and based upon the Environmental Assessment and review of the air quality analysis conducted for the proposed action, the proposed action is not considered a major federal action significantly affecting the quality of human environment. Basis for Finding The findings are presented in the Environmental Assessment, entitled New Federal Building_Courthouse, Central Islip, New York, dated June 1994. Construction and operation of the proposed Federal Building_Courthouse Complex would result in less than significant impacts to the immediate project site and surrounding community. Less than significant adverse impacts would occur to utility services, traffic and transportation movements to and from the site, noise, and air quality. The General Services Administration reviewed the air quality analysis conducted for this project consistent with the requirements of 40 CFR Part 93: ``Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans (SIP)'', issued on November 30, 1993. This ruling seeks to conform federal actions, such as the construction of the Federal Building_Courthouse, to the purpose of the State Implementation Plan to reduce or eliminate violations of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. Criteria contained in 40 CFR Part 93 were applied to the air quality analysis for the proposed project to determine the need to conduct a conformity analysis for the proposed action. Suffolk County, in which the project is located, is in attainment with National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for carbon monoxide levels. Therefore, federal conformity criteria contained in the general conformity rule for this pollutant do not apply to the project. However, Suffolk County is in severe non-attainment with NAAQS for ozone levels, and conformity criteria for this pollutant therefore do apply. The air quality analysis conducted for the proposed action indicated that the combined predicted direct and indirect emissions for ozone precursors VOC's and NO X are 6.9 tons/year, and 16.1 tons/year, respectively. This is below the de minimus level of 25.0 tons/year for either pollutant, as identified in the general conformity rule 40 CFR Part 93. Since the proposed facility conforms with the allowed emissions limitations, no further conformity determination was deemed necessary. Beneficial impacts would be realized through the increased efficiency of the Federal justice system. Beneficial impacts upon the region's economy would also be realized by virtue of the construction and operating budgets associated with the Federal Building_Courthouse Complex. Cumulative and secondary impacts would be controlled, mitigated or avoided to the maximum extent possible. Dated: October 26, 1994. Recommended: William B. Jenkins, Assistant Regional Administrator, Region 2, Public Buildings Service, General Services Administration. Dated: October 26, 1994. Approved: Karen R. Adler, Regional Administrator, Region 2, General Services Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28434 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;23&hyph;M
