FR941104-2-00034 FR941104-2-00025 3. MCI requests authority to acquire by lease from Comsat and operate 150 64-kbps satellite circuits 3 between the Mount Jackson, Virginia earth station and an appropriate INTELSAT&hyph;AOR satellite, together with the necessary connecting facilities between the Mt. Jackson earth station and MCI's operating centers at Pottstown, Pennsylvania and San Antonio, Texas, for the provision of all of MCI's authorized services, including IMTS, between the United States and Cuba. 3 MCI states these circuits are bearer circuits with a compression ratio ability of 5:1, thereby allowing MCI to potentially derive as many as 750 circuits. 4. LDDS requests authority to acquire by lease from Comsat and operate 150 64-kbps satellite circuits between an appropriately authorized east coast earth station and an appropriate INTELSAT&hyph;AOR satellite for the provision of IMTS and private line services between the United States and Cuba. In an amendment to its application, LDDS also requests authority to use interchangeably the 150 circuits with the Intersputnik, or Columbia Communication Corporation (``Columbia'') satellites in addition to the INTELSAT satellites. 5. Sprint requests authority to acquire by lease from Comsat and operate 120 voice-grade satellite circuits 4 between the Orion international Standard A earth station located at Shenandoah, Virginia and the INTELSAT&hyph;AOR satellite at 335 ○ E.L., connecting with its operating center in New York, New York, by using its own facilities. Sprint proposes to use these facilities to furnish all of Sprint's authorized services, including IMTS, between the United States and Cuba. 4 Sprint initially requested 30 digital satellite circuits, but clarified its request in a letter to the Commission on October 3, 1994, stating that the circuits are equivalent to one E&hyph;1 circuit which, in turn, can derive 120 virtual voice-grade circuits. 6. IDB requests authority to acquire by lease from Comsat and operate 120 voice-grade satellite circuits 5 between an appropriately authorized international earth station in the United States and either an INTELSAT&hyph;AOR satellite or the Intersputnik satellite located at 14 ○ W.L. (``Statsionar 4''), together with the necessary connecting facilities between the earth station and an operating center in New York, New York, for the provision of IMTS between the United States and Cuba. 5 IDB states these are the number of circuits derived from one 2 Mbps channel (an E&hyph;1 circuit) operating at a compression ratio of 4:1. 7. All of the applicants state that they have reached an agreement with EMTELCUBA of Cuba, to provide the matching facilities from the satellite's mid-point to an earth station in Cuba. Initially, under the terms of the agreements, EMTELCUBA agreed with each applicant to a 50/50 split of a $1.20 per minute accounting rate for switched traffic, and a $4.85 surcharge per call for collect calls to be paid to the originating carrier. All of the applicants state that this rate is consistent with the U.S. Department of State's policy guidelines (``Policy Guidelines''). 6 They also state that they will initiate service within one year. 6 See Infra ¶10. 8. The applicants state that that public interest would be served by a grant of their applications because it will result in the rapid introduction of new lines of telecommunications between the United States and Cuba. They state that an immediate and large demand exists for direct telecommunications services between the United States and Cuba, and their proposed services will help meet that demand within the regulatory framework established by the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. §6002 et seq.). 9. AT&T filed a petition to deny against each of these applications stating that because of the $4.85 surcharge per call for collect calls, the applicants' accounting rate agreements with EMTELCUBA conflict with the International Settlements Policy (``ISP'') and with the directive of the Commission that U.S. carriers negotiate to achieve cost-based accounting rates with foreign administrations. 7 All of the applicants individually filed oppositions to AT&T's petition. They unanimously agreed that an ISP waiver under §64.1001 of the Commission's Rules is not required because AT&T's operating agreement with the Cuban administration expired nearly four years ago. Therefore, the applicants argue that because AT&T's operating agreement is no longer in force, their proposed arrangements do not depart from any current arrangements, and no ISP waiver is required. In addition, WilTel, MCI, and LDDS argue that the Policy Guidelines do not prohibit collect surcharges, and that the $4.85 surcharge per call is appropriate and not excessive for collect calls. 7 See Regulation of International Accounting Rates, 6 FCC Rcd 3552 (1991) (expansion of traditional focus of the ISP of preventing whipsawing to include the adverse effect of above-cost levels of accounting rates on U.S. carriers and consumers). Discussion
