FR940426-1-00058 FR940426-1-00006 §6.96 Consumer promotions. (a) Coupons. The act by an industry member of furnishing to consumers coupons which are redeemable at a retail establishment does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act, provided the following conditions are met: (1) Redemption of such coupons may not be limited to a particular retailer or group of retailers; and (2) An industry member may not reimburse a retailer for more than the face value of all coupons redeemed, plus a usual and customary handling fee for the redemption of coupons. * * * * * Par. 35. Section 6.97 is removed and reserved. Par. 36. Section 6.98 is revised to read as follows: §6.98 Advertising service. The listing of the names and addresses of two or more retailers selling the products of an industry member in an advertisement of that industry member does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act, provided: (a) The advertisement does not also contain the retail price of the product (except where the exclusive retailer in the jurisdiction is a State or local agency), and (b) The listing is the only reference to the retailers in the advertisement and is relatively inconspicuous in relation to the advertisement as a whole, and (c) The advertisement does not refer only to one retailer or only to retail establishments controlled directly or indirectly by the same retailer, except where the retailer is an agency of a State or a political subdivision of a State. Par 37. Section 6.99 is revised to read as follows: §6.99 Stocking, rotation, and pricing service. (a) General. Industry members may, at a retail establishment, stock, rotate and affix the price to distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages which they sell, provided products of other industry members are not altered or disturbed. The rearranging or resetting of all or part of a store or liquor department is not hereby authorized. (b) Shelf plan and shelf schematics. The act by an industry member of providing a recommended shelf plan or shelf schematic for distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act. Par 38. Section 6.100 is revised to read as follows: §6.100 Participation in retailer association activities. The following acts by an industry member participating in retailer association activities do not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act: (a) Displaying its products at a convention or trade show, (b) Renting display booth space if the rental fee is the same as paid by all exhibitors at the event, (c) Providing its own hospitality which is independent from association sponsored activities, (d) Purchasing tickets to functions and paying registration fees if the payments or fees are the same as paid by all exhibitors at the event, and (e) Making payments for advertisements in programs or brochures issued by retailer associations at a convention or trade show if the total payments made by an industry member for all such advertisements do not exceed $500 per year for any retailer association. Par. 39. Section 6.101 is revised to read as follows: §6.101 Merchandise. (a) General. The act by an industry member, who is also in business as a bona fide vendor of other merchandise (for example, groceries or pharmaceuticals), of selling that merchandise to a retailer does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act, provided: (1) The merchandise is sold at its fair market value, and (2) The merchandise is not sold in combination with distilled spirits, wines, or malt beverages, and (3) The industry member's acquisition costs of the merchandise appears on the industry member's purchase invoices or other records, and (4) Merchandise and distilled spirits, wines, or malt beverages sold in a single transaction are itemized separately on the same invoice covering the sales transaction. (b) Things of value covered in other sections of this part. The act by an industry member of providing equipment, fixtures, signs, glassware, supplies, services, and advertising specialties to retailers does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act only as provided in other sections within this part. Par. 40. A new §6.102 is added to subpart D to read as follows: §6.102 Outside signs. (a) The act by an industry member of furnishing outside signs to a retailer does not constitute a means to induce within the meaning of section 105(b)(3) of the Act provided that: (1) The retailer is not compensated, directly or indirectly such as through a sign company, for displaying the signs, and (2) The cost of the signs may not exceed $500. Par. 41. Part 6 is amended by adding a new subpart E to read as follows: Subpart E_Exclusion 6.151␣Exclusion, in general. 6.152␣Practices which put retailer independence at risk. 6.153␣Criteria for determining retailer independence.
