FR940705-2-00015 FR940705-2-00010 Proposed Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 125&hyph;2 (Supersedes FIPS PUB 125&hyph;1_1993 June 10) (date) Announcing the Standard for M (Also Known as MUMPS [MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL UTILITY MULTI-PROGRAMMING SYSTEM]) Federal Information Processing Standards Publications (FIPS PUBS) are issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) after approval by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to Section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended by the Computer Security Act of 1987, Public Law 100&hyph;235. 1. Name of Standard. M (also known as MUMPS [MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL UTILITY MULTI-PROGRAMMING SYSTEM]) (FIPS PUB 125&hyph;2). 2. Category of Standard. Software Standard, Programming Language. 3. Explanation. This publication announces the adoption of American National Standard for M, ANSI/MDC X11.1&hyph;199X, as a Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS). The American National Standard for M, ANSI/MDC X11.1&hyph;199X, specifies the form and establishes the interpretation of programs written in the M programming language. The purpose of the standard is to promote portability of M programs for use on a variety of data processing systems. The standard is for use by implementors as the reference authority in developing compilers, interpreters, or other forms of high level language processors; and by other computer professionals who need to know the precise syntactic and semantic rules adopted by ANSI. This publication is a revision of FIPS PUB 125&hyph;1 and supersedes that document in its entirety. 4. Approving Authority. Secretary of Commerce. 5. Maintenance Agency. U.S. Department of Commerce, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Computer Systems Laboratory (CSL). 6. Cross Index. American National Standard for Information System_Programming Language_M (also known as MUMPS [MASSACHUSETTS GENERAL HOSPITAL UTILITY MULTI-PROGRAMMING SYSTEM]), ANSI/MDC X11.1&hyph;199X. 7. Related Documents.* *Refers to most recent revision of FIPS PUBS. a. Federal Information Resources Management Regulations subpart 201&hyph;20.303, Standards, and subpart 201&hyph;39.1002, Federal Standards. b. FIPS PUB 29&hyph;3, Interpretation Procedures for Federal Information Processing Standards for Software. c. NBS Special Publication 500&hyph;117, Selection and Use of General-Purpose Programming Languages. d. NIST, Validated Products List, (republished quarterly). Available by subscription from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS). 8. Objectives. Federal standards for high level programming languages permit Federal departments and agencies to exercise more effective control over the production, management, and use of the Government's information resources. The primary objectives of Federal programming language standards are: _To encourage more effective utlilization and management of programmers by ensuring that programming skills acquired on one job are transportable to other jobs, thereby reducing the cost of programmer retraining. _To reduce the cost of program development by achieving the increased programmer productivity that is inherent in the use of high level programming languages; _To reduce the overall software costs by making it easier and less expensive to maintain programs and to transfer programs among different computer systems, including replacement systems; and _To protect the existing software assets of the Federal Government by ensuring to the maximal feasible extent that Federal programming language standards are technically sound and that subsequent revisions are compatible with the installed base. Government wide attainment of the above objectives depends upon the widespread availability and use of comprehensive and precise standard language specifications.
