FR941130-2-00101 FR941130-2-00066 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. IA&hyph;1454] Notice of Intention To Cancel Registrations of Certain Investment Advisers November 22, 1994. Notice is given that the Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``Commission'') intends to issue an order, pursuant to Section 203(h) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the ``Act''), cancelling the registrations of those investment advisers whose names appear in the attached Appendix. Section 203(h) provides, in pertinent part, that if the Commission finds that any person registered under Section 203, or who has pending an application for registration filed under that section, is no longer in existence, or is not engaged in business as an investment adviser, the Commission shall by order, cancel the registration of such person. Paragraph (b) of Rule 204&hyph;1, requires an investment adviser to file promptly an amendment to its application for registration (Form ADV) and when its address changes or when certain other information becomes inaccurate in a material manner. 1 The Commission has been sending all registrants a booklet of registration materials annually since 1987. Each booklet contains copies of Forms ADV, ADV&hyph;S, ADV&hyph;E and ADV&hyph;W. 2 These forms, when properly filed, are used to update the Commission's records. Since the 1990 mailing, the Commission has had correspondence for each of the registrants listed in the Appendix returned as ``undeliverable'' (addressee unknown, forwarding order expired, or no longer at this address) by the U.S. Postal Service. The Commission's records indicate that these registrants have not filed amendments to their registration, reflecting their current business and/or mailing addresses, as required by Rule 204&hyph;1(b). The Commission's records also indicate that many of these registrants have not made annual filings of Form ADV&hyph;S, as required by Rule 204&hyph;1(c). Accordingly, the Division of Investment Management believes that reasonable grounds exist for a finding that these registrants are no longer in existence or are no longer engaged in business as investment advisers. 1 Under Section 204 of the Act and Rule 204&hyph;1 thereunder, an investment adviser must also file an annual supplement (Form ADV&hyph;S) providing the Commission with certain information about its business activities. 2 Form ADV&hyph;E is used by accountants for certification of client funds and securities in the possession of an adviser. Form ADV&hyph;W is used to voluntarily withdraw from registration as an investment adviser. Notice is also given that any interested person may, by January 6, 1995, at 5:30 P.M., submit to the Commission in writing a request for a hearing on the cancellations, accompanied by a statement as to the nature of his interest, the reason for such request, and the issues, if any, of fact or law proposed to be controverted, and he may request that he be notified if the Commission should order a hearing thereon. Any such communication should be addressed: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. 20549. At any time after January 6, 1995, the Commission may issue an order cancelling any or all of the investment advisers listed in the Appendix, upon the basis of the information stated above, unless an order for a hearing on the cancellation shall be issued upon request or upon the Commission's own motion. Persons who requested a hearing, or to be advised as to whether a hearing is ordered, will receive any notices and orders issued in this matter, including the date of the hearing (if ordered) and any postponements thereof. For further information contact: Robert L. Lewis, Staff Accountant at (202) 942&hyph;0517 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Financial Analysis). For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Johnathan G. Katz, Secretary.
