FR940217-2-00121 FR940217-2-00067 Baltimore Gas and Electric Company; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact [Docket No. 50&hyph;318] The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission] is considering issuance of an exemption from certain requirements of 10 CFR part 50, appendix A, General Criterion 2, ``Design Bases For Protection Against Natural Phenomena,'' to Baltimore Gas and Electric Company (the licensee), for the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Unit No. 2, located at the licensee's site in Calvert County, Maryland. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed exemption would allow relief from General Design Criterion 2 (GDC&hyph;2) during the upgrading of the Unit 1 emergency diesel generator (EDG) No. 11. The proposed exemption will permit the temporary removal of a steel missile door which provides missile protection for the No. 11 EDG, which will be out-of-service to allow for modifications which will increase its load capacity, and also provides missile protection to portions of the support systems for EDGs Nos. 12 and 21. EDGs Nos. 12 and 21 are required to be operable to support the operation of Unit 2. The upgrading of the Unit 1 EDG will be performed during the upcoming Unit 1 refueling outage (RFO&hyph;11). RFO&hyph;11 is scheduled to commence on February 8, 1994, and be completed in early May 1994. The steel missile door will be required to be removed about four times during the outage. The licensee estimates that each of the removals will last for about 24 hours, which will result in a total removal time of about 100 hours during the scheduled 89 day RFO&hyph;11. Need for the Proposed Action The proposed temporary exemption is needed to permit the completion of highly desirable upgrades to the Unit 1 EDG No. 11 without requiring a dual unit shutdown. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The proposed exemption does not involve any measurable environmental impacts during normal operation of Unit 2 since the plant configuration is changed only minimally for short periods of time when the missile door will be removed and overall plant operation is not changed. The likelihood of tornado-generated or other high wind-generated missile damage during the time the exemption would be in effect and which could affect equipment required to be operable to avoid radiological impact is low. Also, the licensee indicates that the missile door will be installed whenever severe weather conditions arise. Thus, the proposed temporary exemption would not significantly affect the probability or consequences of potential reactor accidents and would not otherwise affect radiological plant effluents. Consequently, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological impacts associated with the proposed exemption. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed exemption involves features located entirely within the owner-controlled area defined in 10 CFR part 20. The EDG upgrade project activities do not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the staff concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed exemption. Alternatives to the Proposed Action The principal alternative to requesting the temporary exemption for implementation of the EDG upgrade would be to comply with the restrictive requirements of GDC&hyph;2. However, this alternative would not significantly enhance the protection of the environment, and would result in a significant loss of power generation since a dual unit outage would be required. Alternate Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the April 1973 Final Environmental Statement for the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff contacted the State of Maryland, Department of Natural Resources, regarding the environmental impact of this proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the staff concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment and has determined, therefore, not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. For further details with respect to this action, see the application dated December 17, 1993, as supplemented on February 4, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room located at Calvert County Library, Prince Frederick, Maryland 20678. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 10th day of February 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Robert A. Capra, Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3588 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
