FR940630-0-00092 FR940630-0-00036 Removal of Procurement Procedures Required of Housing Authorities (HAs) In addition to removal of the list of efforts that may be undertaken by recipients and contractors, the interim rule removes the provision in the proposed rule concerning procurement procedures that HAs were required to follow in implementing the section 3 contracting preference for each of the competitive procurement methods authorized in 24 CFR 85.36(d). As will be discussed in more detail later in this preamble, the Department has moved from a ``process'' oriented rule to a ``results'' oriented rule. That is, the Department is more concerned with the results of a recipient's efforts to comply with the section 3 preference requirements than with each specific effort undertaken to achieve those results. The procurement procedures set forth in the proposed rule are included in the appendix to the interim rule, and thus remain an option that HAs may use if they find these procedures helpful. Because of the removal of the required procurement procedures from the rule, the concerns and issues raised by several housing authority commenters about negotiation of best efforts before the award of a contract, and other issues that were specific to the procurement procedures set forth in the proposed rule are no longer relevant, and need not be addressed. However, the Department emphasizes that the removal of the procurement procedures from the text of the rule does not relieve recipients and contractors (regardless of the type of section 3 covered assistance involved, i.e., public or Indian housing assistance, community development assistance, etc.) of the responsibility to ensure that, to the greatest extent feasible, the procurement practices selected to award contracts provide for preference for section 3 business concerns. Retention of Tiers of Low-Income Persons and Business Concerns To Which Preference Is To Be Given A few commenters stated that the multi-tier preference categories for residents and business concerns create an overly complex system, and should be removed from the rule. The multi-tier preference categories are established by statute, and the regulation reflects the statutory requirement to provide preference for low-income persons and business concerns in the order set forth in the statute. In recruiting low- and very low-income persons, the Congress was very clear that in directing economic opportunities to low- and very low-income persons, recipients are to target first those low- and very low-income persons residing in public housing developments (when public and Indian housing assistance is involved) or those residing closest to the project (in the service area or neighborhood) for which the section 3 covered assistance is expended (when housing assistance and community development assistance are involved). In contrast to commenters requesting removal of the tiers of preference categories were commenters that sought to increase the numbers of preference categories. With respect to the preference categories for individuals, two commenters suggested dividing the tiers to provide preference first to very low-income persons in each of the categories provided by statute, followed by low-income persons. Other commenters suggested including preferences for welfare recipients, JTPA graduates, and women and minorities who are low- and very low-income persons before other low- and very low-income persons. With respect to the preference categories for business concerns, the commenters suggested providing preference for resident-owned businesses owned by women or minorities, or providing preference for resident-owned businesses outside the metropolitan area or non-metropolitan county before opening up competition to all businesses, when there are no eligible resident-owned businesses within the metropolitan area or non-metropolitan county. The statute provides no authority for the Department to adopt additional preference categories. Results Oriented Rule: The Establishment of Numerical Goals The interim rule provides for numerical hiring and contracting goals to demonstrate compliance with section 3. As discussed in this section, the numerical standards constitute a ``safe harbor'' for compliance with section 3 and are not absolute numerical requirements.
