FR941222-1-00044 FR941222-1-00008 Table II&hyph;4 1␣ 1WWT System 1Wastewater 1Sludge AAA 5 of 5 systems 4 of 4 samples 5 of 5 samples. AAOA 2 of 4 systems 3 of 3 samples 1 of 2 samples. AAOT 4 of 4 systems 1 of 4 samples 4 of 4 samples. Amides ( e.g ., AAA, AAOT, and AAOA) hydrolyze to form free acids and amine salts under acidic conditions. Measurements of pH values of process wastewaters at several pigment production facilities revealed that these acidic conditions are encountered frequently. The hydrolysis products for AAA, AAOT, and AAOA are aniline, 2-aminotoluene, and 2-methoxyaniline, respectively. The unreacted amide raw materials and the amines expected from hydrolysis of these amides both have been identified in untreated wastewaters and wastewater biological treatment sludges. Two sets of coeluting compounds were observed from the analysis of wastewater treatment sludge from the production of azo pigments. The first set of coeluting compounds produced one data point, shown in Table E1, for which the mass spectrum indicates the presence of 2-methoxyaniline, along with the potential presence of 2- and 4-aminoaniline (for a discussion of coeluting compounds and risk assessments conducted on these compounds, please refer to the section entitled ``Coeluting Compounds'' in Section II.D). 2-Methoxyaniline is expected as a contaminant in the wastewater treatment sludge from the facility that generated the sample because that facility manufactures azo pigments using acetoacet- o -anisidide (AAOA) as a raw material, and, as stated above, 2-methoxyaniline is an expected hydrolysis product of AAOA. In addition, the facility from which this sample was collected uses 2-aminoaniline as a reactant in the manufacture of azo dyes. For this wastestream, the Agency conducted the risk assessment for these coeluting compounds based on toxicity information for 2-methoxyaniline because this contaminant is expected to be present from azo pigment production. Since there currently is no HBL for 2-methoxyaniline, the Agency based the risk assessment on the toxicity of a surrogate compound. 2-Aminotoluene is a structural analog of 2-methoxyaniline and is being used as a toxicity surrogate. The resulting high-end individual cancer-risk level for 2-methoxyaniline was calculated to be 2E&hyph;3 for the on-site monofill management scenario. The second set of coeluting compounds consists of the two isomers 2- and 4-aminotoluene. The two isomers were detected in 3 out of 8 sludge samples from azo pigment manufacturing operations, and the combined concentration of the two compounds was quantified. The calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level, based on the toxicity of 2-aminotoluene, is 3E&hyph;5 for the on-site monofill management scenario. In addition to the substantial calculated risks ( i.e., exceeding 1E&hyph;4 for carcinogens) posed by raw materials used in azo pigment manufacturing and their break-down products, four additional contaminants were found in the wastestream at concentrations that are projected to pose very high risks (HQs of 1 or greater for non-carcinogens) through ingestion of contaminated ground water under plausible management in an on-site monofill. 1,3-Dinitrobenzene, nitrobenzene, and 2,4-dinitrophenol were found at concentrations that resulted in calculated high-end HQs of 7, 9, and 1 respectively. In addition to assessing the risks associated with the individual constituents found in the waste, the Agency considers the combined risk of constituents that co-exist in the wastestream. In the case of wastewater treatment sludges generated from the manufacture of azo pigments, all of the diazotization and coupling reactants and breakdown products previously discussed in this section ( i.e ., AAA, AAOT, AAOA, aniline, 2-aminotoluene, and 2-methoxyaniline) are assumed to co-exist in the wastestream. The reactants are used in numerous large-volume pigments which are manufactured on a frequent basis. Since this sludge is a commingled wastestream representing production from the entire plant, the constituents are likely to be present simultaneously in the waste. Therefore, the combined risk of these individual constituents, which is projected to be very high ( i.e., 8E&hyph;3 at the high end), also was considered in making this listing determination. In addition to the very high risks posed by the plausible management practice (a monofill), the calculated risks posed by the current management practice (a municipal landfill) are also high. The combined additive high-end risk for the reactants and breakdown products previously discussed in this section ( i.e., AAA, AAOT, AAOA, aniline, 2-aminotoluene, and 2-methoxyaniline) is projected to be 1E&hyph;4 for the municipal landfill management practice. Therefore, EPA concludes that even if the Agency considered current management and did not consider plausible management, this wastestream would present a substantial risk to human health and the environment, and should be listed as hazardous. Three additional constituents ( i.e ., aniline, 3,3 ’-dimethylbenzidine, and 2-aminotoluene) were found in the wastewater treatment sludge from azo pigment operations at concentrations that are projected to pose risks within the Agency's risk range of concern ( i.e ., 1E&hyph;4 to 1E&hyph;6 for carcinogens) using the on-site monofill management scenario. Four constituents ( i.e ., AAOA, AAOT, AAA, and the coeluting compounds 2-aminoaniline and 2-methoxyaniline) were found in this waste at concentrations that pose risks between 1E&hyph;4 and 1E&hyph;6 for carcinogens for the municipal landfill scenario. In addition, six constituents pose risks within this range of potential concern through indirect pathways. Based on an analysis of the risks associated with both current and plausible management practices, EPA is proposing to list wastewater treatment sludge from the production of azo pigments as a hazardous waste, designated as EPA Hazardous Waste Number K162. For the reasons stated above, the Agency is proposing to add the following constituents to Appendix VII to Part 261_Basis for Listing: Aniline, 2-aminoaniline, 4-aminoaniline, 2-methoxyaniline, 2-aminotoluene, 4-aminotoluene, acetoacet- o -anisidide, acetoacet- o -toluidide, acetoacetanilide, 1,3-dinitrobenzene, 3,3 ’-dimethylbenzidine, nitrobenzene, and 2,4-dinitrophenol. In addition, acetoacet- o -anisidide, acetoacet- o -toluidide, acetoacetanilide, 2-aminoaniline, 4-aminoaniline, 2- methoxyaniline, and 1,3-dinitrobenzene are proposed to be added to Appendix VIII to Part 261_Hazardous Constituents.
