FR940906-0-00014 FR940906-0-00011 Section III. Review of West Virginia's Submittal, subsection 5.B., 59 FR 29980. This section states that ``In addition to the continued use of lower RVP gasoline (7.8) .␣.␣.''. The 7.8 in this sentence should have read 9.0. This section further states that ``.␣.␣. emissions projections are dependent upon the implementation of the federal reformulated gasoline program.''. This statement is incorrect. West Virginia's maintenance plan did not commit to the use of or rely on credits from the federal reformulated gasoline program. Other specific requirements of the Parkersburg ozone nonattainment area redesignation request and associated maintenance plan and the rationale for EPA's proposed action are explained in the NPR and will not be restated here. All of the public comments received on the NPR were positive and in support of EPA's action to approve the redesignation request and maintenance plan. Final Action EPA is approving West Virginia's request to redesignate the Parkersburg moderate ozone nonattainment area from nonattainment to attainment because the agency has determined that the provisions of section 107(d)(3)(E) of the CAA for redesignation of nonattainment areas to attainment have been met. In addition, EPA is approving the ozone maintenance plan for the Parkersburg area as a revision to the West Virginia SIP because it meets the requirements of 175A. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any state implementation plan. Each request for revision to the state implementation plan shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. This action has been classified as a Table 3 action for signature by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from E.O. 12866 review. Under section 307(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act, petitions for judicial review of this action, to approve the maintenance plan for the Parkersburg area and to redesignate the Parkersburg ozone nonattainment area to attainment, must be filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit by November 7, 1994. Filing a petition for reconsideration by the Administrator of this final rule does not affect the finality of this rule for the purposes of judicial review nor does it extend the time within which a petition for judicial review may be filed, and shall not postpone the effectiveness of such rule or action. This action may not be challenged later in proceedings to enforce its requirements. (See section 307(b)(2).) List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hydrocarbons, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Ozone. 40 CFR Part 81 Air pollution control, National parks, Wilderness areas. Dated: August 10, 1994. W.T. Wisniewski, Acting Regional Administrator, Region III.
