FR940126-2-00108 FR940126-2-00055 Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine (Td) What You Need To Know Before You Get the Vaccine What Are Tetanus and Diphtheria? Td vaccine is named for 2 diseases: T etanus and d iphtheria. These diseases can lead to serious problems, even death. You can be protected from tetanus and diphtheria by the vaccine. These diseases are still found in our country, mostly because some people do not get enough doses of the vaccines. Tetanus, also called lockjaw, is caused by a germ that enters the body through a cut or wound. Tetanus causes serious, painful spasms of all muscles, ``locking'' of the jaw so the sick person cannot open his mouth or swallow, and death. Diphtheria is spread from person to person. It can cause a membrane to form in the nose, throat, or airway. Diphtheria can cause breathing problems, heart failure, or paralysis. Should Everyone Get the Td Vaccine? Td is made for people 7 years of age and older. If you had an allergic problem that required a medical visit right after any vaccine for tetanus or diphtheria (for example, DT, DTP, DTaP), talk to your doctor/nurse about the problem before getting Td. Tell your doctor/nurse if you: •Have signs of illness today. •Are pregnant or think you may be pregnant. When Should You Get the Td Vaccine? To be protected against tetanus and diphtheria, a Td dose is needed every 10 years all through life. Are There Risks With Td? The Td vaccine is the best way to protect yourself against these serious diseases. But there are risks with any medicine, including vaccines. There is a very small chance that serious problems, even death, could occur after getting vaccines. The risk from the vaccine is much smaller than the risk from the diseases. Most people who get Td will not have any problems at all. Some will have minor problems like soreness, redness, or swelling where the shot was given. Most persons 7 years of age and older have had doses of DTP, DTaP, and/or DT, and should be given Td only once every 10 years. If adults get this vaccine very often, they can have a lot of soreness and swelling where the shot was given. Very rarely, Td causes severe allergic problems or Guillain-Barré Syndrome (sudden weakness and numbness that may go on to paralysis). If a serious or unusual problem occurs after getting any vaccine, call a doctor or get the person to a doctor right away. What Is the Injury Compensation Program? The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program is a U.S. government program that gives compensation (payment) for some persons thought to be injured by vaccines. For facts about this program, call this toll-free number: 1&hyph;800&hyph;338&hyph;2382. If you believe that the person getting the vaccine had a serious problem because of the vaccine, tell the doctor/nurse or health department. Ask him or her to report the problem on a Vaccine Adverse Event Report form. If you want to report it yourself, you can get the form by calling this toll-free number: 1&hyph;800&hyph;822&hyph;7967. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Td 00/00/94 (Proposed) 42 U.S.C. 300aa&hyph;26 Dated: January 18, 1994. Walter R. Dowdle, Deputy Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1587 Filed 1&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;18&hyph;P
