FR940223-2-00188 FR940223-2-00098 (b) In the brief of any other participant, this part shall contain a concise statement of the position of the participant with respect to the issues. Part IV: Argument: This part shall consist of the argument, setting out concisely the points of law relating to the issues, with applicable citations to authorities and the panel record. Part V: Relief: This part shall consist of a concise statement precisely identifying the relief requested. (2) Paragraphs in Parts I to V of a brief may be numbered consecutively. (3) Authorities referred to in the briefs shall be included in an appendix, which shall be organized as follows: a table of contents, copies of all treaty and statutory references, references to regulations, cases primarily relied on in the briefs, set out alphabetically, all documents relied on from the panel record and all other materials relied on. Motions 44. (1) Motions, other than motions referred to in subrule 41(1)(c), may be considered at the discretion of the committee. (2) A committee may dispose of a motion based upon the pleadings filed on the motion. (3) A committee may hear oral argument in person or, subject to subrule 34(b), direct that a motion be heard by means of a telephone conference call with the participants. Part III_Conduct of Oral Proceedings 45. (1) The order of a committee on a motion referred to in subrule 41(1)(c) shall set out (a) that the proceedings shall not be held in camera ; or (b) that the proceedings shall be held in camera and (i) that all the participants shall keep confidential all information received with respect to the extraordinary challenge proceeding and shall use the information solely for the purposes of the proceeding, and (ii) which documents containing personal information the responsible Secretary shall serve under seal and on whom the documents shall be served. (2) The responsible Secretary shall not serve any documents containing personal information until the time period for withdrawal of any documents pursuant to subrule 41(2) has expired. 46. A committee may decide the procedures to be followed in the extraordinary challenge proceeding and may, for that purpose, hold a pre-hearing conference to determine such matters as the presentation of evidence and of oral argument. 47. The decision as to whether oral argument will be heard shall be in the discretion of the committee. Oral Proceedings in Camera 48. During that part of oral proceedings in which proprietary information or privileged information is presented, a committee shall not permit any person other than the following persons to be present: (a) the person presenting the proprietary information or privileged information; (b) a person who has been granted access to the proprietary information or privileged information under a Proprietary Information Access Order or an order of the panel or committee; (c) in the case of privileged information, a person as to whom the confidentiality of the privileged information has been waived; and (d) officials of, and counsel for, the investigating authority. Part IV_Responsibilities of the Secretary 49. The normal business hours of the Secretariat, during which the offices of the Secretariat shall be open to the public, shall be from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on each weekday other than (a) in the case of the Canadian Section of the Secretariat, legal holidays of that Section;
