FR940919-2-00041 FR940919-2-00032 2. If the petroleum contamination is from a petroleum fuel in which the source of contamination has not been identified, the groundwater shall be analyzed (using the recommended methods) for the following parameters as described in FAC Section 17.770.600(8)(c)1, of the PCCC, amended February 20, 1990, or the most current edition: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ a. Lead (EPA Method 239.2 or Standard Method 304). b. Priority Pollutant Volatile Organics (EPA Method 624). c. Priority Pollutant Extractable Organics (EPA Method 625). d. Non-Priority Pollutant Organics (with GC/MS Peaks greater than 10 ppb) (EPA Methods 624 and 625). D. Schedule of Compliance 1. The permittee shall achieve compliance with the effluent limitations specified for discharges in accordance with the following schedule: Permittees with Revoked Individual Permits: Operational level attained_Upon Receipt of Notification of Coverage New Dischargers: Operational level attained_Upon Commencement of Discharge 2. No later than fourteen (14) calendar days after any date identified in the above schedule of compliance the permittee shall submit either a report of progress or, in the case of specific actions being required by identified dates, a written notice of compliance or noncompliance. In the latter case, the notice shall include the cause of noncompliance, any remedial actions taken, and the probability of meeting the next scheduled requirement. Part II Standard Conditions for NPDES Permits Section A. General Conditions 1. Duty To Comply The permittee must comply with all conditions of this permit. Any permit noncompliance constitutes a violation of the Clean Water Act and is grounds for enforcement action; for permit termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification; or for denial of a permit renewal application. 2. Penalties for Violations of Permit Conditions Any person who violates a permit condition is subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $25,000 per day of such violation. Any person who willfully or negligently violates permit conditions is subject to a fine of up to $50,000 per day of violation, or by imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or both. Any person who knowingly violates permit conditions is subject to criminal penalties of $5,000 to 50,000 per day of violation, or imprisonment for not more than 3 years, or both. Also, any person who violates a permit condition may be assessed an administrative penalty not to exceed $10,000 per violation with the maximum not to exceed $125,000. [Ref: CFR 122.41(a)]. 3. Duty To Mitigate The permittee shall take all reasonable steps to minimize or prevent any discharge in violation of this permit which has a reasonable likelihood of adversely affecting human health or the environment. 4. Duty To Reapply Where EPA is the Permit Issuing Authority (PIA), the terms and conditions of this permit are automatically continued in accordance with 40 CFR 122.6, only where the permittee has submitted a timely and complete Notice of Intent 180 days prior to expiration of this permit, and the PIA is unable through no fault of the permittee to issue a new permit before the expiration date. 5. Permit Modification After notice and opportunity for a hearing, this permit may be modified, terminated, or revoked for cause (as described in 40 CFR 122.62 et seq.) including, but not limited to, the following: a. Violation of any terms or conditions of this permit; b. Obtaining this permit by misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully all relevant facts; c. A change in any conditions that requires either temporary interruption or elimination of the permitted discharge; or d. Information newly acquired by the Agency indicating the discharge poses a threat to human health or welfare. If the permittee believes that any past or planned activity would be cause for modification or revocation and reissuance under 40 CFR 122.62, the permittee must report such information to the Permit Issuing Authority. The submittal of a new application may be required of the permittee. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance, does not stay any permit condition. 6. Toxic Pollutants Notwithstanding Paragraph A&hyph;4, above, if a toxic effluent standard or prohibition (including any schedule of compliance specified in such effluent standard or prohibition) is established under Section 307(a) of the Act for a toxic pollutant which is present in the discharge and such standard or prohibition is more stringent than any limitation for such pollutant in this permit, this permit shall be modified or revoked and reissued to conform to the toxic effluent standard or prohibition and the permittee so notified. 7. Civil and Criminal Liability Except as provided in permit conditions on ``Bypassing'' Section B, Paragraph B&hyph;3, nothing in this permit shall be construed to relieve the permittee from civil or criminal penalties for noncompliance. 8. Oil and Hazardous Substance Liability Nothing in this permit shall be construed to preclude the institution of any legal action or relieve the permittee from any responsibilities, liabilities, or penalties to which the permittee is or may be subject under Section 311 of the Act.
