FR940527-1-00070 FR940527-1-00014 (3) Approval of SLMO labor market areas and the resulting proposed wage indices would be announced in the proposed rule. The proposed rule would include the wage index under the current labor market areas (including the effects of reclassification) and under the SLMO labor market areas. (4) Hospitals participating in the SLMO would be able to withdraw support for the SLMO during the 60-day comment period following publication of the proposed rule. If one or more hospitals withdraws support for a labor market area under the SLMO, the SLMO would not go into effect in the following fiscal year. To withdraw from the SLMO, the participating hospital would submit a letter to HCFA referencing the appropriate proposed rule and stating its participation in the SLMO labor market area is being withdrawn. (5) Absent any withdrawal of support for labor market areas under the SLMO, HCFA would announce labor market areas and wage indices under the SLMO in the prospective payment system final rule (published by September 1 of each year). (6) The labor market areas under the SLMO would be in effect for at least 1 Federal fiscal year following approval by HCFA. The SLMO labor market areas would be automatically renewed for following years unless a participating hospital informed HCFA in writing of its decision to withdraw. 5. Special Issues Affecting the SLMO We are considering the following policies that would address the effects of special situations on the SLMO concept. • New Hospitals_ If a new hospital is established in a SLMO labor market area after its approval, the wage index for the new hospital would be determined as it is under the current system for the remainder of the fiscal year. In order for the SLMO labor market area to be renewed for the following fiscal year, the new hospital would have to inform HCFA in writing of its support for the SLMO labor market area. • Ownership Changes and Hospital Mergers _If there is an ownership change or hospital merger during the period that the SLMO labor market area is in effect, the SLMO would remain in effect for the remainder of the fiscal year. In order for the SLMO labor market area to be renewed for the following fiscal year, the new ownership would have to inform HCFA in writing of its support for the SLMO labor market area. We will accept comments on the SLMO until August 31, 1994. These comments should be sent directly to: Lana Price, Director; Division of Hospital Payment Policy; 1&hyph;H&hyph;1 East Low Rise; 6325 Security Boulevard; Baltimore, Maryland 21207. Responses to these comments will appear in the FY 1996 prospective payment system proposed rule. I. Conclusion Since the inception of the prospective payment system, we have repeatedly solicited comments concerning how labor market areas used to construct the wage index should be defined. In recent years, we have also solicited comments concerning specific proposals to modify or replace our current use of MSAs. For example, we have offered for public comment the reclassification criteria used by the MGCRB and alternatives to the MSA-based system such as ProPAC's nearest neighbor proposal and the options outlined in the present rule. In essence, therefore, we have been engaged in a continuing dialogue with the public concerning whether it is appropriate to use MSAs to define labor market areas to construct the wage index. On June 30, 1993, the Office of Management and Budget announced the revised definitions for Metropolitan Areas (MA) to reflect the MA standards published on March 30, 1990, and the demographic data drawn from the 1990 Decennial Census. In that bulletin, OMB stated that in cases where an agency is publishing for comment a proposed regulation that would use the MA definitions for a nonstatistical purpose, the agency should seek public comment on the proposed use of the MA definitions. As indicated above, we are not proposing the options outlined in sections III G and H at this time. However, consistent with OMB's bulletin and as part of our continuing review of the definitions used to define labor market areas for wage index purposes, we are soliciting comments on the use of MSA definitions as incorporated in the options described in this document.
