FR940505-1-00198 FR940505-1-00012 The episodes selected for modeling included days on which ozone maxima occurred in the Interstate 80 and Interstate 50 corridors, downwind of Sacramento. While the observed ozone peaks were less than the design value of .16, they are high enough to meet EPA guidelines for episode selection, especially considering the excellent database available for analysis. They had features typical of urban ozone episodes, including temperatures exceeding 100 ○F, low winds, and a temperature inversion that tended to trap pollutants near the ground. Model performance statistics for a July 11&hyph;13, 1990 episode, while not outstanding, were within the performance goals set in EPA's Guideline. This episode's performance was judged adequate for determining emission reduction targets. A second episode, in August 1990, was strongly affected by upper air transport of pollutants into the area. For the FIP proposal, only the July episode is being used. At the time the FIP proposal had to be designed, there were unresolved questions about model performance for the August episode. In addition, this latter episode was dominated by transport of pollutants from outside the Sacramento area. Through an analysis of wind trajectories, a contractor to EPA determined that at various times transport could occur from the San Francisco Bay Area in the west, and also from the San Joaquin Valley in the south. Conclusions on what additional controls, if any, are needed in these upwind areas will not be available for some time. In order to proceed with FIP development while the complex transport questions are resolved, EPA elected to proceed using the locally-generated ozone episode. The State's additional work on the August episode and/or work on the SARMAP modeling project may indicate what, if any, additional controls are needed in Sacramento or its upwind areas, in time for the final FIP. Since it is possible that transport analyses using SARMAP for the Sacramento area will not be ready even by the time of the final FIP, EPA invites comment on how transport should be addressed. Using socioeconomic and VMT data from SACOG and other local planning agencies, an EPA contractor projected emissions to the year 1999. A series of ``across-the-board'' UAM simulations were then performed to determine an emission reduction target. This work showed that any of the combinations in the following table would result in attainment. Note that these are stated in terms of reductions from base-year 1990 levels, so that control measures would also have to make up for growth between 1990 and the attainment year, whether 1999 or 2005. Combinations of Emission Reductions for Sacramento Attainment 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ VOC 71% 67% 61% 51% 40% NO X 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% For the FIP proposal, anthropogenic emission reductions of 40 percent VOC and 30 percent NO X were chosen as least disruptive of current residential, commercial, and industrial practices. Stated differently, for ozone attainment, 1999 or 2005 Sacramento area VOC emissions must be no greater than 60 percent of 1990 levels, and Nox emissions must be no greater than 70 percent of 1990 levels. An additional simulation of interest involved the elimination of motor vehicle emissions. This translated to an ozone peak reduction about 5 percent greater than would be expected from an across-the-board reduction by the same amount of emissions. Thus the FIP may be somewhat conservative in assuring attainment, since it relies heavily on motor vehicle emission controls. This gives further assurance that the attainment demonstration method used will in fact result in attainment. (b) Ventura ozone. Ventura County has been classified as a ``Severe'' ozone nonattainment area. The design value for the years 1987&hyph;1989 is based on the 0.17 ppm maximum hourly value recorded at Simi Valley during that period. The FIP attainment demonstration modeling is based on air pollution episodes for which intensive field data were available through the 1984&hyph;1985 South Central Coast Cooperative Air Monitoring Project (SCCCAMP) field study. The SCCCAMP Exploratory Field Study consisted of intensive monitoring of meteorological and air quality variables over a geographical domain encompassing Ventura County as well as the southern half of Santa Barbara County. The study produced higher quality data than available through routine monitoring activities in the area, and thus provides a much more reliable basis for Urban Airshed Modeling (UAM) than more recent episode data. Two SCCCAMP episodes, September 5&hyph;7, 1984, and September 16&hyph;17, 1984, were selected from the period of the study. Both of these episodes have ozone concentration maxima near the area's current ozone design value. As a result, the age of this data should not detract from the validity of the modeling.
