FR940802-1-00007 FR940802-1-00001 If the product is unacceptable to consumers, they may choose to purchase used, traditional walkers. In this event, the percentage of incidents addressed by a larger diameter walker could be significantly less than 82 percent_at least for the period of time that used, traditional walkers are available. Wheel-Stop Mechanisms. One manufacturer is marketing a walker with a wheel-stop mechanism which retails for around $55. The consumer can use the wheel-stop mechanism to manually retract all eight wheels so that the walker is stationary. Another manufacturer marketed a walker with an automatic wheel-stop mechanism, which retailed for $60&hyph;$80. This product had the wheels arranged so that if one wheel passed over a step, a second wheel would retract, causing the base ring to drop, grip the floor surface, and restrict further mobility of the walker. This product was discontinued due to limited sales. Products with wheel-stop mechanisms provide all the utility and features of a traditional walker. The staff does not know how effective passive or automatically retracting wheels can be in addressing stair and step fall injuries. Walkers with Mobility Limited to a Confined Space. One manufacturer plans to introduce a new walker with limited mobility in September 1994. This product is expected to retail for $80&hyph;$90 initially, with a goal of lowering the retail price to $69 with a higher sales volume. With this walker, a child can walk, clockwise or counter-clockwise, around the circumference of a 36 inch stationary base. The child can also rotate the seat 360 ○. There is a patent pending on a walker with a pivot point and control arm that converts a traditional walker into a tethered walker. A child can travel in a circle, clockwise or counterclockwise, around the weighted central pivot point. The control arm can be adjusted to increase or decrease the circumference of the walker's path. Stationary Alternatives. A nonmobile product is being marketed that retails for around $50. This product has a 28-inch diameter saucer base and a seat that the child can bounce up and down and rotate 360 ○. Three legs can be lowered to stop the rocking motion. Another nonmobile product is marketed that retails for around $70. This product has a seat that the child can bounce up and down and rotate 360 ○. Theoretically, walkers with limited mobility or stationary alternative products could address almost all deaths and injuries associated with walkers. With restricted mobility, a child would not have access to stairs, steps, hot surfaces, uneven floor surfaces, or other hazards. However, mobility is a unique characteristic of a walker that is attractive to consumers and toddlers. Sales of traditional mobile walkers have always substantially exceeded sales of stationary products such as jumpers and bouncers. The staff does not know whether stationary alternative products or walkers with limited mobility can provide levels of stimulation comparable to mobile walkers. If such products are unacceptable to consumers, they may choose to purchase used traditional walkers. In this event, the percentage of incidents addressed could be significantly less than expected_at least for the period of time that used traditional walkers are available. 2. Labeling and instructions. Another alternative is labeling the product to warn against its hazards and providing information on the risks in the product's instructions. The Commission's staff is working with members of the ASTM Section for Infant Walkers to revise the current labeling on baby walkers. However, labeling and instructions alone are not likely to adequately reduce the risk and should be used in conjunction with product modifications, where possible. 3. Voluntary standards. As noted above, there is no voluntary standard in existence that would adequately reduce the risk of injury from stair falls in walkers. Even if a voluntary standard were developed, the Commission has no basis for concluding that the standard would be conformed with generally by walker manufacturers. H. Solicitation of Information and Comments This ANPR is the first step of a proceeding which could result in a mandatory performance, design, or labeling requirement for baby walkers that present an unreasonable risk of falling down stairs. All interested persons are invited to submit to the Commission their comments on any aspect of the alternatives discussed above. The Commission is interested in any information about the ability of stationary alternative products or walkers with limited mobility to provide levels of stimulation comparable to mobile walkers. In addition, in accordance with section 9(a) of the FHSA, the Commission solicits: (1) Written comments with respect to the risk of injury identified by the Commission, the regulatory alternatives being considered, and other possible alternatives for addressing the risk. (2) Any existing standard or portion of a standard which could be issued as a proposed regulation. (3) A statement of intention to modify or develop a voluntary standard to address the risk of injury discussed in this notice, along with a description of a plan (including a schedule) to do so.
