FR941110-0-00208 FR941110-0-00016 •The provision is beyond statutory authority and should be left to the States as to whether or not they wish to recover reimbursement from the facilities for noncompliant actions. A number of commenters asked that we amend this subsection to explicitly permit States to enter into agreements with facilities to repay Medicaid funds if deficiencies are not corrected according to the approved plan of correction. Other commenters suggested that we only hold a State liable for repayment of Federal Medicaid payments to a noncompliant facility if the facility remains out of compliance and the State has not made full use of available intermediate remedies. One commenter wanted us to broaden the rule used for Medicare (that is, that the facility agree to repay) to apply to Medicaid as well. Response: Absent a legislative change, we have limited choices when a State survey agency finds a facility out of substantial compliance with Federal requirements and alternative remedies only are the recommended enforcement response. For Medicare, we must obtain an agreement to repay from the facility or cease making payment to the facility. For Medicaid, we either obtain a repayment agreement from the State or stop Federal financial participation to the State for that facility. In addition, the State may terminate a NF. In response to the commenter who worried about the State's liability for up to six months of FFP, the Act does not prevent States from securing an agreement to repay from the facility before agreeing to repay monies to the Federal government. In fact, during the transition period between when the new nursing home requirements became effective and the effective date of the final survey process and enforcement rules, some States have obtained agreements to repay from facilities before signing agreements to repay to HCFA. However, we will not explicitly include in regulation that States are permitted to enter into repayment agreements with facilities, nor will we broaden the rule for Medicare to apply to Medicaid. The State has the discretion to determine whether repayment agreements between it and the Medicaid facilities would be beneficial. We also are not accepting the recommendation to only hold a State liable for the repayment of Federal funds if the State had not made full use of available alternative remedies. Accepting this recommendation would limit the Secretary's ability to implement the provisions of section 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act. Comment: One commenter suggested that we replace ``of the determination of noncompliance by'' with ``that the facility's provider agreement is terminated by'' at §488.432(b). Response: The amended language suggested by the commenter substantially alters the meaning of this section and, if accepted, would be contrary to the Act. Sections 1819(h)(2)(C) and 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act permit the Secretary to continue payments pending remediation if the State, for Medicaid, and the facility, for Medicare, meet certain criteria. If the State agency prefers alternative remedies rather than termination and the criteria of section 1819(h)(2)(C) and 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act are not met, the Secretary has no authority to make any payments to the facility from the ``effective date of the findings,'' that is, from the last day of the survey that found the facility was not in substantial compliance with the requirements of section 1819 (b), (c) or (d) or 1919 (b), (c) or (d) of the Act, or both. If termination of a facility's provider agreement is sought, payments continue until the effective date of termination, which may not be more than 6 months after the last day of the survey. Substituting ``that the facility's provider agreement is terminated by'' would permit more payments to the State or the facility than the Act allows. In fact, such a policy would be no different than pre-existing policies to stop Federal payments on the effective date of termination. For these reasons, we have not accepted this comment. Comment: One commenter pointed out that §488.432(c) allows continuation of payments for up to 6 months from the last day of survey. The commenter further stated that if HCFA intends that the government can decide to give a facility less than 6 months of continued payments, HCFA should specify clear criteria in the regulations to guide this decision. Because the proposed regulations do not contain any such criteria, the commenter suggests that we delete the words ``up to.'' Response: We are not accepting the commenter's suggestion, and we have not specified criteria as to when HCFA or the State would allow continued payments for less than 6 months. We do not want to in any way restrict HCFA's or the State's ability to decide, on a case-by-case basis, the optimal amount of time for continuation of payment for a particular facility. Comment: One commenter offered alternative language for §488.432(d) to insert ``substantially'' before ``correct.'' Response: We are accepting the spirit of the commenter's alternate language, and are revising redesignated §488.450 to say ``If the facility does not *␣*␣* achieve substantial compliance''.
