FR940628-1-00040 FR940628-1-00007 3. Areas With Operating I/M Programs_Continuing Operation With Upgrades. If an area chooses to upgrade the I/M program to meet the requirements of subpart S rather than to take advantage of the amendment proposed today, then a full SIP submission as specified in ยง51.372 of subpart S shall be made that addresses those requirements. In this case, a state can claim full MOBILE model credit for the implemented upgrade in the maintenance plan as of its effective date. 4. Areas With Operating I/M Programs_Discontinuing Operation. Areas which receive approval of the redesignation request may cease operation of the I/M program after this approval if and only if the following requirements are met. First, a modeling demonstration must be included in the maintenance plan which shows the standards can be maintained without the program, and second, the I/M program must be transferred by SIP revision to the contingency measures portion of the maintenance plan and implemented as a contingency measure in the event of a triggering condition. Emission reduction credit cannot be claimed in the maintenance plan if an I/M program is to cease operation. This proposal does not affect redesignation requests submitted for serious or worse ozone or carbon monoxide areas, moderate CO areas above 12.7 ppm, and for areas claiming full maintenance plan credits for an I/M program without supporting evidence of emission reduction credits. Those areas must meet all the requirements of subpart S. This is because section 182(c)(3) of the Act does not provide the flexibility granted under section 182(b)(4) and explicitly requires areas subject to the enhanced I/M requirement to submit a full I/M program including regulations and implementation requirements. Public Participation EPA desires full public participation in arriving at final decisions in this rulemaking action. EPA solicits comments on all aspects of today's proposal from all interested parties. Wherever applicable, full supporting data and detailed analysis should also be submitted to allow EPA to make maximum use of the comments. All comments should be directed to the Air Docket, Docket No. A&hyph;93&hyph;21. Paperwork Reduction Act Today's rule places no information collection or recordkeeping burden on respondents. Therefore, an information collection request has not been prepared and submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act U.S.C. 3501 et seq. Administrative Designation and Regulatory Analysis Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities and, therefore, not subject to the requirement of a Regulatory Impact Analysis. A small entity may include a small government entity or jurisdiction. A small government jurisdiction is defined as ``governments of cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school districts, or special districts, with a population of less than 50,000''. This certification is based on the fact that the I/M areas impacted by the rule do not meet the definition of a small government jurisdiction, that is, ``governments of cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school districts, or special districts, with a population of less than 50,000''. It has been determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review. This rule would only relieve states of some regulatory requirements, not add costs or otherwise adversely affect the economy. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 51 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Intergovernmental relations, Lead, Motor vehicle pollution, Nitrogen oxide, Ozone, Particulate matter, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Sulfur Oxides, Volatile organic compounds. Dated: June 10, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
