FR941021-0-00031 FR941021-0-00001 (vii) Encapsulant flow test. The cross-connect contact encapsulant shall drip no more than 0.5 gram when tested by the procedure described in paragraph (g)(2)(vi) of this section. (3) Mechanical requirements _(i) Vibration. A housing fully equipped with cross-connect modules shall be vibration tested in accordance with paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section. (ii) Test connector reliability. The test connectors supplied with housings intended for cross-connect modules shall successfully complete 100 successive connections as described in paragraphs (g)(3)(v) introductory text through (g)(3)(v)(B) of this section. (iii) Service cycle reliability. A combination of multiple insertions of jumper wires, vibration, and temperature cycling shall be performed on cross-connect modules. The multiple insertions on approximately 100 connections shall be accomplished by 300 operations consisting of insertion, removal and reinsertion of new jumper wire. Contact resistance shall be measured and the final insertion of jumper wire shall not be removed from the connectors but must be subjected to vibration testing in accordance with paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section and temperature cycled as indicated in Figure 3 in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section for a duration of 72 hours. After vibration and temperature cycling, the average change in contact resistance shall be no greater than 2 milliohms. (iv) Jumper wire pull-out resistance. Test modules that have received no prior conditioning shall be equipped with 100 38 cm (15 in.) jumper connections of the gauges recommended for use with the module using the insertion tool recommended by the cross-connect module manufacturer. With the test samples suitably supported, wires from each sample shall be pulled, one at a time, by a tensile machine at a cross-head speed of 6 centimeters per minute (cm/min) (2.4 inches per minute (in./min)). Wires shall be pulled both perpendicular and parallel to the plane of the cross-connect field and shall withstand a load of at least 1.1 kg (2.5 lb) before pulling out. (v) Cable conductor pull-out resistance. Test modules that have received no prior conditioning shall be equipped with 100 26, 24, and 22 AWG 38 cm (15 in.) cable conductors using the insertion tool recommended by the cross-connect module manufacturer. With the test samples suitably supported, conductors from each sample shall be pulled, one at a time, by a tensile machine at a cross-head speed of 6 cm/min (2.4 in./min). Wires shall be pulled both perpendicular and parallel to the plane of the face of the splice module and shall withstand a load of at least 1.1 kg (2.5 lb) before pulling out. (4) Electrical requirements _(i) Dielectric strength. A housing fully equipped with cross-connect modules shall be tested for dielectric strength in accordance with (g)(4) of this section. (ii) The dielectric strength of a contact within the cross- connect module to contacts on either side shall be tested. The module shall be tested in a dry environment with an ac power source capable of supplying 8 kv at a rate of increase of 500 volts per second, a circuit breaker to open at breakdown, and a voltmeter to record the breakdown potential. Cross-connect modules shall be prepared in accordance with industry accepted splicing techniques with leads trimmed to approximately 38 cm (15 in.). The dielectric strength of each contact to the contacts on either side shall have an average dielectric strength of approximately 5.0 kv. (5) Operational requirements _(i) Durability. In order to verify the durability requirements while minimizing the number of test housings required to complete the test program, the contacts selected for tests shall be separately identified and then checked to establish compliance after the various tests have been conducted. (ii) Twenty-five jumper connections shall be made on each of two contacts chosen at random from a representative sample in an assembled interface unit. After this test, these and surrounding contacts shall be inspected for damage such as cracks or chips in metal or plastic parts. Failure consists of structural damage, open circuits through the connector, or inability to pass the jumper wire pullout tests described in paragraph (i)(3)(iv) of this section. (iii) Select six contacts at random in a representative interface. On each of these contacts attach any test cord included with the unit as specified under normal use of that cord and then remove the test cord as follows. On sample 1, remove the cord normally ten times. On sample 2, remove the clip ten times by jerking the test leads straight out. In these and the remaining tests, do this without releasing any manual attachment mechanisms. On sample 3, remove ten times by jerking downward at 45 ○ from horizontal; sample 4, upward 45 ○ ten times; sample 5, left 45 ○ ten times; sample 6, right 45 ○ ten times. Check for opens and damage in the test cord, clips, and cross-connect modules. Failure consists of structural damage, open circuits through the connector, or inability of module to pass the test connector reliability, jumper wire pullout, and dielectric strength tests described in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii), (i)(3)(iv), and (i)(4)(ii) of this section.
