FR940706-0-00024 FR940706-0-00001 (g) Order of proceeding. Except as may be decided otherwise by the ALJ, FNS shall proceed first at the hearing. FNS has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the QC claim against the State agency for a QC error rate in excess of the tolerance level. The State agency will proceed second and must prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, the facts upon which it bases its appeal. (h) Evidence. (1) The testimony of witnesses at a hearing shall be on oath or affirmation and subject to cross-examination. (2) Upon a finding of cause, the ALJ may order that any witness be examined separately and apart from all other witnesses except those who may be parties to the appeal or whose presence is shown by a party to be essential to the presentation of the party's cause. (3) After a witness called by either party has testified on direct examination, any other party may request and obtain the production of any statement, or part thereof, of such witness in the possession of the opposing party which relates to the subject matter as to which the witness has testified. Such production shall be made according to the procedures and subject to the definitions and limitations prescribed in the Jencks Act (18 U.S.C. 3500). (4) Evidence which is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious, or which is not of the sort upon which responsible persons are accustomed to rely, shall be excluded by order of the ALJ insofar as practicable. (i) Inclusion in the record. At the oral hearing or as ordered by the ALJ, depositions to the extent deemed admissible, written interrogatories, written requests for admission and respective responses may be offered in evidence by the party at whose instance they were taken. If not offered by such party, they may be offered in whole or in part by any other party. If only part of a deposition, written interrogatory, written request for admission or response thereto is offered in evidence by a party, any other party may require that all of it, which is relevant to the part introduced, be offered, and any party may introduce any other parts. Such depositions, written interrogatories, written requests for admission and respective responses thereto shall be admissible in evidence subject to such objections as to relevancy, materiality or competency of the testimony as were noted at the time of their taking or are made at the time they are offered in evidence. (j) Objections. (1) If a party objects to the admission of any evidence or to the limitation of the scope of any examination or cross examination or to any other ruling by the ALJ, the party shall state briefly the grounds of such objection, whereupon an automatic exception will follow if the objection is overruled by the ALJ. (2) Only objections made before the ALJ may be subsequently relied upon on review by the Judicial Officer. (k) Exhibits. Four copies of each exhibit shall be filed with the ALJ. However, where there are more than two parties in the appeal, an additional copy shall be filed for each additional party. A true copy of an exhibit may be substituted for the original.
