FR941212-0-00116 FR941212-0-00019 §536.139 Effect of disciplinary action. Administrative action under Article 139 and this subpart is entirely separate and distinct from disciplinary action taken under other sections of the UCMJ or other administrative actions. Because action under Article 139 and this subpart requires independent findings on issues other than guilt or innocence, the mere fact that a soldier was convicted or acquitted of charges is not dispositive of a claim under Article 139. §536.140 Claims cognizable. Claims cognizable under Article 139, UCMJ, are limited to_ (a) Claims for property willfully damaged. Willful damage is damage which is inflicted intentionally, knowingly, and purposefully without justifiable excuse, as distinguished from damage caused inadvertently or thoughtlessly through simple or gross negligence. Damage, loss, or destruction of property caused by riotous, violent, or disorderly acts, or by acts of depredation, or through conduct showing reckless or wanton disregard of the property rights of others may be considered willful damage. (b) Claims for property wrongfully taken. A wrongful taking is any unauthorized taking or withholding of property, not involving the breach of a fiduciary or contractual relationship, with the intent to temporarily or permanently deprive the owner or person lawfully in possession of the property. Damage, loss, or destruction of property through larceny, forgery, embezzlement fraud, misappropriation, or similar offense may be considered wrongful taking. §536.141 Claims not cognizable. Claims not cognizable under this subpart and Article 139 include_ (a) Claims resulting from negligent acts. (b) Claims for personal injury or death. (c) Claims resulting from acts or omissions of military personnel acting within the scope of their employment. (d) Claims resulting from the conduct of Reserve component personnel who are not subject to the UCMJ at the time of the offense. (e) Subrogated claims, including claims by insurers. §536.142 Limitations on assessments. (a) Time Limitations. To be considered, a claim must be submitted within 90 days of the incident out of which the claim arose, unless the special court-martial convening authority (SPCMCA) acting on the claim determines that good cause has been shown for the delay. (b) Limitations on amount. If the General Court-Martial Convening Authority (GCMCA), or designee, acting on the claim determines that an assessment against a soldier in excess of $10,000 for a single incident is meritorious, he or she will assess the pay of that soldier in the amount of $10,000 and forward the claim to the Commander, USARCS with his or her recommendation as to the additional amount that should be assessed. (1) A SPCMCA has authority to approve a pay assessment not to exceed $5,000 on a single incident and deny a claim in any amount. (2) A GCMCA, or designee, has authority to approve a pay assessment in an amount not to exceed $10,000 on a single incident. (3) Only the Commander, USARCS, or designee, has authority to approve a pay assessment in an amount greater than $10,000 on a single incident. (c) Direct damages. Assessments are limited to direct damages for the loss or damage to property. Indirect, remote, or consequential damages may not be considered under this subpart. §536.143 Procedure. Area claims offices and claims processing offices with approval authority are responsible for publicizing the Article 139 program and maintaining a log for Article 139 claims presented in their areas (see DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 10&hyph;6). Area claims offices and claims processing offices with approval authority are required to monitor action taken on Article 139 claims and ensure that time requirements are met. If assessment action on a particular claim will be unduly delayed, the office may consider the claim under 31 U.S.C. 3721 and subpart K of this part if it is otherwise cognizable under that authority. The office will counsel the claimant to repay any overpayment if the Article 139 claim is later successful (see §516.163(d)(1). (a) Form if a claim and presentment. A claim must be presented by the claimant or his or her authorized agent orally or in writing. The claim must be reduced to writing, signed, and for a definite sum in U.S. dollars within 10 days after oral presentment. (See §536.20(d)(1)(i)) (b) Action upon receipt of a claim. Any officer receiving a claim will forward it within 2 working days to the SPCMCA over the soldier or soldiers against whom the claim is made. If the claim is made against soldiers under the jurisdiction of more than one such convening authority who are under the same general court-martial convening authority, the claim will be forwarded to that general court-martial convening authority, who will designate one SPCMCA to investigate and act on the claim as to all soldiers involved. If the claim is made against soldiers under the jurisdiction of more than one SPCMCA at different locations and not under the same general court-martial convening authority, the claim will be forwarded to the SPCMCA whose headquarters is closest to the situs of the incident, who will investigate and act on the claim as to all soldiers involved. If a claim is made against a member of one of the other Military Services, the claim will be forwarded to the commander of the nearest MACOM of that Service.
