FR940513-0-00025 FR940513-0-00004 (d) The Corporation may be represented by legal counsel. The debtor may represent himself or herself or may be represented by an individual of the debtor's choice and at the debtor's expense. (e) The hearing official shall issue a final written decision based on documentary evidence and, if applicable, information developed at an oral hearing. The written decision shall be issued as soon as practicable after the review but not later than 60 days after the date on which the request for review was received by the Corporation, unless the debtor requests a delay in the proceedings. A delay in the proceedings shall be granted if the hearing official determines, in his or her sole discretion, that there is good cause to grant the delay. If a delay is granted, the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the review was postponed. (f) Upon issuance of the written opinion, the Corporation shall promptly notify the debtor of the hearing official's decision. Said notification shall include a copy of the written decision issued by the hearing official pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section. ยง1408.11 Special review. (a) An employee subject to salary offset, under subpart C of this part, or a voluntary repayment agreement, may, at any time, request a special review by the Corporation of the amount of the salary offset or voluntary repayment, based on materially changed circumstances such as, but not limited to, catastrophic illness, divorce, death, or disability. (b) To determine whether an offset would prevent the employee from meeting essential subsistence expenses (costs incurred for food, housing, clothing, transportation, and medical care), the employee shall submit a detailed statement and supporting documents for the employee, his or her spouse, and dependents indicating: (1) Income from all sources; (2) Assets; (3) Liabilities; (4) Number of dependents; (5) Expenses for food, housing, clothing, and transportation; (6) Medical expenses; and (7) Exceptional expenses, if any. (c) If the employee requests a special review under this section, the employee shall file an alternative proposed offset or payment schedule and a statement, with supporting documents, showing why the current salary offset or payments result in an extreme financial hardship to the employee. (d) The Corporation shall evaluate the statement and supporting documents, and determine whether the original offset or repayment schedule imposes an undue financial hardship on the employee. The Corporation shall notify the employee in writing of such determination, including, if appropriate, a revised offset or payment schedule. ยง1408.12 Charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the Corporation shall: (1) Assess interest on unpaid claims; (2) Assess administrative costs incurred in processing and handling overdue claims; and (3) Assess penalty charges not to exceed 6 percent a year on any part of a debt more than 90 days past due. The imposition of charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties shall be made in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. (b)(1) Interest shall accrue from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the initial demand for payment or the Notice of Intent to Collect by either Administrative or Salary Offset if the amount of the claim is not paid within 30 days from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the initial demand or notice. (2) The 30-day period may be extended on a case-by-case basis if the Corporation reasonably determines that such action is appropriate. Interest shall only accrue on the principal of the claim and the interest rate shall remain fixed for the duration of the indebtedness, except, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, in cases where a debtor has defaulted on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, or if the Corporation reasonably determines that a higher rate is necessary to protect the interests of the United States. (c) If a debtor defaults on a repayment agreement and seeks to enter into a new agreement, the Corporation may assess a new interest rate on the unpaid claim. In addition, charges for interest, administrative costs, and penalties which accrued but were not collected under the original repayment agreement shall be added to the principal of the claim to be paid under the new repayment agreement. Interest shall accrue on the entire principal balance of the claim, as adjusted to reflect any increase resulting from the addition of these charges. (d) The Corporation may waive charges for interest, administrative costs, and/or penalties if it determines that: (1) The debtor is unable to pay any significant sum toward the claim within a reasonable period of time; (2) Collection of charges for interest, administrative costs, and/or penalties would jeopardize collection of the principal of the claim; (3) Collection of charges for interest, administrative costs, or penalties would be against equity and good conscience; or
