FR940722-0-00088 FR940722-0-00018 (g) Procedures for the procurement of property and services with FHWA planning and research funds by the STAs and their subrecipients shall be in accordance with 49 CFR 18.36(a) and, if applicable, 18.36(t). The STAs and their subrecipients shall not use FHWA funds for procurements from persons (as defined in 49 CFR 29.105) who have been debarred or suspended in accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR Part 29, subparts A through E. (h) The STAs shall follow State laws and procedures when awarding and administering subgrants to MPOs and local governments and shall ensure that the requirements of 49 CFR 18.37(a) have been satisfied. STAs shall have primary responsibility for administering FHWA planning and research funds passed through to subrecipients, for ensuring that such funds are expended for eligible activities, and for ensuring that the funds are administered in accordance with this part, 49 CFR Part 18, and applicable cost principles. (i) Recordkeeping and retention requirements shall be in accordance with 49 CFR 18.42. (j) The STAs and their subrecipients are subject to the provisions of 37 CFR Part 401 governing patents and inventions and shall include, or incorporate by reference, the standard patent rights clause at 37 CFR 401.14, except for ยง401.14(g), in all subgrants or contracts. In addition, STAs and their subrecipients shall include the following clause, suitably modified to identify the parties, in all subgrants or contracts, regardless of tier, for experimental, developmental or research work: ``The subgrantee or contractor will retain all rights provided for the State in this clause, and the State will not, as part of the consideration for awarding the subgrant or contract, obtain rights in the subgrantee's or contractor's subject inventions.'' (k) In accordance with the provisions of 49 CFR Part 29, subpart F, STAs shall certify to the FHWA that they will provide a drug free workplace. This requirement can be satisfied through the annual certification for the Federal-aid highway program. (l) The provisions of 49 CFR Part 20 regarding restrictions on influencing certain Federal activities are applicable to all tiers of recipients of FHWA planning and research funds. (m) The nondiscrimination provisions of 23 CFR Parts 200 and 230 and 49 CFR Part 21, with respect to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Civil Rights Restoration Act of 1987, apply to all programs and activities of recipients, subrecipients, and contractors receiving FHWA planning and research funds whether or not those programs or activities are federally funded. (n) The STAs shall administer the transportation planning and RD&T program(s) consistent with their overall efforts to implement section 1003(b) of the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991 (Pub. L. 102&hyph;240, 105 Stat. 1914) and 49 CFR Part 23 regarding disadvantaged business enterprises. (o) States and their subrecipients shall administer subgrants to universities, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations in accordance with the administrative requirements of OMB Circular A&hyph;110 as implemented by the U.S. DOT in 49 CFR Part 19, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations. (p) Reports and other documents prepared under FHWA planning and research funded grants or subgrants awarded after August 22, 1994, must be in metric units. Subpart B_Research, Development and Technology Transfer Program Management ยง420.201 Purpose and applicability. The purpose of this subpart is to implement the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 307 and to prescribe Federal assistance requirements for research, development, and technology transfer (RD&T) activities, programs, and studies undertaken by States with FHWA planning and research funds. The requirements of this subpart and subpart A of this part are applicable to work performed by the States and their subrecipients with FHWA planning and research funds. ยง420.203 Definitions. Unless otherwise specified in this part, the definitions in 23 U.S.C. 101(a) and Part 420, subpart A, are applicable to this subpart. As used in this subpart: Applied research means the study of phenomena relating to a specific known need in connection with the functional characteristics of a system; the primary purpose of this kind of research is to answer a question or solve a problem. Basic research means the study of phenomena whose specific application has not been identified; the primary purpose of this kind of research is to increase knowledge. Cooperatively funded study means an RD&T study or activity, administered by the FHWA, a lead State, or other agency, that is funded by some combination of a State's contribution of FHWA planning and research funds, FHWA administrative contract funds, 100 percent State funds, or funds from other Federal agencies. Development means the translation of basic or applied research results into prototype materials, devices, techniques, or procedures for the practical solution of a specific problem in transportation.
