FR940907-0-00021 FR940907-0-00009 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Los Angeles-Long Beach, 94&hyph;004] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Los Angeles Harbor-San Pedro Bay, CA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Interim final rule with request for comments. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a safety zone in two locations on the waters of San Pedro Bay, California. The event requiring establishment of this safety zone is the dredging and landfill activities associated with the Port of Los Angeles Pier 400 project. Duration of this project is estimated to be 33 months. There will be two separate safety zone locations covered by this rulemaking. The first location, the site of the future Pier 400, is to the east of the Los Angeles main channel, adjacent to Reservation Point. It encompasses anchorages B1&hyph;B3, B6&hyph;B8, C1&hyph;C3, and C7&hyph;C9. The second location is to the southwest of the main channel which will transform anchorages Al&hyph;A5 into a permanent shallow water habitat as a mitigation measure for the Pier 400 landfill project. Entry into, transit through, or anchoring within the safety zones by vessels other than those engaged in the construction of Pier 400 or the development of the shallow water habitat is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port. EFFECTIVE DATE: The safety zones will be effective at 12:01 a.m. PDT on September 6, 1994, and will remain in effect until canceled by the Captain of the Port Los Angeles-Long Beach, CA. Comments: Comments on this regulation must be received by November 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Commanding Officer, Coast Guard Marine Safety Office, 165 N. Pico Avenue, Long Beach, CA 90802. Comments received will be available for inspection and copying within the Port Safety Division at MSO Los Angeles-Long Beach. Normal office hours are between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Commander Mike Moore, Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Los Angeles-Long Beach, California; telephone (310) 980&hyph;4454. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking was not published for this regulation and it is being made effective in less than 30 days after Federal Register publication. Following normal rulemaking procedures could not be done in a timely fashion in that the Coast Guard was not approached concerning the necessity for implementation of a safety zone until later in the Pier 400 planning process. The actual stipulations of the safety zone were not finalized until a date fewer than 30 days prior to the start of the project. Although this regulation is published as an interim final rule without prior notice, an opportunity for public comment is nevertheless desirable to ensure the regulation is both reasonable and workable. Accordingly, persons wishing to comment may do so by submitting written comments to the office listed under ADDRESSES in this preamble. Those providing comments should identify the docket number (COTP Los Angeles-Long Beach, CA; 94&hyph;004) for the regulation and also include their name, address, and reason(s) for each comment presented. Persons wanting acknowledgement of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. Based upon the comments received, the scope of the regulation may be changed. Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are LCDR Chris Lockwood, project officer for the Captain of the Port, and Lieutenant Commander Craig Juckniess, project attorney, Eleventh Coast Guard District legal office. Discussion of Regulation The construction of the Pier 400 project is scheduled to begin on September 6, 1994. Safety zones are necessary to safeguard recreational and commercial craft from the dangers of the dredging and landfill activities in the area and to prevent interference with other vessels engaged in these operations. Persons and vessels are prohibited from entering into, transiting through, or anchoring within the safety zones unless authorized by the Captain of the Port Los Angeles-Long Beach, CA. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10(e) of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Only minor delays to mariners is foreseen as vessel traffic is routed around the construction areas. Collection of Information This regulation contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this regulation under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this regulation does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Enviromental Assessment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this regulation and concluded that under section 2.B.2. of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B it will have no significant environmental impact and it is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Waterways.
