FR940802-1-00005 FR940802-1-00001 In order to find out more about how baby walker injuries are occurring, the Commission's staff is identifying a sample of 300&hyph;400 cases through NEISS for the period beginning August 15, 1993, with data collection to continue through September 1994. These cases are being followed up by telephone to obtain additional information about the incident. In addition, incidents involving falls down stairs or steps, and other incidents where more detail is needed, are being assigned for on-site investigations. The data collected through February 1994 have been analyzed and are discussed below. Of the baby walker incidents reported through NEISS between August 15, 1993, and February 1994, 79 percent were falls down stairs or between levels. About half of the stair fall incidents involved a fall down basement stairs. About 3 percent of the incidents were due to walker tipovers, 3 percent to burns, and 15 percent to other hazard patterns (for instance, babies hitting their heads on walker trays, climbing on walkers, etc.). In about 10 percent of all baby walker incidents, another child appeared to be directly involved in causing the accident. In stair fall incidents, approximately 5 percent involved other children. The ages of the children injured ranged from 4 months to 2 years, with a median age of 8 months. About 95 percent of the victims were 15 months of age or younger. Severity of injury. The majority of children involved in baby walker incidents (75 percent) received injuries classified as ``less severe,'' even though the head and face were often the injured body parts. Less severe injuries include lacerations, contusions, abrasions, hematomas, dental injuries, punctures, and strains or sprains. About one-fourth of the children (23 percent) received injuries classified as potentially ``more severe,'' such as concussions, burns, fractures, and internal organ injuries. Incidents that resulted in severe injuries occurred even when parents were in the same room or area as the child in the walker. The majority of potentially severe injuries were head injuries resulting from children in walkers falling down a flight of basement stairs onto either a covered or uncovered cement floor. The remaining potentially severe injuries were burns and limb fractures. The injuries were of varying severity, ranging from children who were treated and released to injuries that resulted in hospitalizations up to 7 days. At the time of the telephone investigations, all of the 128 parents contacted through February 1994 reported that the children had ``fully recovered.'' In 1991, the proportion of ``more severe'' to ``less severe'' injuries related to walkers was similar to that of cribs, high chairs, playpens, and changing tables. There was a significantly higher proportion of ``more severe'' injuries related to baby walkers than to strollers and carriages. During 1991, 7 percent of the children involved in walker- related incidents were hospitalized for observation or more extensive treatment. There were no significant differences between the proportions of hospitalizations to non- hospitalizations for baby walkers and cribs, high chairs, playpens, and changing tables. There was a significantly higher proportion of hospitalizations related to baby walkers than for strollers and carriages. The mechanism of general stair-related injuries differs in some respects from the mechanism of stair-related injuries involving baby walkers. Falls down stairs without walkers involve a series of impacts; an initial mild to severe impact, followed by a series of mild impacts (tumbling). The bouncing of a walker down steps, however, may result in an initial backward thrust of the head as the walker descends down the steps followed by a forward head thrust. One author suggests that ``[s]uch a sequence could add additional impact energy and thus more severe injury.'' (DiMario F: Chronic Subdural Hematoma_Another Babywalker-Stairs Related Injury. Clinical Pediatrics 1990; 29:405&hyph;8.) E. Other Factors Related to Baby Walker Incidents Step falls and doorway width. For the stair or step fall incidents, 82 percent of the respondents who agreed to take measurements reported the width of the narrowest dimension of the opening at the top of the stairs or step as 36 inches or less (approximately the size of a normal door opening). Supervision of the Child and Precautions Taken. At the time of the incident, about half of the caregivers were in the same room or area as the child in the walker. For those caregivers who were in the same room or area with the child when the incident happened, 43 percent reported that they witnessed the incident. Some parents who did not witness the incident said they had looked away momentarily or were distracted by another child when the incident occurred. In some incidents where the caregivers were in another room or area than the child in the walker at the time of the incident, the child was in the caregiver's view. Over half of the respondents (61 percent) for the stair and step fall incidents reported a closed door, gate, or some other barrier in use prior to, or around, the time of walker use (doors-78 percent, gates-16 percent, other barriers-6 percent.) In 90 percent of the stair and step fall incidents where a barrier was in use, the door, gate, or other barrier had been moved, left ajar, or not latched properly. Seven percent of the respondents for these incidents who reported a gate in use suggested that the gate may have failed; this was reported solely as ``the walker pushed the gate open.'' Other stair and step fall incidents included cases where children bypassed a barrier or safety precaution or moved too quickly for a nearby adult to prevent the incident. Ten percent of the respondents reported a baby walker incident prior to the incident in the study. Three percent reported a previous stair fall incident. Seventy-six percent of the respondents reported using the walker again after an injury occurred, including over half of those whose child was diagnosed as having a potentially serious injury. For the stair fall incidents where the walker was still available, 57 percent of the respondents who agreed to look for labeling information reported a label with a stair warning.
