FR941110-0-00202 FR941110-0-00016 While we see the desirability of being able to pursue only alternative remedies in many cases of facility noncompliance, the fact is that section 1919(h)(7) of the Act offers the availability of alternative remedies when coupled with an action to terminate a provider agreement when there would be no repayment consequences for either the facility or the State. In these cases, when HCFA agrees with the State's assessment that a provider agreement termination should be sought, the State's timing for the termination controls. If the State opts for one or more alternative remedies in addition to termination, those remedies would be applied unless the Secretary chooses to impose an alternative remedy. When both the State and the Secretary choose to impose one or more alternative remedies, section 1919(h)(7)(B)(ii) of the Act specifies that only the Secretary's remedies are imposed. As already discussed, when the State's decision to terminate the provider agreement as well as impose alternative remedies prevails, we do not believe the rules of section 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act would govern the imposition of the alternative remedy. Thus, where a SNF's or NF's deficiencies do not pose an immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety, HCFA or the State may opt for a ``slow-track'' termination and apply one or more alternative remedies in the interim period. Should the facility achieve substantial compliance before the effective date of the termination, as we would expect to occur in almost every case, the termination action would be rescinded. Should the facility fail to correct deficiencies by the effective date of the termination, the termination would proceed, but neither the State nor the facility would be liable to us for a repayment of funds for the time following the identification of deficiencies. While we are not suggesting that States or HCFA make a decision to terminate a provider agreement in all cases where facility deficiencies have been identified, we believe it is important that States, and all others affected by these provisions, be clear as to the consequences of using the various provisions of the Act. We have concluded that the approach we have described above can be applied to SNFs as well as to NFs and dually- participating facilities. When we have identified deficiencies for SNFs and seek provider agreement termination in accordance with section 1866(b) of the Act, we would not be seeking only an alternative remedy. In such cases, we believe the rules of section 1819(h)(2)(C) would not apply since the State's recommendation is for a termination and alternative remedies. We believe proceeding in the fashion we have described relative to all nursing homes may strike the kind of balance that the Congress was seeking through its placing of alternative remedies in greater prominence than had been the case before nursing home reform. Most importantly, nursing home residents would be protected, because the facilities in which they reside would have every incentive to comply quickly in order to have alternative remedies lifted. With that incentive, residents would face the unsatisfactory care that gave rise to the enforcement action for only short periods of time without facing the specter of relocating were termination the first remedy of choice. Second, States would have considerably more flexibility to impose alternative remedies knowing that neither they nor the facility will be liable to us for the repayment of funds should a facility, in fact, fail to achieve substantial compliance by the time that the termination action is effective. Of course, the mandatory denial of payment which the State or the Secretary is required to impose after the third month of noncompliance would not require the State for Medicaid or the facility for Medicare to sign an agreement to repay Federal funds if substantial compliance is not achieved. Comment: One commenter believed that the continuation of payments pending remediation provision should only be applied in situations where the Secretary and the State disagree about whether to terminate and the Secretary believes that termination should occur but the State believes that the facility can correct the problems. The commenter states:
