FR940426-1-00011 FR940426-1-00003 (v) Offset Credit Value_Dollar value credits awarded by international customer's offset agency including any intangible factors/multipliers. (vi) Actual Offset Value_ Dollar value of the offset transaction without multipliers/intangible factors. (vii) Description of Offset Product/Service_Short description of the type of offset (e.g., coproduction, technology transfer, subcontract activity, training, purchase, cash payment, etc.). (viii) Broad Industry Category_Broad classification of the industry in which the offset transaction was fulfilled (e.g., aerospace, electronics, chemicals, industrial machinery, textiles, etc.). (ix) Direct or Indirect Offset_Specify whether the offset transaction was a direct offset (defined as any product or service directly related to the defense systems procured/sold) or indirect (any other transactions). (x) Name of Country in Which Offset Was Fulfilled_United States, purchasing country, or third country. (2) Offset transactions of the same type (same fulfilling entity, receiving entity, and offset product/service) completed during the same reporting period may be combined. (e) Reporting on offset agreements entered into. (1) In addition to the itemized list of offset transactions completed during the year as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, U.S. firms should provide information regarding new offset agreements entered into during the year, including the following elements: (i) Name of Country_Country of entity purchasing the weapon system, defense item, or service subject to offset; (ii) Name or Description of Weapon System, Defense Item, or Service Subject to Offset; (iii) Names/Titles of Signatories to the Offset Agreement; (iv) Value of Export Sale Subject to Offset (approximate); (v) Total Value of the Offset Agreement; (vi) Term of Offset Agreement (months); (vii) Description of Performance Measures_(e.g., ``Best Efforts,'' Liquidated Damages, (describe)). (2) For the first reporting period only, U.S. firms will be asked to provide this information for all offset agreements currently in the fulfillment process (i.e., those with uncompleted offset obligations). ยง701.5 Confidentiality. (a) As provided by section 309(c) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, BXA shall not publicly disclose the information it receives pursuant to this part, unless the firm furnishing the information subsequently specifically authorizes public disclosure. (b) Public disclosure must be authorized in writing by an official of the firm competent to make such an authorization. (c) Nothing in this part shall prevent the use of data aggregated from information provided pursuant to this part in the summary report to the Congress described in ยง701.1. Dated: April 20, 1994. Sue E. Eckert, Assistant Secretary for Export Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9994 Filed 4&hyph;21&hyph;94; 11:52 am] BILLING CODE 351&hyph;DT&hyph;P
