FR940106-0-00059 FR940106-0-00018 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FMP requires that fishery specifications for groundfish be evaluated each calendar year, that harvest guidelines or quotas be specified for species or species groups in need of additional protection, and that management measures designed to achieve the harvest guidelines or quotas be published in the Federal Register and implemented by January 1, the beginning of the next fishing year. These final fishery specifications and management measures have been recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) for implementation on January 1, 1994. The ABCs and harvest guidelines announced herein are the basis for the management measures recommended for 1994, and may be modified during the year as provided in the FMP. Unless otherwise specified, all of the management measures announced in this notice are considered ``routine,'' and have been so designated at 50 CFR 663.23. The exception is trip limits in the open-access fisheries for groundfish caught incidentally in nongroundfish gear (such as trawl gear used to fish for pink shrimp, spot or ridgeback prawns, California halibut, or sea cucumbers). These trip limits will be designated ``routine'' in a separate Federal Register notice so that they may be adjusted as necessary. The FMP provides for announcement of the final fishery specifications in the Federal Register after consideration at two Council meetings. The process for adopting ABCs and harvest guidelines for 1994 was initiated early in 1993 so that preliminary specifications could be adopted by the Council at its September 1993 meeting. New stock assessments, the basis for changes to the 1993 ABCs, were distributed to the public prior to the September Council meeting. The Council's scientific and industry advisory committees and the public reviewed and commented on the documents. After receiving comments, the Council adopted preliminary ABCs and harvest guidelines at its September meeting, which were subsequently made available to the public. Comments were requested before and at the November Council meeting. The final recommendations of harvest specifications and management measures designed to achieve those specifications, adopted at the November Council meeting, were forwarded to the Secretary for implementation by January 1, 1994. I. Final Specifications: ABCs and Harvest Guidelines, or; Apportionments to Foreign and Joint Venture Fisheries; Open-Access and Limited-Entry Allocations The fishery specifications include ABCs, the designation of harvest guidelines or quotas for species that need individual management, the apportionment of the harvest guidelines or quotas between domestic and foreign fisheries, and subsequent allocation between the open-access and limited-entry segments of the fishery. The final 1994 specifications (except for DAP, DAH, JVP, and TALFF) are listed in Table 1, followed by a discussion of each specification that differs from 1993 levels. As in the past, these specifications include fish caught in state ocean waters (0&hyph;3 nautical miles offshore) as well as fish caught in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) (3&hyph;200 nautical miles offshore). BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;M E:FRFMER06JA94.011 E:FRFMER06JA94.012 BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;C
