FR941003-0-00022 FR941003-0-00005 (C) Mutual consent. If the Agency and the allocation recipient cancel an allocation of an amount of credit by mutual consent, that amount of credit is returned. (D) Amount not necessary for financial feasibility. If an Agency determines under section 42(m)(2) that an amount of credit allocated to a project is not necessary for the financial feasibility of the project and its viability as a qualified low-income housing project throughout the credit period, that amount of credit is returned. (3) Manner of returning credit_( i) Taxpayer notification. After an Agency determines that a building or project no longer qualifies under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(A), (B), or (D) of this section for all or part of the allocation it received, the Agency must provide written notification to the allocation recipient, or its successor in interest, that all or part of the allocation is no longer valid. The notification must also state the amount of the allocation that is no longer valid. The date of the notification is the date the credit is returned to the Agency. If an allocation is cancelled by mutual consent under paragraph (d)(2)(iv)(C) of this section, there must be a written agreement signed by the Agency, and the allocation recipient, or its successor in interest, indicating the amount of the allocation that is returned to the Agency. The effective date of the agreement is the date the credit is returned to the Agency. (ii) Internal Revenue Service notification. If a credit is returned within 180 days following the close of the first taxable year of a building's credit period as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, and a Form 8609, Low-Income Housing Credit Allocation Certification, has been issued for the building, the Agency must notify the Internal Revenue Service that the credit has been returned. If only part of the credit has been returned, this notification requirement is satisfied when the Agency attaches to an amended Form 8610, Annual Low- Income Housing Credit Agencies Report, the original of an amended Form 8609 reflecting the correct amount of credit attributed to the building together with an explanation for the filing of the amended Forms. The Agency must send a copy of the amended Form 8609 to the taxpayer that owns the building. If the building is not issued an amended Form 8609 because all of the credit allocated to the building is returned, notification to the Internal Revenue Service is satisfied by following the requirements prescribed in ยง1.42&hyph;5(e)(3) for filing a Form 8823, Low-Income Housing Credit Agencies Report of Noncompliance. (e) The national pool component. The national pool component of the State housing credit ceiling of a State for any calendar year is the portion of the National Pool allocated to the State by the Secretary for the calendar year. The national pool component for any calendar year is zero unless a State is a qualified State. (See paragraph (i) of this section for rules regarding the National Pool and the description of a qualified State.) Credit from the national pool component of a State housing credit ceiling must be allocated prior to the close of the calendar year or the credit expires and cannot be reallocated by any Agency. A national pool component credit that is allocated during a calendar year and returned after the close of the calendar year may qualify as part of the returned credit component of the State housing credit ceiling for the calendar year that the credit is returned. (f) When the State housing credit ceiling is determined. For purposes of accounting for the State housing credit ceiling on Form 8610 and for purposes of determining the set-aside apportionment for projects involving qualified nonprofit organizations described in section 42(h)(5) and ยง1.42&hyph;1T(c)(5), the State housing credit ceiling for any calendar year is determined at the close of the calendar year. (g) Stacking order. Under section 42(h)(3)(C), credit is treated as allocated from the various components of the State housing credit ceiling in the following order. The first credit allocated for any calendar year is treated as credit from the sum of the population and returned credit components of the State housing credit ceiling. Once all of the credit in these components has been allocated, the next credit allocated is treated as credit from the unused carryforward component of the State housing credit ceiling. Finally, after all of the credit from the population component, returned credit component, and unused carryforward component has been allocated, any further credit allocated is treated as credit from the national pool component.
