FR941007-1-00129 FR941007-1-00009 (c) Purposes . The purposes of this part are to implement the community reinvestment obligation of insured state nonmember banks; to explain how the FDIC assesses the performance of state nonmember banks in satisfying the community reinvestment obligation; and to describe how that performance is taken into account in certain applications. (d) Scope _(1) General . This part applies to all insured state nonmember banks that are in the business of extending credit to the public, including wholesale or limited purpose banks, as defined in ยง345.12 of this part. (2) Certain special purpose banks . This part does not apply to a bankers bank that engages exclusively in providing services for other depository institutions and for their officers, directors and employees, or to other special purpose banks described in ยง345.100 of this part. (3) Insured State branches . This part applies to ``insured State branches,'' which are branches of a foreign bank established and operating under the laws of any State, the deposits of which are insured in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. References in this part to ``main office'' mean, in the case of insured state branches, the principal branch within the United States. The term ``branch'' or ``branches'' refers to any insured State branch or branches located within the United States. The ``service area'' of an insured State branch refers to the community or communities located within the United States served by the branch as described in ยง345.41 of this part. ยง345.12 Definitions. For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply: (a) Affiliate means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company. For purposes of this part, the term ``control'' has the meaning given to that term in 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2), and a company is under common control with another company if both companies are directly or indirectly controlled by the same company. (b) Area median income means the median family income for the MSA in which a person or geography is located or, in the case of a person or geography located outside an MSA, the higher of the county median family income or the statewide nonmetropolitan median family income. (c) Remote Service Facility (RSF) means an automated, unstaffed banking facility with a fixed site owned or operated by or operated exclusively for the bank, such as an automated teller machine, cash dispensing machine, point-of-sale terminal, or other remote electronic facility where deposits are received, checks paid, or money lent. (d) Bank means a state nonmember bank as that term is defined in section 3(e)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (FDIA) (12 U.S.C. 1813(e)(2)). (e) Branch means a staffed banking facility (shared or unshared) licensed as a branch with a fixed site at which deposits are received, checks paid, or money lent, including a mini-branch in a grocery store or a branch operated in conjunction with any other local business or nonprofit organization. The term ``branch'' only includes a ``domestic branch'' as that term is defined in section 3(o) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(o)). (f) Community development loan means a loan (including a line of credit, commitment, or letter of credit) that addresses affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs not being met by the private market; provided the loan: (1) Primarily benefits low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program;
