FR940831-0-00049 FR940831-0-00015 (c) Requirements concerning the misinformation. We apply the following requirements for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section. (1) The misinformation must have been provided to you by one of our employees while he or she was acting in his or her official capacity as our employee. For purposes of this section, an employee includes an officer of SSA. (2) Misinformation is information which we consider to be incorrect, misleading, or incomplete in view of the facts which you gave to the employee, or of which the employee was aware or should have been aware, regarding your particular circumstances, or the particular circumstances of the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. In addition, for us to find that the information you received was incomplete, the employee must have failed to provide you with the appropriate, additional information which he or she would be required to provide in carrying out his or her official duties. (3) The misinformation may have been provided to you orally or in writing. (4) The misinformation must have been provided to you in response to a specific request by you to us for information about your eligibility for benefits or the eligibility for benefits of the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for which you were considering filing an application. (d) Evidence that misinformation was provided. We will consider the following evidence in making a determination under paragraph (b) of this section. (1) Preferred evidence. Preferred evidence is written evidence which relates directly to your inquiry about your eligibility for benefits or the eligibility of another person and which shows that we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. Preferred evidence includes, but is not limited to, the following_ (i) A notice, letter or other document which was issued by us and addressed to you; or (ii) Our record of your telephone call, letter or in-person contact. (2) Other evidence. In the absence of preferred evidence, we will consider other evidence, including your statements about the alleged misinformation, to determine whether we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. We will not find that we gave you misinformation, however, based solely on your statements. Other evidence which you provide or which we obtain must support your statements. Evidence which we will consider includes, but is not limited to, the following_ (i) Your statements about the alleged misinformation, including statements about_ (A) The date and time of the alleged contact(s); (B) How the contact was made, e.g., by telephone or in person; (C) The reason(s) the contact was made; (D) Who gave the misinformation; and (E) The questions you asked and the facts you gave us, and the questions we asked and the information we gave you, at the time of the contact; (ii) Statements from others who were present when you were given the alleged misinformation, e.g., a neighbor who accompanied you to our office; (iii) If you can identify the employee or the employee can recall your inquiry about benefits_ (A) Statements from the employee concerning the alleged contact, including statements about the questions you asked, the facts you gave, the questions the employee asked, and the information provided to you at the time of the alleged contact; and (B) Our assessment of the likelihood that the employee provided the alleged misinformation; (iv) An evaluation of the credibility and the validity of your allegations in conjunction with other relevant information; and (v) Any other information regarding your alleged contact. (e) Information which does not constitute satisfactory proof that misinformation was given. Certain kinds of information will not be considered satisfactory proof that we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. Examples of such information include_ (1) General informational pamphlets that we issue to provide basic program information; (2) The Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement that is based on an individual's reported and projected earnings and is an estimate which can be requested at any time; (3) General information which we review or prepare but which is disseminated by the media, e.g., radio, television, magazines, and newspapers; and (4) Information provided by other governmental agencies, e.g., the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, State unemployment agencies, and State and local governments. (f) Claim for benefits based on misinformation. You may make a claim for benefits based on misinformation at any time. Your claim must contain information that will enable us to determine if we did provide misinformation to you about your eligibility for benefits, or the eligibility of a person on whose behalf you were considering applying for benefits, which caused you not to file an application for the benefits. Specifically, your claim must be in writing and it must explain what information was provided; how, when and where it was provided and by whom; and why the information caused you not to file an application. If you give us this information, we will make a determination on such a claim for benefits if all of the following conditions are also met.
