FR940610-1-00056 FR940610-1-00008 Partnerships and Coordination Comments A number of commenters expressed the need for the Department to establish partnerships with other Federal agencies such as DOEd, DHHS, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, as well as with industry representatives, State agencies, school boards, nutrition professionals, extension programs, parents, teachers, and especially students. Commenters also addressed the need for Federal efforts to support, not hamper, local efforts. Commenters indicated that the Department should use its resources and purchasing power to promote change and improve meal quality. Commodity Comments The Department received close to 500 comments on various aspects connected with the donation of commodities to schools. The majority of these commenters were from the general public as well as the school food service and industry arenas. Over 250 commenters indicated that a more healthful variety of USDA commodities should be made available to States. The majority encouraged the Department to reduce the amount of fat, cholesterol, and/or sodium in the commodities. These and a number of closely related comments are perhaps best characterized by the opinion of over 50 commenters that the commodities provided to the NSLP should comply with the Dietary Guidelines. The Department also notes that over 100 commenters addressed the Department's September 1993 announcement of the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable initiative. Most of the comments were supportive of the initiative. Twenty-five commenters stressed the need to use the funds available to schools for direct food purchases as effectively as possible. Miscellaneous Comments Some commenters indicated the need to upgrade school kitchens to allow for the storage and preparation of more nutritious meals. In line with this objective, some commenters urged reauthorization of Federal funding for food service equipment. Commenters also pointed to the need for schools to disclose nutrition information so that students can make informed choices and parents and the community would have a basis by which to assess progress. A number of commenters cautioned against instituting changes too rapidly and encouraged the Department to take gradual steps. Others recommended that the Department market successful programs to serve as models. Several commenters recommended that the Department allow for a reimbursable snack to be served as a way to supply the extra foods that may be required to meet nutritional standards. Other Comments Not Addressed in This Proposal Finally, the Department wishes to call attention to several issues raised by commenters that are not germane to this proposal, either because of statutory constraints or because they address areas in which the Department believes State agencies and school food authorities need flexibility. Milk and Dairy Products The Department received over 600 comments regarding milk and dairy products, with most comments coming from the general public, parents and the school food service community. The majority of commenters recommended that schools not be required to offer whole milk, with a large number of these comments coming from the food service community. Commenters' reasons for eliminating the whole milk requirement included the high fat content, the perceived conflict with the Dietary Guidelines and its higher cost. Many commenters also recommended that non-dairy alternatives be offered in place of milk, as dairy products are high in fat, cholesterol, and protein; contain little iron and fiber; and, commenters claimed, are not tolerated well by many children. Commenters also recommended that more skim, one percent, and two percent milk be offered. A few commenters supported maintaining the whole milk requirement, on the grounds that children may not consume low fat alternatives and eliminating the requirement would be costly to the Federal dairy program. Others, while not supporting the whole milk requirement, did caution against reducing or eliminating dairy products, as they provide necessary calcium for growing children. The Department wishes to call attention to the fact that the requirements that fluid milk be available as a beverage and that whole milk be available as an option for the NSLP, are required by section 9(a)(2) of the NSLA, 42 U.S.C. 1758(a)(2). Therefore, the Department cannot deviate from these provisions by regulatory action. Free Meals to All Children Over 140 commenters, primarily from the school food service community, advocated a program in which meals would be served free of charge to all children, regardless of their families' economic status. Such a program would eliminate the income eligibility requirements, and all children would receive meals free of charge, regardless of their family's income. Many indicated that such a program would reduce paperwork, increase time for necessary nutrition-related activities, and reduce the stigma associated with participation. Again, however, such a revision would require specific statutory authority in light of the requirement of section 9(b)(1)(A) of the NSLA 42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(1)(A), that school meals be provided at no cost only to those children from households with incomes of less than 130% of the Federal Income Poverty Guidelines. The Department also notes that such a program, implemented fully in all schools, would increase the cost of NSLP by $7 billion if fully implemented in School Year 1996. About one-half of this increase would be spent on higher reimbursement for meals currently reimbursed at the fully paid and reduced price rates. In other words, about $3.5 billion of the additional funding would be spent even before reaching any more children. Fast Foods, Competitive Foods, Other Foods Several commenters were concerned with the increase of fast food companies, fast food-like items and competitive foods of low nutritional value that are sold in schools. Others felt that, since fast foods are popular, their use should be increased. The Department is not proposing any specific provisions on fast foods or competitive foods at this time. However, it should be noted that, under this proposal, meals claimed for reimbursement which include such foods will be required to comply with established nutritional standards over one week. Further, school food authorities would be required to continue to observe the restrictions currently in the regulations prohibiting the sale of foods of minimal nutritional value in competition with the NSLP and SBP.
