FR940725-2-00102 FR940725-2-00063 C. Surveillance As a general matter, the Commission believes that comprehensive surveillance sharing agreements between the relevant foreign and domestic exchanges are important where an index product comprised of foreign securities is to be traded in the United States. In most cases, in the absence of such a comprehensive surveillance sharing agreement, the Commission believes that it would not be possible to conclude that a derivative product, such as a Nikkei 300 Index option, was not readily susceptible to manipulation. Although the CBOE and the TSE do not yet have a written surveillance sharing agreement that covers the trading of Nikkei 300 Index options, 24 a number of factors support approval of the proposal at this time. First, while the size of an underlying market is not determinative of whether a particular derivative product based on that market is readily susceptible to manipulation, the size of the market for the securities underlying the Nikkei 300 Index makes it less likely that the proposed Index options are readily susceptible to manipulation. 25 In addition, the Commission notes that the TSE is under the regulatory oversight of the Japanese Ministry of Finance (``MOF''). The MOF has responsibility for both the Japanese securities and derivatives markets. Accordingly, the Commission believes that the ongoing oversight of the trading activity on the TSE by the MOF will help to ensure that the trading of Nikkei 300 Index options will be carefully monitored with a view toward preventing unnecessary market disruptions. 24 The Exchange represents that it currently is pursuing a surveillance sharing agreement with the TSE, which the Exchange expects will enable it to better carry out its regulatory responsibilities with respect to the surveillance of trading in the stocks comprising the Index. 25 In evaluating the manipulative potential of a proposed index derivative product, as it relates to the securities that comprise the index and the index product itself, the Commission has considered several factors, including (1) the number of securities comprising the index or group; (2) the capitalizations of those securities; (3) the depth and liquidity of the group or index; (4) the diversification of the group or index; (5) the manner in which the index or group is weighted; and (6) the ability to conduct surveillance on the product. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31016 (August 11, 1992), 57 FR 37012 (August 17, 1992). Finally, the Commission and the MOF have concluded a Memorandum of Understanding (``MOU'') that provides a framework for mutual assistance in investigatory and regulatory matters. 26 Moreover, the Commission also has a longstanding working relationship with the MOF on these matters. Based on the longstanding working relationship between the Commission and the MOF and the existence of the MOU, the Commission is confident that it and the MOF could acquire information from one another similar to that which would be available in the event that a comprehensive surveillance sharing agreement were executed between the CBOE and the TSE with respect to transactions in TSE-traded stocks related to Nikkei 300 Index option transactions on the CBOE. 27 26 See Memorandum of United States Securities and Exchange Commission and the Securities Bureau of the Japanese Ministry of Finance on the Sharing of Information, dated May 23, 1986. 27 It is the Commission's expectation that this information would include transaction, clearing, and customer information necessary to conduct an investigation. Nevertheless, the Commission continues to believe strongly that a comprehensive surveillance sharing agreement between the TSE and the CBOE covering Nikkei 300 Index options would be an important measure to deter and detect potential manipulations or other improper or illegal trading involving Nikkei 300 Index options. Accordingly, the Commission believes it is critical that the TSE and the CBOE continue to work together to consummate a formal comprehensive surveillance sharing agreement to cover Nikkei 300 Index options, and the component securities, as soon as practicable. 28 28 See supra note 24. D. Market Impact The Commission believes that the listing and trading on the CBOE of Nikkei 300 Index options, including full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS, will not adversely impact the securities markets in the United States or Japan. 29 First, as described above, the Index is broad-based and presently is comprised of 300 stocks with no one stock dominating the Index. Second, as noted above, the stocks contained in the Index have large capitalizations and are actively-traded. Third, the proposed position and exercise limits of 25,000 contracts on the same side of the market, provided that no more than 15,000 of such contracts are in series in the nearest expiration month, will serve to minimize potential manipulation and market impact concerns. Lastly, existing CBOE stock index options rules and surveillance procedures will apply to options on the Index. 29 In addition, the CBOE and the Options Price Reporting Authority (``OPRA'') have both represented that they have the necessary systems capacity to support those new series of options that would result from the introduction of Index options (including full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS). See Letter from Joseph P. Corrigan, Executive Director, OPRA, to Eileen Smith, CBOE, dated June 28, 1994.
