FR941206-1-00111 FR941206-1-00008 Option 5. Coatings with Noncompliant VOC Contents Used in Areas Without VOC Limits In those facilities located in areas without required VOC limits for marine coatings (i.e., ozone attainment areas; all 25 of the existing major source facilities are located in current ozone nonattainment areas), the affected source may measure the HAP content using the following techniques and using alternate limits derived from the limits in the regulation to demonstrate compliance on a coating-by-coating basis. The VOHAP alt limits were calculated using the maximum allowable VOHAP limits (see Table 1) and an assumed average density for all solvents. To demonstrate compliance, the source would determine (using formulation data from the coating manufacturer) the as-supplied VOC content and volume solids (V s ) of each coating. Then, using the measured (via any approved test method) VOHAP content divided by the volume solids, compliance can then be determined with the calculated VOHAP alt limit. The following equations were used to calculate the alternate VOHAP limits (for coatings that do not contain any exempt solvents or water):* * Equation 5 only applies to those coatings containing only VOC's and (volume) solids. E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.016 where: V s ** =Volume fraction of solids in the coating as supplied (L solids/L coating as applied); ** For purposes of this general discussion and example calculation, volume solids (V s ) has been used interchangeably with the term ``nonvolatiles.'' VOC=Applicable as-supplied VOC content of the coating (g VOC/L coating as supplied, less water and exempt solvents; and D avg =Average density of solvents in the coating (to demonstrate compliance of a marine coating, use the solvent mixture in the coating to calculate D avg .) In order to calculate VOHAP alt limits, the VOC content was assumed to be equal to the VOHAP limit for each coating category in Table 1, therefore: E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.017 where: VOHAP limit =Applicable as-applied VOHAP limit of the coating category (g VOHAP/L coating as applied, less water and non-HAP exempt solvents); D avg =840 g/L (for conversion purposes, the average density of solvents used in all marine coatings). The VOHAPalt limits were then calculated using the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.018 where: VOHAP alt =Allowable as-applied alternate VOHAP content of the coating (g VOHAP/L solids as applied) V s =Volume fraction of solids in the as applied coating (L solids/L coating) If the measured VOHAP contents for a coating divided by the volume solids (V s ) is less than or equal to the calculated VOHAP alt limit in Table 1, then compliance is demonstrated. An example calculation for determining the VOHAP alt limit for a ``general use'' coating follows: First, the VOHAP limit=340 g/L and based on the assumption that the coating is only comprised of VOC and (volume) solids, E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.019 Then, E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.020 When the as-applied coating contains thinner and/or exempt compounds, special allowances (calculations) must be E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.021 used to determine VOHAP alt limits. These special allowances and procedures for compliance testing are covered in a June 30, 1994, memo to the project file [Docket A&hyph;92&hyph;11, II&hyph;B&hyph;26] from Dr. Mohamed Serageldin. To further illustrate the VOHAP alt limit calculations, the following example is provided: A shipyard wants to use (demonstrate compliance using option 5) a general use coating with a VOC content of 392 g/L less water and exempt solvents, a measured VOHAP content of 288 g/L less water, and an average solvent density of 880 g/L. Since the VOHAP limit for general use coatings is 340 g/L less water, the VOHAP alt limits were calculated to be 571 g VOHAP/L solids (see Table 1). E:GRAPHICSEP06DE94.022 Compliance for the coating is therefore demonstrated because the VOHAP content of 519 g/L solids is less than the VOHAP alt limit of 571 g/L solids.
