FR940110-1-00096 FR940110-1-00006 (B) For households in AHP-assisted rental housing units, rent payments, and where they are not already included in rent payments, a reasonable estimate of utility costs excluding telephone service. (iii) A household subject to the 20 percent requirement set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is required to meet such requirement only at the time it initially purchases or occupies a unit. (2) Alternative requirements. (i) The requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall not apply where a Bank provides subsidized advances or direct subsidies to an applicant for a rental housing project, which project also receives funds from a federal or state rental housing program that requires qualifying households to pay as rent a certain percentage of their monthly income or a designated amount, provided that the household meets the housing payment requirements of the other program. (ii) The requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall not apply where: (A) The total amount of the AHP funds provided through a subsidized advance or direct subsidy used to finance rehabilitation of a housing unit by a very low-income household that already owns and occupies the housing unit is $10,000 or less per such household; or (B) The total amount of the AHP funds provided through a subsidized advance or direct subsidy used to finance the purchase of a housing unit by a very low-income household is $5,000 or less per such household. (iii) The requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall not apply where the total amount of the AHP funds provided through a subsidized advance or direct subsidy used to finance rehabilitation or purchase of a housing unit by a low- or moderate-income household is $5,000 or less per such household. (iv) The requirement in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall not apply where a Bank provides subsidized advances or direct subsidies ultimately benefiting a household with an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application, which is participating in a self-help, sweat equity or similar housing program that requires the household to contribute its skilled or unskilled labor valued at a minimum of $2,000 per household, working cooperatively with others, to construct or rehabilitate housing which the household or other program participants are purchasing or already own and occupy, and that involves supervision of the work performed by skilled builders or rehabilitators. (d) Project feasibility. The AHP application must indicate that the proposed project is feasible in that, based on an analysis of project sources and uses of funds, project multi-year operating pro formas for rental housing projects, projections of sales and prices for owner-occupied housing units, and local market conditions, the project is financially viable and likely to be completed within a reasonable period of time, and is likely to operate or sell and remain affordable to the designated income-eligible households over the long-term period committed to in the AHP application. (e) Qualifications of sponsor. The AHP application must indicate that the sponsor has the qualifications and ability to perform its responsibilities as committed to in the AHP application. (f) Creditworthiness of applicant. The applicant must have the ability to qualify for an advance from the Bank to fund the project described in the AHP application. ยง960.10 Scoring of AHP applications. (a) General. The Bank shall score AHP applications that satisfy all of the threshold criteria in ยง960.9 according to the scoring methodology set forth in this section which shall be included in the Bank's approved AHP implementation plan. (b) Priority treatment. Each application is first evaluated to determine if it will receive priority treatment. For purposes of determining priority, an application can receive a maximum of eight points for each of the five priority categories set forth in paragraph (d) of this section. A Bank in its AHP implementation plan shall define more specifically each of the five priority categories and explain specifically how points will be awarded for satisfying each category. An application will be deemed to meet a particular priority category if it is awarded at least four points for that priority category. Applications meeting at least two priority categories shall receive priority treatment. (c) Order of scoring. Applications that qualify for priority treatment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be scored before applications that do not qualify for priority treatment. The applications that do not qualify for priority treatment will not be scored unless there are insufficient priority treatment applications to utilize the total AHP funding amount for the funding cycle. (d) Priorities_40 point category. The Bank shall total the points received by each applicant for purposes of determining priority for all of the five priority categories set forth in this paragraph (d); it shall award 40 points to the application(s) that receive the highest number of total points, and the remaining application scores shall be adjusted and awarded points on a declining scale basis. The five priority categories are as set forth in the following paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. (1) Government-owned properties. Applications for projects that finance the purchase or rehabilitation of housing owned or held by the United States Government or any agency or instrumentality of the United States, including but not limited to the Department of Housing and Urban Development, Resolution Trust Corporation, Farmers Home Administration, Veterans Administration, Federal National Mortgage Association, or Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. (2) Nonprofit or state or local government sponsored projects. Applications for projects that finance the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing the sponsor of which is a nonprofit organization, a state or political subdivision of a state, a local housing authority or a state housing finance agency. (3) Special needs projects. Applications for projects that address special needs, which shall be defined by the Bank in its AHP implementation plan, which special needs may include but are not limited to: (i) Empowering the households or residents through programs such as resident management of the property, self-help housing, homesteading, and sweat equity;
