FR941003-2-00050 FR941003-2-00033 RIN 0905&hyph;ZA45 Proposed Review Criterion and Indicators for Grants for Family Medicine Training and Grants for General Internal Medicine and General Pediatrics Training Grants for Family Medicine Training and Grants for General Internal Medicine and General Pediatrics Training are authorized by sections 747 (a) and (b) and 748, title VII of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by the Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992, Pub. L. 102&hyph;408, dated October 13, 1992. These grant programs include: Grants for Predoctoral Training in Family Medicine Grants for Graduate Training in Family Medicine Grants for Faculty Development in Family Medicine Grants for Establishment of Departments of Family Medicine Grants for Residency Training in General Internal Medicine and General Pediatrics Grants for Faculty Development in General Internal Medicine and General Pediatrics Competing applications for grants authorized under sections 747 and 748 are reviewed by chartered review committees. It is proposed that the following review criteria and weighted indicators be used by the chartered review committees for the FY 1995 grant cycles. Public comments are invited on the one proposed review criterion and the weighted indicators associated with all four review criteria. This review criterion and weighted indicators are proposed in this combined notice, rather than in individual program announcements, to provide consistent review of all primary care medical education grant applications. A funding notice for Grants for Family Medicine Training for FY 1995 has been published elsewhere in today's Federal Register. A funding notice for Grants for General Internal Medicine and General Pediatrics will be published should funds become available for competitive cycles in FY 1995. Deadline dates and other specific information regarding these grant programs are included in funding notices. General Purposes Grants provided in support of primary care medical education are intended to produce, over time, a training infrastructure capable of meeting the nation's needs for generalist health care practitioners by the year 2000 and beyond. The Division of Medicine (DM), Bureau of Health Professions (BHPr), has developed the following Strategic Directions for fiscal year 1995: •Generalism_increasing the number of generalist physicians, including the coordination and integration of training opportunities designed to produce generalists; •Workforce diversity, particularly the training of minorities; •Strategies to improve health care for the underserved; •Improve primary care quality; •Increase primary care faculty and researchers; and •Emphasize public health and interdisciplinary training. Applicants are encouraged to consider each application as part of an integrated institutional plan that considers these strategic directions in providing education and training that encourages the selection and future practice of generalist physicians in the disciplines of family medicine, general internal medicine and general pediatrics. Review Criteria Considering charter review committee recommendations, the Secretary will approve projects which best promote the purposes of sections 747 and 748 of the PHS Act, taking into consideration the following review criteria established in 42 CFR part 57, subparts Q, R, and FF. 1. The administrative and management ability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project in a cost-effective manner. 2. The potential of the project to continue on a self-sustaining basis after the period of grant support. 3. The degree to which the proposed project adequately provides for the project requirements. In addition, the following review criterion is proposed for FY 1995: 4. Potential effectiveness of the proposed project in carrying out the training purposes of sections 747 or 748 of the PHS Act. For the above review criteria, weighted indicators have been identified. These indicators, which are listed below, will measure, among other things, the qualifications of the proposed staff and faculty, the institution's commitment to preparing generalist physicians, and the recruitment and retention of underrepresented minority and disadvantaged faculty, students, trainees and/or residents. These issues have been addressed in previous grant cycles as review criteria or funding factors. The review criteria and indicators were developed for the FY 1995 grant cycle with input from potential applicants for these grant programs.
