FR941007-1-00136 FR941007-1-00009 (3) During the period of formal public comment, make copies of the plan available for review at all offices of the bank in any service area covered by the plan. (d) Submission of plan._ The bank shall submit its plan to the FDIC at least three months prior to the proposed effective date of the plan. The bank shall also submit with its plan any public comments received, and, if the plan was revised in light of the comments received, the initial plan as released for public comment. (e) Plan content. _(1) Measurable goals. (i) A bank shall specify in its plan measurable goals for helping to meet the credit needs of each of its service area(s) covered by the plan, particularly the needs of low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals, through lending, investment, and the provision of services, as appropriate. (ii) A bank shall address all three performance categories and, unless the bank has been designated as a wholesale or limited purpose bank, shall emphasize lending and lending-related activities. Nevertheless, a different emphasis, including a focus on one or more performance categories, may be appropriate if responsive to the characteristics and credit needs of its service area, considering public comment and the bank's capacity and constraints, product offerings, and business strategy. (2) Confidential information. The bank may submit additional information to the FDIC on a confidential basis, but the goals stated in the plan shall be sufficiently specific to enable the public and the FDIC to judge fairly the merits of the plan. (3) Satisfactory and outstanding goals. A bank shall specify in its plan measurable goals that constitute ``satisfactory'' performance. A plan may specify measurable goals that constitute ``outstanding'' performance. In order to be considered for an ``outstanding'' performance rating, the bank shall submit both ``satisfactory'' and ``outstanding'' performance goals. (f) Plan approval._(1) Timing. The FDIC shall act upon a plan within 60 days after the complete plan and required accompanying material are submitted. If the FDIC fails to act within this time period, the plan shall be deemed approved unless the FDIC extends the review period for good cause. (2) Public participation. In evaluating the plan's goals, the FDIC shall consider the public's involvement in formulating the plan, public comment on the plan, and any response by the bank to public comment on the plan. (3) Criteria for evaluating plan. The FDIC shall evaluate a plan's measurable goals using the following criteria, as appropriate: (i) The extent and breadth of lending or lending-related activities, including, as appropriate, the distribution of loans among different geographies, businesses and farms of different sizes, and individuals of different income levels, the extent of community development lending, and the use of innovative or flexible lending practices to address credit needs; (ii) The amount and innovativeness, complexity, and responsiveness of the bank's qualified investments, as defined in ยง345.23 of this part; and (iii) The extent and availability of the bank's services, including, as appropriate, the accessibility of retail delivery systems and the extent and innovativeness of community development services, as defined in ยง345.24 of this part. (g) Plan amendment._ During the term of a plan, the bank may petition the FDIC to approve an amendment to the plan on grounds that a material change in circumstances has made the plan no longer appropriate. Any amendment proposed shall be developed in accordance with the public participation requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. (h) Strategic plan assessment._ The FDIC shall approve the goals and assess performance under a strategic plan as provided for in Appendix A of this part.
