FR940325-1-00012 FR940325-1-00005 First, waiting until all 4,000 hours of tape have been reviewed and prepared for release would seriously undermine the statutory and regulatory obligation of the National Archives and Records Administration to give the public access to Watergate-related material at the earliest reasonable date. Second, releasing or restricting all 4,000 hours at once would be inconsistent with current §1275.42(b), which requires the National Archives and Records Administration to publish a Federal Register notice of a proposed opening of materials. The purpose of that notice is to allow interested parties the opportunity to review_and object as appropriate_to those materials which are being proposed for opening. Under current §1275.44(a), anyone who wishes to object to a proposed opening must do so within thirty (30) days of the notice. In light of the fact that the collection of tape recordings consists of some 4,000 hours (minus copies of approximately 775 hours of tape segments previously identified as private or personal or room noise and offered for return to former President Nixon), it would be impossible for any one individual to review all portions of the tape recordings proposed for opening within the allotted thirty-day period if all of the unrestricted tape recordings were to be opened at the same time. To address these concerns, the proposed amendments to §1275.42(a) would allow the release of the tape recordings in groupings which would permit the opening of reasonable portions of the tape recordings without the need for all 4,000 hours to be released at once. In addition, amended §1275.42(a) provides that the Archivist is free to release segments of the tape recordings that are not private or personal prior to transferring private or personal material in accordance with current §1275.48. This amendment would allow the National Archives and Records Administration to continue processing and opening Watergate-related segments of the tape recordings at the earliest reasonable date, in accordance with its statutory and regulatory responsibility, before all private or personal conversations are culled out of copies of the remaining parts of the tape recordings and returned to former President Nixon or other affected parties. Given that the release of non-private conversations would not violate an individual's right to keep private conversations confidential, this amendment is entirely appropriate. Sections 1275.46(d) and 1275.46(f) are amended to be consistent with the amended definition of ``Archivist'' set forth in amended §1275.16(e). Section 1275.48(a) is amended to be consistent with the amendment to §1275.16(b), to make clear that no portion of the original tape recordings is to be returned to former President Nixon or to any other affected party. The PRMPA requires the Archivist to maintain those original tape recordings, whether or not they contain private or personal conversations. The amendment to this subsection would eliminate any doubt that the Archivist is to retain the original tape recordings. Section 1275.64 is amended to include a provision allowing for the reproduction of tape recordings opened to the public. This amendment is fully consistent with the practice of the National Archives and Records Administration with regard to other tape recordings. The issue of whether to provide copies of tape recordings has been considered by the National Archives and Records Administration on several occasions. At the time the current regulations were being written, the National Archives and Records Administration decided to maintain its prior position of not allowing copies of tape recordings, although it specifically stated that this position would be reviewed periodically. 51 FR 7228 (Feb. 28, 1986). After careful reconsideration of its position, the National Archives and Records Administration has decided to allow the copying of released tape recordings. In so doing, the National Archives and Records Administration relies on the guidance from the Supreme Court in Nixon v. Warner Communications, Inc., 435 U.S. 589, 606&hyph;08 (1978), wherein the Supreme Court recognized the prerogative of the National Archives and Records Service (the predecessor to the National Archives and Records Administration) to consider providing the public with an opportunity to obtain such copies. In light of the Supreme Court's decision in Warner Communications, and because such copying would seem to be in the public interest generally as well as in keeping with the spirit of the PRMPA, the National Archives and Records Administration is amending the regulations to allow for such copying. Section 1275.64(b) is also amended to be consistent with the nomenclature distinction between ``Archivist'' and ``archivist'' as set forth in §1275.16(e). Section 1275.66(a) is amended to accommodate two different possibilities with respect to the reproduction of released Nixon materials other than tape recordings: Copying by researchers on self-service government copiers; and copying by contract vendors at the request of the National Archives and Records Administration. This change reflects not only current practice at the Nixon Project, but common practice at other presidential libraries within the National Archives and Records Administration system as well as NARA regulations regarding copying of archival documents.
