FR940325-1-00028 FR940325-1-00007 (1) Notification from the Commandant or the COTP of an increased threat to the ports and waterways visited; or (2) New port added to the itinerary of the vessel. (c) The operator shall update the survey and notify the Commandant within 10 days of a_ (1) Change in the description of the vessel required by §120.320(g); or (2) Change in the owner, operator, or master of the vessel or in the operator's representative. (d) The survey must address potential threats against the vessel or persons aboard it, while it is under way, anchored, or moored and must consider the vulnerability of the vessel to those threats at each terminal, anchorage, and waterway used. (e) The operator shall ensure that distribution, disclosure, and availability of information contained in the survey is confined to those persons with an operational need to know. These persons include the operator, the master, the ship security officer, the terminal security officer, and appropriate law enforcement officials. When not under supervision, copies of the survey under the control of the operator must be kept in a locked safe or other secure container, to prevent disclosure to unauthorized persons. §120.320 Survey: contents. The survey required by §120.310 must include_ (a) The date of the survey; (b) The date of the last such survey; (c) The name and call sign of the passenger vessel; (d) The names of the owner, operator, and master of the vessel; (e) The name, business address, and telephone number of the operator's representative in each U.S. port visited; (f) The flag of registry of the vessel; (g) A description of the vessel that includes_ (1) The length overall; (2) The draft forward and aft under full load; (3) The gross tonnage; (4) The year built; (5) The number of passenger berths aboard; (6) A schematic showing the general layout of the vessel; (7) A schematic showing the place and purpose of each actual and potential point of access, including each door, hatch, and passageway; (8) A schematic or list indicating the kind, place, area of illumination, and intensity of all security lighting; (9) A schematic or list indicating the location of each restricted area designated under §120.210 and each means of securing it; (10) A description of each intrusion detection system installed; (11) A schematic or list indicating the kind and place of emergency and standby equipment for maintenance of essential services aboard the vessel; (12) The open deck arrangement including the height of the deck above the water; (13) Waterline profile photographs of both port and starboard sides of the vessel; (14) An aerial photograph of the vessel; (15) A list of all firearms carried aboard the vessel, other than those in secure baggage, indicating the persons to whom they are issued or the locations in which they are stored; and (16) A list of the types of ammunition and pyrotechnics carried aboard the vessel indicating the locations in which they are stored; (h) An account of the normal manning of the vessel that includes_ (1) The number of officers assigned; and (2) The number of members of the crew assigned; (i) A list of each SSOP in effect; (j) Security equipment in use, including that for inspection, control, monitoring, firefighting, lifesaving, and communication; alarms; lighting; and intrusion detection systems; (k) Information on current threats of unlawful acts provided to the vessel by the Commandant or COTP for each terminal, port area, anchorage, and waterway used; (l) An assessment of the vulnerability of the vessel to each threat identified in paragraph (k) of this section; (m) A list of the measures and procedures in the ship security plan to counter each threat identified in paragraph (k) of this section; and (n) A description of the ability of the screening points of the vessel to detect prohibited weapons, incendiaries, and explosives on persons, or in personal articles, baggage, cargo, and stores. §120.330 Bill. (a) Each operator of a vessel to which this part applies shall develop a ship security bill. (b) The bill must set forth_ (1) The name of each member of the crew assigned a duty relative to security; (2) Each duty relative to security assigned; and (3) The station at which each duty will be performed. (c) A copy of the bill must be available to the deck watch officer on the navigational bridge and provided to each member of the crew assigned a security related duty. (d) The bill must constitute part of the plan required by §120.300 and must be reviewed and, if necessary, updated each time the survey is updated under §120.310 (b) and (c). §120.340 Security standard operating procedures. (a) Each operator of a vessel to which this part applies shall develop security standard operating procedures (SSOPs) that detail the number and duties of all members of the crew required for each activity relative to security aboard ship. Each SSOP must be reviewed and, if necessary, updated each time the survey is updated under §120.310 (b) and (c). (b) The operator shall determine the number and duties of members of the crew required for normal operations and for an increased level of security, based on information in the survey and on the advice of the master and the ship security officer.
