FR941104-1-00053 FR941104-1-00009 Fletchcraft Mfg. and Stahl's Traditional Archery supported restriction or stopping of export of the species. Both companies advocate an ecologically sustainable supply of POC wood for arrow manufacturing. Other letters of opposition to the potential CITES proposal were received within the comment period from Arcata Redwood Company, Douglas Timber Operators, Reservation Ranch, Weyerhaeuser Company, Woodland Management Professional Foresters, and the Association of Consulting Foresters of America. Also, Mr. D. Brattain of Reservation Ranch coordinated and led a POC Alliance mostly comprised of about 20 timber, lumber, and/or exporting companies and also the Oregon International Port of Coos Bay, Coos Chapter of the Society of American Foresters, and Coos County Forestry Department, which submitted an extensive document including a detailed response against the potential proposal to list the POC in Appendix II, with supplementary materials on POC and its situation, including additional usually detailed letters of opposition from the Coos County Forestry Department, the Coos-Curry Electric Cooperative, the [Coos] Bay Area Chamber of Commerce, a private POC landowner who also is a State Director for the Oregon Small Woodlands Association, The Agnew Company, Georgia-Pacific Corporation, Moore Mill & Lumber Company, Rough & Ready Lumber Company, South Coast Lumber Company, Spalding & Son Lumber Manufacturers and Wholesalers, Westbrook Land and Timber, Stuntzner Engineering & Forestry, a USFS silviculturist_acting in a private capacity_with 15 years of responsibility for POC management to minimize spread and impact of the root-rot disease in a major National Forest Ranger District, the Oregon Chapter of the Association of Consulting Foresters of America, the Oregon Society of American Foresters, and the Natural Resource Group (Birmingham, Alabama). The Oregon Department of Forestry expressed opposition to inclusion of this species in Appendix II. They stated that virtually all of the commercially valuable timber of the species is on Federal lands, that there is ample protection due to the extensive acreage of land set aside for various conservation purposes, and that there is a program in place that will limit damage caused by the root disease on Federal lands and it is adequate to protect the species. They also found that the ecosystem-based direction of management taken by Federal land-management agencies under the President's ``Option 9'' plan is sufficient to protect this species in its ecosystems, and they expect that the volume of the type of material demanded in the export market will be reduced because of implementation of this plan. The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection stated that they advise private landowners on precautions to be taken to prevent spread of the root rot, and that they generally have as a mitigation requirement of timber harvesting that the landowner follow the USFS policies and procedures. They asked that the decision for or against a proposal to list under CITES be made to protect or prolong the biological and ecological viability of the species in its natural range. The USFS recommended that the species not be added to Appendix II. The USFS provided detailed information (with detailed maps) about the species, its utilization, the water mold that infects POC and causes a virulent root disease, and the interagency program for Port-Orford-cedar conservation and management [through the Interregional POC Coordinating Committee], which the USFS chairs. The USFS stated that over 40 percent of the tree species' range is in reserves protected from harvesting, that harvests have substantially declined and growth now exceeds harvest and mortality, and that they have an active range-wide interagency effort underway [and the Interregional Port-Orford Cedar Action Plan] to manage the species and the infectious fungus. The Service carefully evaluated whether Chamaecyparis lawsoniana qualified for CITES Appendix II, and could benefit from export regulation by means of an Appendix II listing, which included a discussion of its situation at the CITES Plants Committee meeting held in Mexico in May 1994. The Service recognized that a significant portion of POC is in reserves that for various reasons are protected from harvesting (in some cases except for thinning and salvage cutting), that most of the species is on public lands under Federal management, and that there are meaningful efforts to harvest sustainably and to curtail the Phytophthora disease. The Service concluded that Federal and State regulatory mechanisms, governmental and private conservation actions, and endeavors particularly through the U.S. Forest Service to understand and to control the introduced disease now affecting some populations, were able to cope with this endemic species' present circumstances without the need for additional regulatory authority through use of this international treaty. Species Proposals Submitted 1. Saiga antelope ( Saiga tatarica ). The EIA sent the Service a proposal to list both subspecies of the saiga antelope in Appendix I. The horns of the saiga antelope have been used in Asian traditional medicines. Saiga have also been utilized as a food source at varying levels of intensity depending on location and availability. The Mongolian Ministry of Nature and Environment provided a rather detailed account of the status and biology of S. t. mongolica, which now exists in two small disjunct populations in Mongolia, one estimated at about 1400 individuals in 1993 and the other estimated at 125 animals in 1983. They recommended that this subspecies be listed in Appendix I.
