FR940728-1-00007 FR940728-1-00002 Second, REA proposes to revise the provisions for disbursement of grant funds to REA borrowers under the revolving loan provisions. The final rule published on March 14, 1994, §1703.22(e), requires funds to be disbursed on a reimbursement basis. This disbursement provision requires REA Borrowers to fund projects using their own funds and request reimbursement from REA. REA believes this provision minimizes grant processing and disbursement time to comply with departmental regulations covering administration of grant funds, and it minimizes the possibility for unintended uses of grant funds. REA believes this disbursement provision should be the primary method of disbursement: thus it will be maintained as the general method for grant fund disbursement under the grant provisions for revolving loan funds. Based on the lack of comments on the disbursement provisions from REA Borrowers pertaining to the March 14 final rule, REA believes that most Borrowers have the financial resources to initially fund projects under the reimbursement method. However, in some cases, borrowers with limited financial resources, or for other extraordinary reasons, may be unable to fund projects using their own resources under the reimbursement method. Under these circumstances, borrowers with limited resources in needy areas could be precluded from participating in the grant program to establish revolving loan funds. Therefore, REA proposes to revise §1703.22(e), to allow the Administrator to authorize disbursement under a special reimbursement method. Under this method, a Borrower may provide REA invoices from project owners and, if authorized as an approved purpose for grant fund disbursement, REA may disburse grant funds to the Borrower for immediate release to the project owner. Under this method, grant funds may be requisitioned at any time; however, the minimum grant requisition will be $50,000 or the total amount of the revolving fund, whichever is less. Borrowers desiring to use this method should be cautioned however, that invoices from contractors or other entities performing contract services for project owners generally request payment within 30 days. Although REA will diligently strive to process payment within 30 days of requisition, REA encourages Borrowers to notify project owners of possible delays in processing disbursement requests. Because of the additional administrative requirements this special disbursement method may impose upon REA and the possible inconvenience to project owners and entities performing services, REA desires to use this special disbursement method only under extraordinary circumstances. Third, REA proposes to revise the definition of ``Rural economic development'' which was added in the final rule published March 14, 1994. This definition, currently worded as ``job creation or preservation or community facilities improvement projects in rural areas (underline, emphasis added)'', serves the intended purpose of defining a broad category of projects which may be funded by REA Borrowers using non-Federal revolving loan funds. However, REA's definition of a rural area is based on the statutory definition set forth in section 13 of the Rural Electrification (RE) Act. A rural area is defined as not including an urban area as defined by the Bureau of the Census. An urban area is defined as ``1. Places of 2,500 or more persons incorporated as cities, villages, boroughs (except in Alaska and New York), and towns (except in the six New England States, New York, and Wisconsin), but excluding the rural portions of `extended cities.' 2. Census designated places of 2,500 or more persons. 3. Other territory, incorporated or unincorporated, included in urbanized areas.'' The definition may unduly restrict funding of rural development projects to those physically located in rural areas rather than those projects which benefit rural areas in accordance with the purpose and policy of the rural economic development loan and grant program set forth in §§1703.10 and 1703.11. Therefore, to clarify REA's intent in defining rural economic development and restore flexibility in funding projects in accordance with the established history and procedures of the rural economic development loan and grant program, the definition of ``Rural economic development'' in §1703.12 has been changed to read: ``job creation or preservation or community facilities improvement projects that clearly demonstrate significant benefits to rural areas. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1703 Community development, Grant programs_housing and community development, Loan programs_housing and community development, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas. For the reasons set out in the preamble, chapter XVII of title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 1703_RURAL DEVELOPMENT 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 1703 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 901 et seq . and 950aaa et seq . Subpart B_Rural Economic Development Loan and Grant Program 2. In §1703.12 of this subpart B, the following definition is revised to read as follows: §1703.12 Definitions. * * * * * Rural economic development _job creation or preservation or community facilities improvement projects that clearly demonstrate significant benefits to rural areas.
