FR941221-0-00025 FR941221-0-00010 _Acuna, Casas & Araiza _Association for Union Democracy, Inc. The Department has carefully reviewed and considered all statements made in the comments in developing this final rule. The following is a summary of the comments and the Department's responses. A. Discussion of the Comments All four labor organizations supported the amendment. Each organization addressed why they believed the amendment is necessary, arguing generally that the court in Local 19 was correct in its interpretation of the officer removal provision as not granting the Secretary authority to file suit against a union for not following its concededly adequate officer removal procedure and, therefore, the Department should amend its regulatory language to reflect the court's decision. The Clothing and Textile Workers referenced the legislative history of the LMRDA presented by the court in Local 19 to demonstrate that the Secretary is not authorized to bring civil action against a union for not following its adequate officer removal procedure. The Clothing and Textile Workers also indicated that the Local 19 decision is buttressed by the general proposition that Congress intended that unions should govern their own internal affairs as expressed by the Supreme Court: In drafting Titles II through Title VI, Congress was guided by the general principle that unions should be left free to ``operate their own affairs as far as possible.'' S. Rep. No. 1684, 85th Cong., 2d Sess. 4&hyph;5 (1958) *␣*␣* Given certain minimum standards, ``individual members are fully competent to regulate union affairs.'' Steelworkers v. Sadlowski, 457 U.S. 102, 117 (1982). The Laborers also noted that the legislative history of the LMRDA indicates that Congress did not intend the Secretary's authority to include suits to compel union compliance with adequate removal procedures. In addition, the Laborers noted that the amendment does not leave aggrieved members without a remedy, because any member who believes his union has failed to comply with its constitutional procedures may bring a contract enforcement action in federal court and most union members may bring internal union charges against union officers who fail to carry out their constitutional duties. The Fire Fighters noted that it is important for the Department to file suit if a union does not have an adequate officer removal procedure ``to ensure that a fair democratic procedure be followed,'' but the Department should not interfere with a union's adequate officer removal procedures. The Food and Commercial Workers support the amendment but also suggested the following three additional changes to the regulations in order to bring subpart B more closely into conformity with Local 19:
