FR940525-1-00073 FR940525-1-00008 (iv) Women who take steps to ensure that their folate intake is at least 400 mcg daily throughout their childbearing years may reduce their risk of having a child with spina bifida or anencephaly, birth defects of the brain or spinal cord that, while not widespread, are very serious. These birth defects can have many causes. Adequate amounts of folate, a B vitamin, can be obtained from diets rich in fruits, including citrus fruits and juices, vegetables, including dark green leafy vegetables and legumes, enriched grain products, including breads, rice, and pasta, fortified cereals, or from a supplement. Women who have had a pregnancy affected with a neural tube defect should consult a physician before becoming pregnant. Folate consumption should be limited to 1,000 mcg per day from all sources. (v) Some women who consume the Daily Value of folate (400 mcg) throughout their childbearing years may reduce their risk of having a child affected with spina bifida or anencephaly, birth defects of the brain or spinal cord that, while not widespread, are very serious. These birth defects can have many causes. Women of childbearing age should choose well-balanced diets that include 2 to 4 servings per day of fruits (including citrus fruits and juices), 3 to 5 servings of vegetables (including dark green leafy vegetables and legumes), 6 to 11 servings of enriched grain products (such as breads, rice, and pasta) or fortified cereals throughout their childbearing years. Such diets provide many essential minerals and vitamins, including folate. Women who may be concerned about their diets may choose to obtain folate from a supplement. Folate consumption should be limited to 1,000 mcg per day from all sources. PART 381_POULTRY PRODUCTS INSPECTION REGULATIONS 5. The authority citation for part 381 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 450, 21 U.S.C. 451&hyph;470; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.55. 6. A new §381.414 would be added to read as follows: §381.414 Health claims; general requirements. (a) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply: (1) Health claim means any claim made on the label or in labeling of a poultry product that expressly or by implication, including third party references, written statements (e.g., a brand name including a term such as ``heart''), symbols (e.g., a heart symbol), or vignettes, characterizes the relationship of any substance to a disease or health-related condition. Implied health claims include those statements, symbols, vignettes, or other forms of communication that suggest, within the context in which they are presented, that a relationship exists between the presence or level of a substance in the poultry product and a disease or health-related condition. (2) Substance means a specific food or component of a food. (3) Nutritive value means a value in sustaining human existence by such processes as promoting growth, replacing loss of essential nutrients, or providing energy. (4) Disqualifying nutrient levels mean the levels of total fat, saturated fat, cholesterol, or sodium in a poultry product above which the product will be disqualified from making a health claim. These levels are 13 grams (g) of fat, 4 g of saturated fat, 60 milligrams (mg) of cholesterol, or 480 mg of sodium per reference amount customarily consumed, per labeled serving size, and, only for foods with reference amounts customarily consumed of 30 g or less or 2 tablespoons or less, per 50 g. For dehydrated products that must be reconstituted before typical consumption with water or a diluent containing an insignificant amount, as defined in §381.409(g)(1), of all nutrients, the per 50-g criterion refers to the prepared form. Any one of the levels, on a per reference amount customarily consumed, a per labeled serving size or, when applicable, a 50-g basis, will disqualify a poultry product from making a health claim unless an exception is provided for in §381.471, except that: (i) The levels for a meal product as defined in §381.413(l) and that weighs at least 6 ounces (oz), but less than 10 oz, per serving (container) are 20 g of fat, 6 g of saturated fat, 95 mg of cholesterol, or 720 mg of sodium per labeled serving size. (ii) The levels for a meal product as defined in §381.413(l) and that weighs 10 oz or more per serving (container) are 26 g of fat, 8 g of saturated fat, 120 mg of cholesterol, or 960 mg of sodium per labeled serving size. (5) Disease or health-related condition means damage to an organ, part, structure, or system of the body such that it does not function properly (e.g., cardiovascular disease), or a state of health leading to such dysfunctioning (e.g., hypertension); except that diseases resulting from essential nutrient deficiencies (e.g., scurvy, pellagra) are not included in this definition and, thereby, claims pertaining to such diseases are not subject to §381.414 or §381.470. (b) Eligibility. For a substance to be eligible for a health claim: (1) The substance must be associated with a disease or health-related condition for which the general U.S. population, or an identified U.S. population subgroup (e.g., the elderly) is at risk, or, alternatively, the labeling application submitted by the proponent of the claim otherwise explains the prevalence of the disease or health-related condition in the U.S. population and the relevance of the claim in context of the total daily diet and satisfies the other requirements of this section. (2) If the substance is to be consumed as a component of a poultry product at decreased dietary levels, the substance must be a nutrient that is required to be included in the label or labeling as set forth in §381.409(b); or (3) If the substance is to be consumed at other than decreased dietary levels: (i) The substance must contribute taste, aroma, or nutritive value, or any technical effect listed in 21 CFR 170.3(o), to the food and must retain that attribute when consumed at levels that are necessary to justify a claim; and
