FR940711-2-00135 FR940711-2-00054 (7) As a condition to reversing the adverse credit decision, the hearer of the appeal may require the non-defaulting commercial borrower to release any related claim against the receiver for a predecessor institution, in whole or in part. (8) The hearer of the appeal shall provide written notice of the decision, including an explanation of any negative ruling, to the relevant Managing Agent, Field Office Claims Department, and to the non-defaulting commercial borrower. The RTC will make a good faith effort to provide such notice within 30 calendar days of receiving the Appeal Letter and all other information necessary to act on the appeal. D. Appeal Log A log should be maintained in each conservatorship to track each appeal under this procedure. Entries in the log, to be initiated upon receipt of the borrower's appeal, shall include the following items: borrower's name, date of credit application, date of adverse credit decision, decision by whom, date borrower's appeal received, hearer the of appeal, date of hearer's decision, date borrower notified of decision, and remarks. E. Appointment of Receiver Upon the appointment of a receiver for the depository institution operated in conservatorship by the RTC, with respect to such institution, the right of all non-defaulting commercial borrowers to appeal (and any pending appeal) under this process terminates. Thereafter, any rights of the non-defaulting commercial borrowers, with respect to such depository institution, are governed by 12 U.S.C. ยง1821(d). F. No Further Appeal A non-defaulting commercial borrower shall have no right to appeal the decision of the hearer of the appeal within the RTC or to any court. G. No Effect on RTC's Rights as Receiver or Conservator Nothing contained in this policy shall be construed to waive or alter the rights of the RTC as conservator or receiver with respect to any commercial borrower or any insured depository institution. Such rights include, by way of illustration only, the rights to repudiate contracts, to leave obligations and liabilities with the receiver of the predecessor institution and to require non-defaulting commercial borrowers to adhere to the receivership claims procedures of the RTC. The filing of an appeal with the hearer of the appeal in accordance with the appeal procedures outlined in subparagraph IV.C above does not preserve, and does not substitute for, the requirement that a claim be filed and the claims process be pursued with respect to any claim against: (1) the receiver for any predecessor institution, or (2) the receiver for the depository institution operated in conservatorship if a receiver is appointed for such institution. V. Responsibility RTC Field Office Vice Presidents are responsible for ensuring that all conservatorships, SAMDA contractors, commercial loan servicers, other commercial loan managers, and appropriate RTC staff are aware of and comply with this policy. By Order of John E. Ryan, Deputy and Acting Chief Executive Officer. Dated at Washington, D.C., this 5th day of July, 1994. Resolution Trust Corporation. William J. Tricarico, Assistant Secretary.
