FR941222-0-00036 FR941222-0-00003 M. A number of technical clarifications and editorial issues were raised. M.1. Comment. One commenter stated that both the SAR and SER on which the Certificate of Compliance is based should be dated, as was the case for the VSC&hyph;24 Certificate of Compliance. If not, the public will be commenting on an unfinished document that can be endlessly revised. Response. Both the draft SER and the SAR are dated November 1993. These documents were revised based on public comments. M.2. Comment. One commenter wanted page one of the Certificate of Compliance revised to change the name ``Pacific Nuclear'' to ``VECTRA''. Response. The Certificate of Compliance has been revised to reflect this. M.3. Comment. One commenter pointed out a typographical error on page A&hyph;19 of the draft Certificate of Compliance. In the Basis paragraph, the sentence starting, ``Acceptable damage may occur *␣*␣*'' should read ``Unacceptable damage may occur *␣*␣*'' Response. The Certificate of Compliance has been revised to correct this. M.4. Comment. One commenter requested clarification of Technical Specification 1.2.16 on page A&hyph;25 of the draft Certificate of Compliance, as to whether the Yearly Average Ambient Temperature is a surveillance requirement or an action statement. It is unclear what action should be taken if either of the two specified limits (Yearly average temperature <70 ○F or average daily ambient temperature <100 ○F) is exceeded. Response. The Yearly Average Ambient Temperature specification is a site-specific parameter that the user must verify in accordance with the requirement of 10 CFR 72.212(b)(3) in order to use the system under the general license. There is no surveillance requirement or further action to be taken. Certificate of Compliance Section 1.1.1, ``Regulatory Requirements for General License,'' also includes verification of some of the same site-specific temperature parameters and has been amended to include the 100 ○F or less average daily ambient temperature parameter. Therefore, this specification mentioned in the comment (draft Certificate of Compliance Section 1.2.16) was deleted. M.5. Comment. Apparently in reference to a December 4, 1991, letter from PNFSI that stated ``The NUHOMS Certification Safety Analysis Report (CSAR) was *␣*␣*,'' one commenter believed that the use of the term CSAR was a good idea and should have been used by the NRC. The utility SAR should be called SAR as it was and the vendor SAR should be called CSAR just as NUHOMS did in 1990. Also, the acronyms topical report (TR), TSAR, and SAR are being used interchangeably and they need clear definition. This would eliminate confusion on the issue by those involved. Response. The NRC staff generally agrees with the comment. However, the required documents that form the basis of the NRC staff's safety review are clearly identified in the SER and Certificate of Compliance. M.6. Comment. One commenter wanted the term ``certificate holder'' eliminated because it is ambiguous and misleading. Response. The term ``certificate holder'' has been changed to ``holder of a Certificate of Compliance'' to be consistent with the regulations. M.7. Comment. One commenter wanted the draft Certificate of Compliance clarified as to who is responsible for the use of seismic restraints at each reactor site, the vendor or the utility, citing the ambiguous term ``certificate holder.'' Response. The utility is responsible for determining the need for seismic restraints in the spent fuel building based on seismic conditions at the site (Certificate of Compliance, Section 1.2.17). M.8. Comment. Several commenters stated that the limits on both neutron and gamma emission rates as well as neutron and gamma spectra (Attachment A, Section 1.2.1 of draft Certificate of Compliance) result in excluding some fuel assemblies that would actually produce lower dose rates. The problem for fuel qualification stems from the fact that the neutron dose rate does not decrease as rapidly as the gamma dose rate during cooling because of the longer lived isotopes. Thus, a high burned fuel assembly excluded on the basis of high neutron source term may remain excluded, even though with extra cooling time the combined neutron/gamma dose rate could be less than the design basis case. Some fuel may not qualify because it exceeds the spectra requirements, even though the energy groups exceeding the limits may not be significant contributors to the dose rates. Combined neutron/gamma dose rates are the real concern; it is recommended that the limits on source term be replaced by limits based on dose equivalence. The fuel specification should allow other combinations of fuel enrichment, burnup, and cooling time that would not result in exceeding the fuel cladding temperature or dose rates. Response. The NRC staff agrees that alternative fuel specifications could be beneficial. However, this commenter did not provide a specific alternative, and the NRC staff has not evaluated any other alternative at this time because VECTRA did not include this approach in the SAR. Therefore, no other approach is considered for this rulemaking.
