FR941122-1-00012 FR941122-1-00001 The Department proposes to amend §277.11 to add a new paragraph (d)(1) which would limit the time period during which State agencies may file a request for retroactive funding. The intended effect of this proposal is to limit State agency and FNS resources toward the present operation of the program. The Department believes State agencies have a responsibility to properly claim Federal funding on a timely basis. Other Federal programs currently have claim limitations in place. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) has claim limits on grants to State agencies for the Aid to Families with Dependent Children and Medicaid Programs. For example, in those programs, DHHS will reimburse a State agency only if the State agency files a claim for an expenditure within two years after the calendar quarter in which the State agency made the expenditure. In this rule, the Department is proposing a similar limitation for the Food Stamp Program. The Department proposes in new §277.11(d)(3) to provide, that subject to the availability of funds, FNS would reimburse a State agency for an allowable expenditure at the appropriate Federal reimbursement rate only if the State agency files a claim with FNS for that expenditure within two years after the calendar quarter in which the State agency obligated the funds. In the case of 75 percent funding for fraud control activity, the same two-year limit would apply to claims for retroactive 75 percent fraud funding but there would be an additional limit in that the retroactive funding would not be available prior to the year in which the State agency applied for 75 percent funding. Further, the Department proposes in new §277.11(d)(2) to provide that subject to the availability of funds and any required FNS approval related to the Advance Planning Document under 7 CFR 277.18(c), FNS would reimburse State agencies for the purchase of automated data processing (ADP) equipment and services at the appropriate reimbursement rate in effect at the time the equipment or service was received only if the State agency files a claim with FNS for that expenditure within two years after the calendar quarter in which the State agency obligated the funds. This proposed time limit applies to ADP expenditures approved for funding at the enhanced rate and at the regular rate. The Department's proposal in new §277.11(d)(4) would provide for certain exceptions to the two-year limit. State agencies may request a waiver of the time limit in writing in advance of the deadline. In order to be granted by FNS, the request must include supporting explanation, justification and documentation. In addition, as set forth in proposed §277.11(d)(5) the time limit would not apply to audit exceptions, or where FNS determines there was good cause resulting from circumstances beyond the State agency's control for filing a late claim. An audit exception means a proposed adjustment by the Department to any expenditure claimed by a State agency by virtue of an audit. Finally, the Department's proposal would limit the time period for the use of the SF&hyph;270 to repay FNS for an overclaim to three years from the end of the Federal fiscal year unless litigation, an audit, or a claim is pending at the end of the three-year period. FNS reserves the right to assert a claim against State agencies for amounts due when an SF&hyph;270 is not submitted by the State agency to repay any money due FNS. Note that under the current program rules at §277.12, State agencies are required to maintain all financial records for three years unless there is pending litigation, or an unresolved audit or claim. If any litigation, claim, or audit is started before the expiration of the three-year period, the applicable records shall be retained until these have been resolved. The Department is not proposing any changes to these record retention requirements in this rule. AFDC/Food Stamp Certification Costs_Section 277.9 The Department is also proposing amendments to current regulations to correspond to current practice related to the charging of certain food stamp certification costs to the Food Stamp Program. The current regulations at §277.9 provide that any cost related to determining the Food Stamp Program eligibility of Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) cases is to be included as part of the AFDC determination costs and claims and not as an allowable cost for FNS reimbursement. However, beginning October 1, 1983, as a result of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Department and DHHS, the Department changed this policy, but not the regulatory provision, so that the incremental cost of certifying AFDC households for Food Stamp Program benefits shall be charged to FNS, not to the Office for Family Assistance, DHHS. State agencies were notified by FNS regional offices of this change in August 1983. Beginning October 1, 1983, State agencies have been allowed to charge such costs to FNS.
