FR940404-2-00205 FR940404-2-00094 Federal Aviation Administration Proposed Establishment of the Longview, TX, Class C Airspace Area; Public Meeting AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of meeting. SUMMARY: This notice is announcing a fact-finding informal airspace meeting to solicit information from airspace users and to provide interested parties an opportunity to discuss the proposal to establish Class C airspace at the Longview, TX, airport terminal area. The proposed Class C airspace is being considered due to the increased volume of traffic arriving and departing the Longview Airport. All comments received during the meeting will be considered prior to the issuance of a notice of proposed rulemaking. TIME AND DATE: The informal airspace meeting will be held at 7 p.m. on Monday, May 23, 1994. Comments must be received on or before May 17, 1994. PLACE: Letourneau University College, Science Building, rooms 105 and 106, 2100 Mobberly Ave., Longview, TX. COMMENTS: Send or deliver comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Manager, Air Traffic Division, ASW&hyph;500, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Blvd., Fort Worth, TX 76137&hyph;4298. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Greg Juro, FAA Southwest Regional Office, ASW&hyph;530, telephone: (817) 222&hyph;5591. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Meeting Procedures (a) The meeting will be informal in nature and will be conducted by a representative of the FAA Southwest Region. Representatives from the FAA will present a formal briefing on the proposed establishment of the Class C airspace area. Each participant will be given an opportunity to deliver comments or make a presentation. (b) The meeting will be open to all persons on a space-available basis. There will be no admission fee or other charge to attend and participate. (c) Any person wishing to make a presentation to the FAA panel will be asked to sign in and estimate the amount of time needed for such presentation. This will permit the panel to allocate an appropriate amount of time for each presenter. The panel may allocate the time available for each presentation in order to accommodate all speakers. The meeting will not be adjourned until everyone on the list has had an opportunity to address the panel. The meeting may be adjourned at any time if all persons present have had the opportunity to speak. (d) Position papers or other handout material relating to the substance of the meeting will be accepted. Participants wishing to submit handout material should present three copies to the presiding officer. There should be additional copies of each handout available for other attendees. (e) The meeting will not be formally recorded. However, a summary of the comments made at the meeting will be filed in the docket. Agenda for the Meeting Opening Remarks and Discussion of Meeting Procedures. Briefing on Background for Proposal. Public Presentations. Closing Comments. Issued in Washington, DC, on March 28, 1994. Harold W. Becker, Manager, Airspace_Rules and Aeronautical Information Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7919 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
