FR941202-2-00145 FR941202-2-00098 Constitution Article I_General This Association shall be known as ``The National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Conference'' (NELAC) and is sponsored by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) as a voluntary association of State and Federal Officials for the purpose of establishing standards to consolidate and make more uniform the laboratory accreditation process. Article II_Objectives The objectives of the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Conference are: A. Forum To provide a national forum for the discussion of all questions related to standards for environmental laboratory accreditation by officials of the Federal Government and regulatory officials of the States, Commonwealths, Territories and Possessions of the United States, their political subdivisions, and the District of Columbia. B. Mechanism To provide a mechanism to establish policy and coordinate activities within the Conference on matters of national and international significance pertaining to environmental laboratory accreditation standards. C. Consensus To develop a consensus on uniform standards, laws, regulations and specifications for laboratory inspections, procedures, criteria, personnel qualification, testing, administrative procedures and enforcement. D. Uniformity To encourage and promote uniformity of requirements and methods among jurisdictions. E. Cooperation To foster cooperation among regulatory officers and between them and the manufacturing, industrial, business, academic, consumer, and other interests affected by their official activities. Article III_Membership Membership consists of two classes: Active Membership Active membership is limited to officials actively engaged in accreditation of environmental laboratories or environmental program officials who are in the employ of the Government of the United States, the States, the Commonwealths, the Territories, or the Possessions of the United States, or the District of Columbia. Contributors Contributors comprise representatives of laboratories, manufacturers, industry, business, consumers, academia, laboratory associations, industrial associations, laboratory accreditation associations, and other persons who are interested in the objectives and activities of the Conference. Article IV_Officers Section 1_Ex Officio Officers A. Director . The Director of the Environmental Protection Agency National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program is the ex officio Director of the Conference. B. Executive secretary. The Director of the Environmental Protection Agency National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program designates a senior member of the Environmental Protection Agency who is thoroughly conversant with laboratory accreditation to serve the National Conference as its Executive Secretary. Section 2_Elective Officers The Elective officers of the Conference shall be: Chair, Chair-Elect, Past-Chair, Treasurer, and 6 members-at-large to serve on the NELAC Board of Directors. The consecutive reelection of a Chair-Elect is prohibited; the Chair-Elect shall not serve on any committee other than the Board of Directors. Should the Chair-Elect for any reason be unable or unwilling to be installed as Chair, his/her successor shall be elected in the manner prescribed. In this event, the newly elected Chair-Elect shall be installed as Chair. A. Eligibility . 1. Any Active Member in good standing shall be eligible to hold any office provided that the individual meets the other requirements set forth in the Constitution and Bylaws. 2. The Chair-Elect will be elected at the Annual Meeting one year prior to the term of service as Conference Chair. After serving one year as Chair-Elect, the incumbent will succeed to the office of Conference Chair. Only a state official is eligible for election to Chair-Elect. B. Nominations and elections. 1. Nominating committee. The Chair shall appoint a Nominating Committee consisting of the most recent active Past Chair as Committee Chair and six (6) active members, to be geographically representative insofar as possible. 2. Nominations . a. The Nominating Committee shall submit one name for each elective office and present its recommendation as a slate to the Conference.
