FR940628-2-00090 FR940628-2-00069 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34244; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;14] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to its Order and Decorum Regulations June 22, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on March 10, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On March 31, 1994, the Exchange submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change. 1 On June 22, 1994, the Exchange submitted to the Commission Amendment No. 2 to the proposed rule change. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 See letter from General D. O'Connell, Vice President, Market Surveillance, Phlx, to Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, SEC, dated March 30, 1994. Amendment No. 1 clarified that in any instance where an act described in Regulation 4(a) is deemed particularly egregious, or where an individual has established a pattern of order violations, two floor officials may refer the matter to the Business Conduct Committee where additional fines and other sanctions may be imposed pursuant to Phlx Rule 960. 2 See letter from Gerald D. O'Connell, First Vice President, Phlx, to Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, SEC, dated June 22, 1994. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to amend Regulation 4 (``Order'') as follows: (1) to adopt paragraph (b) permitting two Floor Officials to refer particularly egregious or repetitive violations to the Exchange's Business Conduct Committee; (2) to renumber the existing provisions as (a)(i)_(iii); (3) to add to the general prohibition against disorderly conduct a proscription against acting in an indecorous manner which is disruptive to the conduct of business on the trading floor; and (4) to adopt paragraph (a)(iv) imposing a fine ranging from $500 to $1,000 for each instance of abusive, derisive or harassing treatment directed at any person while on the floor, which, in the view of two Floor Officials, could constitute a public embarrassment to the Exchange. 3 3 The text of the proposed amendment was attached as Exhibit B to File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;14 and is available at the locations specified in Item IV. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (a) Purpose
