FR941117-0-00075 FR941117-0-00011 §22.123 Classification of filings as major or minor. Applications and amendments to applications are classified as major or minor. Categories of major and minor filings are listed in section 309 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 309). In general, a major filing is a request for an FCC action that has the potential to affect parties other than the applicant. Filings are minor if they are not classified as major. (a) Ownership or control change. Filings are major if they specify a substantial change in beneficial ownership or control ( de jure or de facto ), unless such change is involuntary or if the filing merely amends an application to reflect a change in ownership or control that has already been approved by the FCC. (b) Developmental. Applications are major if they request a developmental authorization pursuant to §22.409, or a regular authorization for facilities operating under a developmental authorization. (c) Renewal. Applications of renewal of authorizations are major. (d) Environmental. Filings are major if they request authorization for a facility that would have a significant environmental effect, as defined by §§1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter. (e) Paging and Radiotelephone Service. In the Paging and Radiotelephone Service, filings are major if they: (1) Request an authorization that would establish for the filer a new service area or fixed transmission path on a request channel; (2) Request an authorization that would extend the service area of an existing station to include area not served by station(s) authorized to the filer on a requested channel; (3) Request an authorization that would extend the interfering contours of an existing station beyond the composite interfering contours of station(s) authorized to the filer on a request channel; (4) Request an authorization that would increase the effective radiated power or antenna height above average terrain in any azimuth from an existing fixed transmitter authorized to the filer; (5) Request an authorization that would relocate an existing fixed transmitter; (6) Amend a pending application to change a requested channel; (7) Amend a pending application in a way that would extend the service area of a station on a requested channel to include area that_ (i) Would not have been served by that station as previously proposed in the application and_ (ii) Is not already served by the station on the requested channel; (8) Amend a pending application in a way that would extend the interfering contours of a station on a requested channel beyond_ (i) The composite interfering contours of that station as previously proposed in the application and_ (ii) The composite interfering contours of any other stations authorized to the filer on a requested channel; (9) Amend a pending application to increase the proposed effective radiated power or antenna height above average terrain in any azimuth of a fixed transmitter; (10) Amend a pending application to change the location of a fixed transmitter from that previously proposed in the application; or, (11) Amend a pending application for which pre-filing coordination was required ( see §22.150) to change the technical proposal substantially from that which was coordinated with other users. (f) Rural Radiotelephone Service. In the Rural Radiotelephone Service, filings are major if they: (1) Request an authorization for a new central office or subscriber station; (2) Request an authorization that would extend the interfering contours of an existing station beyond the composite interfering contours of station(s) authorized to the filer on a requested channel; (3) Request an authorization that would increase the effective radiated power or antenna height above average terrain in any azimuth from an existing transmitter authorized to the filer; (4) Request an authorization that would relocate an existing transmitter; (5) Amend a pending application to change a requested channel; (6) Amend a pending application in a way that would extend the interfering contours of a station on a requested channel beyond_ (i) The composite interfering contours of that station as previously proposed in the application and_ (ii) The composite interfering contours of any other stations authorized to the filer on a requested channel; or, (7) Amend a pending application to increase the proposed effective radiated power or antenna height above average terrain in any azimuth of a transmitter.
