FR940913-2-00025 FR940913-2-00019 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Information Collection AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of Information Collection. SUMMARY: This information collection will be used to explore two methodological issues: whether survey methods show that nonuse values exist for nonenvironmental goods (e.g., consumer willingness to pay to prevent the job losses of others); and a comparison between alternative survey instruments. See Supplementary Information. DATES: Respondents are requested to submit two copies of all correspondence related to this issue. Information should be submitted within 15 days of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . If you expect that you will be submitting information, but find it difficult to do so within the 15-day time period, please advise the contact, listed below, of your intentions. ADDRESSES: Comments and suggestions should be submitted in writing to: Ms. Peggy Podolak, Office of Economic Analysis and Competition (PO&hyph;61), Office of Policy, Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585, FAX (202) 586&hyph;5391. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests for additional information should be directed to Ms. Peggy Podolak, at the above address, or by telephone at (202) 586&hyph;6430. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of Energy (DOE) is funding a methodological study on nonuse values. A nonuse value is a measure of people's willingness to pay to preserve the mere existence of something even though they never plan to own, use, or directly benefit from it. The first portion of the study addreses whether such values exist for nonenvironmental services, such as jobs of others outside one's community. In the second portion of the study, willingness-to-pay for single items considered individually will be compared to willingness-to-pay for the same items when bundled. These methodological questions will be evaluated in a trade-off context, with the Columbia River Basin in the Pacific Northwest as the subject of the study. This study is being performed solely to address methodological issues surrounding the estimation of nonuse values and will not be used for any other purpose. In particular, DOE seeks to ascertain whether individuals who state positive nonuse values for environmental services also state positive nonuse values for nonenvironmental services and how different survey methods perform to elicit willingness-to-pay valuations. The method used here will be a paper-and-pencil survey administered in a shopping mall in or near Raleigh, North Carolina. Recruiters will approach shoppers and ask if they are willing to take the survey. It will take approximately one-half hour for each of the anticipated 200 respondents to complete the questionnaire, for a total information collection burden of 100 hours. DOE recognizes that the use of the mall-intercept approach which is necessitated by the Department's limited resources for this research entails statistical problems that render problematic any extrapolation of survey results to a population or subpopulation other than the actual individuals sampled. Thus, the results of this survey will be used solely to guide future research and advance the development of methods for estimating nonuse values, and will not be used for policy purposes related to any rulemaking, natural resource damage assessment, or other substantive government program. DOE believes that the practical utility of this research justifies the small burdens it imposes on respondents. Issued in Washington, DC on September 1, 1994. Abraham E. Haspel, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Economic and Environmental Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22606 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
