FR940727-0-00062 FR940727-0-00025 ยง516.12 Service of civil process outside the United States. (a) Process of foreign courts. In foreign countries service of process issued by foreign courts will be made under the law of the place of service, as modified by status of forces agreements, treaties or other agreements. In foreign areas under exclusive U.S. jurisdiction, service of process issued by foreign courts will be made under the law specified by appropriate U.S. authority. (b) Process of Federal courts. Service of process on U.S. citizens or residents may be accomplished under the following provisions: The Hague Convention, reprinted in 28 USCA Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, following Rule 4; Fed. R. Civ. P. 4(i); 28 USC 1781 and 1783; and, the rules of the Federal court concerned. If a DA official receives a request to serve Federal process on a person overseas, he will determine if the individual wishes to accept service voluntarily. Individuals will be permitted to seek counsel. If the person will not accept service voluntarily, the party requesting service will be notified and advised to follow procedures prescribed by the law of the foreign country concerned. (c) Process of state courts. If a DA official receives a request to serve state court process on a person overseas, he will determine if the individual wishes to accept service voluntarily. Individuals will be permitted to seek counsel. If the person will not accept service voluntarily, the party requesting service will be notified and advised to follow procedures prescribed by the law of the foreign country concerned. (See, for example, The Hague Convention, reprinted in 28 USCA Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, following Rule 4). (d) Suits against the United States. DA personnel served with foreign civil process will notify the appropriate SJA or legal adviser, who will return the document to the issuing authority explaining the lack of authority to accept service for the United States. Service on the United States must be made upon DOJ through established diplomatic channels. ยง516.13 Assistance in serving process overseas. (a) Europe. For information and assistance concerning service of process of persons assigned to or accompanying U.S. Forces in Europe, contact the Foreign Law Branch, International Law Division, Office of The Judge Advocate, Headquarters U.S. Army, Europe, and Seventh Army, Unit 29351, (Heidelberg, Germany) APO AE 09014. (b) Korea. For information and assistance concerning service of process of persons assigned to or accompanying U.S. Forces in Korea, contact Staff Judge Advocate, US Forces Korea (Seoul, Republic of Korea), APO AP 96205. (c) Panama, Central and South America. For information and assistance concerning service of process of persons assigned to or accompanying forces in the U.S. Army Southern Command, contact Staff Judge Advocate, HQ, US Army South, Fort Clayton, Panama, APO AA 34004&hyph;5000. ยง516.14 Service of process on DA or Secretary of Army. The Chief, Litigation Division, shall accept service of process for Department of the Army or for the Secretary of the Army in his official capacity. Subpart C_Reporting Legal Proceedings to HQDA ยง516.15 General. (a) Legal proceedings requiring reporting. Actions must be taken upon commencement of litigation or administrative proceedings in which the United States has an interest. Typically, the Secretary of the Army, DA, the United States, or DA personnel are named as defendant in a lawsuit or as respondent in an administrative proceeding. A nonexclusive listing of cases in which the United States has an interest include the following: (1) Suits for damages, injunctive relief, or other action filed against the government or against DA personnel in their official capacity. (2) Suits alleging individual liability arising from performance of official duties by DA personnel. (3) Actions affecting DA operations or activities or which might require official action by DA personnel. (4) Actions arising out of DA contracts, subcontracts, or purchase orders wherein the government might be required to reimburse a contractor for litigation expenses. (5) Bankruptcy proceedings in which the United States or its instrumentalities may have an interest, including bankruptcies involving government contractors. (b) Command and agency responsibility. Commanders and supervisors of Army units, installations, or organizations will ensure reports required by this section are promptly submitted.
