FR940505-1-00335 FR940505-1-00012 Laundry prewash means a product that is designed for application to a fabric prior to laundering and that supplements and contributes to the effectiveness of laundry detergents and/or provides specialized performance. Laundry starch product means a product that is designed for application to a fabric, either during or after laundering, to impart and prolong a crisp, fresh look and may also act to help ease ironing of the fabric. Laundry Starch Product includes, but is not limited to, fabric finish, sizing, and starch. Lawn and garden insecticide means an insecticide product designed primarily to be used in household lawn and garden areas to protect plants from insects or other arthropods. Liquid means a substance or mixture of substances which is capable of a visually detectable flow as determined under ASTM D&hyph;4359&hyph;90. Liquid does not include powders or other materials that are composed entirely of solid particles. LVP compound means any compound which contains at least one carbon atom and has either of the following: a vapor pressure less than 0.1 mm Hg at 20 C; or more than 12 carbon atoms, if the vapor pressure is unknown. Manufacturer means any person who imports, manufactures, assembles, produces, packages, repackages, or relabels a consumer product. Nail polish means any clear or colored coating designed for application to the fingernails or toenails and including but not limited to, lacquers, enamels, acrylics, base coats and top coats. Nail polish remover means a product designed to remove nail polish and coatings from fingernails or toenails. Non-carbon containing compound means any compound which does not contain any carbon atoms. Nonresilient flooring means flooring of a mineral content which is not flexible. Nonresilient Flooring includes terrazzo, marble, slate, granite, brick, stone, ceramic tile and concrete. Oven cleaner means any cleaning product designed to clean and to remove dried food deposits from oven walls. Paint means any pigmented liquid, liquefiable, or mastic composition designed for application to a substrate in a thin layer which is converted to an opaque solid film after application and is used for protection, decoration or identification, or to serve some functional purpose such as the filling or concealing of surface irregularities or the modification of light and heat radiation characteristics. Paint stripper means any product designed to strip or remove paint from a substrate without markedly affecting the substrate itself. Person means any individual, corporation, partnership, association, State, municipality, political subdivision of a state; any agency, department, or instrumentality of the United States; and any officer, agent, or employee thereof. Personal fragrance product means any product which is applied to the human body or clothing for the primary purpose of adding a scent or masking a malodor, including cologne, perfume, aftershave, and toilet water. Personal Fragrance Product does not include: products exclusively for human axillae; medicated products designed primarily to alleviate fungal or bacterial growth on feet or other areas of the body; mouthwashes, breath fresheners and deodorizers; lotions, moisturizers, powders or other skin care products used primarily to alleviate skin conditions such as dryness and irritations; products designed exclusively for use on human genitalia; soaps, shampoos, and products primarily used to clean the human body; and fragrance products designed to be used exclusively on non-human animals. Percent-by-weight means the total weight of VOC except those VOCs exempted under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, expressed as a percentage of the total net weight of the product exclusive of the container or package as calculated according to the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.093 where, A=net weight of unit (excluding container and packaging); B=weight of VOCs, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, per unit; and C=weight of VOCs, exempted under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, per unit.
