FR940428-2-00071 FR940428-2-00043 Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of an Environmental Assessment and Receipt of an Application for a Permit To Allow Incidental Take of the Endangered Stephens' Kangaroo Rat by John Laing Homes, Inc., Laguna Hills, CA AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that John Laing Homes, Inc. (Applicant) has applied to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) for an incidental take permit pursuant to section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The application has been assigned permit number PRT&hyph;788945. The requested permit would authorize the incidental take of the endangered Stephens' kangaroo rat ( Dipodomys stephensi ) in the city of Corona, Riverside County, California. The proposed incidental take would occur as a result of grading and construction activities in Stephens' kangaroo rat occupied habitat for a residential development (Tract 22579). The Service also announces the availability of an Environmental Assessment (EA) for the proposed issuance of the incidental take permit. This notice is provided pursuant to section 10(c) of the Act and National Environmental Policy Act regulations (40 CFR 1506.6). DATES: Written comments on the permit application and EA should be received on or before May 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments regarding the application or adequacy of the EA should be addressed to Mr. Gail Kobetich, Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Carlsbad Field Office, 2740 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008. Please refer to permit No. PRT&hyph;788945 when submitting comments. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. John Bradley, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Carlsbad Field Office, 2740 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008 (619&hyph;431&hyph;9440). Individuals wishing copies of the application or EA for review should immediately contact the above individual. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Under section 9 of the Act, ``taking'' of Stephens' kangaroo rats, an endangered species, is prohibited. However, the Service, under limited circumstances, may issue permits to take endangered wildlife species if such taking is incidental to, and not the purpose of, otherwise lawful activities. Regulations governing permits for endangered species are in 50 CFR 17.22. The Applicant proposes to implement a Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) for the Stephens' kangaroo rat that will allow clearing, grading and construction of a residential development (Tract 22579), in the city of Corona, Riverside County, California. The permit would authorize the destruction of up to 10.4 acres of occupied Stephens' kangaroo rat habitat, which is estimated to include approximately 15 Stephens' kangaroo rats. The permit would be in effect for five years. The application includes an HCP and Implementation Agreement. The Applicant proposes to mitigate for the incidental take prior to site disturbance by: (1) Acquiring 10.4 acres of occupied Stephens' kangaroo rat habitat within a Stephens' kangaroo rat Study Area administered by the Riverside County Habitat Conservation Agency (RCHCA) to be managed in perpetuity to benefit the Stephens' kangaroo rat; (2) implementing this requirement by payment of $91,000 to the RCHCA for the habitat acquisition; (3) paying $9,100 to the RCHCA for the long-term management of the acquired habitat; and (4) providing evidence confirming acquisition of the habitat within 180 days of payment of the mitigation fee. The EA considers the environmental consequences of five alternatives, including the proposed action and no-action alternatives. The proposed action is the issuance of a permit under section 10(a) of the Act that would authorize removal of 10.4 acres of Stephens' kangaroo rat habitat during the residential development. The proposed action would result in minimizing incidental take by limitations on and monitoring of proposed construction activities. Mitigation under proposed action would enhance Stephens' kangaroo rat conservation by the acquisition and management of 10.4 acres of occupied habitat to be managed for the Stephens' kangaroo rat. Under the no-action alternative, the project would not occur and the permit would not be issued. The present habitat fragmentation and isolation due to off-road vehicle use, surrounding development, and other on-site disturbances would remain under the no-action alternative, and the Stephens' kangaroo rat population on the site likely would disappear in time. In addition, proposed funding for acquisition of habitat within the RCHCA reserve areas would not be available. The third alternative is to completely avoid occupied habitat on the project site. A fourth alternative is to trap and relocate Stephens' kangaroo rats as a means of avoiding the killing or serious injury of the animals. The fifth alternative is to obtain a take allocation from the city of Corona as a co-permittee to the existing RCHCA section 10(a) incidental take permit and HCP. (Notice: Availability of an Environmental Assessment and Receipt of an Application for a Section 10(a) Permit of the Endangered Species Act) Dated: April 19, 1994. Marvin L. Plenert, Regional Director, Region 1, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10114 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
