FR941021-1-00048 FR941021-1-00009 Applications, Certificates, Logbooks, Reports, and Records: Falsification, Reproduction, or Alteration Section 67.20(a) (proposed §67.403(a)) of the FAR provides the regulatory basis for enforcement action when an applicant or airman falsifies a medical certification document. In current §67.20(b), consequences for violating paragraph (a) include suspension or revocation of all airman, ground instructor, and medical certificates and ratings held by that person. Although present paragraph (a)(1) provides explicitly only for suspension or revocation for fraudulent or intentionally false statements on any application for a medical certificate, the FAA has denied the medical certificate applied for in such cases. If the FAA interpreted the current regulation narrowly, it would have to issue a medical certificate and then revoke it in cases where the person has falsified the application. The proposed revision of these requirements (proposed §67.403) provides explicitly for denial of an application for medical certification, as well as for suspension or revocation of all airman, ground instructor, and medical certificates and ratings held by that person, if the person makes a fraudulent or intentionally false statement or entry on the application or other document required to be kept, made, or used to show compliance with any requirement for any medical certificate under part 67. A new paragraph (c) has been added to proposed §67.403 to allow the FAA the option of denying, suspending, or revoking an airman medical certificate if any incorrect statement or entry has been made, even if the person did not knowingly make the incorrect statement or entry. Medical certification based on incorrect medical data may be inappropriate in the light of the true data. Proposed §67.403 also prohibits fraudulent or intentionally false statements or incorrect statements or entries in connection with any Authorization or SODA. In addition, proposed §67.401, which sets out the procedures for Authorizations and SODA's, specifically lists the making of a fraudulent or intentionally false statement or an incorrect statement as grounds for withdrawal of an Authorization or SODA. Certification Procedures, Applicability, and Medical Examinations No substantive changes are proposed for present §67.23 of the FAR (proposed §67.405). Current §67.21 is deleted because it is unnecessary under the new reorganization. Delegation of Authority This section (current §67.25; proposed §67.407) would be amended to substitute the current term ``Manager'' for ``Chief'' in the delegation of authority to the Manager, Aeromedical Certification Division, Civil Aeromedical Institute. It also would be amended to add issuance, renewal, denial, and withdrawal of Authorizations and SODA's to the authority delegated by the Administrator to the Federal Air Surgeon. Denial of Medical Certificate Current §67.27 of the FAR (proposed §67.409), Denial of Medical Certificate, is proposed for amendment only to substitute current terminology and the address for the Manager, Aeromedical Certification Division, and to remove gender-specific pronouns. Medical Records The FAA proposes to amend §67.31 of the FAR (proposed §67.413(a)) to change the word ``refuses'' to ``fails'' to make it clear that there need not be an actual refusal by an applicant or holder of a medical certificate to furnish requested information to trigger a suspension, modification, or revocation of a medical certificate. Failure to provide the requested information is sufficient cause for the Administrator to act. A new sentence would be added to this section (§67.413(b)) to make it clear that submission of requested information does not automatically lead to issuance of a medical certificate. A determination by the Federal Air Surgeon that the person meets applicable medical standards is needed before a certificate will be issued. The FAA also proposes to remove gender-specific pronouns and to substitute the more appropriate word, ``physician'' for the word ``doctor.''
