FR940418-1-00019 FR940418-1-00004 Subpart D_Transitional Relief Measures §135.31 Vessels eligible for transitional relief measures. To be eligible for the transitional relief measures as specified in §135.13(b), a vessel must have made a transit of the Panama Canal between March 23, 1976 and September 30, 1994, inclusive, and not have had a significant structural change as defined in §135.14(c) since the last transit during the above period. Any significant structural change made after the granting of transitional relief measures will disqualify a vessel for further relief, and the vessel will be handled in accordance with the provisions of §135.13(a). Transitional relief measures are applied to the vessel during its entire active service life as long as the vessel does not undergo a significant structural change. Vessels eligible for transitional relief measures will present their existing Panama Canal Tonnage Certificate on their first transit after October 1, 1994. Vessels eligible for relief measures will not be required to present an ITC 69 or any other total volume certification. Subpart E_Alternative Method for Measurement of Vessels §135.41 Measurement of vessels when volume information is not available. When an ITC 69 or suitable substitute is not presented or the certificate or substitute presented does not have an accuracy acceptable to the Commission, vessels will be measured in a manner that will include the entire cubical contents as required by the definition of total volume and enclosed spaces. The Commission will endeavor to determine an accurate total volume of the vessel using the best information available at the time of the determination. The total volume shall be calculated by generally accepted methods for the space concerned and with an accuracy acceptable to the Commission. §135.42 Measurement of ships when tonnage cannot be otherwise ascertained. (a) Vessels without an ITC 69, a suitable substitute or documentation from which to calculate total volume shall be measured as follows. (1) The volume of structures above the upper deck may be determined by any accepted method or combination of methods. These methods include but are not limited to simple geometric formulas, Simpson's rules, and other standard mathematical formulas. If special procedures are used, they should be identified. In all cases, measurements and calculations should be sufficiently detailed to permit easy review. (2) The volume of the hull below the upper deck (UDV) shall be determined as follows: (i) The formula: UDV = (0.91 × ((LOA × MB) × (D-SLD))) + (SLDISP/1.025)
