FR941110-0-00320 FR941110-0-00019 (a) Workability. The plan must be practically workable, with sound potential for long-term success. Financial viability, including the capability of purchasers to meet the financial obligations of homeownership, is a critical requirement. (b) Legality. The plan must be consistent with law, including the requirements of this part and any other applicable Federal, Tribal, State, and local statutes and regulations, and existing contracts. Subject to the other two criteria stated in this section, any provision that is not contrary to those legal requirements may be included in the plan, at the discretion of the IHA, whether or not expressly authorized in this subpart. (c) Documentation. The plan must be clear and complete enough to serve as a working document for implementation, as well as a basis for HUD review. §905.1005 Resident consultation and involvement. (a) Resident input. In developing a proposed homeownership plan, and in carrying out the plan after HUD approval, the IHA shall consult with residents of the development involved, and with any resident organization that represents them, as necessary and appropriate to provide them with information and a reasonable opportunity to make their views and recommendations known to the IHA. If the plan contemplates sale of units in an entirely vacant development, the IHA shall consult with the IHA-wide resident organization, if any. While the Act gives the IHA sole legal authority for final decisions, as to whether or not to submit a proposed homeownership plan and the content of such a proposal, the IHA shall give residents and their resident organizations full opportunity for input in the homeownership planning process, and full consideration of their concerns and opinions. (b) Resident initiatives. Where individual residents, a Resident Management Corporation (RMC), or another form of resident organization may wish to initiate discussion of a possible homeownership plan, the IHA shall negotiate with them in good faith. Joint development and submission of the plan by the IHA and RMC, or other resident organization, is encouraged. In addition, participation of an RMC or other resident organization in the implementation of the plan is encouraged. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0201). §905.1006 Property that may be sold. (a) Types of property. Subject to the workability criterion of §905.1004(a) (including, for example, consideration of common elements and other characteristics of the property), a homeownership plan may provide for sale of one or more dwellings, along with interests in any common elements, comprising all or a portion of one or more housing developments. A plan may provide for conversion of existing housing to homeownership or for homeownership sale of newly-developed housing. (However, for low-income housing units developed as replacement housing for units demolished or disposed of pursuant to subpart M of this part, that subpart requires that the initial occupants be selected solely on the basis of the requirements governing rental occupancy (or Mutual Help occupancy, if applicable), without reference to any additional homeownership eligibility or selection requirements under this subpart.) Mutual Help or Turnkey III homeownership units may be converted to Section 5(h) homeownership, upon voluntary termination by any existing Mutual Help or Turnkey III homebuyers of their contractual rights and amendment of the ACC, in a form prescribed by HUD. (b) Physical condition of property. The property must meet local code requirements (or, if no local code exists, the housing quality standards established by HUD for the Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Program for Existing Housing, under 24 CFR part 882) and the requirements for elimination of lead-based paint hazards in HUD-associated housing, under subpart C of 24 CFR part 35. When a prospective purchaser with disabilities requests accessible features, the features must be added in accordance with 24 CFR parts 8 and 9. Further, the property must be in good repair, with the major components having a remaining useful life that is sufficient to justify a reasonable expectation that homeownership will be affordable by the purchasers. This standard must be met as a condition for conveyance of a dwelling to an individual purchaser, unless the terms of sale include measures to assure that the work will be completed within a reasonable time after conveyance, not to exceed two years ( e.g ., as a part of a mortgage financing package that provides the purchaser with a home improvement loan or pursuant to a sound sweat equity arrangement). §905.1007 Methods of sale and ownership. (a) Permissible methods. Any appropriate method of sale and ownership may be used, such as fee-simple conveyance of single-family dwellings or conversion of multifamily buildings to resident-owned cooperatives or condominiums. (b) Direct or indirect sale. An IHA may sell dwellings to residents directly or (with respect to multifamily buildings or a group of single-family dwellings) through another entity established and governed by, and solely composed of, residents of the IHA's low-income housing, provided that: (1) The other entity has the necessary legal capacity and practical capability to carry out its responsibilities under the plan. (2) The respective rights and obligations of the IHA and the other entity will be specified by a written agreement that includes: (i) Assurances that the other entity will comply with all provisions of the HUD-approved homeownership plan; (ii) Assurances that the IHA's conveyance of the property to the other entity will be subject to a title restriction providing that the property may be resold or otherwise transferred only by conveyance of individual dwellings to eligible residents, in accordance with the HUD-approved homeownership plan, or by reconveyance to the IHA, and that the property will not be encumbered by the other entity without the written consent of the IHA; (iii) Protection against fraud or misuse of funds or other property on the part of the other entity, its employees and agents; (iv) Assurances that the resale proceeds will be used only for the purposes specified by the HUD-approved homeownership plan; (v) Limitation of the other entity's administrative and overhead costs, and of any compensation or profit that may be realized by the entity, to amounts that are reasonable in relation to its responsibilities and risks; (vi) Accountability to the IHA and residents for the recordkeeping, reporting and audit requirements of §905.1017; (vii) Assurances that the other entity will administer its responsibilities under the plan in accordance with applicable civil rights statutes and implementing regulations, as described in §905.115; and (viii) Adequate legal remedies for the IHA and residents, in the event of the other entity's failure to perform in accordance with the agreement. §905.1008 Purchaser eligibility and selection.
