FR940719-2-00043 FR940719-2-00019 Office of the Secretary of the Army Intent To Prepare a Programmatic Draft Environmental Impact Statement (PDEIS) for the Master Plan Update at United State Army Intelligence Center and Fort Huachuca, Arizona AGENCY: Department of Army, DoD ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: United States Army Intelligence Center and Fort Huachuca provides year-round program development and testing facilities, administration, and logistical support to both active and reserve component units from all branches of the armed services. The proposed master plan formalizes the United States Army Intelligence Center and For Huachuca's priorities for intelligence development and testing programs, and developing training ranges, maneuver areas, and facilities over a twenty year period. This plan will prepare the United States Army Intelligence Center and Fort Huachuca to enter the 21st century with the assets required for program development, and to conduct highly realistic, challenging, and safe training to Army Training and Evaluation Program (ARTEP) standards. The installation real property master plan is being updated and requires a supporting PDEIS for the following reasons: a. The master plan update identifies major changes in development for the installation. b. Several projects identified in the master plan update would require individual EIS's because they will potentially cause unavoidable significant impacts to the environment. c. An EA prepared for the installation ongoing mission developed in 1976 is inadequate and in need of revision to reflect current and projected activities. Alternatives a. No action. Installation ongoing operations, development and training would continue at current levels. b. Master plan and component plans would be implemented and current development and testing and training levels would be maintained. Construction listed in the master plan would be implemented. c. Master plan and component plans would be expanded. Development and testing programs would be expanded. Training would be expanded. Construction above the level outlined in the master plan would be implemented to meet total requirements. The installation master plan for intelligence development and testing programs, and training, will be evaluated as occurrences under each of the above alternatives. Lead Agency United States Army Intelligence Center and Fort Huachuca, AZ. Scoping Comments received as a result of this notice will be used to assist in evaluating the impacts of the master plan on the environment, social, historical, archaeological and socioeconomic aspects of the United States Army Intelligence Center and Fort Huachuca and the surrounding area. A scoping meeting will be held in the vicinity of the United States Army Intelligence Center and Fort Huachuca within 30 days of the publication of this NOI. ADDRESSES: Contact Tom Cochran at (602) 544&hyph;3120, or at the following address: Commander, U.S. Army Garrison, ATTN: ATZS&hyph;EHB (Tom Cochran), Fort Huachuca, AZ 85613&hyph;6000. Dated: May 16, 1994. Lewis D. Walker, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Environment, Safety and Occupational Health), OASA (I, L&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12242 Filed 5&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
