FR940811-2-00081 FR940811-2-00049 Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: The records are maintained in magnetic media (e.g., magnetic tape and computer diskettes) and in paper form. Retrievability: Magnetic records may be retrieved by name or UserId number. Paper records are retrieved by UserID number. Safeguards: Physical safeguards are established in accordance with Department standards and National Institute of Standards and Technology guidelines (e.g., security codes will be used, limiting access to authorized personnel. System securities are established in accordance with HHS Information Resource Management (IRM) Circular # 10, Automated Information Systems Security Program, and HCFA Automated Information Systems (AIS) Guide, Systems Security Policies. All HCFA agency employees and contractor personnel will be notified of the confidentiality of the records and of criminal sanctions for unauthorized disclosure of the information. Retention and disposal: HCFA retains hardcopy for 3 years following expiration of an individual's authorized use of HCFA's computerized information and resources. When an individual is no longer authorized access to HCFA's computer resources, their record is deleted from magnetic media. System manager and address: Director, Bureau of Data Management and Strategy, Health Care Financing Administration, Room 1&hyph;A&hyph;1, Security Office Park Building, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207&hyph;5187. Notification procedures: An individual can determine if this system contains a record about him or her and its contents by writing to the system manager at the above address. When requesting notification, the individual should provide his or her name, assigned UserID number, and signature. Further details of the procedure are contained in 45 CFR 5b.5. Record access procedures: Same as notification procedures. Requesters should reasonably specify the records content being sought. They may also request an accounting of disclosures that have been made of their records, if any. Further details of the procedure are contained in 45 CFR 5b.5(a)(2). Contesting records procedure: Same as notification procedures. Requestors should reasonably identify the record, specify the information they are contesting, and state the corrective action sought. The statement should also contain the reasons for the correction with supporting information to show how the record is inaccurate, incomplete, untimely, or irrelevant. Further details of the procedure are contained in 45 CFR 5b.7. Record source categories: User identification (name, work address, work phone number) is provided by HCFA by the individual. HCFA specifies the unique UserID number and the software system(s) authorized for use by the individual. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19579 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;03&hyph;M
