FR940620-1-00049 FR940620-1-00009 (2) The Recipient agrees to adopt or establish operating procedures and physical security measures designed to protect these Data from inadvertent release or disclosure to unauthorized third parties. (3) The Recipient agrees to accept these Data ``as is'' without any Government representation as to suitability for intended use or warranty whatsoever. This disclaimer does not affect any obligation the Government may have regarding Data specified in a contract for the performance of that contract. (4) The Recipient may enter into any agreement directly with the Contractor with respect to the use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of these Data. (5) The Recipient agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Government, its agents, and employees from very claim or liability, including attorneys fees, court costs, and expenses arising out of, or in any way related to, the misuse or unauthorized modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure of Data received from the Government with restrictive legends by the Recipient or any person to whom the Recipient has released or disclosed the Data. (6) The Recipient is executing this Agreement for the benefit of the Contractor. The Contractor is a third party beneficiary of this Agreement who, in addition to any other rights it may have, is intended to have the rights of direct action against the Recipient or any other person to whom the Recipient has released or disclosed the Data, to seek damages from any breach of this Agreement or to otherwise enforce this Agreement. (7) The Recipient agrees to destroy these Data, and all copies of the Data in its possession, no later than 30 days after the date shown in paragraph (8) of this Agreement, to have all persons to whom it released the Data do so by that date, and to notify the Contractor that the Data have been destroyed. (8) This Agreement shall be effective for the period commencing with the Recipient's execution of the Agreement and ending upon XXXX (Insert Date) XXXX . The obligations imposed by this agreement shall survive the expiration or termination of this agreement. XXXXXXXXXXXX Recipient's Business Name By XXXXXXXXXXXX Authorized Representative XXXXXXXXXXXX Representative's Typed Name and Title Date:
