FR940223-2-00170 FR940223-2-00097 (2) Oral argument shall be subject to the time constraints set by the panel and shall, unless the panel otherwise orders, be presented in the following order: (a) the complainants and any participant who filed a brief in support of the allegations set out in a Complaint or partly in support of the allegations set out in a Complaint and partly in opposition to the allegations set out in a Complaint; (b) the investigating authority and any participant who filed a brief in opposition to the allegations set out in a Complaint, other than a participant referred to in subrule (a); and (c) argument in reply, at the discretion of the panel. (3) If a participant fails to appear at oral argument, the panel may hear argument on behalf of the participants who are present. If no participant appears, the panel may decide the case on the basis of briefs. (4) Oral argument on behalf of a participant on a motion or at a hearing shall be conducted by the counsel of record for that participant or, where the participant is an individual appearing pro se, by the participant. (5) Oral argument shall be limited to the issues in dispute. Subsequent Authorities 68. (1) A participant who has filed a brief may bring to the attention of the panel, (a) at any time before the conclusion of oral argument, an authority that is relevant to the panel review; (b) at any time after the conclusion of oral argument and before the panel has issued its decision, (i) an authority that was reported subsequent to the conclusion of oral argument, or (ii) with the leave of the panel, an authority that is relevant to the panel review and that came to the attention of counsel of record after the conclusion of oral argument, by filing with the responsible Secretariat a written request, setting out the citation of the decision or judgment, the page reference of the brief of the participant to which the decision or judgment relates and a concise statement, of no more than one page in length, of the relevance of the decision or judgment. (2) A request referred to in subrule (1) shall be filed as soon as possible after the issuance of the decision or judgment by the court. (3) Where a request referred to in subrule (1) is filed with the responsible Secretariat, any other participant may, within five days after the date on which the request was filed, file a concise statement, of no more than one page in length, in response. Oral Proceedings in Camera 69. During that part of oral proceedings in which proprietary information or privileged information is presented, a panel shall not permit any person other than the following persons to be present: (a) the person presenting the proprietary information or privileged information; (b) a person who has been granted access to the proprietary information or privileged information under a Proprietary Information Access Order or an order of the panel; (c) in the case of privileged information, a person as to whom the confidentiality of the privileged information has been waived; and (d) officials of, and counsel for, the investigating authority. Part VII_Decisions and Completions of Panel Reviews Orders, Decisions and Terminations 70. The responsible Secretary shall cause notice of every decision of a panel issued pursuant to rule 72 to be published in the official publications of the involved Parties. 71. (1) Where a Notice of Motion requesting dismissal of a panel review is filed by a participant, the panel may issue an order dismissing the panel review. (2) Where a Notice of Motion requesting termination of a panel review is filed by a participant and is consented to by all the participants, and an affidavit to that effect is filed, or where all participants file Notices of Motion requesting termination, the panel review is terminated and, if a panel has been appointed, the panelists are discharged. 72. A panel shall issue a written decision with reasons, together with any dissenting or concurring opinions of the panelists, in accordance with Article 1904.8 of the Agreement. The decision will normally be released by noon on the date of issuance. Panel Review of Action on Remand 73. (1) An investigating authority shall give notice of the action taken pursuant to a remand of the panel by filing with the responsible Secretariat a Determination on Remand within the time specified by the panel. (2) If, on remand, the investigating authority has supplemented the administrative record, (a) the investigating authority shall file with the responsible Secretariat an Index listing each item in the supplementary remand record, and a copy of each non-privileged item listed in that Index, within five days after the date on which the investigating authority filed the Determination on Remand with the panel; (b) any participant who intends to challenge the Determination on Remand shall file a written submission with respect to the Determination on Remand within 20 days after the date on which the investigating authority filed the Index and supplementary remand record; and
