FR940810-0-00114 FR940810-0-00021 Various participants asked OSHA to require an employer to adopt and operations and management (O&M) program to protect custodial and maintenance workers. The Agency notes that the 1986 standard contained, in non-mandatory Appendix G, such a program, which listed precautionary actions which the Agency recommended. OSHA has not adopted an explicit O&M program requirement in these standards. Rather, the Agency has adopted enforceable provisions which cover the major elements of the previous non-mandatory program in the appendix, and of various programs suggested by participants in this rulemaking. For example, the new requirement that maintenance and custodial work be the subject of exposure assessments, [see paragraph (f)(2)], requires the competent person to evaluate operations which may expose employees to asbestos, in order to minimize exposure. The requirement is ``operation'' based; rather than, as in an O&M program, status-based. However, any active disturbance constitutes an operation. Although each ``operation'' must be covered by an exposure assessment, operations can be grouped. Cleaning up debris in an area containing deteriorating ACM on a daily basis, need not be evaluated each day. An assessment of such activity can be made on a general basis, covering procedures for wet sweeping and vacuuming, disposal, and instructions to detect deterioration of material which contributes to the debris. Additionally, labelling of ACM and PACM usually considered part of an O&M program, is separately required, as is training of custodial workers. Specific jobs may require specific instructions; the breadth of some are indicated by O&M documents generated by the EPA ``Green Book'' (Ex. 1&hyph;183, EPA 20T&hyph;2003, July 1990 and NIBS Ex. 1&hyph;371). OSHA believes that competent person supervision of activities under this standard will provide appropriate work practices to be followed for relatively small, less hazardous exposure situations. The Agency is requiring however, in the training provisions, that when Class III and IV workers are trained, that the contents of the EPA or state approved courses for such workers, as the relate to the work to be performed, be part of the required training material [paragraph (k)(v)(D)]. The issue of passive exposure, that is where active contact or disturbance of ACM is not a contributing factor to asbestos fiber release, is covered by the various notification and identification provisions in the standard which will allow employees to identify asbestos-containing material. These are discussed later in this preamble. In OSHA's expert view, these provisions constitute major components of operations and maintenance programs recommended; are aimed at the more significant sources of exposure for custodial workers, and most importantly, are enforceable. For all these reasons, OSHA believes an explicit requirement for an O&M program, such as suggested by AFSCME (Ex. 141 at 36), would add little benefit to employee health (see e.g., Tr.3500). In each standard, OSHA is requiring specific work practices and a choice of engineeromg cpmtrp; however, OSHA is aware that some asbestos control systems may be patented. OSHA has not considered the existence of patents or their validity in evaluating the need for those controls. OSHA believes that all employers will have a variety of controls available to them and that new types could be developed.
