FR940505-1-00365 FR940505-1-00012 ( 3 ) All information needed to demonstrate continuous compliance with paragraph (a)(3)(v) of this section, such as temperatures, pressures, and flowrates; and ( 4 ) Maintain records of the daily volume of each VOC-containing solvent subject to abatement by add-on control equipment. (D) Maintain records sufficient to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (a)(3)(iv)(B) of this section including, but not limited to: ( 1 ) Date; ( 2 ) Source of waste (e.g., ``waste solvent from cold cleaner''); ( 3 ) Description of waste (e.g., ``rags in two 55 gallon drums with 5&hyph;10% liquid''); ( 4 ) Amount of solvent in waste shipment; and ( 5 ) Destination of each shipment of waste solvent and/or waste solvent residues off-site. (E) All records shall be maintained for at least five years and shall be provided to EPA upon request. (6) Test Methods. For the purpose of this section, the following test methods shall be used. VOC emissions or other parameters determined to exceed any limits established by this section through the use of any of the following test methods shall constitute a violation of the section. (i) The VOC content of materials subject to the provisions of this section shall be determined by EPA Method 24 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (ii) The efficiency of the collection device of the emissions control system, as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(v)(A) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at ยง52.741(a)(4)(iii). (iii) The efficiency of the control device of the emission control system, as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(v)(B) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at ยง52.741(a)(4)(iv). The VOC content measured and calculated as carbon in the control device exhaust gases shall be determined by EPA Method 25 or 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (iv) The identity of components in solvents shall be determined by EPA Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (v) Vapor pressure of a VOC shall be determined by ASTM Method D2879&hyph;86 or may be obtained from a published source such as: Boublik, T., V. Fried and E. Hala, ``The Vapor Pressure of Pure Substances,'' Elsevier Scientific Publishing Co., New York (1973); Perry's Chemical Engineer's Handbook, McGraw-Hill Book Company (1984); CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, Chemical Rubber Publishing Company (1986&hyph;87); and Lange's Handbook of Chemistry, John A. Dean, editor, McGraw-Hill Book Company (1985). (b) Wood Products Coatings. (1) Applicability. This section applies to all persons applying coating, inks, stains, and/or strippers in wood product coating operations for the purpose of manufacture of wood products, including furniture and other coated objects made of solid wood and/or wood composition, and/or simulated wood material. This section shall not apply to residential noncommercial operations. For the purposes of this section, the affected area is the Sacramento Metro Area for ozone and the Ventura County Area for ozone as described in ยง81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Aerosol-spray coating means a coating which is sold in a hand-held, pressurized, non-refillable container of sixteen ounces or less and which is expelled from the container in a finely divided spray when a valve on the container is depressed. Binders means non-volatile polymeric organic materials (resins) which form the surface film in coating applications. Clean topcoat means a final coating which contains binders, but not opaque pigments, and is specifically formulated to form a transparent or translucent solid protective film. Coating means a material which is applied to a surface and which forms a film in order to beautify and/or protect such surface. Dip coat means to dip an object into a vat of coating material and drain off any excess coating. Electrostatic application means charging of atomized paint droplets for deposition by electrostatic attraction.
