FR940505-1-00378 FR940505-1-00012 Drum means any cylindrical metal shipping container larger than 12 gallons capacity but no larger than 110 gallons capacity. End sealing compound means a compound which is coated onto can ends and which functions as a gasket when the end is assembled onto the can. Exterior base coating means a coating applied to the exterior of a can body, end, or flat sheet to provide protection to the metal or to provide background for any lithographic or printing operations. Exterior end coating means a coating applied to the exterior end of a can to provide protection to the metal. Food/beverage can means a metal container in which food or beverages intended for human or animal consumption are packaged. Hand application method means the application of coating by manually held, non-automatic equipment. Such equipment includes paint brush, hand roller, trowel, spatula, dauber, rag, and sponge. High-volume, low-pressure (HVLP) spray means a coating application system which is designed to be operated at air and fluid supply pressures to the gun of between 0.1 and 10.0 pounds per square inch gauge (psig). Ink means any coating used in any operation that imparts color, design, alphabet, or numerals on an exterior surface of a metal container, metal closure, or metal coil. Interior base coating means a coating applied to the interior of a can body, end, or flat sheet to provide a protective lining between the product and the can. Interior body spray means a coating sprayed on the interior of the can body to provide a protective film between the product and the can. Metal container, metal closure, and metal coil coating means any coating containing organic materials and applied by spray, roller, or other means to the inside and/or outside surfaces of metal cans, drums, pails, lids, closures, or to the surface of flat metal sheets, strips, rolls, or coils for further industrial or commercial use. Necker lubricant means any fluid or solid lubricant applied to a can forming tool to reduce friction while reducing the can diameter to form a neck. Overvarnish means a coating applied directly over a design coating to reduce the coefficient of friction, to provide gloss, and to protect the finish against abrasion and corrosion. Pail means any cylindrical metal shipping container of from 1-gallon to 12-gallon capacity and constructed of 29 gauge or heavier material. Solvent cleaning operation means the removal of loosely held uncured adhesives, uncured inks, uncured coatings, and contaminants which include, but are not limited to, dirt, soil, and grease from parts, products, tools, machinery, equipment, and general work areas. Each distinct method of cleaning in a cleaning process which consists of a series of cleaning methods shall constitute a separate solvent cleaning operation.
