FR940928-2-00115 FR940928-2-00067 The proposed removal of this channel check requirement would not affect the availability of the trip function associated with the ``Reactor Vessel Steam Dome Pressure_High'' instrument, since the status of the channels is monitored by existing annunciators. This ensures the instruments remain capable of performing their intended function. 2. Does the amendment create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated? The proposed change does not involve a physical modification to the facility or its equipment, nor does it result in a change in the reliability of the equipment. The proposed change does not, therefore, create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. 3. Does the amendment involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety? The margin of safety associated with not performing channel checks on the ``Reactor Vessel Steam Dome Pressure_High'' instrument is defined by the plant response to accidents that depend on this instrument, which in turn is dependent on the likelihood of availability of the trip function associated with this instrument. The proposed change does not affect the availability of this instrument, since the operators have continuous indication of the instrument's availability. Thus, the amendment does not affect the margin of safety. Based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Richland Public Library, 955 Northgate Street, Richland, Washington 99352. Attorney for licensee: M. H. Philips, Jr., Esq., Winston & Strawn, 1400 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005&hyph;3502. NRC Project Director: Theodore R. Quay. Wisconsin Public Service Corporation, Docket No. 50&hyph;305, Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant, Kewaunee County, Wisconsin Date of amendment request: April 11, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise Kewaunee Nuclear Power Plant (KNPP) Technical Specification (TS) 3.1.f, ``Minimum Conditions for Criticality,'' in preparation for the licensee's extension of the fuel cycle from 12 to 18 months. The proposed amendment would revise TS 3.1.f to specify that the moderator temperature coefficient (MTC) shall be no greater than 5.0 pcm/ ○F when at or below 60% rated thermal power and shall be zero or negative when above 60% rated thermal power. The proposed amendment also incorporates required actions to be implemented if the MTC specification is not met. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration which is presented below: Significant Hazards Determination for Proposed Changes to TS 3.1.f This change is being proposed in accordance with the provisions of 10 CFR 50.92 to show that no significant hazards exist. The proposed change will not: (1) Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Moderator temperature coefficient (MTC) is a physical characteristic of the reactor core which affects the reactor's response to transients. The MTC is not an accident initiator, therefore changing the allowed MTC to 5.0 pcm/ ○F at or below 60% power, does not increase the probability of an accident previously evaluated. To verify that an increased MTC would not increase the consequences of a previously evaluated accident, Wisconsin Public Service Corporation (WPSC) reanalyzed the bounding MTC-related events found in Kewaunee's Updated Safety Analysis Report (USAR). Those events are: 1. Uncontrolled Rod Withdrawal at Intermediate Power (USAR Section 14.1.2) 2. Rod Ejection at Hot Zero Power, Beginning of Cycle (USAR Section 14.2.6) 3. Loss of External Electrical Load, Beginning of Cycle (USAR Section 14.1.9) 4. Uncontrolled Boron Dilution (USAR Section 14.1.4) 5. Loss of Reactor Coolant Flow, Locked Rotor (USAR Section 14.1.8) 6. Loss of Reactor Coolant Flow, Both Pumps Trip (USAR Section 14.1.8) Events numbered 1, 3, 4, 5, and 6 above were reanalyzed to verify that the departure from nuclear boiling ratio (DNBR) would not fall below the acceptance criterion of 1.300. In all five cases, an assumed MTC value of 5.0 pcm/ ○F at or below 60% power increased the calculated DNBR value from the current USAR analyses. Therefore the existing analyses associated with DNBR remain bounding. Event number 2 above was reanalyzed to ensure Kewaunee's peak clad temperature (PCT) would not exceed the required acceptance criterion of 2700 ○F. When this accident was reanalyzed using the positive MTC value of 5.0 pcm/ ○F, the calculated PCT exceeded 2700 ○F. Therefore it was necessary to decrease the allowable hot channel factor (FQ) from 9.0 to 8.2. This change in allowable FQ reduces a bounding value for future Kewaunee core designs and does not have an adverse effect on plant safety limits or settings. This FQ limit reduction for the accident of Rod Ejection at Hot Zero Power, Beginning of Cycle, will be incorporated into the WPSC Reload Safety Methodology and Kewaunee's USAR. The results of the analysis using a FQ of 8.2 and a MTC value of 5.0 pcm/ ○F indicate a lower PCT than the previously bounding case. In addition, WPSC reviewed the effects of this change on Kewaunee's anticipated transient without scram (ATWS) analysis. This review demonstrated that the ATWS analysis was found to include assumptions bounding Kewaunee's proposed MTC limits.
