FR941207-0-00145 FR941207-0-00022 (d) Small Business Owned by Members of Minority Groups and/or Women: Consortium of Small Businesses Owned by Members of Minority and/or Women. A Small business owned by members of minority groups and/or women is an entity that meets the definitions in both paragraphs (b) ad (c) of this section. A consortium of small businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women is a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture between mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definitions in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. (e) Rural Telephone Company. A rural telephone company is a local exchange carrier having 100,000 or fewer access lines, including all affiliates. (f) Gross Revenues. Gross revenues shall mean all income received by an entity, whether earned or passive, before any deductions are made for costs of doing business ( e.g. cost of goods sold), as evidenced by audited financial statements for the relevant number of calendar years preceding January 1, 1994, or, if audited financial statements were not prepared on a calendar-year basis, for the most recently completed fiscal years preceding the filing of the applicant's short-form application (Form 175). For applications filed after June 30, 1995, gross revenues shall be evidenced by audited financial statements for the preceding relevant number of calendar or fiscal years. If an entity was not in existence for all or part of the relevant period, gross revenues shall be evidenced by the audited financial statements of the entity's predecessor-in-interest or, if there is no identifiable predecessor-in-interest, unaudited financial statements certified by the applicant as accurate. (g) Total assets. Total assets shall mean the book value (except where generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) require market valuation) of all property owned by an entity, whether real or personal, tangible or intangible, as evidenced by the most recent audited financial statements. (h) Institutional Investor. An institutional investor is an insurance company, a bank holding stock in trust accounts through its trust department, or an investment company as defined in 15 U.S.C. 80a&hyph;3(a), without reference to, or incorporation of, the exemptions set forth in 15 U.S.C. 80a&hyph;3(b) and (c); provided that, if such investment company is owned, in whole or in part, by other entities, such investment company, such other entities and the affiliates of such other entities, taken as a whole, must be primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities or in distributing or providing investment management services for securities. (i) Members of Minority Groups. Members of minority groups includes Blacks, Hispanics, American Indians, Alaskan Natives, Asians, and Pacific Islanders. (j) Nonattributable Equity. (1) Nonattributable equity shall mean: (i) For corporations, voting stock or non-voting stock that includes no more than twenty-five percent of the total voting equity, including the right to vote such stock through a voting trust or other arrangement; (ii) For partnerships, joint ventures and other non-corporate entities, limited partnership interests and similar interests that do not afford the power to exercise control of the entity. (2) For purposes of assessing compliance with the equity limits in ยง24.709(b)(3)(i) and (b)(4)(i), where such interests are not held directly in the applicant, the total equity held by a person or entity shall be determined by successive multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the vertical ownership chain. (k) Control Group. A control group is an entity, or a group of individuals or entities, that possesses de jure control and de facto control of an applicant or licensee, and as to which the applicant's or licensee's charters, bylaws, agreements and any other relevant documents (and amendments thereto) provide: (1) That the entity and/or its members own unconditionally at least 50.1 percent of the total voting interests of a corporation; (2) That the entity and/or its members receive at least 50.1 percent of the annual distribution or any dividends paid on the voting stock of a corporation; (3) That, in the event of dissolution or liquidation of a corporation, the entity and/or or its members are entitled to receive 100 percent of the value of each share of stock in its possession and a percentage of the retained earnings of the concern that is equivalent to the amount of equity held in the corporation; and (4) That, for other types of businesses, the entity and/or its members have the right to receive dividends, profits and regular and liquidating distributions from the business in proportion to the amount of equity held in the business. Note to paragraph (k): Voting control does not always assure de facto control, such as for example, when the voting stock of the control group is widely dispersed ( see e.g., ยง24.720(1)(2)(iii). (l) Affiliate. (1) Basis for Affiliation. An individual or entity is an affiliate of an applicant or of a person holding an attributable interest in an applicant (both referred to herein as ``the applicant'') if such individual or entity: (i) Directly or indirectly controls or has the power to control the applicant, or (ii) Is directly or indirectly controlled by the applicant, or (iii) Is directly or indirectly controlled by a third party or parties that also controls or has the power to control the applicant, or (iv) Has an ``identity of interest'' with the applicant. (2) Nature of control in determining affiliation. (i) Every business concern is considered to have one or more parties who directly or indirectly control or have the power to control it. Control may be affirmative or negative and it is immaterial whether it is exercised so long as the power to control exists. Example for paragraph (l)(2)(i). An applicant owning 50 percent of the voting stock of another concern would have negative power to control such concern since such party can block any action of the other stockholders. Also, the bylaws of a corporation may permit a stockholder with less than 50 percent of the voting to block any actions taken by the other stockholders in the other entity. Affiliation exists when the applicant has the power to control a concern while at the same time another person, or persons, are in control of the concern at the will of the party or parties with the power of control. (ii) Control can arise through stock ownership; occupancy of director, officer or key employee positions; contractual or other business relations; or combinations of these and other factors. A key employee is an employee who, because of his/her position in the concern, has a critical influence in or substantive control over the operations or management of the concern.
