FR940922-2-00027 FR940922-2-00008 Program Description NIST sponsors these grants to encourage basic, measurement-related research in U.S. colleges and universities and to foster contacts between NIST scientists and those researchers in the U.S. academic community who are actively engaged in such work. The Precision Measurement Grants are also intended to make it possible for workers in U.S. academic institutions to pursue new measurement ideas for which other sources of support may be difficult to find. Matching Requirements The Precision Management Grants Program does not involve the payment of any matching funds and does not directly affect any state or local government. Research Topics There is considerable latitude in the kind of research projects that will be considered for support under the Precision Measurement Grants Program. The key requirement is that they are consistent with NIST's mission in the field of basic measurement science, for example: (1) Experimental and theoretical studies of fundamental physical phenomena to test the basic laws of physics or which may lead to improved or new fundamental measurement methods and standards. (2) The determination of important fundamental physical constants. (3) The development of new standards for physical measurement of the highest possible precision and accuracy. In general, proposals for experimental research will be given preference over proposals for theoretical research because of the greater expense of experimental work. Proposals from workers at the assistant and associate professor level who have some record of accomplishment are especially encouraged in view of the comparative difficulty aspiring researchers have in obtaining funds. Typical projects which have been funded through the NIST Precision Measurement Grants Program include: ``Measurement of Fundamental Constants Using Three-Level Resonances in Hydrogen,'' Carl E. Wieman, University of Michigan. ``Quantum Limited Measurement of a Harmonic Oscillator,'' William C. Oelfke, University of Central Florida. ``Fine-Structure Constant Determination Using Precision Stark Spectroscopy,'' Michael G. Littman, Princeton University. ``Eötvös Experiment-Cryogenic Version,'' D.F. Bartlett, University of Colorado. ``A Test of Local Lorentz Invariance Using Polarized 21Ne Nuclei,'' T.E. Chupp, Harvard University. ``A New Method to Search for an Electric dipole Moment of the Electron,'' L.R. Hunter, Amherst College. ``High Precision Timing of Millisecond Pulsars,'' D.R. Stinebring, Princeton University. ``Precision Optical Spectroscopy of Positronium,'' S. Chu, Stanford University. ``Quantum-Limited Cooling and Detection with Stored Ions,'' D.J. Heinzen, University of Texas/Austin. Eligibility Eligible applicants under the Precision Measurement Grants Program are limited to U.S. universities and colleges, professional institutes and associations, nonprofit organizations, and State and local governments. Selection Procedure To simplify the proposal writing and evaluation process, the following selection procedure will be used: On the basis of the abbreviated proposals, four to eight semifinalist candidates will be selected by the NIST Precision Measurement Grants Committee and the Outside Review Committee to submit full proposals. The same committees will evaluate the detailed proposals, and on the basis of their evaluation, the two grantees for fiscal year 1996 will be selected. Evaluation Criteria The criteria to be used in evaluating the abbreviated proposals and final proposals include: 1. Importance of the proposed research to science_does it have the potential of answering some currently pressing questions or of opening up a whole new area of activity? 2. The relationship of the proposed research to measurement science_is there a possibility that it will lead to a new or improved fundamental measurement method, basic measurement unit, or physical standard? (Or to a better understanding of important but already existing measurement methods, measurement units, or physical standards?) 3. The feasibility of the research_is it likely that significant progress can be made in a three year time period with the funds and personnel available? 4. The past accomplishments of the applicant_is the quality of the research previously carried out by the prospective grantee such that there is a high probability that the proposed research will be successfully carried out? Each of these factors are given equal weight in the selection process.
