FR940426-1-00099 FR940426-1-00008 Therefore, the Ozone Transport Commission determines that a regional LEV program, the OTC LEV program, is necessary to bring the Ozone Transport Region into attainment by the dates provided in the Clean Air Act; and Furthermore, that by majority vote of the States of the Ozone Transport Commission, as indicated by the attached signature sheet, the Ozone Transport Commission transmits the attached strategy recommendation regarding the OTC LEV program to the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency; and Furthermore that adoption of this recommendation by the Ozone Transport Commission or approval of this recommendation by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency will not require the adoption of California reformulated gasoline standards by any X within the OTR; and Furthermore that as a part of this submittal, the Ozone Transport Commission includes the attached Response to Comments received during the public's opportunity to comment on this matter, and the attached Technical Support Document which addresses the requirements of Section 184(d) of the Clean Air Act; and Furthermore that the Ozone Transport Commission will participate fully in the consultation process on this recommendation with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as provided in Section 1184(c)(3) of the Clean Air Act. Text of February 1, 1994, Recommendation of the Ozone Transport Commission to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency The Ozone Transport Commission (OTC) has developed the following recommendation for an Ozone Transport Commission Low Emission Vehicle (OTC LEV) program which is to be submitted to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under Section 184(c) of the Clean Air Act (CAA). The legal authority for the OTC recommendation is described under Section 184(c)(1) of the Clean Air Act and could result in a Federal requirement for regionwide adoption and enforcement of motor vehicle emission standards available under Section 177 of the Clean Air Act. The recommendation is as follows: Under Section 184(c) of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990, the Ozone Transport Commission hereby recommends adoption of an Ozone Transport Commission Low Emission Vehicle program including the elements described below for the geographic region designated as the Ozone Transport Region, defined as the States of Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, and Vermont, the District of Columbia and that part of Virginia within the Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area which includes the District of Columbia. Adoption of this recommendation by the Ozone Transport Commission or the United States Environmental Protection Agency will not require the adoption of the California Reformulated Gasoline Standards by any State, Commonwealth, or jurisdiction with the Ozone Transport Region. Elements of the Proposed OTC LEV Program Recommendation Pursuant to the requirements of Section 177 of the Clean Air Act, the Ozone Transport Commission Low Emission Vehicle (OTC LEV) program is applicable to all 1999 and subsequent model year passenger cars and light duty trucks (0&hyph;557550 pounds loaded vehicle weight) in the Ozone Transport Region (OTR). Emissions Requirements and Prohibition: No corporation, person or other entity shall sell, import, deliver, purchase, lease, rent, acquire, receive, or register a new vehicle subject to the OTC LEV program in the OTR that has not received a California ARB Executive Order, unless the vehicle is sold directly from one dealer to another dealer, sold for purposes of being wrecked or dismantled, sold exclusively for off-highway use or sold for registration out of the OTR, as well as a vehicle purchased by a nonresident prior to establishing residency or a vehicle transfer by inheritance, decree of divorce, dissolution, or legal separation. Other exceptions would include motor vehicles held for daily lease or rental to the general public or engaged in interstate commerce that are registered and principally operated outside the OTR and motor vehicles defined as test vehicles, emergency vehicles, or qualifying for exemption under Section 43656 of the California Health and Safety Code. The OTC LEV program will allow five categories of vehicles: California Tier I Vehicles, Transitional Low Emission Vehicles (TLEV), Low Emission Vehicles (LEV), Ultra-Low Emission Vehicles (ULEV) and Zero Emission Vehicles (ZEV). Manufacturers may choose any combination of vehicles certified to the above standards, to meet a prescribed fleet emission average standard in the OTR. The effective date for the OTC/state implementation of the OTC LEV program is January 1, 1996. This schedule allows for notice to manufacturers of two vehicle model years and requires sales of cleaner vehicles for the 1999 model year. The OTC LEV program does not affect or preclude States from earlier implementation. This program includes a fleet non-methane organic gases emission average as follows:
