FR940516-2-00127 FR940516-2-00088 Internal Revenue Service Information Reporting Program Advisory Committee; Open Membership Application Period AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Announcement of Open Membership Application Period for the Information Reporting Program Advisory Committee. SUMMARY: In 1991 the IRS established the Information Reporting Program Advisory Committee (IRPAC). The primary purpose of IRPAC is to provide an organized public forum for discussion of relevant information reporting issues between the officials of the IRS and representatives of the payer community. IRPAC offers constructive observations about current or proposed policies, programs, and procedures, and when necessary, suggests ways to improve the operation of the Information Reporting Program. IRPAC is currently comprised of 18 representatives from various segments of the private sector payer community. Four of these appointments to IRPAC will expire at the end of 1994. Additional members will be selected for two-year terms beginning in January 1995. DATES: Completed questionnaires should be received by IRS no later than June 30, 1994. Applications received after this date will not be considered. An acknowledgment letter will be sent upon receipt of each application. ADDRESSES: Internal Revenue Service, CP:EX:I:P, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Room 2013, Washington, DC 20224. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kate LaBuda at 202&hyph;622&hyph;3404 (not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: IRPAC reports to the Executive Director, Information Reporting Program (IRP), who is the executive responsible for information reporting and is charged with its system-wide planning and improvement. IRPAC is instrumental in providing advice to enhance the IRP Program. Increasing participation by external stakeholders in the planning and improvement of the tax system will help achieve the goals of increasing voluntary compliance and reduction of burden. IRPAC members are not paid for their time or services, but consistent with Federal regulations, they will be reimbursed for their travel and lodging expenses to attend a two-day meeting twice each year. The IRS is interested in representation from different areas of the payer community (e.g., real estate, property & casualty insurance, small business, corporate compliance, software development, employee plans, and state & local government, etc.). Anyone wishing to be considered for membership on IRPAC should so advise the IRS. Please complete the following questionnaire and forward it to Ms. Kate LaBuda of the IRP Planning Staff, at the address below. Dated: April 29, 1994. Approved: John Devlin, Executive Director, Information Reporting Program. Information Reporting Program Advisory Committee Membership Application Questionnaire The following questions must be answered by anyone interested in becoming a member of the Information Reporting Program Advisory Committee (IRPAC). Applications must be received in that office by June 30, 1994. Those received after this date will not be considered. All applications received will be acknowledged. Questions should be directed to Kate LaBuda at 202&hyph;622&hyph;3404, and your reply should be returned to: Ms. Kate LaBuda, CP:EX:I:P, Information Reporting Program Planning Staff, Internal Revenue Service, Room 2013, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20224. 1. Name: 2. Title: 3. Company or Organization Name: 4. Business Address: 5. Business Phone: 6. Fax Number: 7. Home Address: 8. Home Phone: 9. If you are applying on behalf of an organization or association other than your employer, please state the name, and address of that organization. Also, provide a letter of reference from that organization stating that you are nominated on their behalf. This letter should contain the name of a contact and this contact's phone number. 10. List professional credentials (e.g., Ph.D., CPA, Enrolled Agent, Attorney, Accountant, etc.) 11. Check the one segment of the Information Reporting Program (IRP) payer community to which the organization that you represent, and your experience, most closely relate: XX Large Financial Institution XX Small Financial Institution XX Real Estate XX Transmitter/Forms Developer XX Software Developer XX Insurance: Property & Casualty XX Insurance: Life XX Securities XX Mutual Funds XX Payroll XX State & Local Government XX Corporate Compliance XX Small Business Compliance XX Public Accounting XX Employee Plans XX Trust Company XX Corporate Transfer Agent/Utilities XX Other (Please specify. XXX ) 12. List the number of years of IRP-related experience you have, and specific sources of this IRP experience. (Account for all years of IRP experience claimed.) 13. Identify organizations to which you belong and any relevant leadership positions you have held. 14. List any previous IRS employment (please state position/s, title/s, and length of time in each position): 15. Please propose two topic ideas that you feel would be appropriate for discussion by IRPAC. Include a short description (two sentences) of each topic. The Following Three Items Are Required for an FBI Name Check. 16. Date of Birth: 17. Place of Birth: 18. Other names ever used: The Following Items Are Required for an IRS Tax Check. (Please Note That a Tax Check Is Not a Tax Audit.) I hereby authorize the Internal Revenue Service to perform the standard Federal Advisory Committee member tax check, (pursuant to 26 U.S.C. 6103; 5 U.S.C. 1303; Executive Orders 9397, 11222, 10450; CFR 5.2; 31 CFR Part O, Treasury Department Order Nos. 82 (Revised) and 150&hyph;87) and to provide this information to the Assistant Secretary (Administration) of the Treasury Department. I understand that the purpose of such tax check and income tax filing record check is to promote public confidence in the integrity of the Treasury Department and its administration of the Federal tax system. I have been advised that my Social Security Number is required to identify my tax records accurately. I also understand that this tax check must be completed prior to my appointment to this Federal Advisory Committee and I hereby voluntarily provide the following information: 19. Social Security Number: 20. Spouse's name and SSN (if married and filing jointly): 21. Name(s) and address(es) under which tax returns were filed for the past three years. The Following Item Is Required Because of the Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA), as Amended. 22. I presently XXX am / XXX am not required to register as an agent of a foreign principal under FARA, as amended. NOTE: Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. sec. 219, an individual who is required to register as an agent of a foreign principal under FARA is prohibited from serving on IRPAC. By executing this questionnaire, you agree that (1) if you are required to register as an agent of a foreign principal under the FARA before your term commences on IRPAC, you will terminate any and all such agencies prior to beginning your tenure and will provide appropriate verification therefor; and (2) you will immediately resign from IRPAC if you become such an agent at any time during your term. Certification 23. I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, all of my statements are true, correct, complete, and made in good faith. I also agree to the background checks set forth herein. Signature Date [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11757 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
