FR940505-1-00313 FR940505-1-00012 (2) Plastic materials, synthetic resins, synthetic rubber, elastomizers, and cellulosic and manmade fibers. (3) Drugs which include, but are not limited to, medicinal chemicals and botanical products, pharmaceutical preparations, in vitro and in vivo diagnostic substances, and biological products. (4) Soaps; detergents; cleaning, polishing, and sanitizing preparations; surface active agents, finishing agents, sulfonated oils, and assistants; and perfumes and cosmetics. (5) Food additives and sweeteners. (6) Paints, varnishes, lacquers, enamels, inks, primers, paint removers, thinners, stains, shellacs, cleaners, putty, coatings, adhesives, fillers, sealants, explosives, and carbon black. (7) Fabricated rubber and miscellaneous plastics products including, but not limited to, tires and inner tubes; rubber and plastics footware, hose, belting, gasket, packing, and sealing devices; and molded, extruded, and lathe-cut mechanical rubber goods. Manufacture means to produce or combine any ingredients contained in any product. Manufacturing process means a process or a series of processes used to convert raw materials, feed stocks, subassemblies, or other components into a product which will be sold, offered for sale, supplied, or distributed or will be used as a component in a subsequent manufacturing process. This definition includes the storage and handling of organic compounds or gases which are used in a manufacturing process and the handling of organic compounds or gases used to clean-up a manufacturing process. (ii) Applicability. (A) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A), (iii)(B), (iv)(A), (v)(A), and (vi)(A) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of a facility which manufactures products containing VOCs located in the control area as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at which total VOC emissions are greater than or equal to 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during any one day. (B) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(iv)(B), (v)(B), and (vi)(B) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of a facility which manufactures products containing VOCs located in the applicable area specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section at which total VOC emissions from all emissions sources are always less than 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during any one day. If uncontrolled VOC emissions from a facility which is exempt from the limitations of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section ever exceed 4.5 kg (10 lbs) during any one day on or after January 1, 2000, the facility will lose its exempt status, and the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B), (iv)(A), (v)(A), and (vi)(A) of this section beginning January 1 of the calendar year following the date of the exceedance. (iii) Specific Provisions. (A) Each owner or operator of a source subject to the FIP VOC emissions cap program as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall submit a VOC emissions reduction compliance plan to the Administrator by January 1, 1999. The plan shall be prepared for the years 2001 through 2005 and shall include all of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) (1) through (5) of this section. Each owner or operator shall submit a revised plan to the Administrator within 30 calendar days of receipt of comments from the Administrator. Each owner or operator shall comply at all times with the provisions of the most recent plan approved by the Administrator. (1) The name, title, address, and telephone number of the owner or operator of the facility, and of each person responsible for preparing the information required under paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. (2) Baseline VOC emissions shall be calculated for each facility. Baseline emissions for each facility shall equal the sum of VOC emissions from all emissions sources at the facility including emissions associated with the use of architectural coatings and clean-up solvents. Baseline emissions shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(xii) and (a)(4)(xiii) of this section. (3) Methods to be employed by the owner or operator to limit VOC emissions from emissions sources to within the emissions level required in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. Methods may include but are not limited to: (i) Installation of capture systems and control devices; (ii) Modifications to increase the efficiency of existing capture systems and/or control devices; (iii) Process modifications and/or substitutions; and (iv) Reduction in operating schedules for one or more emissions sources at the facility. For those facilities choosing to comply through use of reduced operating schedules, operating schedules for baseline emissions levels and for emissions levels starting January 1, 2001, continuing for a period not less than 5 years. (4) Projections of annual VOC emissions for each emissions source through the year 2005 after application of the reduction methods described in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A)(3) of this section. (5) For all sources subject to the FIP cap reduction requirements, all information required as part of the facility's Title V (of the Clean Air Act) operating permit. For sources not subject to Title V, sources shall submit all information which would be required for sources subject to Title V. 21 21 This information shall include, for example, test or demonstration methods used to demonstrate achievement of the VOC emissions reductions required in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. The methods may include but are not limited to: (1) the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, and (2) data and engineering calculations approved by EPA documenting process modifications that were made to reduce VOC emissions. (B) Beginning January 1, 2001, each owner or operator of a facility which is subject to the limitations of this paragraph, as described under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, shall limit total VOC emissions from the subject facility to the level calculated by the following equations: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.068 (See footnote to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) of this section.) where R 2001 =Allowable VOC for all emissions sources at the facility for the year 2001 in units of kg (lbs) per month, R o =Baseline VOC emissions in units of kg (lbs) per month for each emissions source at the facility. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) (2) of this section.
