FR940831-2-00152 FR940831-2-00106 3.4␣Goods & Services Data Collection Procedures 3.4.1␣Data Collection Materials The living-cost surveys conform with the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act and are approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). Runzheimer collected data with OMB-approved data collection materials (see Appendix 5). All Runzheimer-developed worksheets conformed to the OMB-approved materials. 3.4.2␣Outlet Selection Proper outlet selection is crucial to measuring living-cost differences accurately because misjudgment can seriously affect survey results. Runzheimer paid particular attention to choosing appropriate outlets, focusing on three key guidelines to ensure proper outlet selection. First, for areas that had numerous outlets from which to choose, Runzheimer identified targets in several different geographic areas. For example, in the Washington, D.C., area, Runzheimer selected outlets in and around six different geographic areas: that is, two areas in Virginia, two in Maryland and two in the District of Columbia. Runzheimer's second guideline was that for any one marketbasket item, all outlets be similar in type. For example, Runzheimer surveyed two of the three food items in full-service grocery stores and the third food item in a warehouse-type grocery store in all locations where such stores are found. Gathering prices from all warehouse-type stores in one location and all full-service grocery stores in another would have distorted price comparisons. The last guideline involved the diversity of outlets in Runzheimer's sample. We believe that pricing different items in different types of outlets more accurately portrays living-cost differences. For example, for efficiency, Runzheimer could have priced all clothing items in department stores. However, to incorporate price levels at other types of outlets that sell clothing items, whenever possible, Runzheimer surveyed some items in men's and women's clothing stores, some items in department stores, other items in shoe stores and still other items in discount department stores. Runzheimer's research analysts selected outlets on the basis of: •Personal experience of Runzheimer on-site research associates and travelling researchers; •Informal telephone interviews with knowledgeable residents in each area; •Yellow pages sections of area telephone books; •Area chambers of commerce and information bureaus; and •Experience gained from other surveys conducted by Runzheimer. With new businesses constantly appearing (and old ones disappearing), outlet selection will be an ongoing process. Also, one can expect a portion of outlets to refuse to participate every year. Therefore, updating Runzheimer's outlet sample is a necessary and important part of each pricing survey. An example of refining outlet selection for this year's survey is the attention paid to defining the distinguishing differences between restaurants categorized as appropriate for family dining and those appropriate for fine dining. OPM developed a matrix which defined such characteristics as menu selections, atmosphere, table setting, seating, reservations, and AAA rating. This allowed Runzheimer researchers to compare apples to apples between the allowance areas and the Washington D.C. area. Also, OPM established guidelines directing Runzheimer to survey 100% family restaurants for breakfast, roughly 75% for lunch, and roughly 66% for dinner.
