FR940203-0-00041 FR940203-0-00009 (c) Confidentiality of charging letter. Prior to entry of an order by the administrative law judge under §207.105 of this subpart, the charging letter will be confidential and disclosed only to necessary Commission staff and the charged parties. (d) Amendment of charging letter. (1) At any time after proceedings have been initiated, the investigative attorney may move for leave to amend or withdraw the charging letter. (2) If the administrative law judge determines that the charging letter should be amended to include additional parties, the judge shall issue a recommended determination to that effect. The Commission shall review the recommended determination, and issue a determination granting or denying the motion to amend the charging letter to include additional parties. (3) Upon motion, the administrative law judge may grant leave to amend the charging letter for good cause shown upon such conditions as are necessary to avoid prejudicing the public interest and the rights of the parties already charged. (4) Any amended charging letter shall be served upon all charged parties in the form and manner set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. §207.104 Response to charging letter. (a) Time for filing. A charged party shall have twenty (20) days from the date of service of the charging letter within which to file a written response to the allegations made in the charging letter unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge. (b) Form and content. Each response shall be under oath and signed by the charged party or its duly authorized officer, attorney, or agent, with the name, address, and telephone number of the same. Each charged party shall respond to each allegation in the charging letter, and may set forth a concise statement of the facts constituting each ground of defense. There shall be a specific admission or denial of each fact alleged in the charging letter, or if the charged party is without knowledge of any such fact, a statement to that effect. (c) Request for confidentiality. The response shall contain a statement as to whether the charged party seeks an order to maintain the confidentiality of all or part of the proceedings to the extent practicable, pursuant to §207.105 of this subpart. §207.105 Confidentiality. (a) Protection of proprietary and privileged information. As the administrative law judge deems reasonably necessary for the preparation of the defense of a charged party, the attorney for the charged party may be granted access in these proceedings to proprietary information or to the privileged information, the disclosure of which is the subject of the proceedings. Any such access shall be under protective order consistent with the provisions of this subpart. (b) Confidentiality of proceedings. Upon the request of any charged party pursuant to §207.106 of this subpart, the administrative law judge will issue an appropriate confidentiality order. This order will provide for the confidentiality, to the extent practicable and permitted by law, of information relating to allegations concerning the commitment of a prohibited act, consistent with public policy considerations and the needs of the parties in conducting the sanctions proceedings. The order will provide that all proceedings under this provision shall be kept confidential within the terms of the order, except to the extent that a discussion of such proceedings is incorporated into a published final decision of the Commission. Any confidential information not disclosed in such decision will remain protected. §207.106 Interim measures. (a) At any time after proceedings are initiated, the administrative law judge, upon motion, or on his or her own initiative, may issue a recommended determination to revoke the allegedly-violated protective order, to disclose information about the proceedings that would otherwise be kept confidential, or to take other appropriate interim measures. (b) Before issuing a determination recommending interim sanctions, the administrative law judge shall afford a party against whom such measures are proposed the opportunity to oppose them. The administrative law judge shall ordinarily decide any motion under this section no more than twenty (20) days after it is filed. (c) The Commission shall review any recommended determination regarding the imposition of interim measures within twenty (20) days from its issuance or such other time as it may order. The Commission may impose any appropriate interim sanctions. (d) The administrative law judge may recommend to the Commission that interim measures be modified or revoked. The Commission shall rule on such recommendation within ten (10) days after its issuance or such other time as it may order. (e) The Commission Secretary shall immediately notify the Secretariat of any interim measures that revoke or modify an outstanding protective order in an ongoing panel review. The Commission Secretary shall also immediately notify the Secretariat of any revocation or modification of an interim measure. §207.107 Motions. (a) Presentation and disposition. (1) After issuance of the charging letter and while part of the proceeding is pending before the administrative law judge, all motions relating to that part of the proceeding shall be addressed to the administrative law judge. (2) While part of a proceeding is pending before the Commission, all motions relating to that part of the proceeding shall be addressed to the Chairman of the Commission. All written motions shall be filed with the Commission Secretary and served upon all parties. (b) Content. All written motions shall state the particular order, ruling, or action desired and the grounds therefor. (c) Responses. Any response to a motion shall be filed within ten (10) days after service of the motions, or within such longer or shorter time as may be designated by the administrative law judge or the Commission. The moving party shall have no right to reply, except as permitted by the administrative law judge or the Commission. (d) Service. All motions, responses, replies, briefs, petitions, and other documents filed in sanctions proceedings under this subpart shall be served by the party filing the document upon each other party. Service shall be made upon the attorney for the party unless the administrative law judge or the Commission orders otherwise.
