FR940920-2-00045 FR940920-2-00025 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5063&hyph;1] Announcement of a Request for Pre-Proposals From Minority Academic Institutions To Conduct Hazardous Substance Research, Technology Transfer and Training in Cooperation With EPA's Hazardous Substance Research Centers AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Publication of a request for pre-proposals and correction of deadline for receipt of pre-proposals. SUMMARY: On August 31, 1994 (59 FR 44985), EPA published a notice, signed by the acting Assistant Administrator for Research and Development, announcing the availability of a document requesting pre-proposals from Minority Academic Institutions (MAIs) for participation in the Hazardous Substance Research Centers (HSRCs) Program. EPA has corrected the deadline for submissions of pre-proposals from October 15 to October 21. For the convenience of the public, EPA is publishing the full text of the document in this notice. EPA will also continue to make the document available separately. The purpose of the request for pre-proposal is to set forth the eligibility and submission requirements, evaluation criteria and schedule for establishing hazardous substance research, technology transfer and training activities at MAIs, in cooperation with the five HSRCs, as authorized by section 311(d) of Superfund, and as amended by section 209 of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1988. These activities will be competitively awarded. The U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recognizes that minority academic institutions (MAIs) are underrepresented in research and other activities relating to hazardous substance management. To improve this situation, EPA is making funds available to enhance the ability of MAIs to participate in research, technology transfer, training, and academic development activities in collaboration with EPA's five HSRCs. The program rationale and design, areas of interest, eligibility requirements, and other important information are described in the document, which is published in full under SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION . DATES: All pre-proposals must be received by October 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send pre-proposals to the appropriate contact points listed in Table 1 under SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Dale Manty, Director, Hazardous Substance Research Centers Program, Office of Exploratory Research (8703), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460 (202&hyph;260&hyph;7454). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Program Announcement and Solicitation for Minority Academic Institution (MAI) Participation in Hazardous Substance Research Centers (HSRC) Program; Pre-proposal for MAI Participation in the HSRC Program The U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is concerned that minority academic institutions (MAIs) are underrepresented in research and other activities relating to hazardous substance management. To improve this situation, EPA announces the availability of funds to enhance the ability of MAIs to participate in research, technology transfer, training, and academic development activities in collaboration with EPA's five University Hazardous Substance Research Centers (HSRCs). The program rationale and design, areas of interest, eligibility requirements, and other important information are described below. The process begins with submission of an original and eight copies of pre-proposals from MAIs to one of the five EPA HSRCs. An administrative review will be made by the Center Director, in consultation with the EPA National HSRC Program Director. Eligible applications will then be reviewed for relevance and quality by each Center's Director, Science Advisory Committee, and Technology Transfer and Training Advisory Committees. Successful applicants will be invited to submit full proposals. Hazardous Substance Problems One of the important environmental issues facing our civilization is the management of hazardous substances from manufacture to treatment and disposal. Since 1980, over 40,000 hazardous waste sites have been discovered, more than 1,000,000 underground storage tanks are estimated to be leaking, and more than 250,000 industrial and waste storage or treatment facilities are subject to permit requirements of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. A National Priorities List for cleanup of the worst of these sites has been established by EPA. This list, plus similar state lists, total more than 5,000 sites. Such sites are causing contamination of air, soil, and ground and surface water. There is a growing recognition of the risks such contamination inflicts upon ecological communities. Conventional methods of determining, cleaning up, and managing these problems are proving inadequate to achieve desired levels of clean-up. The HSRC Program is fueled by a strong desire to develop better, cheaper, faster, and safer methods to assess and clean up these sites. EPA priorities for addressing these problems include development of new methods to assess and remediate sites, decrease the production and use of hazardous substances, and train a new generation of hazardous substance managers. General Description Under Section 311(d) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9660(d), EPA has established five Hazardous Substance Research Centers. In 1994, Congress provided EPA with funds to encourage MAIs to participate in the HSRCs' research and training and technology transfer activities. These funds will be provided through a Federal Assistance Agreement with each HSRC, which in turn will establish sub-contracts with MAIs. If additional funds become available, additional qualified applicants may be funded. The MAI is expected to contribute a 20% match of non-federal resources. These resources may come from State, local, foundation, individual, or private sector contributions and may include in-kind contributions. No Federal funds provided for this program may be used to purchase, build, or renovate any buildings or to purchase land. Up to 15% of the funds will be available to encourage HSRC researchers to collaborate in joint projects with MAI researchers. Hazardous Substance Research Center Program EPA has competitively established five Hazardous Substance Research Centers to provide: •Short- and long-term research on the manufacture, disposal, clean-up, and management of hazardous substances; •Dissemination of research information and findings; and •Training, technology transfer, and technical outreach and support to benefit organizations, communities, and individuals involved with hazardous substances. Research supported by the HSRCs covers all relevant scientific and technological subjects except human health effects research (toxicology, dose-response epidemiology, etc.). Each HSRC is headed by a Center Director who is responsible for managing each Center. The Director is the intellectual leader and guide for the Center. A Technology Transfer and Training Director oversees training and commercial application of Center projects. Each of the five HSRCs serves the States within two adjoining pairs of Federal Regions. All five collaborate to form a National Hazardous Substance Research Centers Program. Each center has its own Science Advisory Committee and Technology Transfer and Training Advisory Committee which regularly review the progress of ongoing work and recommend funding of new proposals.
