FR941011-0-00022 FR941011-0-00007 Meeting Procedures The following meeting procedures, as established in the September 20, 1994, Federal Register , are to facilitate the meetings: (1) There will be no admission fee or other charge to attend or to participate in the meetings. The meetings will be open to all persons who are scheduled to present statements or who register on the day of the meeting (between 10:45 a.m. and 11:45 a.m.) subject to availability of space in the meeting rooms. The meetings may adjourn early if scheduled for the meetings. (2) An individual, whether speaking in a personal or a representative capacity on behalf of an organization, may be limited to a 10-minute statement. If possible, we will notify the speaker if additional time is available. (3) The DOT will try to accommodate all speakers. If the available time does not permit this, speakers generally will be scheduled on a first-come-first-served basis. However, the DOT reserves the right to exclude some speakers if necessary to present a balance of viewpoints and issues. (4) Sign and oral interpretation can be made available at the meeting, as well as an assistive listening device, if requested 10 calendar days before the meeting. (5) Representatives of the DOT will preside over the meeting. A panel of DOT and FAA personnel involved in this issue will be present. (6) The meeting will be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the meeting and any material accepted by the DOT representatives during the meeting will be included in the public docket. Any person who is interested in purchasing a copy of the transcript should contact the court reporter directly. Additional transcript purchase information will be available at the meeting. (7) The DOT will review and consider all material presented by participants at the meeting. Position papers or material presenting views or arguments related to the High Density Rule may be accepted at the discretion of the presiding officer and subsequently placed in the public docket. The DOT requests that persons participating in the meeting provide five copies of all materials to be presented for distribution to the DOT representatives; other copies may be provided to the audience at the discretion of the participant. (8) Statements made by DOT representatives are intended to facilitate discussion of the issues or to clarify issues. Any statement made during the meeting by a DOT representative is not intended to be, and should not be construed as, a position of the DOT. (9) The meetings are designed to solicit public views and more complete information on the High Density Rule. Therefore, the meetings will be conducted in an informal and nonadversarial manner. No individual will be subject to cross-examination by any other participant; however, DOT representatives may ask questions to clarify a statement and to ensure a complete and accurate record. Issued in Washington, DC on September 30, 1994. Dale E. McDaniel, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Policy, Planning and International Aviation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24957 Filed 10&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
