FR940817-2-00026 FR940817-2-00023 Assumptions and Methodology Document for the Spent Nuclear Fuel Management Cost Evaluation AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy has issued an Assumptions and Methodology Document for a cost evaluation of the management of Spent Nuclear Fuel, which discusses the assumptions and methodologies that will be used by the Department in preparing a cost evaluation report. The Department invites interested agencies, organizations, and the general public to provide comments on the Assumptions and Methodology Document. DATES: All comments on the Assumptions and Methodology Document are due by September 30, 1994. The Department will consider all comments received before preparing the Cost Evaluation Report, scheduled for release in April, 1995. ADDRESSES: The Assumptions and Methodology Document is available in Department of Energy Public Reading Rooms and Information Locations, which are listed below. Comments should be sent to: Public Comment on the Assumptions and Methodology Document, Attention: Brooks Weingartner, DOE Idaho Operations Office, P.O. Box 1625, Idaho Falls, Idaho, 83402&hyph;1625. Copies of the Assumptions and Methodology Document may be obtained by writing to the above address, or by calling 1&hyph;800&hyph;682&hyph;5583. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Brooks Weingartner, U.S. Department of Energy, Idaho Operations Office, 850 Energy Plaza, MS 2518, Idaho Falls, Idaho, 83401, at (208) 526&hyph;7043. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: During the last fifty years, the Department of Energy has engaged in extensive nuclear energy operations that have made large contributions to our national defense and knowledge of nuclear technology. In the process, substantial quantities of spent nuclear fuel were generated. The Department must manage that spent nuclear fuel, and a much smaller amount that will be generated over the next 40 years, until final decisions about its ultimate disposition are made. In June 1994, the Department issued the Department of Energy Programmatic Spent Nuclear Fuel Management and Idaho National Engineering Laboratory Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Programs Draft Environmental Impact Statement (SNF & INEL EIS) (DOE/EIS&hyph;0203&hyph;D) for review and comment. A Notice of Availability was issued on June 24, 1994 (59 FR 32688). The SNF & INEL EIS evaluates potential environmental impacts that may occur under several different alternatives for managing spent nuclear fuel over the next 40 years. Potential monetary costs associated with implementing the spent nuclear fuel management alternatives will be considered in the Department's decision-making on the alternatives identified in the EIS. The Cost Evaluation Report will also contain other information (for example, estimated costs of disposal in a geologic repository) which will be useful in the Department's efforts to establish baseline estimates for life-cycle program costs. Such information is relevant to the Department's environmental restoration and waste management responsibilities and is being consolidated into the Baseline Environmental Management Report to be issued later this year. Cost Evaluation Report The Department is seeking public input on the Assumptions and Methodology Document, which is to be used in preparing the Cost Evaluation Report. The Cost Evaluation Report will be made available to the public before the EIS Record of Decision is issued in June 1995. Portions of this evaluation are among the many factors that will be considered by the Department when preparing the EIS Record of Decision. Scope of the Cost Evaluation The Assumptions and Methodology Document presents the approach to be used in developing the cost evaluation, which has two primary purposes: to compare the monetary costs of the alternatives discussed in the SNF and INEL EIS and to explore estimated life-cycle costs to be used as relevant information to the Department's environmental restoration and waste management responsibilities. The Cost Evaluation Report will address a reasonable range of potential spent nuclear fuel management project expenses, which (depending upon the alternative) include potential costs for research and development, plant and equipment, operations and maintenance, capital/construction, decommissioning and decontamination, and potential costs associated with disposal. Some spent nuclear fuel management decisions may not be made for several years. Future selection of technologies or decisions on how to prepare some fuels for storage or disposition, for example, may significantly affect cost. Therefore, only relative predictions of these costs can be made at this time.
