FR940505-1-00408 FR940505-1-00012 ( 2 ) By the applicable compliance date in paragraph (m)(5) of this section, each IC Engine subject to this part shall either install, calibrate, operate and maintain a CEMS for NO X in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B or shall have an engine parameter monitoring scheme developed which shall be capable of continuously predicting the NO X emission concentration. By the applicable compliance date such parameter monitoring scheme shall be demonstrated to meet a 20% relative accuracy for predicting the 15 minute concentration of NO X in the exhaust. This relative accuracy evaluation should be conducted in accordance with the techniques of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B and shall compare the predicted 15 minute NO X concentration through a continuous parameter monitoring model to the NO X emissions measured by a Method 7E stack test. The parameter monitoring scheme shall continually meet the 20% relative accuracy requirement and at a minimum the parameter monitoring scheme shall be reevaluated for the relative accuracy during each biannual test required by paragraph (m)(6)(ii)(B)( 1 ) of this section. (C) Any owner or operator of a unit rated at equal to or greater than 50 brake horsepower that chooses to comply with the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section by means of paragraph (m)(3)(i)(B) of this section, and any owner or operator that claims an exemption from the standards of paragraph (m)(3) of this section by means of paragraph (m)(4)(ii) of this section, shall install, operate, and maintain in calibration equipment that continuously monitors and records elapsed time of operation to demonstrate compliance with the compliance schedule specified in paragraph (m)(5)(v) of this section. For each year, the owner or operator shall keep an operating log of start and stop times, type and quantity of fuel used, and cumulative annual hours of operation and brake horsepower hours for each unit. Each operating log shall be maintained at the plant at which the unit is located for a period of five years. The operating log shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. (iii) Recordkeeping requirements. Any owner or operator of a unit subject to this section shall maintain all records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the section for a period of five calendar years at the plant at which the subject unit is located. The records shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. The owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information for each day the unit is operated: (A) Identification and location of each engine subject to the requirements of this section. (B) Calendar date of record. (C) The number of hours the unit is operated during each day including startup, shutdown, and breakdown periods and the type and duration of maintenance and repairs. (D) Date and results of each emission inspection. (E) A summary of any emissions corrective maintenance taken. (F) Any additional information required in the Engine Operator Inspection Plan. (G) The results of all compliance tests. (H) If a unit is equipped with a CEMS: ( 1 ) Identification of time periods during which NO X and CO standards are exceeded, the reason for the exceedance, and action taken to correct the exceedance and to prevent similar future exceedances. ( 2 ) Identification of the time periods for which operating conditions and pollutant data were not obtained including reasons for not obtaining sufficient data and a description of corrective actions taken. (7) Test Methods. Any owner or operator that is required to perform a compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the standards specified in paragraphs (m)(3)(i) (C) or (D), (m)(3)(ii), and (m)(3)(iii) of this section shall comply with the requirements of ยง60.8 (c), (d), and (e). The test shall be performed and data reduced and reported as follows: (i) Each emission test shall be conducted while the unit is operated at maximum operating capacity and operating under representative operating conditions. (ii) Each emission test shall be conducted in accordance with the appropriate test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Except for the modifications in this paragraph (m) and unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, NO X shall be measured in accordance with Method 7E, CO shall be measured in accordance with Method 10, and the diluent shall be measured using Method 3A. Reactive organic compounds shall be measured in accordance with Method 25 or 25A, referenced to methane. If Method 25A is used, Method 18 shall be used to determine methane content. Testing shall be conducted for four 15 minute testing periods. Compliance shall be evaluated for each 15 minute period. Data recorded during testing to determine the 15 minute average shall either be continuously integrated by the testing instrument and data recorder, or recorded manually at 30 second intervals during each 15 minute test period. Zero and calibration checks shall be conducted after each 15 minute test period. (iii) Any owner or operator that chooses to comply with the requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section by means of paragraph (m)(3)(i)(D) of this section shall calculate the applicable percent NO X emission reduction using the pre- and post-controlled ppmv NO X concentration. After demonstrating the applicable percent reduction by means of a post-controlled emissions test, the post-controlled NO X concentration shall be used to establish the outlet ppmv NO X emission limit for determining subsequent compliance. The outlet ppmv NO X emission limit established for determining subsequent compliance shall be documented in the applicable certification report required under paragraph (m)(6)(i)(C) of this section.
