FR940907-2-00065 FR940907-2-00044 •Adherence to Chief Financial Officer's Act; •Overall control of administrative cost and benefit payments. Administrative Activities Criterion We may measure a contractor's administrative ability to manage the Medicare program. We may address the efficiency and effectiveness of their operation, their system of internal controls and the compliance with HCFA directives and initiatives. A contractor's evaluation under the Administrative Activities criterion may include, but is not limited to, implementation reviews of: •Proper systems security; •ADP maintenance; •Disaster recovery plan; •Corrective action plans; •Task management plans; •Data and reporting requirements; •Management improvement plans. V. Criteria and Standards for Carriers Claims Processing Criterion The Claims Processing criterion contains 4 mandated standards. Standard 1 _95% of clean electronically submitted claims processed within statutorily specified time frames. Specifically, clean electronic claims can be paid as early as the 14th day (13 days after the date of receipt) and must be paid by the 31st day (30 days after the date of receipt). Standard 2 _95% of clean paper claims processed within specified time frames. Specifically, clean paper claims can be paid as early as the 27th day (26 days after the date of receipt) and must be paid by the 31st day (30 days after the date of receipt). Standard 3 _95% of reviews are accurate and clear with appropriate customer-friendly tone and clarity and are completed within 45 days. Standard 4 _90% of carrier hearings are accurate and clear with appropriate customer-friendly tone and clarity and are completed within 120 days. Additional functions may be evaluated under this criterion. These functions include, but are not limited to: •Accuracy of Claims Processing; •Attainment of Electronic Media Claims goals; •Management of shared processing sub-contract; •Relationship with Common Working File Host; •Data analysis and validation. Customer Satisfaction Criterion The Customer Satisfaction criterion contains 2 mandated standards. Standard 1 _98% of Explanations of Medicare Benefits (EOMBs) are properly generated. Standard 2 _Telephone inquiries are timely answered. Telephone calls are to be answered within 120 seconds and callers are not to get a busy signal more than 20% of the time. We may review the carrier's efforts to enhance customer satisfaction through the use of customer feedback. Results of the feedback may be used to establish comparable data on customer satisfaction and to identify areas in need of improvement. The results may be summarized for publication in the report of contractor performance and shared with individual contractors. We may also evaluate, but are not limited to evaluating, the following functions: •The accuracy and appropriateness of responses to telephone inquiries; •The accuracy, clearness and timeliness of responses to written inquiries with appropriate customer-friendly tone and clarity; •Relationships with professional and beneficiary organizations and use of focus groups; •Educational and outreach efforts.
