FR940830-1-00027 FR940830-1-00002 (d) While a Program Participant's projected level of 8(a) contract support is required as part of its business plan under §124.302(b) as a planning and development tool, the level approved by SBA will not act as a bar to contract awards above that level so long as SBA determines the concern to be competent and responsible to perform any such contracts and the Participant is in compliance with any applicable competitive business mix requirement imposed by §124.312. * * * * * (f)(1) The eligibility of a Program Participant, including its status as a small business, for a sole source or competitive 8(a) requirement may not be challenged by another Program Participant or any other party to SBA or to any other administrative forum as part of a bid or other contract protest. (2) The SIC code assigned to a sole source or competitive 8(a) requirement may not be challenged by another Program Participant or any other party to SBA or to any other administrative forum as part of a bid or other contract protest. Pursuant to §121.1703(b), only the AA/MSB&COD may appeal a SIC code designation with respect to a sole source or competitive 8(a) requirement, and such appeal, if initiated in the discretion of the AA/MSB&COD, shall be made to OHA. (3) Anyone with information concerning the eligibility of a Program Participant to continue participation in the 8(a) program may submit such information to SBA in accordance with §124.111(c). Similarly, anyone with information concerning the size eligibility of a Program Participant for purposes of a specific 8(a) contract may submit such information to the appropriate SBA field office for consideration. See §§121.1104(b)&hyph;(d). 37. Section 124.308 would be amended by revising the introductory text of paragraph (c), revising paragraph (d), the first sentence of paragraph, (f)(1), paragraph (f)(2), the first sentence of paragraph (g), and by adding a new paragraph (i), to read as follows: §124.308 Procedures for obtaining and accepting procurements for the 8(a) program. * * * * * (c) Offering letter. All requirements that are offered to the 8(a) program as competitive procurements and those sole source requirements that are offered to the program without nominating a specific Program Participant (i.e., open requirements) should be offered to SBA's Division of Program Development, 409 Third Street SW., Washington, DC 20416. Sole source requirements that are offered to the 8(a) program on behalf of a specific Program Participant should be offered to the appropriate SBA district office. When a requirement is offered to the 8(a) program, the offering letter or notification from the procuring agency shall contain the following information: * * * * * (d) Acceptance of the requirement. Upon receipt of the procuring agency's offer of a procurement requirement, SBA will determine whether it will accept the requirement for the 8(a) program. SBA's decision whether to accept the requirement will be transmitted to the procuring agency in writing within 15 working days of receipt of the written offering letter, unless SBA requests, and the procuring agency grants, an extension. SBA is not required to accept any particular procurement offered to the 8(a) program. (1) Where SBA decides to accept an offering of a sole source 8(a) procurement, SBa will accept the offer both on behalf of the program and in support of the approved business plan of a specific 8(a) Program Participant. (2) Where SBA decides to accept an offering of a competitive 8(a) procurement, SBA will accept the offer for the 8(a) program generally. (3) SBA will not accept a requirement as a competitive 8(a) procurement where a competition has been conducted by a procuring agency prior to SBA's formal acceptance of the requirement for the 8(a) program and the procuring agency seeks SBA's acceptance in order to select an apparent successful offeror and/or transmit a contract to SBA for execution. Such a competition conducted without obtaining SBA's formal acceptance of the procurement requirement for the 8(a) program will not be considered an 8(a) competitive requirement. In such a case, SBA may accept the requirement for the 8(a) program as a competitive 8(a) requirement, but the procuring agency would be required to use appropriate competition procedures again, including issuing a new solicitation. (4) Except for requirements assigned a construction SIC code by the procuring agency contracting officer, all competitive 8(a) requirements accepted by SBA may be competed among all eligible 8(a) Program Participants nationally. The only geographic restrictions pertaining to 8(a) competitive requirements, other than those for construction requirements, would be those imposed by the solicitations themselves. * * * * * (f) Open requirements. *␣*␣* (1) If the procurement is a construction requirement, SBA will examine the portfolio of 8(a) concerns for the SBA district office where the work is to be performed for selection of a qualified 8(a) concern. *␣*␣* (2) If the procurement is anything other than a construction requirement, SBA may select any eligible, responsible Program Participant nationally to perform the contract.
