FR940318-1-00030 FR940318-1-00011 Internal Revenue Service 26 CFR Part 1 [IA&hyph;4&hyph;94] RIN 1545&hyph;AS44 Alternative Minimum Tax for Noncorporate Taxpayers AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking and public hearing. SUMMARY: This document contains proposed regulations relating to the alternative minimum tax for taxpayers other than corporations. The regulations provide guidance on the computation of alternative minimum taxable income with respect to items that are determined by reference to adjusted gross income. The regulations affect noncorporate taxpayers who may be subject to the alternative minimum tax. DATES: Written comments must be received by May 17, 1994. Outlines of topics to be discussed at the public hearing scheduled for Monday, June 6, 1994, at 10 a.m. must be received by Monday, May 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send submissions to: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (IA&hyph;4&hyph;94), room 5228, Internal Revenue Service, POB 7604, Ben Franklin Station, Washington, DC 20044. In the alternative, submissions may be hand delivered to: CC:DOM:CORP:T:R (IA&hyph;4&hyph;94), Internal Revenue Service, room 5228, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC. The public hearing will be held in the Auditorium, Internal Revenue Building, 1111 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Concerning the regulations, Kelly R. Berg of the Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Income Tax and Accounting) at (202) 622&hyph;4960; concerning submissions and the public hearing, Carol Savage of the Regulations Unit, (202) 622&hyph;7190 (not toll-free numbers). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background This document contains amendments to the Income Tax Regulations (26 CFR part 1) under section 55 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). Section 55 imposes the alternative minimum tax (AMT). These proposed regulations are necessary to provide guidance relating to the computation of AMT for taxpayers other than corporations. Explanation of Provisions Section 55 of the Code imposes an alternative minimum tax (AMT) equal to the excess of the taxpayer's tentative minimum tax for the taxable year over the taxpayer's regular tax for the taxable year. Tentative minimum tax is equal to a percentage of the amount by which the taxpayer's alternative minimum taxable income (AMTI) exceeds an exemption amount, reduced by the taxpayer's AMT foreign tax credit. AMTI is the taxable income of the taxpayer determined with the adjustments provided in sections 56 and 58, and increased by the tax preference items described in section 57. These proposed regulations provide that, for purposes of computing the AMTI of a taxpayer other than a corporation, all references to the taxpayer's adjusted gross income (AGI) in determining the amount of items of income, exclusion, or deduction must be treated as references to the taxpayer's AGI as determined for regular tax purposes. Section 1.55&hyph;1(a) of the proposed regulations provides that, in general, all Internal Revenue Code provisions that apply in determining the regular taxable income of a taxpayer also apply in determining the AMTI of the taxpayer. This general rule is consistent with the language of section 55 and the legislative history. The Service and Treasury in prior years have treated the AMT as a tax system that is separate from and parallel to the regular tax system. For example, regulations on the adjusted current earnings (ACE) adjustment provide that, except as otherwise provided, all Code provisions that apply in determining the regular taxable income of a taxpayer also apply in determining ACE. In addition, in the preamble to the final ACE regulations, the Service and Treasury stated their belief that Congress intended ACE (and the AMT in general) to be a separate tax system. In both the notice of proposed rulemaking and the final ACE regulations, the Service and Treasury solicited comments on ways in which ACE and the AMT might be simplified without deviating from the results Congress intended. No comments regarding the separate and parallel concept were received in response to these solicitations. In 1993, the Service issued Technical Advice Memorandum 9320003 and Private Letter Ruling 9321063, both involving the application of the section 170(b)(1) charitable contribution deduction limitation to the computation of an individual taxpayer's AMTI. Section 170(b)(1) limits a taxpayer's charitable deduction for the taxable year based on the taxpayer's AGI for the year. Both of the rulings held that, consistent with the separate and parallel concept, and absent regulations to the contrary, taxpayers must compute a separate AMT AGI for purposes of applying the section 170(b)(1) limitation to the charitable deduction for AMT purposes. The separate and parallel concept on which the rulings rely would apply to any other AGI-based item as well. Although the 1993 Form 6251, ``Alternative Minimum Tax_ Individuals,'' reflects the position that the AMT is a separate and parallel tax system, the forms and publications for prior years were less clear. The Service has received comment letters asking that the position taken in the two rulings and the 1993 forms be reconsidered. The authors of those comment letters suggest that the added complexity of the approach taken in the rulings and forms far outweighs the benefits of consistency in applying the separate and parallel concept. See Staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 99th Cong., General Explanation of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 438 n.9 (Comm. Print 1987), which contemplates that the Treasury may prescribe regulations deviating from the separate and parallel system in cases where such system leads to increased complexity and recordkeeping burdens.
