FR940817-1-00065 FR940817-1-00014 F. Compliance With the Reporting Requirements Since the adoption of the 1991 revisions to the Section 16 rules and forms, including issuer disclosure concerning insider compliance and annual reporting of exempt transactions, compliance with Section 16(a) reporting obligations generally has improved substantially. 94 Accordingly, the Commission does not propose to change the disclosure requirements of Item 405 of Regulations S&hyph;B and S&hyph;K, which requires issuer disclosure concerning insider compliance with these reporting obligations, except that registrants would be required to set off any disclosure of non-compliance under an appropriate and discrete caption. 95 This should enable interested parties to locate quickly this disclosure, which often consists of only a sentence or two, and to prevent it from being buried among unrelated disclosure. 94 During 1990, the year before the new rules were adopted, approximately 21 percent of the reportable market transactions were reported more than three days following the due date. From May 1991 through March 1994, the comparable figure was approximately five percent. 95 The caption would read: ``Section 16(a) Reporting Delinquencies.'' Additionally, a technical amendment to Item 405 of Regulation S&hyph;B would correct the reference to Rule 16a&hyph;3(d) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;3(d)] by replacing it with a reference to Rule 16a&hyph;3(e) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;3(e)]. In addition, Item 405 would be revised to clarify the nature of the issuer's obligation to review insiders' filings in order to determine whether there are any delinquent reports that must be disclosed. The issuer is entitled to rely on the Forms 3, 4, and 5 furnished to it, as well as written representations by the insider that no Form 5 is required. New language would be added to make it clear that the issuer is obligated to consider the absence of certain forms. 96 The absence of a Form 3 from an insider is an indication that disclosure is required. Similarly, the absence of a Form 5 from an insider is an indication that disclosure is required, unless the issuer has received a written representation that no Form 5 is required, 97 or the issuer otherwise knows that no such filing is required. 96 Proposed Item 405(a)(2) of Regulations S&hyph;K and S&hyph;B. See Adopting Release, n. 231 and surrounding text. 97 A ``safe harbor'' from disclosure is available for an issuer who receives a written representation and keeps it for two years. See Item 405(b)(2). Further, comment is solicited on whether Item 405 should be revised to require issuers to include in their filings an affirmative statement that there were no Section 16(a) delinquencies required to be reported, if such is the case. 98 It has been suggested that there are instances where required disclosures are not made because Item 405 is overlooked. An affirmative statement of the absence of reportable delinquencies has been proposed to the Commission as a potential tool for minimizing this problem. Commenters should address whether the problem suggested does in fact exist, and, if so, whether the proposed solution would be effective. 98 If this requirement were adopted, registrants with no delinquencies to report would be permitted to use the caption ``Compliance with the Reporting Requirements of Section 16(a).'' Finally, the Commission is aware of and encourages the practice of many issuers to assist their officers and directors in complying with their Section 16(a) reporting obligations. Since the use of powers of attorney is permitted, it is also possible for an issuer to coordinate the filing of its officers' and directors' reports by having the corporate secretary or other agent obtain powers of attorney from these reporting persons, and act on their behalf to collect information every month about their transactions subject to Section 16 and make the filings by the due date. 99 99 Of course, insiders giving powers of attorney would still retain individual liability for compliance. See n. 86 above and accompanying text. G. Equity Swaps Questions have been asked concerning the proper method of reporting equity swaps for purposes of Section 16. Equity swaps are individually negotiated contracts in which the specific terms may vary from agreement to agreement. For instance, an equity swap may take the form of an agreement in which one party holding shares of equity securities agrees to pay, or ``swap,'' the return 100 on those securities in exchange for the return on an equity index, basket of equities, or an interest rate-based cash flow. Section 16 consequences would arise from such a transaction where either party to the transaction is a Section 16 insider with respect to a security to which the swap agreement relates. 101 100 For purposes of this analysis, ``return'' may include dividends paid on the equity instrument, as well as change in market value. 101 No Section 16 consequences would flow from the transaction to the extent that the swap relates solely to interests in securities comprising part of a broad-based, publicly traded market basket or index of stocks, approved for trading by the appropriate federal governmental authority, that are deemed not to confer beneficial ownership for purposes of Section 16 pursuant to Rule 16a&hyph;1(a)(5)(iii) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;1(a)(5)(iii)] and/or are excluded from the definition of ``derivative securities'' pursuant to Rule 16a&hyph;1(c)(4) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;1(c)(4)]. In order to demonstrate how Section 16 would apply, 102 assume that an insider agrees to pay to the counterparty for a period of three years the value of dividend payments on 100,000 shares of issuer common stock, in exchange for payment of a fixed interest rate based on the market value of the 100,000 shares of stock at the commencement of the swap term. The parties also agree that at the end of the swap term, the insider will pay to the counterparty the cash value of any appreciation on the shares during the term, or, conversely, the counterparty will pay to the insider the cash value of any depreciation. The insider retains title to and any voting rights in the securities. 103 102 This analysis addresses solely the application of Section 16 to these transactions to the extent that they are engaged in by insiders. The discussion does not analyze the status of these transactions or the parties thereto under any other provision of the federal securities laws. 103 It is not necessary, however, that either party to any equity swap have direct ownership of the underlying equity securities, index or basket. Rather, equity swaps may provide insiders with a synthetic means of realizing any changes in the value of the equity securities to which the swap agreement relates. For example, an insider may engage in a swap in which the insider contracts to receive any change in value of the issuer's common stock without making any direct investment in such stock. It appears that the following reporting scheme appropriately reflects the economic impact of the transaction on the insider. The insider should report entering into the swap on Form 4 as (i) the sale or writing of a stock appreciation right (``SAR''), and (ii) the purchase of a stock depreciation right (``SDR''). 104 This result would reflect the fact that the insider has locked in the value of the 100,000 shares during the swap term to the same extent as if the shares had been sold. 105 104 If the counterparty is an insider, it would report the same swap as (i) the purchase of an SAR, and (ii) the sale or writing of an SDR. 105 The result would be a sale of the underlying securities pursuant to Rule 16b&hyph;6(a) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;6(a)] because the insider engaging in the swap has an increase in a put equivalent position. The manner in which an insider reports the closing of the swap would depend on the change in price of the underlying securities during the swap term. 106 If the price increases, so that the insider must pay cash to the counterparty, the insider should report the exempt expiration without value of the SDR. 107 The insider also should report on Form 4 the exempt exercise by the counterparty of the SAR, the insider's exempt deemed disposition of the underlying securities to the counterparty pursuant to the SAR, and the insider's non-exempt deemed re-acquisition of the underlying securities. 108 106 To the extent settlement of the parties' obligations occurs on an interim basis during the term of the swap, such as quarterly, the insider's Section 16 obligations would arise with respect to each settlement. 107 Because the SDR would be a long derivative security in the hands of the insider as holder, this expiration would be exempt from short-swing profit recovery pursuant to Rule 16b&hyph;6(d). Although proposed Rule 16a&hyph;4(e), discussed above in the text accompanying note 78, would exempt the expiration from reporting as well, in the context of an equity swap such an expiration should be reported because it is an integral component of the overall transaction. 108 Rule 16b&hyph;6(b) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;6(b)] would exempt the first two components of the exercise of the SAR because the deemed sale would have taken place at the time the SAR was sold by the insider; however, the deemed acquisition that occurs simultaneously would not be exempt. If the price decreases, so that the insider receives cash from the counterparty, the insider should report the expiration of the SAR. 109 The insider also should report on Form 4 the exercise of the SDR as the simultaneous exempt disposition of a put derivative security as a result of its exercise, the exempt deemed disposition of the underlying securities as a result of the exercise, and the non-exempt deemed acquisition of the underlying securities. 110 109 With respect to the insider as the writer, rather than the buyer, of the SAR, Rule 16b&hyph;6(d) provides that upon any cancellation or expiration within six months of writing the option, profit recovery shall not exceed the premium received for writing the option. See also Sullivan & Cromwell (Nov. 17, 1993) regarding exemption for the writer of option cancellation or expiration more than six months following writing the option. 110 Rule 16b&hyph;6(b) would exempt the first two components of the exercise of the SDR because the deemed sale would have taken place at the time the SDR was acquired by the insider; however, the deemed acquisition that occurs simultaneously would not be exempt. Comment is requested as to whether the derivative security analysis described above accurately reflects the economic substance of the swap transaction described, or whether there is a more appropriate analysis for purposes of Section 16. Comment also is solicited as to whether there are other common forms of equity swaps for which a different Section 16 analysis may be appropriate. In setting forth the analysis above, the Commission does not wish to suggest that previously filed Forms reporting swap transactions in another manner need to be revised, or that swap transactions reported differently are subject to disclosure pursuant to Item 405 of Regulations S&hyph;B and S&hyph;K. Finally, comment is requested as to whether there is a need for separate reporting codes for these transactions. IV. Additional Exemptions and Revisions A. New Exemption for Qualified Domestic Relations Orders The current rules limit the exemption for the disposition of securities pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order (``QDRO''), as defined in the Internal Revenue Code or Title I of ERISA, and the rules thereunder, to employee plan securities. Since such dispositions are unlikely to be influenced by access to inside information, this limitation does not appear necessary. Accordingly, the proposal includes a general exemption for such dispositions. 111 111 Proposed Rule 16b&hyph;5(b), which would replace current Rule 16b&hyph;3(f)(3). Current Rule 16b&hyph;5 [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;5], which exempts bona fide gifts and inheritance, would be redesignated as proposed Rule 16b&hyph;5(a). Transaction code Q, which is used for QDRO transactions, would be moved to the category ``Other Section 16(b) Exempt Transactions and Small Acquisition Codes'' in Forms 4 and 5. By interpretation, the current exemption has been construed to permit the transfer of securities, issued under a plan that is not subject to Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, pursuant to a ``domestic relations order'' that satisfies certain conditions of the Internal Revenue Code, 112 but does not satisfy QDRO standards. 113 Comment is requested as to whether the proposed exemption should require satisfaction of the QDRO standards in all circumstances, or whether satisfaction of the Internal Revenue Code ``domestic relations order'' standards would suffice. 114 112 I.R.C. Sections 414(p)(1)(A) and (B). Among other things, the order must create or recognize an alternate payee's right to receive all or a portion of the benefits payable to a participant under a plan; relate to the provision of child support, alimony payments, or marital property rights to a spouse, former spouse, child, or other dependent of the participant; and be made pursuant to a State domestic relations law (including a community property law). 113 The order need not satisfy, among other things, conditions applicable to payments made after the participant's earliest retirement age, and requirements to treat the former spouse as surviving spouse for purposes of determining survivor benefits. See Premark International, Inc. (Mar. 6, 1992), which further provides that the plan may permit such transfers consistent with the transferability restriction of Rule 16b&hyph;3(a)(2). 114 Any revisions to the standards of the proposed exemption also would be reflected in the transferability restriction, if retained. See Section II.J, above.
