FR941004-1-00062 FR941004-1-00016 CEQA pertains to projects that occur on lands other than Federal land. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires disclosure of the environmental effects of projects on Federal lands. Certain actions can be categorically excluded from the NEPA process when (a) the action or group of actions would have no significant effect on the quality of the human environment, and (b) the actions or group of actions would not involve unresolved conflicts concerning alternative uses of available resources. Exceptions to the categorical exclusions exist. One of these exceptions is when the action would affect a species listed or proposed to be listed on the List of Endangered or Threatened Species. Until a species is federally listed or proposed, this exception to the categorical exclusion would not be applied regardless of the State listing status. A Memorandum of Understanding was established in 1987 between the Service, the National Park Service, Department of Defense, and CDFG for the purposes of mutual cooperation for management of sensitive native plant communities on the Presidio. However, Lessingia germanorum is not specifically addressed in the document (CDFG 1989). Sand quarrying and other activities that were endangering it have not been prevented and continue to threaten the species with extinction. Arctostaphylos imbricata currently derives limited protection from the San Bruno Mountain Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP). An HCP, pursuant to sections 10(a)(1)(B) and 10(a)(2)(A) of the Act, is required for the Service to issue a permit for incidental take of a federally listed species of wildlife when such taking is incidental to, and not the primary purpose of, an otherwise lawful activity. HCPs are the mechanism through which incidental take of federally listed animals can be permitted for non-Federal actions. Future actions that are part of the permit are subject to review under section 7 of the Act. The San Bruno Mountain HCP, developed in 1983 for three listed animals, also identified several candidate species in the area of concern, including Arctostaphylos imbricata . However, no species-specific management actions for A . imbricata are identified in the HCP, and none have been implemented. The protection to this plant afforded by the HCP may, therefore, be inadequate to insure its long-term survival. E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. As discussed in Factor A, off-road vehicle use, foot and bicycle traffic, and trampling by joggers degrade the habitat of Lessingia germanorum. These activities also directly destroy individual plants. A bike path runs through the middle of one of the populations of L. germanorum (CNDDB 1992). Hiking trails occur adjacent to three populations (Terri Thomas, pers. comm., 1993). All Presidio populations of Lessingia germanorum are subject to occasional unauthorized vehicle use. This disturbance directly destroys the plants and encourages establishment of invasive alien vegetation. Weedy species tend to colonize the tracks left by the vehicles (Susan Smith, pers. comm., 1992). An environmental education camp exists near the location of one population of L. germanorum. No signs or fences currently protect this site. These plants are vulnerable to habitat degradation from trampling due to their proximity to the camp. When the ownership of the Presidio is transferred from the Department of the Army to the National Park Service, a marked increase in visitation by the public is expected (Terri Thomas, pers. comm., 1992, 1993). Increased foot traffic and other recreational activities are likely to negatively impact Lessingia germanorum because the populations are close to trails. In addition, the park is patrolled by police on horseback. Horses can trample the plants directly and compact the soil. The potential is high for populations of L. germanorum on the Presidio to be adversely impacted by these activities. Garbage dumping has degraded the habitat at one site on the Presidio where Lessingia germanorum occurs (CNDDB 1992). Digging by pets also adversely affects L. germanorum at all sites on the Presidio by destroying individual plants (Laura Nelson, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, pers. comm., 1993; Peter Lacivita, San Francisco Corps of Engineers, pers comm., 1993). On San Bruno Mountain, fertilizer run-off from a housing development above the slope supporting the largest population of Lessingia germanorum (Paul Reeberg, pers. comm., 1993) threatens this site. The nitrogen in these fertilizers promotes invasion by weed species that compete with L. germanorum .
