FR941013-1-00056 FR941013-1-00010 The second individual unit exemption provision proposed in the rule would allow an owner or operator to selectively designate, on a site-specific basis, certain individual units to be exempt from the air emission control requirements regardless of the VOHAP concentration of the regulated material placed in the unit. Application of this discretionary exemption by the owner or operator would be limited based on regulated material organic HAP content. Under this provision, the total annual organic HAP mass content in the regulated materials placed in all of the units designated by the owner or operator as exempt units could not exceed 1 Mg/yr as determined in accordance with the procedures specified in the rule. The EPA requests comment on the structure of the proposed 1 Mg/yr exemption for individual units, as well as supporting information for any recommendation for an alternative exemption level. For tanks, surface impoundments, containers, conveyance systems, and certain treatment units required to use air emission controls under the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP, the owner or operator would be required to either: (1) Install and operate air emission controls on the unit in accordance with standards specified in the rule; or (2) treat the regulated material before the regulated material is placed in the unit to remove or destroy organic HAP in accordance with requirements specified in the rule. For land disposal units and other miscellaneous units subject to the air emission control requirements of the rule, the owner or operator would be required to treat the regulated material before the regulated material is placed in the unit to remove or destroy organic HAP in accordance with the requirements specified in the rule. In addition to these requirements, the rule would require that the owner or operator of an affected facility control organic HAP emissions from leaks in certain ancillary equipment (e.g., pumps, valves, flanges, etc.) used to handle regulated material streams having a total organic HAP concentration equal to or greater than 10 percent by weight. Under the proposed rule, an owner or operator would be allowed to use any type of treatment process to reduce the organic HAP content of the regulated material that can continuously achieve the performance requirements specified in the rule. Several alternative treatment process performance standards are specified in the proposed rule from which the owner or operator could choose to comply. These standards would allow the use of a treatment process that achieves any of the following conditions: (1) the actual VOHAP concentration of the regulated material exiting the treatment process is less than 100 ppmw or the VOHAP concentration limit established for the process, whichever value is lower; (2) the HAP reduction efficiency for the treatment process is equal to or greater than 95 percent, and the VOHAP concentration of the regulated material exiting the treatment process is less than 50 ppmw; or (3) the actual HAP mass removal for the treatment process is greater than the required mass removal established for the process. 3. Tank Standards The tank standards proposed for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP would establish the requirements for tanks using air emission controls to comply with the general standards of the rule. No air emission controls would be required under the rule for a tank in which all regulated material placed in the unit has been treated to remove or destroy organic HAP in accordance with the requirements specified in the general standards. Also, the tank standards would not apply to a tank in which biological treatment of a regulated material is performed under certain conditions specified in the rule; or to a tank designated by the owner or operator to be exempted from using air emission controls in accordance with the rule provisions. The proposed air emission control requirements for tanks would be applied based on the tank design capacity, the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the regulated material in the tank, and whether the tank is designated an ``existing tank'' or a ``new tank'' under the provisions of 40 CFR part 63. Both existing tanks and new tanks in which the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the regulated material in the tank is equal to or greater than 76.6 kPa (approximately 11.1 psi), would be required (regardless of tank design capacity) to manage the regulated material in a tank using a cover that is connected through a closed-vent system to a control device. For affected tanks in which the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the regulated material in the tank is less than 76.6 kPa, different standards are proposed for existing tanks and for new tanks depending on the tank design capacity.
