FR940127-2-00074 FR940127-2-00058 A.2. Definition of Contributed Importantly. AMENDED LAW. Subparagraph (a)(2) of section 250 states that the term ``contributed importantly'' means a cause which is important but not necessarily more important than any other cause. ADMINISTRATION. The term ``contributed importantly'' is the same as used in section 222(b) of the Trade Act for administering the regular TAA program. The ``contributed importantly'' provision is used by the Department of Labor in its review of petitions for eligibility for the regular TAA Program and will also be used for the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program. Pursuant to section 250(b)(2)(B)(i), Governors, when making a preliminary finding as to whether a petition meets the eligibility requirements for NAFTA&hyph;TAA, discussed above, will not apply the ``contributed importantly'' test when reviewing NAFTA&hyph;TAA petitions. When the Governor or the designated State official substantiates that the criteria in clauses (i) and (ii) of sections 250(a)(1)(A) have been met, the petition package including a statement of affirmative preliminary finding is forwarded to the OTAA for review. To confirm the State's affirmative preliminary finding, the OTAA will apply the criteria in section 250(a)(1)(A), including the ``contributed importantly'' test in clause (iii). A.3. Regulations. AMENDED LAW. Paragraph (a)(3) of section 250 provides that the Secretary shall issue regulations relating to the application of the criteria described above in making the preliminary finding and determinations. ADMINISTRATION. Because of the time constraints for implementing the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program on January 1, 1994, regulations will not be in place until after this date. Accordingly, to begin operation of the program, operating instructions will be issued and published in the Federal Register . States should proceed to implement the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program based on these operating instructions. A.4. Filing of petitions. AMENDED LAW. Paragraph (b)(1) of section 250 provides that a petition for certification of eligibility to apply for NAFTA&hyph;TAA may be filed by a group of workers (including workers in any agricultural firm or subdivision of an agricultural firm) or by their certified or recognized union or other duly authorized representative with the Governor of the State in which such workers' firm or subdivision thereof is located. ADMINISTRATION. This section provides that a petition for certification of eligibility may be filed by a group of workers (including workers in any agricultural firm or subdivision of an agricultural firm) or by their certified or recognized union or other duly authorized representative. It should be noted that a community-based organization may serve as a duly authorized representative of the workers. Group means three or more workers in a firm or an appropriate subdivision thereof. A new petition form has been designed for use by worker groups to file petitions for NAFTA&hyph;TAA. The NAFTA&hyph;TAA petition form will include a space in the filing instructions on the reverse side to permit the State to add the address of where the petitions are to be filed. A supply of the NAFTA&hyph;TAA petition forms will be furnished to each State. States should reproduce the NAFTA&hyph;TAA petition form to meet its needs. Copies of the NAFTA&hyph;TAA petition form with the address for filing the petition are to be made available by the States, at a minimum, in every local employment service and unemployment insurance office. Staff in local offices must be familiar with the NAFTA&hyph;TAA program, as well as the regular TAA program, and the procedures being put in place to assure that workers applying for employment services and unemployment insurance benefits are advised properly regarding both TAA programs and on filing the proper petition form to the correct location. NAFTA&hyph;TAA petition forms will be submitted to the State official or organization designated by the Governor to review such petitions. Worker petitions for the regular TAA program will continue to be submitted directly to the Department of Labor's Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance, at the address on the reverse side of the form. A.5. Findings and Assistance. AMENDED LAW. Paragraph (b)(2) of section 250 specifies that upon the receipt of a NAFTA&hyph;TAA petition, the Governor will take the following actions: A. Notify the Secretary of Labor that the Governor has received the petition. B. Within 10 days after receiving the petition_ (i) make a preliminary finding as to whether the petition meets the criteria described in subsection (a)(1) (and for purposes of this clause the criteria described in subparagraph (A)(iii) shall be disregarded), and (ii) transmit the petition, together with a statement of finding under clause (i) and the reasons therefor, to the Secretary for action under subsection (c); and C. If the preliminary finding under subparagraph (B)(i) is affirmative, ensure that rapid response and basic readjustment services authorized under other Federal law are made available to the workers. ADMINISTRATION. This section establishes a role, as well as precise time frames, for Governors in processing NAFTA&hyph;TAA petitions. Because of these time frames, rigid processing procedures have been designed for coordinating the Governors' activities with the OTAA. Time Frames. Day 1: a. The Governor receives a petition for NAFTA&hyph;TAA. The State records the receipt date on the face of the petition, reviews the petition for completeness and clarity, and telephones the company official listed as the contact person on the petition. b. Telephone contact with the company official is to cover the following:
