FR941216-2-00161 FR941216-2-00092 Section 15A(b)(11) empowers the NASD to adopt rules governing the form and content of quotations relating to securities in the Nasdaq market. Such rules must be designed to produce fair and informative quotations, prevent fictitious and misleading quotations, and promote orderly procedures for collecting and distributing quotations. The NASD is seeking to continue the effectiveness of the Interim SOES Rules so that SOES activity may not result in misleading quotations in the Nasdaq market. Market makers place quotes in the Nasdaq system and these quotes comprise the inside market and define the execution parameters of SOES. When volatility in the SOES environment causes market makers to widen spreads or to change quotes in anticipation of waves of SOES orders, quotes in the Nasdaq market become more volatile and may be misleading to the investing public. Accordingly, absent continuation of the Interm SOES Rules, the quotations published by Nasdaq may not reflect the true market in a security and, as a result, there may be short-term volatility and loss of liquidity in Nasdaq securities, to the detriment of the investing public. Further, the continuation of the automated refresh feature will ensure that a market maker's quotation is updated after an exposure limit is exhausted. Uninterrupted use of this function will maintain continuous quotations in Nasdaq as market makers exhausting their exposure limits in SOES will not be subject to a ``closed quote'' condition or an unexcused withdrawal from the market. Finally, the NASD notes that despite the reduction in the maximum order size for SOES, market makers are still obligated to adhere to minimum display size requirements for quotations in Nasdaq National Market securities and Nasdaq SmallCap securities. Finally, the NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with significant national market system objectives contained in Section 11A(a)(1)(C) of the Act. This provision states it is in the public interest and appropriate for the protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets to assure, among other things, (i) economically efficient execution of securities transactions; (ii) fair competition among brokers and dealers; and (iii) the practicality of brokers executing investor orders in the best market. Specifically, the Interim SOES Rules advance each of these objectives by preserving the operational efficiencies of SOES for the processing of small investors' orders, by maintaining current levels of market maker participation through reduced financial exposure from unpreferenced orders exceeding 500 shares, and by reducing price volatility and the widening of market makers' spreads in response to the practices of order entry firms active in SOES. With respect to the proposal to remove the short sale prohibition from SOES, by expanding the spectrum of retail orders that will be eligible to receive automatic executions through SOES, the NASD believes the proposal may enhance investor protection. Nonetheless, the NASD is very concerned that re-allowing the entry of short sales into SOES may contribute to destabilizing short term trading through SOES that could have adverse corollary effects throughout Nasdaq. 25 25 As indicated above, the NASD will review the volume and impact of short sales effected through SOES on an on-going basis. In addition, for the same reasons provided by the SEC when it approved the Interim SOES Rules that are cited above in the text accompanying footnotes four through eleven, the NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Sections 15A(b)(6), 15A(b)(9), 15A(b)(11), and 11A(a)(1)(C) of the Act. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD believes that the proposed rule change will not result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments of the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the NASD consent, the Commission will: A. By order approve such proposed rule change, or B. Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;68 and should be submitted by January 6, 1995. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 26 26 17 CFR 200. 30&hyph;3(a)(12)(1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30914 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
