FR940916-2-00072 FR940916-2-00064 [Finance Docket No. 32558] Houston Belt & Terminal Railway Company, et al.; Joint Relocation Project Exemption On August 18, 1994, the Houston Belt & Terminal Railway Company (HB&T), the Southern Pacific Transportation Company (SP), The Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway Company (ATSF), and the Missouri Pacific Railroad Company (MP) (collectively, the Railroads) jointly filed a notice of exemption under 49 CFR 1180.2(d)(5) to relocate two lines of railroad. 1 The proposed transaction was expected to be consummated on or after August 25, 1994. 1 This joint relocation project originated as an accommodation to the Texas State Department of Highways and Public Transportation's (SDHPT) plan to widen U.S. Highway 59. The joint project involves: (1) partial abandonment of certain segments of the Railroads' lines; (2) the construction by HB&T of connecting tracks; and (3) a grant of trackage rights to SP and HB&T. Under the joint project, ATSF will abandon approximately a 0.75-mile portion of the HB&T West Main line between Commerce Street (ATSF MP 24.10) and Runnels Street (ATSF MP 24.37), and between Nance Street (ATSF MP 24.89) and Brooks Street (ATSF 25.37) (including the crossing of the SP Main line). 2 2 The SDHPT will remove the HB&T West Main line bridge over Interstate Highway 10. HB&T will abandon approximately a 0.5-mile portion of the HB&T West Main line between Runnels Street (ATSF MP 24.37) and Nance Street (ATSF MP 24.89). 3 3 HB&T will convey title to the HB&T West Main line bridge over Buffalo Bayou to SDHPT with the HB&T West Main line right-of-way covered by the agreement dated September 17, 1990. The preservation of the HB&T West Main line bridge over Buffalo Bayou for historical reasons was a condition of the Finding Of No Significant Impact (FONSI) issued by the Federal Highway Administration on December 20, 1988, in response to the Environmental Assessment of the entire U.S. Highway 59 project prepared for SDHPT. MP will abandon approximately a 0.6-mile portion of the HB&T East Main line from a point north of the Carr Street Connection (with the SP Main line) (IGN Engineer's Station 7881 + 41) to Campbell Street (IGN Engineer's Station 7848 + 60) (including the crossing of the SP Main line). HB&T and MP will discontinue service over approximately a 0.65-mile portion of the HB&T East Main line between Campbell Street and Collingsworth Street and use that track as an industrial track for serving future industries and for storing railroad cars. HB&T will double track the HB&T East Main line on existing right-of-way between Commerce Street and Lyons Avenue in order to relocate the HB&T West Main line. 4 HB&T will construct double connecting track (the Connecting Track) between the HB&T East Main line at Lyons Avenue and the HB&T West Main line at Brooks Street on the right-of-way acquired by HB&T. The Connecting Track will cross the SP Main line under the authority of the Trackage Rights Agreement. To relocate the HB&T East Main line, HB&T will double track the HB&T West Main line on existing right-of-way between Brooks Street and Quitman Street. 4 The HB&T East Main line bridge over Buffalo Bayou has been replaced to accommodate double track pursuant to a permit issued by the Coast Guard on October 28, 1991. SDHPT has reconstructed the HB&T East Main line bridge over Interstate Highway 10 to accommodate double track. HB&T will construct additional HB&T East Main trackage adjacent to and to the north of the SP Shreveport Branch northeast from Quitman Street, connecting with existing HB&T East Main trackage at Collingsworth Street. Approximately 952 feet of this additional track will be on existing HB&T right-of-way and the remaining additional track will be constructed on a strip of right-of-way approximately 2,600 feet long and between 35 and 40 feet wide adjacent to the existing SP Shreveport Branch right-of-way, which HB&T is in the process of acquiring. HB&T will construct a connection (the Brooks Street Connection) between the SP Main line and the relocated HB&T East Main line at the Connecting Track in the vicinity of Brooks Street over a right-of-way it has acquired. After completion, SP will own and maintain the track of the Brooks Street Connection.
