FR940228-2-00121 FR940228-2-00075 Office of Thrift Supervision [No. 94&hyph;13] Public Disclosure of Reports of Condition AGENCY: Office of Thrift Supervision, Treasury. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) hereby gives notice that the information collected on the schedule CMR will not be available to the public. Schedule CMR replaced the previous schedule MR. This action is being taken pursuant to section 5(v) of the Home Owners' Loan Act. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John C. Price, (Acting) Assistant Director for Policy, (202) 906&hyph;5745, or Anthony G. Cornyn, Deputy Assistant Director, Policy, (202) 906&hyph;5727, Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20552. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 5(v) of the Home Owners' Loan Act, 12 U.S.C. 1464(v), each savings association is required to make reports of condition to the OTS in a form prescribed by OTS. Section 5(v) further requires that such reports and all of the information they contain be available to the public unless the Director determines that public disclosure of a particular item would not protect the safety or soundness of a particular institution or institutions or the Savings Association Insurance Fund, or would not otherwise be in the public interest. If the Director restricts disclosure of any item for savings associations generally, that fact and the reason therefor are to be disclosed in the Federal Register . On August 7, 1990, the OTS gave notice that certain information collected on the Thrift Financial Report (TFR) would not be publicly disclosed. 1 In that notice, OTS specifically discussed maturity/repricing/rate information collected on Schedule MR and used to measure interest rate risk. The agency indicated that it would be premature and misleading to release such information at that time, because it was in the process of expanding and enhancing its collection and analysis of such data. OTS anticipated that after such enhancements were complete, it might be appropriate to disclose this interest-rate-risk related schedule. 1 55 FR 32168 (Aug. 7, 1990). Since that time, OTS has issued an interest-rate-risk regulation 2 and has replaced Schedule MR with Schedule CMR. As that regulation and schedule have evolved, it has become apparent to the agency that releasing the information collected on Schedule CMR would not be in the public interest and would be detrimental to the safety and soundness of the thrift industry. 2 58 FR 45799 (Aug. 31, 1993). OTS uses the information collected on Schedule CMR to monitor the interest-rate-risk profiles of both individual thrifts and the entire industry. Under the new regulation, however, small (under $300 million in assets), highly capitalized (a risk-based capital ratio in excess of 12 percent) institutions are generally not required to file Schedule CMR. This exemption covers well over half of the industry. OTS exempted these institutions from the filing requirements applicable to other savings associations because it believed that they generally held sufficient capital against potential interest rate risk. OTS encourages these savings associations to voluntarily file Schedule CMR with the agency to enable it to measure the industry's overall interest rate risk more accurately. The OTS can then provide these institutions with an assessment of their interest rate risk. Making Schedule CMR data publicly available could have several adverse consequences. First, the publication of data from only those required to file Schedule CMR would give a distorted view of the industry's interest rate risk profile because such a large portion of the industry is exempt from filing this schedule of the TFR. Second, OTS is concerned that if Schedule CMR data from individual institutions were made publicly available, current and potential voluntary filers would be far less likely to file Schedule CMR. In fact, a number of institutions have indicated that they will not file Schedule CMR voluntarily if the information is disclosed publicly. They have indicated that information on Schedule CMR has competitive significance. In particular, these institutions are concerned that disclosure would allow their competitors to gain access to important financial information about their portfolios, pricing strategies, and risk exposures. If such voluntarily filing thrifts chose not to file Schedule CMR, OTS's ability to measure the interest rate risk of these institutions would be severely hampered. Because understanding and effectively managing interest rate risk has historically been, and remains, of critical importance to a healthy thrift industry, OTS believes it is in the public interest to encourage, not discourage, voluntary reporting of Schedule CMR data by otherwise exempt savings associations. Finally, if the data from only mandatory filers were made publicly available, such institutions would be competitively disadvantaged in comparison not only to exempt thrifts, but also to commercial banks and state-chartered savings banks, who are not required to file similar data with their regulators. For these reasons, the OTS has determined not to make publicly available the data of individual institutions reported on Schedule CMR. The agency, however, does intend to make publicly available aggregate CMR data for selected industry peer groups. Dated: February 22, 1994. By the Office of Thrift Supervision. Jonathan L. Fiechter, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4428 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6720&hyph;01&hyph;P
