FR941026-0-00048 FR941026-0-00017 (3) Radar Observer (Rivers). Classroom instruction_with emphasis on situations and problems encountered on rivers including demonstration and practical exercises using simulators_and examination, in the following subjects: (i) Fundamentals of radar: (A) How radar works. (B) Factors affecting the performance and accuracy of marine radar. (C) Purpose and functions of the main components that constitute a typical marine radar system. (ii) Operation and use of radar: (A) Purpose and adjustment of controls. (B) Detection of malfunctions, false and indirect echoes, and other radar phenomena. (C) Effects of sea return and weather. (D) Limitations of radar resulting from design factors. (E) Precautions to observe in preforming maintenance of radar equipment. (F) Measurement of ranges and bearings. (G) Effect of size, shape, composition, and distance of vessels and terrestrial targets on echo. (iii) Interpretation and analysis of radar information: (A) Radar navigation_determining the position and direction of movements of a vessel. (B) Collision-avoidance, including visual techniques, appropriate to the circumstances and the equipment in use. (C) Factors to consider when determining changes of course and/or speed of a vessel to, on the basis of radar observation, prevent collisions with other vessels. (4) Radar Observer (Unlimited Renewal). Classroom Instruction)_including demonstration and practical exercises using simulators_and examination, in the following subjects: (i) Interpretation and analysis of radar information: (A) Radar navigation_determining the position and direction of movements of a vessel. (B) Collision-avoidance, including visual techniques, appropriate to the circumstances and the equipment in use. (C) Determining the course and speed of another vessel. (D) Determining the time and distance of closest point of approach of a crossing, meeting, overtaking , or overtaken vessel. (E) Detecting changes of course and/or speed of another vessel after its initial course and speed have been established. (F) Factors to consider when determining changes of course and/or speed of a vessel to, on the basis of radar observation, prevent collisions with other vessels. (ii) Plotting (by any method that is graphically correct): (A) The principles and methods of plotting relative and true motion. (B) Practical-plotting problems. (5) Radar Observer (Inland Waters Renewal). Classroom instruction_including demonstration and practical exercises using simulators_and examination, in the interpretation and analysis of radar information, including: (i) Radar navigation_determining the position and direction of movements of a vessel. (ii) Collision-avoidance, including visual techniques, appropriate to the circumstances and the equipment in use. (iii) Determining the course and speed of another vessel. (iv) Determining the time and distance of closest point of approach of a crossing, meeting, overtaking, or overtaken vessel. (v) Detecting changes of course and/or speed of another vessel after its initial course and speed have been established. (vi) Factors to consider when determining changes of course and/or speed of a vessel to, on the basis of radar observation, prevent collisions with other vessels. (6) Radar Observer (Rivers Renewal). Classroom instruction_including demonstration and practical exercises using simulators_and examination, in the interpretation and analysis of radar information, including: (i) Radar navigation_determining the position and direction of movements of a vessel. (ii) Collision-avoidance, including visual techniques, appropriate to the circumstances and the equipment in use. (iii) Factors to consider when determining changes of course and/or speed of vessel to, on the basis of radar observation, prevent collisons with other vessels. 3. New ยง10.306 is added to read as follows: ยง10.306 Radar-Operation certificate and course. (a) A certificate of training from a Radar-Operation course may, as provided by 46 CFR 15.815(c)(2), suffice instead of a radar-observer endorsement. It is valid until the holder's license is renewed or upgraded, or expires, whichever occurs first. (b) Each Radar-Operation course must contain at least four hours of instruction on the following subjects: (1) Fundamentals of radar: (i) How radar works. (ii) Factors affecting the performance and accuracy of marine radar. (iii) Purpose and functions of the main components that constitute a typical marine radar system. (2) Operation and use of radar: (i) Purpose and adjustment of controls. (ii) Detection of malfunctions, false and indirect echoes, and other radar phenomena. (iii) Effects of sea return and weather. (iv) Limitations of radar resulting from design factors. (v) Precautions to observe in performing maintenance of radar equipment. (vi) Measurement of ranges and bearings. (vii) Effect of size, shape, composition, and distance of vessels and terrestrial targets on echo. (3) Interpretation and analysis of radar information:
