FR940706-0-00023 FR940706-0-00001 (4) In making personal service, the person making service shall leave a copy of the subpoena with the person subpoenaed, or, if such person is not immediately available, with any other responsible person authorized to accept service residing or employed at the place of residence or business of the person subpoenaed. (5) The original of the subpoena, bearing or accompanied by the required proof of service, shall be returned to the official who issued the same. The party at whose request the subpoena is issued shall be responsible for the service thereof. §283.14 Fees of witnesses. Witnesses summoned under these rules shall be paid the same fees and expenses that are paid witnesses in the courts of the United States. Fees shall be paid by the party at whose request the witness appears. Current Federal, State, or local government employees shall not be eligible to receive witness fees. §283.15 Procedure for hearing. (a) Request for hearing. A party may request a hearing on the facts by including such request in its Appeal Petition or Answer, whichever is appropriate. Failure to request a hearing within the time specified shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity for such a hearing, except as provided for under §283.4(i). In the event FNS denies any material facts and fails to request a hearing, the matter may be set down for hearing on motion of the State agency or upon the ALJ's own motion. (b) Time and place. If any material issue of fact is joined by the pleadings, the ALJ, upon motion of any party, stating that the matter is ready for hearing, shall set a time for the hearing, as soon as feasible thereafter, with due regard for the public interest and the convenience and necessity of the State agency and FNS. The hearing shall be held at the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC. Upon a showing of unusual or extraordinary circumstances, the ALJ may order that the hearing be held at another location. The ALJ shall file a notice stating the time and place of the hearing. If any change in the time of the hearing is made, the ALJ shall file a notice of such change, which notice shall be served upon the parties, unless it is made during the course of an oral hearing and made a part of the transcript or actual notice given to the parties. (c) Appearances. The parties may appear in person or by attorney of record in the appeal or by any other designated representative. Any person who appears as attorney or as a party's designated representative must conform to the standards of ethical conduct required by practitioners before the courts of the United States. (d) Exchange of witness and rebuttal witness lists, statements and exhibits. (1) Witness and rebuttal witness lists, copies of prior statements of proposed witnesses, and copies of proposed hearing exhibits, including copies of any written statements or depositions that a party intends to offer in lieu of live testimony in accordance with §283.12(a)(7), shall be exchanged at least 15 days in advance of the hearing or at such other time as may be set by the ALJ. (2) A witness whose name does not appear on the witness list shall not be permitted to testify and exhibits which were not provided to the opposing party as provided above shall not be admitted into evidence at the hearing absent a showing of cause and as authorized by the ALJ. (e) Deparment of attorney or representative. (1) Whenever an ALJ finds that a person acting as attorney or designated representative for any party to the appeal is guilty of unethical or contumacious conduct in, or in connection with an appeal, the ALJ may order that such person be precluded from further acting as attorney or representative in the appeal. Review by the Judicial Officer may be taken on any such order, but no appeal of the QC claim shall be delayed or suspended pending disposition of the debarment review by the Judicial Officer. Provided, however, that the ALJ shall suspend the appeal of the QC claim for a reasonable time for the purpose of enabling the party to obtain another attorney or representative. (2) Whenever it is found, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that a person who is acting or who has acted as attorney or representative for another person in any proceeding before the U.S. Department of Agriculture, is unfit to act as such counsel because of such unethical or contumacious conduct, such person will be precluded from acting as the attorney or representative in any or all proceedings before the Department as found to be appropriate. (f) Failure to appear. (1) If FNS or the State agency, after being duly notified, fails to appear at the hearing without cause, that party shall be deemed to have waived the opportunity for an oral hearing and to have admitted any facts which may be presented at the hearing. Such failure by either party shall also constitute an admission of all the material allegations of fact contained in any pleadings submitted by the other party. The party who appears shall have the option of whether to follow the procedure under §283.7 or to present evidence, in whole or in part, in the form of declarations or by oral testimony before the ALJ. (2) Failure to appear at a hearing shall not be deemed to be a waiver of the right to be served with a copy of the ALJ's initial decision, to file a motion for reconsideration pursuant to §283.17(d) or to seek review by the Judicial Officer in accordance with §283.20.
