FR940419-2-00048 FR940419-2-00033 Anticipated Number of Projects to be Funded: It is anticipated that one project will be funded as a Cooperative Agreement. Length of Proposal: There is no page limitation on applications submitted under this priority area. CDFA: 93.656␣Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Act of 1986, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5117 D. Available Funds The ACYF intends to award new grants and a Cooperative Agreement under this announcement during fiscal year 1994. Applications for continuation grants funded under this program beyond the first year's budget period, but within the total project period, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to the availability of funds and a determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the Federal government. Applicants are advised that the Administration has proposed the consolidation of this program into the Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) beginning in FY 1995. In addition, for priority areas 1.01A and 1.01B, non-competitive funding for subsequent years will be based on a program staff review of project status and performance, and evidence that the program is part of an integrated system of services described in an approved State plan as mandated by Title IV&hyph;B, Subpart 2, of the Social Security Act, pursuant to the Family Preservation and Family Support program. If the Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries program is consolidated with CCDBG, ACYF will encourage States to consider continuing those projects funded under these priority areas. For priority area 1.02, non-competitive funding beyond year three will be based on the project's responsiveness to customers' needs. Part III_Review Process A. Eligible Applicants Before applications are reviewed, each application will be screened to determine that the applicant organization is an eligible applicant as specified under the selected priority area. Applications from organizations which do not meet the eligibility requirements for the priority area will not be considered or reviewed in the competition, and the applicant will be so informed. B. Review Process and Funding Decisions Timely applications from eligible applicants will be reviewed and scored competitively. Experts in the field, generally persons from outside of the Federal government, will use the evaluation criteria listed in Section C, Evaluation Criteria, to review and score the applications. The results of this review are a primary factor in making funding decisions. The ACYF reserves the option of discussing applications with, or referring them to, other Federal or non-Federal funding sources when this is determined to be in the best interest of the Federal government or the applicant. It may also solicit comments from ACYF Regional Office staff, other Federal agencies, interested foundations, national organizations, specialists, experts, States and the general public. These comments, along with those of the expert reviewers, will be considered by ACYF in making funding decisions.
