FR940505-1-00172 FR940505-1-00012 EPA proposes to encourage the use of cleaner marine engines through a three-tier fee program based on emission reductions from a diesel engine baseline. The first tier is a 0&hyph;10 percent fee (90 percent fee reduction) for engines that achieve greater than or equal to 80 percent NO X reduction compared to typical marine diesel engines. 93 These could include SCR- equipped diesel engines, steam turbine engines or gas turbine engines, or engines equipped with other technologies that can be shown to achieve such reductions. The second tier is a 50 percent reduction from the full fee for engines that achieve greater than or equal to 30 percent and up to 80 percent NO X reduction compared to typical marine diesel engines. Such engines could include such technologies as injection timing retard, engine fine tuning, EGR, water emulsification, and selective non-catalyst reduction, or other technologies that can be shown to achieve such reductions. The third tier would be a full fee for engines that do not achieve at least a 30 percent reduction in NO X emissions from the baseline. 93 Please review Section (4) Discount for Staying Outside the Region, for a description of when the 0 or 10 percent options apply. This fee structure can easily be adjusted to incorporate standards set out by the International Maritime Organization (IMO). The IMO is currently developing an annex to MARPOL (Marine Pollution Convention) 73/78 to control air pollution from ships on international voyages. Target emission reductions for the annex are a 30 percent reduction in NO X and a 50 percent reduction in SO X . As part of the compliance verification procedure, the IMO is currently considering type approval (i.e., test bed confirmation), and onboard surveys and re-surveys. The onboard surveys would consist of a simplified test for verification based on measuring NO X and O 2 concentrations. For these surveys, the IMO is currently considering test procedures drafted by the International Standards Organization (ISO) for measuring emissions at site (ISO/DIS 8178&hyph;2: Reciprocating internal combustion engines_Exhaust emission measurement_Part 2: Measurement of gaseous and particulate emissions at site). EPA requests comments on the use of this test procedure to establish fee levels based on measured emission levels from marine engines. Based on information supplied by Japan as input into the IMO air pollution annex development, NO X emission levels showed the best correlation with engine speed as compared to other parameters. Slow speed engines generally have higher thermal efficiencies and therefore higher NO X than medium and high speed engines. Many delegations to IMO believe the data provided by Japan to be the best published information on emission rates for the range of marine engines. Based on this data, Japan has proposed that a 30 percent NO X reduction could be achieved by NO X limits for the IMO air pollution annex of the form: NO X (g/kW-hr)=45×n ^0.2 where n is engine speed in revolutions per minute EPA proposes that the second tier fee level coincide with the IMO proposal. In other words, those engines that meet the proposed IMO standards are proposed to be eligible for a discounted fee (i.e., be categorized in the second tier fee level). To accomplish this, EPA proposes that the baseline emissions level, for fee calculation purposes, be of the form: NO X (g/kW-hr)=64.3×n ^0.2 where n is engine speed in revolutions per minute for any given RPM range, this equation calculates an emission rate baseline. The equation proposed by Japan for the IMO annex thus represents a 30 percent reduction in emissions from this baseline. Therefore, engines which can achieve emission reductions of greater than or equal to 30 percent from this baseline (i.e., that meet the IMO proposed standard) will be eligible for a fee discount (a 50 percent discount for engines achieving 30 percent to less than 80 percent NO X reduction and a 90 percent discount for engines achieving greater than or equal to 80 percent reduction in NO X ). The main caveat with this strategy is that the IMO emission standards are still under development. In addition to the proposal for NO X limits based on engine speed, another proposal under consideration by IMO is for NO X limits to be set based on specific fuel consumption of the engine. EPA requests comments on the appropriateness of the proposed baseline emissions equation or other approaches for the purposes of calculating fees.
