FR940805-1-00056 FR940805-1-00013 Disciplinary segregation means a special management classification which separates a detainee from the general population because he or she has committed a serious violation of facility rules or regulations, after a finding of a rule violation at an impartial hearing and when there is no adequate alternative disposition to regulate the detainee's behavior. Diversion means the official halting or suspension, at any legally prescribed processing point after a recorded justice system entry, of formal justice proceedings against an alleged offender. The suspension of proceedings may be in conjunction with a referral to a treatment or care program administered by a non-judicial or private agency, or there may be no referral. Education release means a custody status under which detainees may leave the detention facility to attend school or paid employment in the community, returning to custody after work or school hours. Emergency means any serious incident, such as riot, strike, escape, fire or natural disaster which results in significant disruption of the facility's normal policies, procedures, or activities. Emergency care means care for an acute illness or unexpected health care need that cannot be deferred until the next scheduled sick call and which is provided to the resident population by representatives of the health authority, local ambulance services, and/or other hospital emergency rooms. Emergency generator and equipment means a generator, battery pack or alternative, independent power source which allows a facility to maintain essential lights, power and communication equipment. Emergency shelter facility means any non-secure public or private facility designated to provide either temporary or shelter placement for alleged or adjudicated status offenders prior to the issuance of a disposition order or longer-term care under a juvenile court disposition order. Existing construction means building structures which were constructed prior to the date these standards became effective. Facility means a place, institution, building (or part thereof), set of buildings, or area that is used for the lawful custody and/or treatment of individuals, which may be owned and/or operated by public or private agencies, and which includes the staff and services as well as the buildings and grounds. Force, use of means physical force used in instances of justifiable self-defense, protection of others, protection of property, or prevention of escapes. Physical force is used only as a last resort and in accordance with appropriate statutory authority. Good-time means a system established by law or the applicable court which allows the facility to subtract a set amount of time from an inmate's sentence for specified periods that are served in an acceptable manner. Grievance means a written complaint filed by a detainee with the facility administration. Guardian means a person who has been appointed by a court to be the custodian of a child's rights in place of a parent. Handbook, inmate means a collection of the facility's rules of conduct and sanctions for violations, defined in writing. Handicapped person means any person who has a physical, mental or sensory impairment which substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. Health appraisal means a thorough examination of a person's current physical condition and medical histories, which is conducted by, or under the supervision, of a licensed professional within a specified time period following admission. Health authority means the Indian Health Service or its contracted designee. Health care staff means individuals whose primary duties are to provide health services to detainees in keeping with their respective levels of health care training experience. Health examination means a physical examination of detainees who have been in custody more than thirty days, which includes dental and mental health evaluation. Health screening means a system of structured inquiry and observation, by health care staff or by a health-trained detention officer at the time of admission, designed to prevent newly-arrived detainees who pose a health or safety threat to themselves or others from being admitted to the general population. Health-trained staff means detention staff who are trained and appropriately supervised to carry out certain specific duties with regard to the administration of health care. Housing unit means a group or cluster of single and/or multiple occupancy cells or detention rooms that houses inmates and is immediately adjacent and directly accessible to a day or activity room. Identification and location record means a written record that shows the actual physical location of each detainee in custody. Immediate release (from locked areas) means the capability of immediate staff response to release of all detainees from a locked area to a safe area within four minutes. Incident means a situation in which injury serious enough to warrant medical attention occurs involving a resident, employee, or visitor on the grounds of the institution, or a situation containing an imminent threat to the security of the institution and/or the safety of residents, employees, or visitors on the grounds of the institution. Indian means any person: (1) Who is a member of an Indian tribe, as defined below, irrespective of whether he or she lives on or near a reservation, is a member of a tribe, band, or other organized group of Indians, including those tribes, bands, or groups terminated since 1940 and those recognized now or in the future by the State in which they reside, or who is a descendant, in the first or second degree, of any such member; or (2) Who is an Eskimo or Aleut or other Alaska Native; or (3) Who is considered by the Secretary of the Interior to be an Indian for any purpose; or (4) Who is determined to be an Indian under regulations promulgated by the Secretary. Indian tribe means any tribe, band, nation or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or group or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. Indian youth means a person under the age of eighteen years, who claims to be a descendant of a member of a Federally recognized tribe.
