FR940822-2-00148 FR940822-2-00061 XI. Financial Requirements A. Accounting Systems and Financial Records All grantees, subgrantees, contractors, and other organizations directly or indirectly receiving Institute funds are required to establish and maintain accounting systems and financial records to accurately account for funds they receive. These records shall include total program costs, including Institute funds, State and local matching shares, and any other fund sources included in the approved project budget. 1. Purpose The purpose of this section is to establish accounting system requirements and to offer guidance on procedures which will assist all grantees/subgrantees in: a. Complying with the statutory requirements for the awarding, disbursement, and accounting of funds; b. Complying with regulatory requirements of the Institute for the financial management and disposition of funds; c. Generating financial data which can be used in the planning, management and control of programs; and d. Facilitating an effective audit of funded programs and projects. 2. References Except where inconsistent with specific provisions of this Guideline, the following regulations, directives and reports are applicable to Institute grants and cooperative agreements. These materials supplement the requirements of this section for accounting systems and financial recordkeeping and provide additional guidance on how these requirements may be satisfied. a. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;21, Cost Principles for Educational Institutions. b. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;87, Cost Principles for State and Local Governments. c. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;88 (revised), Indirect Cost Rates, Audit and Audit Follow-up at Educational Institutions. d. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;102, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants-in-Aid to State and Local Governments. e. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;110, Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and other Non-Profit Organizations. f. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;128, Audits of State and Local Governments. g. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;122, Cost Principles for Non-profit Organizations. B. Supervision and Monitoring Responsibilities 1. Grantee Responsibilities All grantees receiving direct awards from the Institute are responsible for the management and fiscal control of all funds. Responsibilities include accounting for receipts and expenditures, maintaining adequate financial records and refunding expenditures disallowed by audits.
