FR941019-0-00032 FR941019-0-00004 (9) Sales after the marketing period. If the RTC does not receive a purchase offer for an eligible single family property within the applicable marketing period, the RTC may sell the property to any purchaser. (10) Avoidance of displacement. Prior to or during the marketing period, the RTC may sell an eligible single family property to the household residing in the property without regard to the income of the household, provided that: (i) The household was residing in the property at the earlier of the time of sale or the time the Notice of Marketing Period was provided to the clearinghouse; (ii) The sale was necessary to avoid the displacement of, and unnecessary hardship to, the resident household; (iii) The resident household intends to occupy the property as its principal residence for at least 12 months; and (iv) The resident household certifies in writing that the household intends to occupy the property for at least 12 months and acknowledges that it is subject to the penalties described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section if the household fails to comply with the residency requirement. (b) Eligible multifamily property _(1) Notice of Marketing Period. (i) Subject to exercise by the RTC of its authority under §§1609.9 and 1609.11 of this part, the RTC shall send a Notice of Marketing Period to clearinghouses when an eligible multifamily property is ready for marketing to qualifying multifamily purchasers. The RTC shall send a second Notice of Marketing Period to the clearinghouse if it determines, in accordance with paragraph (b)(12) of this section, to extend the marketing period for an eligible multifamily property. The Notice shall be transmitted by certified mail or any other means of communication with date and time confirmation. (ii) The property listing accompanying the Notice shall contain basic information about the property, including location, number of units (identified by number of bedrooms) and information relating to the estimated fair market value of the property, and such other information as the RTC may determine to be useful. (iii) The Notice shall specify a date that begins the start of the marketing period and state that the Marketing Period ends 3 months, or such other time period as may be applicable, after such date. (iv) During the marketing period, the RTC shall offer an eligible multifamily property exclusively to qualifying multifamily purchasers. (v) The RTC shall allow qualifying multifamily purchasers reasonable access to eligible properties for purposes of inspection. (2) Qualifying multifamily purchasers. Prior to receiving access to an eligible multifamily property, a public agency, nonprofit organization, or for-profit entity must make a written commitment (for itself or any related entity) to the listing broker or other marketing specialist that it is a qualifying multifamily purchaser which will satisfy the lower-income occupancy requirements in any eligible multifamilly property for which it requests access, if and when it makes an offer to purchaser that property. The written commitment should acknowledge the terms and conditions governing the sale of eligible multifamily properties. This commitment will be included as a part of the bid package.
