FR940907-2-00052 FR940907-2-00037 First of America Bank Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan; Application to Engage in Nonbanking Activities First of America Bank Corporation , Kalamazoo, Michigan (Applicant), has applied pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) (BHC Act) and 225.23(a)(3) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)(3)) to engage de novo through a wholly owned subsidiary, First of America Securities, Inc., Kalamazoo, Michigan (Company), in the following securities-related activities: (1) underwriting and dealing in, to a limited extent, rated and unrated debt securities, including only municipal revenue bonds (including industrial development bonds), mortgage-related securities, consumer receivable-related securities, commercial paper, and securities issued by a trust or other vehicle secured by or representing interests in such debt obligations (bank-ineligible securities); (2) acting as agent for issuers in the private placement of all types of debt and equity securities, including providing related advisory services; (3) buying and selling securities on the order of investors as a ``riskless'' principal; (4) intermediating in the swaps markets by acting as an originator and principal in interest rate and currency swap transactions, and transactions in ``swap derivative products'' such as caps, floors and collars, and options on swaps, caps, floors and collars, (a) acting as broker and agent with respect to the foregoing transactions and instruments, and (b) acting as adviser to institutional customers regarding financing strategies involving interest rate and currency swaps and derivative swap products; (5) providing foreign exchange advisory and transactional services; and (6) providing advice in connection with merger, acquisition, divestiture, recapitalization and financing transactions, including feasibility studies and structuring and arranging loan syndications, for financial and nonfinancial institutions and high net worth individuals, and to provide ancillary services or functions incidental to these activities; valuations for financial and nonfinancial institutions and high net worth individuals; fairness opinions in connection with merger, acquisition and similar transactions for financial and nonfinancial institutions and high net worth individuals and ancillary services or functions incidental to the foregoing advisory activities (collectively ``financial advisory activities''). Company has previously received Federal Reserve System approval to engage in full-service brokerage activities, providing financial advice to state and local governments, and underwriting and dealing in bank-eligible securities. Applicant proposes to conduct these activities throughout the United States. Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act provides that a bank holding company may, with Board approval, engage in any activity which the Board, after due notice and opportunity for hearing, has determined (by order or regulation) to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. This statutory test requires that two separate tests be met for an activity to be permissible for a bank holding company. First, the Board must determine that the activity is, as a general matter, closely related to banking. Second, the Board must find in a particular case that the performance of the activity by the applicant bank holding company may reasonably be expected to produce public benefits that outweigh possible adverse effects. A particular activity may be found to meet the ``closely related to banking'' test if it is demonstrated that banks have generally provided the proposed activity; that banks generally provide services that are operationally or functionally similar to the proposed activity so as to equip them particularly well to provide the proposed activity; or that banks generally provide services that are so integrally related to the proposed activity as to require their provision in a specialized form. National Courier Ass'n v. Board of Governors , 516 F.2d 1229, 1237 (D.C. Cir. 1975). In addition, the Board may consider any other basis that may demonstrate that the activity has a reasonable or close relationship to banking or managing or controlling banks. Board Statement Regarding Regulation Y, 49 FR 806 (1984). The Board has previously approved, by regulation, financial advisory activities and providing foreign exchange transactional and advisory services. See , 12 CFR 225.25(b)(4)(vi) and (17). Applicant has stated that it will conduct these proposed activities subject to the requirements and limitations of the Board's Regulation Y. The Board also has previously approved, by order, underwriting and dealing in, to a limited extent, bank-ineligible securities. See, e.g., Citicorp, et al. , 73 Federal Reserve Bulletin 473 (1987) (1987 Section 20 Order), aff'd sub nom. Securities Industry Ass'n v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , 839 F.2d 47 (2d Cir.), cert. denied , 486 U.S. 1059 (1988); J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated, et al. , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 192 (1989) (1989 Section 20 Order), aff'd sub nom. Securities Industries Ass'n v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , 900 F.2d 360 (D.C. Cir. 1990), as modified by Order dated September 21, 1989, 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 751 (1989) (Modification Order). Applicant has stated that it will conduct the proposed underwriting and dealing activities in bank-ineligible securities using the same methods and procedures, and subject to the same prudential limitations established by the Board in the 1987 Section 20 Order, and the 1989 Section 20 Order, as modified by the Modification Order, including the Board's 10 percent revenue limitation on such activities. 1 For this reason, Applicant contends that approval of the application would not be barred by section 20 of the Glass-Steagall Act (12 U.S.C. 377), which prohibits the affiliation of a state member bank with any company principally engaged in the underwriting, public sale, or distribution of securities. 1 Applicant is proposing that Company have two director interlocks with Applicant's subsidiary banks. These directors would not be officers of Company or the subsidiary banks, would not have authority to handle day-to-day business of the banks or handle individual bank transactions. These directors would not make up a majority of Company's board of directors. See, e.g. , Synovus Financial Corp., 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 954, 955 (1991); Banc One Corporation , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 756, 758 (1990). Applicant is also proposing that affiliate banks of Company broker or act as riskless principal for bank-eligible securities underwritten or dealt in by Company in a manner previously approved by the Board. See BankAmerica Corporation , 79 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1163, 1165 (1993). The Board also has previously approved, by order, the proposed private placement and riskless principal activities, and Applicant has stated that it will conduct these proposed activities using the same methods and procedures and subject to the prudential limitations established by the Board in its previous orders. See Dauphin Deposit Corporation , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 672 (1991); J.P. Morgan & Company Incorporated , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 26 (1990); and Bankers Trust New York Corporation , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 829 (1989). The Board also has previously approved acting as originator, principal, broker or agent with respect to interest rate and currency swaps, caps, floors, collars, and options on swaps, caps, floors and collars, including providing advice to institutional customers regarding such financial instruments. See, e.g., The Sanwa Bank, Limited , 77 Federal Reserve Bulletin 64 (1991); The Fuji Bank, Limited , 76 Federal Reserve Bulletin 768 (1990); The Sumitomo Bank, Limited , 75 Federal Reserve Bulletin 582 (1989). Applicant proposes to engage in these swap activities subject to the provisions and conditions established by the Board in its previous orders. In order to satisfy the proper incident to banking test, section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act requires the Board to find that the performance of the activities by Company can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. Applicant believes that the proposed activities will benefit the public by increasing customer convenience, increasing competition in the market for the proposed services, and promoting gains in efficiency. Applicant believes that the proposed activities will not result in any unsound banking practices or other adverse effects. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely in order to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets, or is likely to meet, the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing and received by William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551, not later than September 28, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by 262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of the reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors or the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, August 31, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21973 Filed 9&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;F
