FR941103-2-00132 FR941103-2-00074 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20666; 812&hyph;9294] Select Strategies Trust, et al.; Notice of Application October 28, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Select Strategies Trust, Series 1 and subsequent series and any successor unit investment trust (the ``Trust'' and, each series, separately, the ``Series''), NYLIFE Distributors, Inc. (the ``Distributor''), NYLIFE Depository Corporation (the ``Sponsor''), MacKay-Shields Financial Corporation (the ``Adviser'') and any open-end management investment company (or portfolio thereof), that may now or in the future be advised by the Adviser, whose shares are distributed by the Distributor, or that holds itself out to investors as part of a ``group of investment companies'' (the ``Funds''), as that term is defined in rule 11a&hyph;3 under the Act. RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the Act to grant an exemption from sections 14(a) and 19(b) of the Act and rule 19b&hyph;1 thereunder; under sections 11 (a) and (c) of the Act to permit certain offers of exchange; and under section 17(d) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder to permit certain affiliated transactions. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants request an order: (a) permitting the respective Series to invest in shares of an open-end investment company and U.S. Treasury zero coupon obligations; (b) exempting the Sponsor from having to take for its own account or place with others $100,000 worth of units in the Trust; (c) permitting the Trust to distribute capital gains resulting from redemptions of Fund shares within a reasonable time after receipt; (d) permitting certain offers of exchange involving the Trust; and (e) permitting certain affiliated transactions involving the Trust. FILING DATES: The application was filed on October 19, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on November 22, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: 51 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10291. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sarah A. Buescher, Law Clerk, at (202) 942&hyph;0573, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Trust is a unit investment trust, organized in series form and registered under the Act. Units of each Series will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (``Securities Act'') and will be offered to the public. Each Series will be organized pursuant to a trust indenture that will incorporate a master trust agreement relating to the entire Trust (the agreement and indenture are collectively referred to as the ``Trust Agreement''). The Trust Agreement will name a qualified bank as trustee (the ``Trustee''). 2. Each unit of a Series will represent an undivided interest in an unmanaged portfolio consisting of (i) U.S. Treasury bonds or notes paying no current interest (zero coupon obligations) and (ii) shares of a Fund. Each Series will acquire an amount of zero coupon obligations that, upon termination of the Series, will be sufficient to pay each initial investor purchasing units of the Trust Series on the first date such units are offered for sale, the total amount that the investor originally invested in the Series, plus sales charges incurred. The remainder of the Series' proceeds will be invested in shares of a single Fund.
