FR940721-2-00113 FR940721-2-00065 11. Budget The State radiation control program (RCP) shall have adequate budgetary support to implement an effective program. The total RCP budget must provide adequate funds for salaries, training, travel costs associated with the compliance program, laboratory and survey instrumentation and other equipment, contract services, and other administrative costs. C. Elements of a Compatible Program 1. Radiation Labels, Signs, and Symbols States must have radiation labels, signs and symbols identical to that of the national standard. 2. Uniform Manifest State regulatory programs shall establish a manifest system in accordance with 10 CFR Part 20. 3. Transportation Regulations State regulations regarding transportation of radioactive materials must be identical or essentially verbatim with those in 10 CFR Part 71. 4. Event Reporting The State regulatory program shall require licensee reporting in a manner so that information on identical type events is consistent with the reporting established by the NRC. This information shall be provided to the NRC. 5. Reciprocity The State regulatory program shall have reciprocal recognition of out-of-State licensees and Federal licensees through a process which authorizes the safe conduct of similar operations within the Agreement State. 6. Records and Reports The State regulatory program shall require that holders and users of radioactive materials (a) maintain records covering personnel radiation exposures, radiation surveys and disposal of materials, (b) keep records of the receipt and transfer of the material, (c) maintain reports of significant incidents involving radioactive materials. 7. Radiation Protection Terminology The State regulatory program shall adopt fundamental radiation protection terminology in a manner essentially identical to NRC definition of these terms to ensure clear communication about radiation protection. Some examples of these terms are ``byproduct material;'' ``total effective dose equivalent;'' ``sievert;'' ``gray;'' and ``becquerel.'' 8. Radiation Protection Standards The State regulatory program shall adopt dose limits and radiation-protection related release limits in 10 CFR Part 20, and 10 CFR Part 61 applicable to all licensees, or any subsequent amendments thereto. D. Compatibility Criteria The following criteria shall be applied to program elements and regulations to determine whether they must be adopted by Agreement States in a manner essentially identical to that of the NRC for the purposes of compatibility: 1. avoids a significant burden on interstate commerce; 2. ensures clear communication on fundamental radiation protection terminology; 3. ensures the establishment of the dose limits and radiation-protection related release limits in 10 CFR Part 20 and 10 CFR Part 61 applicable to all licensees, or any subsequent amendments thereto; 4. assists the Commission in evaluating the effectiveness of the overall national program for radiation protection. If none of the above criteria is met, the State would have the flexibility to design its own program including incorporating more stringent 3 requirements provided that: 3 Local governmental entities are not usually authorized by the NRC under Section 274 to regulate radiological safety. Thus, with limited exception, the authority to set more stringent requirements would not extend to localities unless approved by the Commission through a Section 274 Agreement. a. the requirements for adequacy are still met; and b. the more stringent requirements do not preclude or effectively preclude a practice within the national interest without an adequate public health and safety or environmental basis.
