FR940810-2-00111 FR940810-2-00072 1. Stand-by arrangements. If an offering begins trading at a premium when the secondary market begins, the Interpretation's restrictions are implicated and may affect the successful completion of the offering by prohibiting the sale to stand-by purchasers, due to a person restricted under the Interpretation having a beneficial interest in the stand-by account. The NASD believes that securities purchased pursuant to a stand-by arrangement ( i.e., an agreement to purchase securities not purchased during the offering period) by a restricted account should not be subject to the Interpretation if the conditions proposed are met. The NASD believes that the proposed conditions (prospectus disclosure, a formal agreement, absence of any other purchaser and a three month holding period) remedy any potential derogation from the Interpretation that such a sale could cause, while facilitating a bona fide distribution of the securities offered. 3 3 Of course, any resales by the stand-by purchasers would need to be conducted in compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements including prospectus delivery pursuant to Section 5 of the Securities Act of 1933. 2. Definition of immediate family. The Interpretation presently restricts immediate family members of persons enumerated in Paragraph 2 (persons associated with broker/dealers), and Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Interpretation (persons having a connection to the offering and individuals related to banks, insurance companies and other institutional type accounts) from participating in hot issue distributions. The Interpretation defines immediate family members very broadly and includes such persons as father-, mother-, brother- and sister-in-law. An immediate family member of a person associated with a broker/dealer is prohibited from purchasing hot issues to the same degree as the associated person, unless it can be demonstrated that the associated person does not contribute directly or indirectly to the support of the immediate family member. In the latter circumstance, the immediate family member of the associated person may purchase a hot issue under the same conditions as those persons restricted pursuant to Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Interpretation. Specifically, such persons may purchase hot issues if: (1) The securities were sold to such persons in accordance with their normal investment practice with the member making the distribution; and (2) the securities sold are insubstantial and not disproportionate in amount as compared to sales to members of the public and that the amount sold to any one such person is insubstantial. The NASD believes that in its present form, the immediate family member provisions often place inequitable restrictions on a person with a fairly attenuated connection to a restricted person named in the Interpretation ( e.g., the sister-in-law of a bank vice-president), and often result in unduly burdensome compliance difficulties for members monitoring whether such persons are restricted or become restricted. The NASD believes that the proposed modifications to the immediate family member provisions will ensure that those persons with a substantial nexus to a restricted person will be similarly restricted under the Interpretation, provide a clearer test for NASD members in determining whether such persons are restricted, and eliminate the Interpretation's application to persons not intended to be restricted. The proposed modifications would: (a) retain the investment history exemption, and expand it to include the use of investment history at firms other than the member making the allocation. The burden of obtaining such information would remain with the firm making the sale; (b) eliminate the immediate family restrictions on persons other than those associated with broker/dealers (categories 3 and 4 referenced above) and the Interpretation would only apply to the enumerated individuals in those categories and to persons who are supported directly or indirectly to a material extent by the restricted person; (c) with respect to persons associated with broker/dealers, continue to apply the immediate family restrictions to persons supported by the restricted individual and to allocations by the restricted individual's firm, but would no longer prohibit sales to non-supported family members of a person associated with a broker/dealer by a broker/dealer that does not employ the restricted person, where the restricted person has no ability to control the allocation of the hot issue. There would continue to be a violation if it could be determined that the restricted person has a beneficial interest in the account to which an allocation was made. 3. Venture capital investors. The NASD believes that bona fide venture capital investors should be allowed to purchase a hot issue to maintain their percentage ownership in an entity, notwithstanding that the venture capital investor may be a restricted person, or that such person may have a beneficial interest in the venture capital account. The NASD notes that the venture capital investor often plays a pivotal role in the continued viability of an entity prior to its public offering, and that such an investor should be allowed to maintain his or her own ownership interest after the entity completes its public offering. The venture capital investor, in order to purchase the hot issue without implicating the Interpretation's restrictions, would have to meet the following conditions: (a) one year of preexisting ownership in the entity; (b) no increase in the investor's percentage ownership above that held for the three months prior to the filing of a registration statement in connection with the initial public offering; (c) a lack of special terms in connection with the purchase; and (d) the venture capital investor shall not assign, sell, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the securities for a period of three months following the effective date of the registration statement in connection with the offering. The NASD believes that the conditions imposed on the venture capital investor ensure that the securities may be purchased by a bona fide venture capital investor who has had an on-going interest in an entity, and protect against any attempt to circumvent the Interpretation's restrictions by investing in an entity shortly before its public offering.
