FR940112-1-00008 FR940112-1-00003 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;55] Proposed Modification of Class D Airspace: Hood Army Airfield and Robert Gray Army Airfield, TX AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to modify the current Class D airspace at Hood Army Airfield (AAF) and Robert Gray AAF, and to establish Class E airspace at Killeen Municipal Airport, Killeen, TX. The current Class D airspace encompasses Killeen Municipal Airport and with airspace reclassification, aircraft operators at Killeen Municipal Airport are now required to establish two-way radio communication with Hood AAF Air Traffic Airport Traffic Control Tower (ATCT) or when Hood AAF ATCT is closed, Robert Gray AAF ATCT. This notice proposes to remove the airspace surrounding Killeen Municipal Airport from Hood AAF's Class D airspace and to establish Class E airspace around Killeen Municipal Airport. The intended effect of this proposal is to maintain adequate Class D airspace and two-way radio communications at Hood AAF and Robert Gray AAF, to remove Killeen Municipal Airport, TX, from the current Class D airspace, and to establish Class E airspace around Killeen Municipal Airport, Killeen, TX. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to Manager, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Southwest Region, Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;55, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. The official docket may be examined in the office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX, between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Alvin DeVane, System Management Branch, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530; telephone: 817&hyph;222&hyph;5595. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed under the caption ADDRESSES . Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit, with those comments, a self-addressed, stamped, postcard containing the following statement: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;55.'' The postcard will be date and time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in the light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, at 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Manager, System Management Branch, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A that describes the application procedure. The Proposal The FAA is considering an amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) to modify Class D airspace at Hood AAF and Robert Gray AAF, TX, and to establish Class E airspace at Killeen Municipal Airport, Killeen, TX. This modification has been requested by both the operators of Hood AAF and the operators of Killeen Municipal Airport. The proposal would remove that portion of current Class D airspace which surrounds Killeen Municipal Airport and would establish Class E airspace around Killeen Municipal Airport. The intended effect of this proposal is to maintain adequate Class D airspace and two-way radio communications to contain instrument flight rule (IFR) operations at Hood AAF and Robert Gray AAF, TX, to remove Killeen Municipal Airport from the Class D airspace, and to establish Class E airspace at Killeen Municipal Airport, Killeen, Texas. The coordinates for this airspace docket are based on North American Datum 83. Class D airspace designations are published in Paragraph 5000 and Class E airspace areas designated as surface areas for airports are published in Paragraph 6002 of FAA Order 7400.9A dated June 17, 1993, and effective September 16, 1993, which is incorporated by reference in 14 CFR 71.1 (58 FR 36298; July 6, 1993). The Class D and Class E airspace designations listed in this document would be published subsequently in the Order.
