FR940119-0-00006 FR940119-0-00002 Another commenter pointed out that we do not require that the demand letter inform households when recoupment would begin and the amount of benefits the household would then receive. The Department believes that it would be useful to include this information in the demand letter. Current rules at 7 CFR 273.18(g)(4) require that prior to reduction State agencies inform households about the effect of recoupment on their benefits. Consequently, the final rule provides that, unless the State agency has otherwise informed the household what its allotment would be net of the reduction for repaying the claim, it provide that information in the demand letter. Current rules at 7 CFR 273.12(c)(2) provide that decreases in benefits must be made effective no later than the month following the lapse of the adverse notice period. Consistent with this general policy and the required timeframe for election of a repayment method, the final rule provides that the initial demand letter for IHE claims must inform the household that the reduction will begin with the first allotment issued after the household either timely elects allotment reduction or, if it fails to make a timely election, with the first allotment issued after the expiration of the time for its election. Demand letters provided subsequent to a fair hearing sustaining an IHE claim must inform the household that if it fails to make a timely election, allotment reduction will begin with the first allotment issued after timely notice of such election is due to the State agency. Another commenter on this paragraph recommended that we be more specific about the acceptable ways for households to communicate their decisions about repayment. The Department is not aware of any operational difficulties with how State agencies and households currently communicate about claims collections. Current rules at 7 CFR 273.15(h) provide that requests for fair hearings may be oral or in writing so long as they are clear and if they are not, State agencies may ask households for clarification. The Department encourages State agencies to apply this standard to communications concerning elections of repayment methods. Consequently, the final rule does not specify ways households must communicate elections about repayment methods. The proposed rule would have amended 7 CFR 273.13(b) which lists exemptions from notices of adverse action. As mentioned earlier in this preamble, the proposed rule would have added situations where the State agency initiates allotment reduction against a household which has been provided notice of its appeal rights for the underlying claim to the list of exemptions. No commenter objected to this action or indicated the need for clarification. Consequently, the final rule adopts the language as proposed in 7 CFR 273.13(b)(14). Several commenters did remark about an associated statement in the preamble which was that the claim itself was the adverse action, not the collection action. The Department believes that the changes in this final rule clarify that statement. Households are due notice of specific appeal rights regarding claims such as how the claim arose, the information on which the claim is based, how the amount of the claim was calculated and the right to contest the claim. Once those due process requirements have been met and the claim has been established, State agencies are expected to proceed to collection activities without additional notices of adverse action. Technical Corrections to Current Rules The Department used the proposed rule to correct two errors in 7 CFR 273.18(d)(3) of current rules which resulted from the final Administration-Management rule published February 22, 1990 (55 FR 6233). The first correction clarified that a notice of adverse action is required when a claim is not established in a fair hearing. It deleted the phrase which limited this requirement to those circumstances where ``the amount of the claim'' had not been established. The one comment received on this matter was from a State agency which indicated it was already in compliance with the broader requirement. Consequently, the final rule adopts the language as stated in the proposed rulemaking. The second correction reinstated a provision in 7 CFR 273.18(d)(4)(iii) allowing other methods of collecting claims for IHE and State agency error claims. A commenter objected on the grounds that the law does not authorize other collection methods for IHE claims. However, section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2022(b)(2)(B)) does authorize such collection action for IHE claims. Accordingly, the final rule adopts the language as stated in the proposed rulemaking. State Agency Retention of Claims Against Households The proposed rule would have reduced the recipient claims retention rate for State agencies from 50 percent to 25 percent for IPV claims and from 25 percent to 10 percent for IHE claims. The proposed rule further specified that the new rates are effective for the period beginning October 1, 1990 and ending September 30, 1995. Beginning October 1, 1995 the old rates of 50 percent for IPV claims and 25 percent for IHE claims will again take effect. The proposed rule also would have allowed State agencies the opportunity to submit a one-time request for any additional amount due under the old, higher retention rates by November 30, 1991. Four comments were received on this section. As explained in the proposed rule, the Department had previously directed State agencies to implement the new retention rates for reporting and payment purposes. This was done in order to comply with the Act and to minimize the need for revised reporting on the Form FNS&hyph;209, Status of Claims Against Households. Effective with the first quarter Fiscal Year 1991 FNS&hyph;209 report, the Department has been recovering funds from State agencies at the new retention rates in accordance with the Act. The Department had also previously advised State agencies of the procedure for requesting any additional retention due on collections received prior to October 1, 1990 and the deadline for filing such requests.
