FR941007-1-00164 FR941007-1-00009 (a) In general. Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each savings association may delineate its service area(s) using any method it chooses provided that the service area(s): (1) Do(es) not reflect illegal discrimination; (2) Do(es) not arbitrarily exclude low- and moderate-income geographies, taking into account the savings association's size and financial condition and the extent of its branching network, as appropriate; and (3) Consist(s) only of whole census tracts or block numbering areas. (b) Savings associations that are not wholesale or limited purpose savings associations. The service area(s) for a savings association that is not a wholesale or limited purpose savings association (as defined in ยง563e.12 of this part): (1) Shall include those geographies in the local areas around a savings association's branches and deposit-taking ATMs in which the savings association has originated or had outstanding, during the previous calendar year, a significant number and amount of home mortgage, small business and small farm, and (if the savings association chooses to have them considered in its CRA evaluation) consumer loans and any other geographies equidistant from its branches and deposit-taking ATMs, taking into account political boundaries or significant geographic barriers; and (2) Shall not extend substantially across MSA boundaries or state boundaries unless the service area is located in a multistate MSA. If the savings association serves areas that extend substantially across state boundaries or extend substantially across boundaries of an MSA, the savings association shall delineate separate service areas for the areas in each state and for the areas inside and outside the MSA. (c) Wholesale or limited purpose savings associations. The service area for a wholesale or limited purpose savings association (as defined in ยง563e.12 of this part) shall be delineated as an area or areas around its offices (including its home office and branches) or a broader statewide or regional area that includes the area or areas. (d) Savings associations serving military personnel. Notwithstanding paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, a savings association whose business predominantly consists of serving the needs of military personnel or their dependents who are not located within a defined geographic area may delineate its entire deposit customer base as its service area. (e) Maintaining list and map. Each savings association shall compile and maintain a list of all the geographies within its service area or areas and a map of each service area showing the geographies contained therein. ยง563e.42 Data collection and reporting. (a) Mandatory data collection and reporting _(1) Loan data. Each savings association, except small savings association, shall collect and report to the OTS the following data pertaining to its home mortgage, small business, small farm, and community development loans: (i) Home mortgage loans. If the savings association is subject to reporting under HMDA, the location of each home mortgage loan located outside the MSAs in which the savings association has a home or branch office (or outside any MSA) in accordance with Regulation C, Home Mortgage Disclosure (12 CFR Part 203); (ii) Small business and small farm loan data. All small business and small farm loan data required to be collected and reported on the OTS's Small Business and Small Farm Loan Register (OTS&hyph; XXXX &hyph; XXXX ), set forth in Appendix C of this part, in accordance with the instructions in Appendix C of this part; and (iii) Community development loan data. All community development loan data required to be collected and reported on the OTS's Community Development Report Form (OTS&hyph; XXXX &hyph; XXXX ), set forth in Appendix C of this part, in accordance with the instructions in Appendix C of this part. (2) Service area data. Each savings association shall collect and report to the OTS by April 1 of each year a list of the areas the savings association considers to be its service area(s), a list of the geographies it considers to be within its service area(s), and a map of each service area showing the geographies contained therein. (b) Optional data collection and reporting. (1) If a savings association elects to have its consumer lending considered under the lending test (as described in ยง563e.22 of this part), the savings association shall collect the consumer loan data requested on the OTS's Consumer Loan Register (OTS&hyph; XXXX &hyph; XXXX ), set forth in Appendix C of this part, in accordance with the instructions in Appendix C of this part. (2) At its option, a savings association may:
