FR940304-2-00054 FR940304-2-00034 Statement of Commissioner Mary L. Azcuenaga Concurring in Part and Dissenting in Part Columbia Healthcare Corp./HCA Having reason to believe that the Columbia Healthcare Corporation's acquisition of HCA-Hospital Corporation of America may substantially lessen competition in the Augusta, Georgia-Aiken, South Carolina market, I concur in the decision to require divestiture of the Aiken Regional Medical Center. I dissent from the decision not to challenge the transaction with respect to the Chattanooga, Tennessee market. In Chattanooga, the merger will combine HCA's Parkridge Medical Center and Columbia's East Ridge Hospital in an already highly concentrated market. In 1985, after a full administrative hearing, the Commission ordered HCA to divest certain assets, including North Park Hospital, which has considerable similarity to East Ridge. Hospital Corporation of America, 106 F.T.C. 361, aff'd, 807 F.2d 1381 (7th Cir. 1986). Although some characteristics of the Chattanooga hospital market may have changed since 1985, I am not persuaded that the competitive situation is so fundamentally different to justify abandonment of the Commission's earlier position. Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Deborah K. Owen In the Matter of Columbia Healthcare Corporation, et al. The Commission is today issuing for public comment a proposed consent agreement in connection with the merger of two of the nation's largest hospital chains, Columbia Healthcare Corporation (``Columbia'') and HCA-Hospital Corporation of America (``HCA''). The proposed consent agreement permits the merger to go forward, but requires the combined firm to divest one of its two hospitals in the Augusta, Georgia/Aiken, South Carolina area. I dissent from the decision to accept this consent agreement, principally because I do not find reason to believe that, after the merger, anticompetitive effects are likely in that geographic market. I cannot, however, conclude with reasonable confidence that the proposed merger has no anticompetitive effects in any hospital market across the country. There is evidence (although incomplete) that in one market, the consolidation of the Columbia and HCA hospitals may create a monopoly that could injure consumers. In that matter, one of the hospitals satisfies the statistical criteria for the hospital merger ``safety zone'' as set forth in the Statements of Enforcement Policy in the Health Care Area, adopted in September 1993 by the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission (over my dissent). 1 Based on its size alone, the acquisition of this hospital has been declared by the federal enforcement agencies to be immune from antitrust review. 2 1 Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission Antitrust Enforcement Policy Statements in the Health Care Area, 4 Trade Reg. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 13,150; Dissenting Statement of Commissioner Deborah K. Owen on DOJ/FTC Antitrust Enforcement Policy Statements in the Health Care Area (September 14, 1993). 2 Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission Antitrust Enforcement Policy Statements in the Health Care Area, 4 Trade Reg. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 13,150 at 20,757: The Agencies will not challenge any merger between two general acute-care hospitals where one of the hospitals (1) has an average of fewer than 100 licensed beds over the three most recent years, and (2) has an average daily inpatient census of fewer than 40 patients over the three most recent years, absent extraordinary circumstances. This antitrust safety zone will not apply if that hospital is less than 5 years old. It is not clear what constitutes ``extraordinary circumstances'' within the contemplation of the Policy Statement. The Commission's action today may, however, be viewed as implicit support for the proposition that a merger to monopoly does not qualify as an ``extraordinary circumstance.'' This is not to suggest that the Commission is indifferent to the monopolization of all hospital markets. Last week, the Commission voted unanimously to authorize staff to file a preliminary injunction to prevent the merger to monopoly of the only two acute care hospitals in Pueblo, Colorado. 3 In Pueblo, the requirements of the hospital merger ``safety zone'' were not satisfied, so a full investigation and analysis of the likely competitive effects of the merger were undertaken, in accordance with the 1992 Horizontal Merger Guidelines. 4 In such a traditional analysis, the Commission considers whether the merging hospitals are economically viable, whether significant efficiencies may be achieved by combining the hospitals, whether these efficiencies are merger-specific, and whether cost savings are likely to be passed on to consumers in the form of lower prices or higher quality. Most critically, whether the anticipated efficiency benefits outweigh the substantial anticompetitive risks associated with the creation of a monopoly is also evaluated. Under a Guidelines analysis, the Commission's action in the Pueblo merger suggests a conclusion that the likely anticompetitive effects outweigh the possible efficiencies stemming from the merger. 3 Parkview Episcopal Medical Center, FTC File No. 931&hyph;0125. 4 U.S. Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission Horizontal Merger Guidelines, reprinted in 4 Trade Reg. Rep. (CCH) ¶ 13,104 (Apr. 2, 1992). The Commission did not, however, conduct a thorough investigation of the market in which the merger of Columbia and HCA may have created a monopoly. The Commission abandoned its traditional approach to merger analysis upon determining that the HCA hospital falls within the ``antitrust safety zone.'' In sum, the Antitrust Enforcement Policy Statements in the Health Care Area may have claimed their first casualty. Perhaps a full investigation would have demonstrated that the merger, though creating a monopoly, posed no anticompetitive problem. But we will never know at the level of confidence that consumers have a right to expect of us. I therefore dissent.
