FR940721-2-00009 FR940721-2-00007 International Trade Administration Export Trade Certificate of Review ACTION: Notice of Issuance of an Export Trade Certificate of Review, Application No. 94&hyph;0004. SUMMARY: The Department of Commerce has issued an Export Trade Certificate of Review to Allegheny Highland Hardwoods, Inc. (``AHH'') on July 13, 1994. This notice summarizes the conduct for which certification has been granted. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, 202&hyph;482&hyph;5131. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title III of the Export Trading Company Act of 1982 (15 U.S.C. 4001&hyph;21) authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to issue Export Trade Certificates of Review. The regulations implementing Title III are found at 15 CFR Part 325 (1993). The Office of Export Trading Company Affairs (``OETCA'') is issuing this notice pursuant to 15 CFR 325.6(b), which requires the Department of Commerce to publish a summary of a Certificate in the Federal Register . Under Section 305 (a) of the Act and 15 CFR 325.ll(a), any person aggrieved by the Secretary's determination may, within 30 days of the date of this notice, bring an action in any appropriate district court of the United States to set aside the determination on the ground that the determination is erroneous. DESCRIPTION OF CERTIFIED CONDUCT: Export Trade 1. Products Forest products, including but not limited to, hardwood lumber (SIC 2421); S4S dimension, solid squares, laminated squares, furniture blanks, flooring and dowels (SIC 2426); and molding and panels (SIC 2431); but excluding paper, cardboard, containerboard and similar products. 2. Export Trade Facilitation Services (As They Relate to the Export of Products and Services) All export trade facilitation services including, but not limited to, professional services in the areas of government relations, foreign trade and business protocol, marketing, marketing research, negotiations, shipping, export management, documentation, insurance and financing. Export Markets The export markets include all parts of the world except the United States (the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.) Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation To engage in export trade in the export markets, as an export trade intermediary, AHH, Inc. and/or its Members may: 1. Enter into exclusive or non-exclusive agreements wherein AHH agrees to act as the Members' Export Intermediary. Exclusive agreements are those wherein AHH agrees not to represent entities other than the Members in the sale of Products and provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services in any Export Market. 2. Meet to negotiate and agree on the terms of participation in each bid, invitation, or request to bid, or other sales opportunity in any Export Market, including, but not limited to, the price at which a Member will sell its Products for export, and the quantity of Products each Member will commit to the foreign sale or bid opportunity. During the course of such meetings, the following information may be exchanged: a. Information that is generally available to the trade or public; b. Information that is specific to a particular Export Market, including but not limited to reports, and forecasts of sales, prices, terms, customer needs, selling strategies, and product specifications; c. Information on expenses specific to exporting to a particular Export Market, including, but not limited to, ocean freight to the terminal or port, terminal or port storage, wharfage and handling charges, insurance, agents' commissions, export sales documentation and service, and export sales financing; d. Information on U.S. and foreign legislation and regulations affecting sales to a particular Export Market; e. Information on AHH's activities in the Export Markets, including, but not limited to, customer complaints and quality problems, consultation with prospective foreign customers, and reports by foreign sales representatives; f. Information on each Member's ability to supply Products in a timely fashion pursuant to a specific export order. 3. AHH may enter into exclusive or non-exclusive agreements with other Export Intermediaries for the sale of Products in the Export Markets. Exclusive agreements are those wherein the Export Intermediary agrees to represent only AHH and/or its Members in the sale of Products and to provide Export Trade Facilitation Services only to AHH and/or its Members. 4. AHH may enter into exclusive agreements with foreign customers of Products offered by AHH whereby the customer agrees not to purchase Products from entities other than AHH. 5. AHH's may discuss and agree with AHH's Members and/or Export Intermediaries with which AHH has entered into agreements pursuant to paragraph 3 above on export prices to be charged by AHH, AHH's Members, or such Export Intermediaries. 6. AHH may limit its membership. 7. AHH may publish and distribute a list of export prices for Products to be charged by AHH, AAH's Members, and Export Intermediaries with which AHH has entered into agreements pursuant to paragraph 3 above. 8. AHH may allocate orders for export sales, and divide profits from such sales among AHH's Members as provided in the membership agreement between AHH and AHH's Members. 9. AHH and/or AHH's Members may forward to the appropriate individual Member requests for information received from a foreign government or the foreign government's agent (including private pre-shipment inspection firms) concerning that Member's domestic or export activities (including prices and/or costs); and if such individual Member elects to respond, the Member shall respond directly to the requesting foreign government or the foreign government's agent with respect to such information.
