FR941005-1-00009 FR941005-1-00003 FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION 11 CFR Part 110 [Notice 1994_14] Communications Disclaimer Requirements agency: Federal Election Commission. action: Notice of proposed rulemaking. summary: The Federal Election Commission is seeking comments to help determine whether changes in its regulations governing disclaimers on campaign communications are warranted. The current rules require a disclaimer notice on communications by any person that expressly advocate the election or defeat of a clearly identified candidate, or solicit contributions, through any form of general public political advertising. One proposed change would create a presumption that communications by authorized political committees or political party committees that refer to a clearly identified federal candidate are express advocacy, thereby triggering the disclaimer requirement. Other modifications would clarify that oral disclaimers are required under appropriate circumstances; clarify how these requirements apply to coordinated party expenditures; broadly define ``direct mail'' in this context; require a disclaimer on all communications included in a package of materials that are intended for separate distribution; and clarify the meaning of ``clear and conspicuous'' as that term is used in these rules. dates: Comments must be received on or before December 5, 1994. Persons wishing to testify at a hearing on these rules should so indicate in their written comments. If sufficient requests to testify are received, the Commission will announce the date of the hearing in a separate notice. addresses: Comments must be in writing and addressed to: Ms. Susan E. Propper, Assistant General Counsel, 999 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20463. for further information contact: Ms. Susan E. Propper, Assistant General Counsel, 999 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20463, (202) 219&hyph;3690 or (800) 424&hyph;9530. supplementary information: The Federal Election Campaign Act [``FECA'' or ``the Act''] at 2 U.S.C. 441d(a) requires a disclaimer on communications by any person that expressly advocate the election or defeat of a clearly identified federal candidate, or solicit contributions, through any form of general public political advertising. The Commission is proposing to revise the implementing regulations, found at 11 CFR 110.11, to address issues that have arisen since the rules were last amended, and to clarify their scope and applicability. New Definition Proposed 11 CFR 110.11(a) includes a definition for the term ``direct mailing.'' For purposes of these requirements, ``direct mailing'' would be broadly defined to include any number of substantially similar pieces of mail, except for mailings of fifty pieces or less, by any person. The definition would exclude permissible activities by a corporation or labor organization communicating with a restricted class under 11 CFR 114.3 or 114.5, because such activities do not involve general public political advertising. Express Advocacy The current disclaimer requirements were enacted as part of the 1976 amendments to the Federal Election Campaign Act. They replaced those contained in former 18 U.S.C. 612, a broadly-worded criminal code provision that required identifying information to be included on any political statement published, mailed or distributed on behalf of a federal candidate.
