FR941027-2-00016 FR941027-2-00010 A. Issue Areas To Be Targeted Outlined below are staff recommendations on the issue areas to be targeted for new state competitive and national direct program applications: 1. Community Policing_Supporting community policing efforts through building partnerships with neighborhood residents, identifying community problems, and working with police officers to solve these problems. 2. Victim Assistance_Working on programs in public agencies or community-based organizations to provide a wide range of support services to victims of crime and to help link victims to other providers of information and services within the justice system and community. 3. Neighborhood Environment_Initiate innovative grass-roots programs in low income neighborhoods that promote sustainable communities by reducing environmental risks, and conserving natural resources. 4. Early childhood development_Improve the health and school readiness of young children through child care, Head Start, and other pre-school programs; programs to improve parenting skills and community-based efforts to provide comprehensive services to families with young children (including pregnant women). 5. School Success_Broaden or coordinate the range of services available through schools such as tutoring, after-school enrichment programs, service-learning, health and child care service and efforts to involve parents in their children's education as part of a comprehensive strategy to improve school achievement and student retention. B. Programmatic Preferences The Corporation will give preferences to new applicants who integrate the following into their proposals: 1. Concentration The Corporation is encouraging programs to concentrate the efforts of AmeriCorps Members. In general, preference will be given to programs that propose service activities at fewer sites rather than more sites, that focus activities in the priority areas, and that involve groups of Corps Members in contrast to individually-placed Corps Members. Similarly, programs that regularly bring Corps Members together for training, identity, and service will be preferred over those that propose more diffused organizations. 2. Specialization Programs that propose to develop priority area specializations are accorded preference over programs with a more generalist focus. Specifically not encouraged are programs that propose to engage Corps Members in many activities addressing many priorities. 3. Diversity Programs that show a specific strategy for attracting members with diverse backgrounds will be given a preference. The Corporation encourages programs to treat diversity broadly, searching beyond their ordinary participant base to include, for example, individuals from other ethnic groups and people with disabilities. Programs are encouraged, if appropriate, to include intergenerational components. 4. Education Awards Only Because the Corporation has more funds available for education awards than for program costs, we continue to urge applicants that have adequate resources to cover program costs to request education awards only. C. Localities for Concentration Empowerment Zones, Enterprise Communities and areas affected by military downsizing. The Corporation will accord special consideration to applicants who propose to sponsor AmeriCorps service activities in officially-designated empowerment zones or enterprise communities, and areas impacted by military downsizing. D. Selection Criteria Selection criteria for new applicants remain those established in 1994, based on the quality of the proposal and the proposed program's ability to: 1. Get things done in communities. 2. Strengthen communities. 3. Expand opportunities for members. 4. Encourage responsibility. 5. Be innovative. 6. Be replicated in other areas. 7. Be sustained beyond Corporation support. Learn and Serve America K&hyph;12 Grant Program All Learn and Serve America: School- and Community-Based Programs address needs within at least one of the four priority areas of the Corporation: Environment, Education, Human Needs and Public Safety. Because the objectives of Learn and Serve America focus more on education reform and participant development, however, it is critical for us to focus primarily on program improvement and quality priorities, rather than issue areas. Therefore the policies and priorities for renewals of existing grantees and new applicants are the same. I. Renewals In general, the Corporation anticipates renewing grants for existing programs that meet quality standards. However, renewals are not automatic. Renewal applications for Learn and Serve America K&hyph;12 grants to State Educational Agencies will be evaluated based on the following criteria. A. Quality of the Year Two Plan (60%) 1. Goals and Objectives The goals and objectives of the plan are: a. Clearly stated. b. Measurable. c. Achievable. d. Time-phased. e. Appropriate & effective vehicles for promoting service-learning. 2. Design and Activities The design and activities set forth in the plan: a. Are clearly related to achieving stated goals and objectives. b. Meet community needs and involves individuals from diverse backgrounds (including economically disadvantaged youth and individuals with physical or cognitive disabilities) who will serve together to explore the underlying causes of community problems. c. Involve youth in the planning, implementation, and evaluation of the plan. d. Provide for productive and meaningful educational experiences which incorporate service-learning methods. 3. Learn and Serve America Priorities The quality and extent to which the goals and objectives and program design address the following programmatic priorities: a. Infrastructure and capacity-building. b. Partnerships with other education reform efforts. c. Qualitative/quantitative research and evaluation. d. Coordinated streams of service. 4. Organizational Capacity The plan describes sound processes for: a. Training. b. Technical assistance. c. Supervision. d. Quality control. e. Evaluation.
