FR940928-2-00088 FR940928-2-00066 •To support evaluation of alternative decommissioning actions and detailed planning of a preferred approach for decommissioning, decontamination, and waste management. The NRC's Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards (NMSS) has coordinated two public workshops to exchange information and discuss issues identified in the Action Plan. The first workshop was convened on November 19, 1992, and dealt with the overall SDMP and the SDMP Action Plan implementation. The second SDMP workshop was held on June 1, 1994, on the issue of final radiological surveys at SDMP sites. A large number of attendees of the June 1 workshop requested NRC to conduct a similar workshop on site characterization. NRC is now planning to conduct a workshop to exchange information and discuss issues associated with site characterization for decommissioning. CONDUCT OF THE WORKSHOP: The workshop will be held for two days on November 29&hyph;30, 1994. The purpose of the workshop is to discuss site characterization of the SDMP sites, to promote direct interaction among NRC staff, licensees and contractors, federal agencies, states, other interested parties, and members of the public, and to exchange information on site characterization for decommissioning. The first day of the workshop will comprise plenary sessions that include presentations by speakers from NRC management responsible for establishing decommissioning policy and those responsible for implementation of the SDMP. NRC speakers will also include technical staff responsible for developing the NRC draft guidance on ``Site Characterization for Decommissioning'' and those frequently conducting the technical reviews of SDMP site characterization. The workshop will also include key speakers from other federal agencies (e.g., the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S. Department of Energy, and the U.S. Department of the Army), NRC licensees, and the Agreement States. The first day's session will address the following topics: 1. NRC's policy on site characterization for decommissioning, 2. The coordinated Federal Manual on Radiological Surveys, 3. EPA, DOE, the U.S. Army and Agreement States views on site characterization, 4. NRC licensees views and experience with site characterization, and 5. NRC guidance and staff experience with SDMP site characterization. Copies of the NRC's draft guidance ``Branch Technical Position On Site Characterization For Decommissioning'' will be available at the workshop or may be requested in advance by contacting Boby Eid at (301) 415&hyph;5811. The second day of the workshop will consist of breakout discussion groups. Each attendee should select, in advance, two discussion groups to attend (one from category A and another from category B of the groups listed below). There will be four concurrent discussion groups in two series (A & B) to discuss the following issues: Group A1␣The role of historical site data collection, review, and analysis in optimizing site characterization efforts, Group A2␣Background characterization, sampling, and sample averaging of contaminated media, Group A3␣Groundwater/surface water and associated media characterization, Group A4␣The use of models and codes in site characterization and demonstration of compliance with regulatory guidelines, Group B1␣Prioritization of site characterization activities, Group B2␣Approaches to selection of radiological techniques and methods in site characterization, Group B3␣Significance of direct interaction between licensees, contractors, and the regulators, and Group B4␣The Coordinated Federal Manual on Environmental Radiological Surveys. After the breakout discussion sessions, all attendees will meet in a final general session where discussion group leaders will summarize any conclusions or observations reached by the discussion groups. All attendees are encouraged to participate in the discussions after each presentation and in the breakout discussion sessions. REGISTRATION AND FURTHER INFORMATION: Persons interested in attending the workshop should register in advance. For registration and further information, contact Boby Eid at (301) 415&hyph;5811 or Mary Hood at (301) 415&hyph;6644, from the Low-level Waste and Decommissioning Projects Branch, Division of Waste Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Dated at Rockville, MD, this 21st day of September, 1994. For the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John H. Austin, Chief, Low-Level Waste and Decommissioning Projects Branch, Division of Waste Management, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23951 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
