FR940214-0-00064 FR940214-0-00004 2. Housing stock. The study must include the number of units within the town and county (where available), both single family and multi-family, the number of mobile homes by tenure, along with the number of substandard units by tenure, based on the most recent census data. Occasionally, a situation will exist within a community where a number of detached single family homes are standing vacant. How this condition may affect the rental market must be evaluated and discussed. Example: Inventory Change Profile ␣ 1␣ 1Single family 1Multifamily 1Mobile home 2Own 2Rent 1980 Stock 1990 Stock ␣ 1␣ 1Annual 1Percent Change in Number of Units 3. Existing rental housing. The analyst must determine where the proposed project will fit into the present housing stock. To accomplish this, the analyst will survey the existing units and will discuss how they (a) would be comparable with the proposed project in overall appeal; (b) are less than desirable because of the age factor or upkeep; (c) are inconveniently located; (d) do not provide the appropriate bedroom mix for the community need, etc. 4. Details of existing stock. a. Additional narrative which describes the rental stock and provides tenant characteristics may be included. The survey will include both subsidized and nonsubsidized rentals. In those communities containing too many rental properties to list, all subsidized and a representative number of conventional projects will be included. Those conventional projects which have rent levels comparable to the proposed project will be listed. Because elderly persons may reside in family designated projects, the analyst will need to list all existing units and not just the existing elderly units. Photographs of the comparables are required. b. The analyst will explore the availability of individual Section 8 certificates with the local housing authority since they can be used on any project to bring the existing rents into an affordable range. For instance, 10 to 15 available Section 8 certificates in a community could have an influence on the determination for new units and the number should be reduced to correspond to this availability. However, before automatically reducing the number of proposed units to match the number of available Section 8 units, the reason the certificates are available must be explored, (e.g., owners of non-Government subsidized units will not accept the certificates). (The bedroom sizes which the certificates cover must match the prospective bedroom sizes in the proposed project bedroom mix.)
