FR940617-0-00193 FR940617-0-00026 (ii) Flow zero air through the overflow sampling system. Check the analyzer response. (iii) If the overflow zero response exceeds the analyzer zero response by 2 percent or more of the HFID full-scale deflection, hangup is indicated and corrective action must be taken. (iv) The complete system hangup check specified in paragraph (e) of this section is recommended as a periodic check. (4) Obtain a stable zero reading. (5) Zero and span each range to be used on each analyzer operated prior to the beginning of the test cycle. The span gases shall have a concentration between 75 and 100 percent of full-scale chart deflection. The flow rates and system pressures shall be approximately the same as those encountered during sampling. The HFID analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned through the overflow sampling system. (6) Re-check zero response. If this zero response differs from the zero response recorded in paragraph (d)(5) of this section by more than 1 percent of full scale, then paragraphs (d)(4), (d)(5), and (d)(6) of this section must be repeated. (7) If a chart recorder is used, identify and record the most recent zero and span response as the pre-analysis values. (8) If ADC equipment is used, electronically record the most recent zero and span response as the pre-analysis values. (9) Collect background HC, CO, CO 2 , and NO X in a sample bag (for dilute exhaust sampling only, see §89.420&hyph;96). (10) Perform a post-analysis zero and span check for each range used at the conditions specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section. Record these responses as the post-analysis values. (11) Neither the zero drift nor the span drift between the pre-analysis and post-analysis checks on any range used may exceed 3 percent for HC, or 2 percent for NO X , CO, and CO 2 , of full scale chart deflection, or the test is void. (If the HC drift is greater than 3 percent of full-scale chart deflection, hydrocarbon hangup is likely.) (12) Determine background levels of NO X , CO, or CO 2 (for dilute exhaust sampling only) by the bag sample technique outlined in paragraph (c) of this section. (e) Hydrocarbon hangup. If HC hangup is indicated, the following sequence may be performed: (1) Fill a clean sample bag with background air. (2) Zero and span the HFID at the analyzer ports. (3) Analyze the background air sample bag through the analyzer ports. (4) Analyze the background air through the entire sample probe system. (5) If the difference between the readings obtained is 2 ppm or more, clean the sample probe and the sample line. (6) Reassemble the sample system, heat to specified temperature, and repeat the procedure in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section. §89.412&hyph;96 Raw gaseous exhaust sampling and analytical system description. (a) Schematic drawing. An example of a sampling and analytical system which may be used for testing under this subpart is shown in Figure 1 in appendix B to subpart D. All components or parts of components that are wetted by the sample or corrosive calibration gases shall be either chemically cleaned stainless steel or inert material, for example, polytetrafluoroethylene resin. The use of ``gauge savers'' or ``protectors'' with nonreactive diaphragms to reduce dead volumes is permitted. (b) Sample probe. (1) The sample probe shall be a straight, closed-end, stainless steel, multi-hole probe. The inside diameter shall not be greater than the inside diameter of the sample line plus 0.03 cm. The wall thickness of the probe shall not be greater than 0.10 cm. The fitting that attaches the probe to the exhaust pipe shall be as small as practical in order to minimize heat loss from the probe. (2) The probe shall have a minimum of three holes. The spacing of the radial planes for each hole in the probe must be such that they cover approximately equal cross-sectional areas of the exhaust duct. See Figure 1 in appendix A to this subpart. The angular spacing of the holes must be approximately equal. The angular spacing of any two holes in one plane may not be 180 ○ # 20 ○ (that is, section view C-C of Figure 1 in appendix A to this subpart). The holes should be sized such that each has approximately the same flow. If only three holes are used, they may not all be in the same radial plane. (3) The probe shall extend radially across the exhaust duct. The probe must pass through the approximate center and must extend across at least 80 percent of the diameter of the duct. (c) Sample transfer line. (1) The maximum inside diameter of the sample line shall not exceed 1.32 cm. (2) If valve V2 is used, the sample probe must connect directly to valve V2 . The location of optional valve V2 may not be greater than 1.22 m from the exhaust duct. (3) The location of optional valve V16 may not be greater than 61 cm from the sample pump. The leakage rate for this section on the pressure side of the sample pump may not exceed the leakage rate specification for the vacuum side of the pump. (d) Venting. All vents, including analyzer vents, bypass flow, and pressure relief vents of regulators, should be vented in such a manner to avoid endangering personnel in the immediate area.
