FR941227-0-00109 FR941227-0-00020 §570.701 Definitions. Borrower means the public entity or its designated public agency that issues debt obligations under this subpart. Debt obligation means a promissory note or other obligation issued by a public entity or its designated public agency and guaranteed by HUD under this subpart, or a trust certificate or other obligation offered by HUD or by a trust or other offeror approved for purposes of this subpart by HUD which is guaranteed by HUD under this subpart and is based on and backed by a trust or pool composed of notes or other obligations issued by public entities or their designated public agencies and guaranteed or eligible for guarantee by HUD under this subpart. Designated public agency means a public agency designated by a public entity to issue debt obligations as borrower under this subpart. Entitlement public entity means a metropolitan city or an urban county receiving a grant under subpart D of this part. Guaranteed loan funds means the proceeds payable to the borrower from the issuance of debt obligations under this subpart. Nonentitlement public entity means any unit of general local government in a nonentitlement area. Public entity means any unit of general local government, including units of general local government in a nonentitlement area. State-assisted public entity means a unit of general local government in a nonentitlement area which is assisted by a State as required in §570.704(b)(9) and §570.705(b)(2). §570.702 Eligible applicants. The following public entities may apply for loan guarantee assistance under this subpart. (a) Entitlement public entities. (b) Nonentitlement public entities that are assisted in the submission of applications by States that administer the CDBG program (under subpart I of this part). Such assistance shall consist, at a minimum, of the certifications required under §570.704(b)(9) (and actions pursuant thereto). (c) Nonentitlement public entities eligible to apply for grant assistance under subpart F of this part. §570.703 Eligible activities. Guaranteed loan funds may be used for the following activities, provided such activities meet the requirements of §570.200. However, guaranteed loan funds may not be used to reimburse the CDBG program account or line of credit for costs incurred by the public entity or designated public agency and paid with CDBG grant funds or program income. (a) Acquisition of improved or unimproved real property in fee or by long-term lease, including acquisition for economic development purposes. (b) Rehabilitation of real property owned or acquired by the public entity or its designated public agency. (c) Payment of interest on obligations guaranteed under this subpart. (d) Relocation payments and other relocation assistance for individuals, families, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farm operations who must relocate permanently or temporarily as a result of an activity financed with guaranteed loan funds, where the assistance is: (1) Required under the provisions of §570.488 (b) or (c) or §570.606 (b) or (c); or (2) Determined by the public entity to be appropriate under the provisions of §570.488(d) or §570.606(d).
