FR940919-0-00029 FR940919-0-00008 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 52 [ID 6&hyph;1&hyph;6300a; FRL&hyph;5056&hyph;5] Approval and Promulgation of Small Business Assistance Program: State of Idaho AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Direct final rule. SUMMARY: The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approves the State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision submitted by the State of Idaho for the purpose of establishing a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program. The implementation plan was submitted by the State to satisfy the Federal mandate, found in section 507 of the Clean Air Act (CAA), to ensure that small businesses have access to the technical assistance and regulatory information necessary to comply with the CAA. The rationale for the approval is set forth in this document; additional information is available at the address indicated below. DATES: This final rule will be effective on November 18, 1994 unless adverse or critical comments are received by October 19, 1994. If the effective date is delayed, timely notice will be published in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to: Montel Livingston, SIP Manager, Air and Radiation Branch (AT&hyph;082), EPA, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, WA, 98101. Documents which are incorporated by reference are available for public inspection at the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. Copies of the State's submittal and EPA's technical support document are available for inspection during normal business hours at the following locations: EPA Region 10, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98101, and Idaho Division of Environmental Quality, 1410 North Hilton, Boise, ID, 83706. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David J. Dellarco, Air and Radiation Branch (AT&hyph;082), EPA, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98101, (206) 553&hyph;4978. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Implementation of the provisions of the CAA, as amended in 1990, will require regulation of many small businesses so that areas may attain and maintain the National ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) and reduce the emission of air toxics. Small businesses frequently lack the technical expertise and financial resources necessary to evaluate such regulations and to determine the appropriate mechanisms for compliance. In anticipation of the impact of these requirements on small businesses, the CAA requires that States adopt a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (PROGRAM), and submit this PROGRAM as a revision to the federally approved SIP. In addition, the CAA directs EPA to oversee these small business assistance programs and report to Congress on their implementation. The requirements for establishing a PROGRAM are set out in section 507 of title V of the CAA. In January 1992, EPA issued Guidelines for the Implementation of Section 507 of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments , in order to delineate the Federal and State roles in meeting the new statutory provisions and as a tool to provide further guidance to the States on submitting acceptable SIP revisions. The State of Idaho has submitted a SIP revision to EPA in order to satisfy the requirements of section 507. In order to gain full approval, the State submittal must provide for each of the following PROGRAM elements: (1) The establishment of a Small Business Assistance Program (SBAP) to provide technical and compliance assistance to small businesses; (2) the establishment of a State Small Business Ombudsman to represent the interests of small businesses in the regulatory process; and (3) the creation of a Compliance Advisory Panel to determine and report on the overall effectiveness of the SBAP. II. Analysis 1. Small Business Assistance Program Section 507(a) sets forth six requirements 1 that the State must meet to have an approvable SBAP. The first requirement is to establish adequate mechanisms for developing, collecting and coordinating information concerning compliance methods and technologies for small business stationary sources, and programs to encourage lawful cooperation among such sources and other persons to further compliance with the Act. The State has met this requirement by first conducting pilot programs to evaluate the best methods for organizing and providing technical assistance to small businesses. In addition, the State of Idaho plans to use both proactive and reactive elements to provide information to small businesses. Proactive elements include publications, news releases, public presentations, and outreach performed by the Idaho Small Business Development Center, Idaho Small Business Institute, and the States' five Regional Economic Development and Planning Agencies. Reactive elements include a hotline to respond to small business inquiries. 1 A seventh requirement of section 507(a), establishment of an Ombudsman office, is discussed in the next section. The second requirement is to establish adequate mechanisms for assisting small business stationary sources with pollution prevention and accidental release detection and prevention, including providing information concerning alternative technologies, process changes, products and methods of operation that help reduce air pollution. The State has met this requirement through its plans to integrate the States' pollution prevention and waste reduction programs' technical assistance capabilities into its small business program. In addition, Idaho will utilize the services of program staff to directly assist small businesses in the areas of accidental release detection and prevention. The third requirement is to develop a compliance and technical assistance program for small business stationary sources which assists small businesses in determining applicable requirements and in receiving permits under the Act in a timely and efficient manner. The State has met this requirement by providing assistance to small businesses through the use of trained staff. The availability of compliance assistance will be publicized and small business stationary sources will be encouraged to seek assistance. Program staff will identify alternative methods and technologies for compliance with each specific regulation. The fourth requirement is to develop adequate mechanisms to assure that small business stationary sources receive notice of their rights under the Act in such manner and form as to assure reasonably adequate time for such sources to evaluate compliance methods and any relevant or applicable proposed or final regulation or standards issued under the Act. The State has met this requirement by establishing a policy to provide as much notice of small business rights under the CAA as is reasonable and practicable. Information on small business rights will be included in information materials and other outreach activities. Program staff will ensure that both small business rights and obligations are provided to small business stationary sources in advance of applicable regulations taking effect. The fifth requirement is to develop adequate mechanisms for informing small business stationary sources of their obligations under the Act, including mechanisms for referring such sources to qualified auditors or, at the option of the State, for providing audits of the operations of such sources to determine compliance with the Act. The State has met this requirement by developing a program for qualified auditors to provide small business stationary sources, upon request, with an on-site determination of compliance with applicable air quality regulations. The sixth requirement is to develop procedures for consideration of requests from a small business stationary source for modification of: (A) Any work practice or technological method of compliance; or (B) the schedule of milestones for implementing such work practice or method of compliance preceding any applicable compliance date, based on the technological and financial capability of any such small business stationary source. The State has met this requirement by developing standardized criteria and administrative procedures for considering requests of the nature identified above, including provisions to ensure that granting such requests will not effect the status of the federally-approved SIP and is consistent with the applicable requirements of the CAA. 2. Ombudsman Section 507(a)(3) requires the designation of a State office to serve as the Ombudsman for small business stationary sources. The State has met this requirement by appointing an Ombudsman, which Idaho calls its Small Business Advocate. 3. Compliance Advisory Panel Section 507(e) requires the State to establish a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) that must include two members selected by the Governor who are not owners or representatives of owners of small businesses; four members selected by the State legislature who are owners, or represent owners, of small businesses; and one member selected by the head of the agency in charge of the Air Pollution Permit Program. The State has met this requirement by establishing a CAP, which Idaho calls its Small Business Assistance Advisory Board. In addition to establishing the minimum membership of the CAP the CAA delineates four responsibilities of the Panel: (1) To render advisory opinions concerning the effectiveness of the SBAP, difficulties encountered and the degree and severity of enforcement actions; (2) to periodically report to EPA concerning the SBAP's adherence to the principles of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Equal Access to Justice Act, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act 2 ; (3) to review and assure that information for small business stationary sources is easily understandable; and (4) to develop and disseminate the reports and advisory opinions made through the SBAP. The State has met these requirements through its authorization of the Small Business Assistance Advisory Board. 2 Section 507(e)(1)(B) requires the CAP to report on the compliance of the SBAP with these three Federal statutes. However, since State agencies are not required to comply with them, EPA believes that the State PROGRAM must merely require the CAP to report on whether the SBAP is adhering to the general principles of these Federal statutes. 4. Eligibility Section 507(c)(1) of the CAA defines the term ``small business stationary source'' as a stationary source that: (A) Is owned or operated by a person who employs 100 or fewer individuals; (B) Is a small business concern as defined in the Small Business Act; (C) Is not a major stationary source; (D) Does not emit 50 tons per year (tpy) or more of any regulated pollutant; and (E) Emits less than 75 tpy of all regulated pollutants. The State of Idaho has established a mechanism for ascertaining the eligibility of a source to receive assistance under the PROGRAM, including an evaluation of a source's eligibility using the criteria in section 507(c)(1) of the CAA. The State of Idaho has provided for public notice and comment on grants of eligibility to sources that do not meet the provisions of sections 507(c)(1)(C), (D), and (E) of the CAA but do not emit more than 100 tpy of all regulated pollutants. The State of Idaho has provided for exclusion from the small business stationary source definition, after consultation with the EPA and the Small Business Administration Administrator and after providing notice and opportunity for public comment, of any category or subcategory of sources that the State determines to have sufficient technical and financial capabilities to meet the requirements of the CAA. III. This Action In today's action, EPA approves the SIP revision submitted by the State of Idaho. The State of Idaho has submitted a SIP revision implementing each of the PROGRAM elements required by section 507 of the CAA. At this time, the SBAP, the Ombudsman (Small Business Advocate), and the CAP (Small Business Advisory Board) are all in place and functioning. EPA is therefore approving this submittal. IV. Administrative Review Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. SIP approvals under section 110 and subchapter I, part D of the CAA do not create any new requirements, but simply approve requirements that the State is already imposing. Therefore, because the Federal SIP-approval does not impose any new requirements, I certify that it does not have a significant impact on any small entities affected. Moreover, due to the nature of the Federal-State relationship under the CAA, preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of state action. The CAA forbids EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds. Union Electric Co. v. U.SE.P.A. , 427 U.S. 246, 256&hyph;66 (S.Ct. 1976); 42 U.S.C. 7410(a)(2). The EPA is publishing this action without prior proposal because the Agency views this as a noncontroversial amendment and anticipates no adverse comments. However, in a separate document in this Federal Register publication, the EPA is proposing to approve the SIP revision should adverse or critical comments be filed. This action will be effective November 18, 1994 unless, by October 19, 1994, adverse or critical comments are received. If the EPA receives such comments, this action will be withdrawn before the effective date by publishing a subsequent document that will withdraw the final action. All public comments received will be addressed in a subsequent final rule based on this action serving as a proposed rule. The EPA will not institute a second comment period on this action. Any parties interested in commenting on this action should do so at this time. If no such comments are received, the public is advised that this action will be effective on November 18, 1994. The EPA has reviewed this request for revision of the federally-approved SIP for conformance with the provisions of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments enacted on November 15, 1990. The EPA has determined that this action conforms with those requirements. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from Executive Order 12866 review. Under section 307(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act, petitions for judicial review of this action must be filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit by November 18, 1994. Filing a petition for reconsideration by the Administrator of this final rule does not affect the finality of this rule for the purposes of judicial review nor does it extend the time within which a petition for judicial review may be filed and shall not postpone the effectiveness of such rule or action. This action may not be challenged later in proceedings to enforce its requirements. (See section 307(b)(2), 42 U.S.C. 7607(b)(2)). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Air pollution control, Incorporation by reference, Small business assistance program. Note: Incorporation by reference of the Implementation Plan for the State of Idaho was approved by the Director of the Office of Federal Register on July 1, 1982. Dated: August 15, 1994. Jane S. Moore, Acting Regional Administrator. Part 52, chapter I, title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 52_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 52 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Subpart N_Idaho 2. Section 52.670 is amended by adding paragraph (c) (30) to read as follows: §52.670 Identification of plan. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (30) On January 7, 1994, the Administrator for the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, Division of Environmental Quality, submitted the State PROGRAM as a revision to the Idaho SIP. (i) Incorporation by reference. (A) The January 3, 1994 letter from the Administrator of the Idaho Department of Health and Welfare, Division of Environmental Quality, submitting the PROGRAM to EPA. (B) The State Implementation Plan Revision to Establish a State Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (which includes the text of Idaho Code 39&hyph;118E, Small Business Assistance, signed into law Senate bill 1236 by Idaho Governor, Cecil D. Andrus, on March 29, 1993), dated December 29, 1993, and adopted on January 3, 1994. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23105 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
