FR940114-1-00038 FR940114-1-00008 Use standardized curricula throughout the State; Ensure availability of continuing education programs; Require instructors to meet State requirements; Develop and enforce certification criteria for first responders and prehospital providers; and Require EMS operating organizations to collect data to evaluate emergency care in terms of frequency, category, and severity as well as the use of appropriate knowledge and skills. IV. Transportation Each State should require safe, reliable ambulance transportation, which is critical to an effective EMS system. States should: Develop statewide transportation plans, including the identification of specific service areas; Implement regulations that provide for the systematic delivery of patients to appropriate facilities; Develop routine, standardized methods for inspection and licensing of all emergency medical transport vehicles; Establish a minimum number of providers at the desired level of certification on each response; Coordinate all emergency transports within the EMS system, including public, private, or specialty (air and ground) transport; and Develop regulations to ensure ambulance drivers are properly trained and licensed. V. Facilities It is imperative that the seriously injured patient be delivered in a timely manner to the closest appropriate facility. Each State should ensure that: Both stabilization and definitive care needs of the patient are considered; The determination is free of political considerations and the capabilities of the facilities are clearly understood by prehospital personnel; Hospital resources capabilities are known in advance, so that appropriate primary and secondary transport decisions can be made; and Agreements are made between facilities to ensure that patients receive treatment at the closest, most appropriate facility, including facilities in other states or counties. VI. Communications An effective communications system is essential to EMS operations and provides the means by which emergency resources can be accessed, mobilized, managed, and coordinated. Each State should require a communication system to: Begin with a universal system access number, such as 911; Provide for prioritized dispatch (dispatch-to-ambulance, ambulance-to-ambulance, ambulance-to-hospital, and hospital-to-hospital communication); Ensure the receiving facility is ready and able to accept the patient; and Provide for dispatcher training and certification standards. Each State should develop a statewide communications plan that defines State government roles in EMS system communications. VII. Trauma Systems Each State should maintain a fully functional trauma system to provide a high quality, effective patient care system. States should implement legislation requiring the development of a trauma system, including: Trauma center designation, using American College of Surgeons Committee on Trauma guidelines as a minimum; Triage and transfer standards for trauma patients; Data collection and trauma registry definitions for quality assurance;
