FR940621-2-00008 FR940621-2-00005 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Public Hearing and Request for Comments on the International Aspects of the National Information Infrastructure AGENCY: U.S. Department of Commerce. ACTION: Notice of hearing and request for public comments. SUMMARY: The International Telecommunications Working Group of the Information Infrastructure Task Force's (IITF) Telecommunications Policy Committee is developing recommendations for consideration by the IITF on international telecommunications policy issues related to the development of a National Information Infrastructure (NII) within the context of an emerging Global Information Infrastructure (GII). To ensure that the International Telecommunications Working Group's recommendations regarding these issues take into consideration all views, we invite testimony and written comments from interested parties on any of the topics outlined in the supplementary information section of this notice. DATES: 1. July 27 and 28, 1994, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m._public hearing. 2. July 22, 1994_registration to attend the hearing is requested on or before this date. (The hearing is open to the public but preregistration is strongly preferred to ensure adequate seating.) 3. July 15, 1994_requests to present oral testimony and a written copy of the testimony must be received on or before this date. 4. August 12, 1994_all other written comments must be received on or before this date. 5. August 18, 1994_Written comments will be available for public inspection on and after this date. ADDRESSES: 1.The hearing will be held at Georgetown University Conference Center (Thomas and Dorothy Leavey Center), Grand Ballroom, 3800 Reservoir Road, N.W., Washington D.C. 2. Those wishing to attend the hearing should contact Nicole Brown or Angie Mitchell by telephone at (202) 482- 4772. 3. Requests to testify and all written comments should be submitted to Randall Cook, Room 5870, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, D.C. 20230. 4. Written comments will be available for public inspection at the Department of Commerce Law Library, Room 1894, 15th and Pennsylvania Ave., N.W. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Randall Cook by telephone at (202) 482&hyph;0490, facsimile at (202) 501&hyph;4695, electronic mail via the Internet at rcook@doc.gov or by mail at the address listed above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background and Topics for Discussion The White House formed the IITF to articulate and implement its vision for the NII. The Task Force is chaired by Ronald H. Brown, the Secretary of Commerce, and consists of three committees_the Telecommunications Policy Committee, the Information Policy Committee, and the Committee on Applications and Technology. Working with the private sector, the IITF committees are seeking to develop telecommunications, information and technology policies to promote applications that best suit the needs of the United States. Within the Telecommunications Policy Committee, chaired by Larry Irving, Assistant Secretary of Commerce for the National Telecommunications and Information Administration, is the International Telecommunications Working Group, chaired by Carol C. Darr, Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Department of Commerce. In recognizing that the NII will be a part of a much larger Global Information Infrastructure, the Administration believes that the principles that inform our view of the NII also must guide the development of a GII. To that end, the Administration has identified five principles essential for the creation of a global information infrastructure: •Encourage private investment; •Promote competition; •Create a flexible regulatory framework; •Provide open access; and •Ensure universal service. The International Telecommunications Working Group recognizes that any re-examination of U.S. international telecommunications policy must take into account the international dimension of technological convergence. Measures adopted by other governments in response to this convergence are likely to affect a broad range of issues related to the interconnection of the U.S. NII with foreign networks, such as access to, and interoperability of networks, investment, foreign aid and assistance, technology transfer, and evolving international regulations. In response to these issues, the International Working Group, through six informal subgroups, has identified six areas that should be addressed: •U.S. participation in international and regional organizations and standard-setting bodies; •Foreign trade barriers affecting the U.S. industry and the development of the NII and, as a related question, the role of foreign entities in the implementation of infrastructure; •International aspects of pending telecommunications reform legislation; •Impact of U.S. export controls; •Electronic information exchanges between U.S. and foreign research organizations; and
