FR940930-1-00066 FR940930-1-00020 Subpart C_Discretionary Salary Allotments 210.13␣General. Subpart D_Savings Allotments 210.14␣General. Subpart E_Definitions 210.15␣Definitions. Authority: 5 U.S.C. 5525; 12 U.S.C. 391; 31 U.S.C. 321, 3301, 3302, 3321, 3335 and other provisions of law. Subpart A_General §210.1 Scope of regulations. This part governs the way the Federal Government (Government) uses the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network to effect electronic credits and debits, and non-value transactions. This part supersedes the savings allotment provisions of Part 209 of this title by including provisions for savings allotments (available hereunder only to Federal civilian employees). These transactions are made by the ACH payment method under the terms of this part. Regulations requiring the collection and disbursement of all ACH Federal funds via Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT), when cost effective, practicable, and consistent with existing statutes, can be found at Part 206 of this title. Regulations promulgated by the Bureau of the Public Debt governing payments made by the ACH method for principal and interest on Government securities can be found at Part 370 of this title. §210.2 General. (a) Governing law . Federal payments and collections made through the ACH method are governed by the terms of this part, the instructions issued under this part, Federal statutes and Regulation E. Federal payments and collections also are governed by the operating rules and guidelines promulgated by the National Automated Clearing House Association (NACHA), in effect on September 27, 1994, only to the extent they do not conflict with this part, the instructions issued under this part, Federal statutes and Regulation E. (1) This part furthers the Government's obligation to protect the public trust, limits the financial liability of the Government, and ensures clarity in the application of the ACH Rules to Government participants. (2) The Department of the Treasury, Financial Management Service (the Service), is responsible for publishing operating policies, procedures and guidelines for Government payment and collection transactions using the ACH method. These instructions will be published by the Service in its Treasury Financial Manual (TFM) and/or other operating guidelines. (3) The NACHA operating guidelines may be found in the ACH Rules book, published by NACHA and distributed through regional ACH associations. (4) The Service will indicate its acceptance or rejection of amendments to NACHA Operating Rules and NACHA Operating Guidelines in effect on September 27, 1994, by publishing a notice in the Federal Register prior to the effective date of the amendments. Failure to accept or reject prior to the effective date of the amendments will be deemed a rejection of such amendments. (b) Breach of warranty, compensation for breach of warranty or errors . Each participant named under this part warrants to all other parties that it has handled entries in accordance with the requirements stated in this part. This warranty shall be limited to the amount of the payment, with one exception: Agencies may use the compensation rules found in Appendix VIII of the ACH Rules . Use of the compensation rules shall be preceded by a written agreement. Funding, authority, and agreements for any such payments will be the responsibility of the agency, not the Department of the Treasury or the Service.
