FR941122-0-00012 FR941122-0-00005 Discussion of Changes Deputy Commissioner The reorganization reaffirms the position of the Deputy Commissioner and specifically empowers the incumbent to serve as Chief Operating Officer for the Service. The Deputy Commissioner supervises the four newly established Executive Associate Commissioner (EAC) positions. The EACs are for Programs, Field Operations, Policy and Planning, and Management. The EAC for Field Operations supervises the Regional Directors who, in turn, supervise the District Directors and Chief Patrol Agents. The other three EACS are staff to the Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner. The responsibility for reconciling field and Headquarters requirements lies with the Deputy Commissioner, freeing the Commissioner to set policy and represent the Service externally. As noted, the reorganization abolished the position of Executive Associate Commissioner. With this change, authority and responsibility held by that office are realigned under the new positions of Executive Associate Commissioner, Programs; Executive Associate Commissioner, Field Operations; Executive Associate Commissioner, Policy and Planning; and Executive Associate Commissioner, Management, reporting to the Deputy Commissioner. Finally, the Offices of Professional Responsibility, Program Inspection, and the position of Special Representative of the Commissioner are abolished. Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs The Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs is responsible for policy development, review and integration of the Service's enforcement and examinations programs, and supervision of the Associate Commissioners for Examinations and Enforcement. The Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs does not exercise line authority over district and sector operations. Office of Asset Forfeiture The Office of Asset Forfeiture is now delegated authority by the Associate Commissioner of Enforcement to adjudicate claims under section 274 (b) of the Act on behalf of the Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations The Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations responds to field office needs; implements policy; ensures consistency and program effectiveness in the work of Service districts and sectors, including the Service's foreign offices; and serves as a single point of contact and advocacy at the Headquarters level for field issues. The EAC for Field Operations supervises three Regional Director positions who are responsible for Eastern, Central, and Western Field Operations. Additionally, the EAC for Field Operations supervises the Director, International Affairs. Regional Directors The reorganization abolishes the four Regional Commissioner positions and replaces them with three Regional Directors for domestic activities. They are responsible for Eastern, Central, and Western Field Operations. These three domestic regions replace the old four-region configuration and provide an intermediate management level between dispersed, complex field activities and Headquarters. Each region includes a southern and a northern border. The regional alignment reflects an even, three-way distribution of Service workload and resources. The Regional Directors will also act as spokespersons in their respective geographic areas. Office of International Affairs The reorganization creates an Office of International Affairs and places it under the Executive Associate Commissioner for Field Operations. This office will assume responsibility for foreign operations and the centralized political asylum program. This action establishes the foreign districts as a mini-region, and allows them to function as an extension of domestic operations, discharging refugee and parole responsibilities.
