FR940927-2-00039 FR940927-2-00027 There are many ways that States can provide for such input. In order to allow for public input into the proposals, the Department expects States to ordinarily follow one (or more if the State desires) of the processes described in this section. 1. At any time prior to submitting a section 1115 demonstration proposal to the Department of Health and Human Services, a State may provide to the Department a written description of the process the State will use for receipt of public input into the proposal prior to its submission to the Department. Within 15 days of receipt of such description, the Department will notify the State whether the described process provides adequate opportunity for public input. The Department will accept any process that_ •Includes the holding of one or more public hearings, at which the most recent working proposal is described and made available to the public, and time is provided during which comments can be received; or •Uses a commission or other similar process, where meetings are open to members of the public, in the development of the proposal; or •Results from enactment of a proposal by the State legislature prior to submission of the demonstration proposal, where the outline of such proposal is contained in the legislative enactment; or •Provides for formal notice and comment in accordance with the State's administrative procedure act; provided that such notice must be given at least 30 days prior to submission; or •Includes notice of the intent to submit a demonstration proposal in newspapers of general circulation, and provides a mechanism for receiving a copy of the working proposal and an opportunity, which shall not be less than 30 days, to comment on the proposal; or, •Includes any other similar process for public input that would afford an interested party the opportunity to learn about the contents of the proposal, and to comment on its contents. The State shall include in the demonstration proposal it submits to the Department a statement (a narrative of several sentences) briefly describing the process that it followed in implementing the process previously presented to the Department. The Department may find a proposal incomplete if the process has not been followed. 2. A State that has not followed the procedures described in paragraph 1. must submit a description of the process that was used in the State to obtain public input, at the time it submits its demonstration proposal. The Department will notify the State if the process was adequate within 15 days after the application is submitted, applying the same criteria as in paragraph 1. If the process was not adequate, the State can cure the inadequacy by_ Posting a notice in the newspaper of widest circulation in each city with a population of 100,000 or more, or in the newspaper of widest circulation in the State if there is no city with a population of 100,000, indicating that a demonstration proposal has been submitted. Such notice shall describe the major elements of the proposed demonstration and any changes in benefits, payments, eligibility, responsibilities, or provider selection requested in the proposal. The notice shall indicate how interested persons can obtain copies of the proposal and shall specify that written comments will be accepted by the State for a period of thirty days. If a State follows such a procedure, the State should respond to requests for copies of the proposal within seven days. The State should maintain a record of all comments received through this process. All HHS commitments with respect to times for responding to demonstration proposals shall be tolled until this process is completed. VIII. Federal Notice The Department of Health and Human Services intends to publish a monthly notice in the Federal Register of all new and pending proposals submitted pursuant to section 1115. The notice will indicate that the Department accepts written comments regarding all demonstration project proposals. The Department will maintain a list of organizations that have requested notice that a demonstration proposal has been received and will notify such organizations when a proposal is received.
