FR940114-1-00007 FR940114-1-00002 7 CFR part 1951 Account servicing, Debt restructuring, Credit, Loan programs_Agriculture, Loan programs_Housing and community development, Low and moderate income housing loans_Servicing. Therefore, chapter XVIII, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 1941_OPERATING LOANS 1. The authority citation for part 1941 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23 and 2.70. Subpart A_Operating Loan Policies, Procedures, and Authorizations 2. Section 1941.19 is amended by redesignating current paragraphs (b) through (i) as paragraphs (c) through (j), respectively, revising paragraph (a), and adding a new introductory paragraph and a new paragraph (b) to read as follows: §1941.19 Security. Primary security must be available for the loan. If available, the total amount of security required will be at least equal to 150 percent of the loan amount. Security in excess of 150 percent of the loan amount will only be taken when it is not practicable to separate the property, i.e., same type of livestock (dairy cows, brood sows). In unusual cases, the loan approval official may require a cosigner as defined in §1910.3 (d) of subpart A of part 1910 of this chapter or a pledge of security from a third party. A pledge of security is preferable to a cosigner. (a) Chattels. The loan must be secured by: (1) A first lien on all property or products acquired, produced, or refinanced with loan funds. (2) If the security for the loan under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is not at least equal to 150 percent of the loan amount, the best lien obtainable will be taken on other chattel security owned by the applicant, up to the point that security for the loan at least equals 150 percent of the loan amount. (i) When there are several alternatives available (cattle, machinery), any one of which will meet the security requirements of this section, the approval official will select the most logical and efficient alternative for obtaining security. (ii) When alternatives exist and the applicant has a preference as to the property to be taken for security, the approval official will honor the preference so long as the requirements of paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section are met. (b) Real estate . The loan approval official will require a lien on all or part of the applicant's real estate as security when chattel security alone is not at least equal to 150 percent of the amount of the loan. Different lien positions on real estate are considered separate and identifiable collateral. (1) Security may also include assignments of leases or leasehold interests having mortgageable value, revenues, royalties from mineral rights, patents and copyrights, and pledges of security by third parties. (2) Advice on obtaining security will be received from OGC when necessary. * * * * * PART 1943_FARM OWNERSHIP, SOIL AND WATER AND RECREATION 3. The authority citation for part 1943 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1989; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 CFR 2.23 and 2.70. Subpart A_Direct Farm Ownership Loan Policies, Procedures and Authorizations 4. Section 1943.19 is amended by removing paragraphs (a)(2), and (b)(4); redesignating current paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(8) as paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(7), respectively, and paragraph (b)(5) as (b)(4); redesignating current paragraphs (b), (d), (e), and (f), as paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g), respectively; revising the introductory paragraph, paragraph (a)(1), newly redesignated paragraph (a)(2), paragraph (c), and adding new paragraph (b) to read as follows: §1943.19 Security. Each FO loan will be secured by real estate. Chattels and/or other security also may be taken as security. The total amount of security required will be the lesser of 150 percent of the loan amount, or all real estate owned by the applicant. A loan will be considered adequately secured when the real estate security for the loan is at least equal to the loan amount. Security in excess of 150 percent of the loan amount will only be taken when it is not practicable to separate the property, i.e., a tract of land. In unusual cases, the loan approval official may require a cosigner as defined in §1910.3(d) of subpart A of part 1910 of this chapter or a pledge of security from a third party. A pledge of security is preferable to a cosigner. (a) *␣*␣* (1) A mortgage will be taken on all real estate acquired, refinanced or improved with FO funds, and by any additional real estate security needed to meet the requirements of this section. (2) Security will also include items which are considered part of the farm and ordinarily pass with the title to the farm, such as but not limited to assignments of leases or leasehold interests having mortgageable value, water rights, easements, rights-of-way, revenues, and royalties from mineral rights.
