FR941117-0-00085 FR941117-0-00011 (e) Cellular Radiotelephone Service. During the five year build-out period, the service area boundaries of the additional transmitters, as calculated by the method set forth in §22.911(a), must remain within the market, except that the service area boundaries may extend beyond the market boundary into area that is part of the CGSA or is already encompassed by the service area boundaries of previously authorized facilities. After the five year build-out period, the service area boundaries of the additional transmitters, as calculated by the method set forth in §22.911(a), must remain within the CGSA. Licensees must notify the FCC (FCC Form 489) of any transmitters added under this section that cause a change in the CGSA boundary. The notification must include full size and reduced maps, and supporting engineering, as described in §22.953(a)(5) (i) through (iii). If the addition of transmitters involves a contract service area boundary (SAB) extension (see §22.912), the notification must include a statement as to whether the five year build-out period for the system on the relevant channel block in the market into which the SAB extends has elapsed, and whether the SAB extends into any unserved area in the market. The notification must be mailed or delivered to the filing place (see §22.106) no later than 15 days after the addition is made. (f) Air-ground Radiotelephone Service. Ground stations may be added to Commercial Aviation air-ground systems at previously established ground station locations, pursuant to §22.859, subject to compliance with the applicable technical rules. This section does not apply to General Aviation air-ground stations. (g) Rural Radiotelephone Service. A ``service area'' and ``interfering contours'' must be determined using the same method as for stations in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service. The service area and interfering contours so determined for the additional transmitter(s) must be totally encompassed by the similarly determined composite service area contour and predicted interfering contour, respectively, of the existing station on the same channel. This section does not apply to Basic Exchange Telecommunications Radio Systems. (h) Offshore Radiotelephone Service. This section does not apply to stations in the Offshore Radiotelephone Service. (i) Provision of information upon request. Upon request by the FCC, licensees must supply administrative or technical information concerning the additional transmitters. At the time transmitters are added pursuant to this section, licensees must make a record of the pertinent technical and administrative information so that such information is readily available. See §22.303. §22.169 International coordination of channel assignments. Channel assignments under this part are subject to the applicable provisions and requirements of treaties and other international agreements between the United States government and the governments of Canada and Mexico. Subpart C_Operational and Technical Requirements Operational Requirements §22.301 Station inspection. The licensee of any station authorized in the Public Mobile Services must make the station and station records available for inspection by representatives of the FCC at any reasonable hour. §22.303 Retention of station authorizations; identifying transmitters. The current authorization for each station, together with current administrative and technical information concerning modifications to facilities pursuant to §22.163 and added facilities pursuant to §22.165 must be retained as a permanent part of the station records. A clearly legible photocopy of the authorization must be available at each regularly attended control point of the station, or in lieu of this photocopy, licensees may instead make available at each regularly attended control point the address or location where the licensee's current authorization and other records may be found. The station call sign must be clearly and legibly marked on or near every transmitting facility, other than mobile transmitters, of the station. §22.305 Operator and maintenance requirements. FCC operator permits and licenses are not required to operate, repair or maintain equipment authorized in the Public Mobile Services. Station licensees are responsible for the proper operation and maintenance of their stations, and for compliance with FCC rules. §22.307 Operation during emergency. Licensees of stations in the Public Mobile services may, during a period of emergency in which normal communications facilities are disrupted as a result of hurricane, flood, earthquake or other natural disaster, civil unrest, widespread vandalism, national emergencies or emergencies declared by Executive Order of the President, use their stations to temporarily provide emergency communications services in a manner or configuration not normally allowed by this part, provided that such operations comply with the provisions of this section. (a) Technical limitations. Public Mobile stations providing temporary emergency communications service must not transmit: (1) On channels other than those authorized for normal operations. (2) With power in excess of that authorized for normal operations; (3) Emission types other than those authorized for normal operations. (b) Discontinuance. Temporary emergency use of Public Mobile stations must be discontinued as soon as normal communication facilities are restored. The FCC may, at any time, order the discontinuance of any such emergency communication services. §22.313 Station identification. The licensee of each station in the Public Mobile Services must ensure that the transmissions of that station are identified in accordance with the requirements of this section. (a) Station identification is not required for transmission by: (1) Stations in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service; (2) General aviation ground stations in the Air-ground Radiotelephone Service; (3) Rural subscriber stations using meteor burst propagation mode communications in the Rural Radiotelephone Service; (4) Rural subscriber stations using Basic Exchange Telephone Radio Systems in the Rural Radiotelephone Service.
