FR940526-2-00185 FR940526-2-00064 Instructions for Part II_Budget Information Section AA_Budget Summary by Categories 1. Personnel: Show salaries to be paid to personnel. 2. Fringe Benefits: Indicate the rate and amount of fringe benefits. 3. Travel: Indicate the amount requested for both local and out of State travel of Project Staff. Include funds for at least one trip for two people to attend the Project Director's Workshop. 4. Equipment: Indicate the cost of non-expendable personal property that has a cost of $5,000 or more per unit. 5. Supplies: Include the cost of consumable supplies and materials to be used during the project period. 6. Contractual: Show the amount to be used for: (1) procurement contracts (except those which belong on other lines such as supplies and equipment); and (2) sub-contracts. 7. Other: Indicate all direct costs not clearly covered by lines 1 through 6 above, including consultants and capital expenditures. 8. Total Direct Cost: Show the total for Lines 1 through 7. 9. Indirect Costs: Indicate the rate and amount of indirect costs. ( Note: Except for grants to Federally recognized Indian tribes, the indirect cost rate cannot exceed 8% of the total direct charges.) 10. Training/stipend Cost: Indicate cost per student and number of hours of instruction (minimum wage is the basis for amount per hour_$4.25). 11. Total Federal Funds Requested: Show total for lines 8 through 10. Section BB_Budget Estimates of Federal Funds Needed for Balance of the Project In the block provided, enter the amount of Federal funds which will be needed to complete the project over the succeeding funding period; in this case, the second year. Instructions for Part III_Budget Narrative The budget narrative should explain, justify, and, if needed, clarify your budget summary. For each line item (personnel, fringe benefits, travel, etc.) in your budget, explain why it is there and how you computed the costs. Please limit this section to no more than five pages. Be sure that each page of your application is numbered consecutively. Instructions for Part IV_Program Narrative The program narrative will comprise the largest portion of your application. This part is where you spell out the who, what, when, why, and how, of your proposed project. Although you will not have a form to fill out for your narrative, there is a format. This format is based on the selection criteria. Because your application will be reviewed and rated by a review panel on the basis of the selection criteria, your narrative should follow the order and format of the criteria. Before preparing your application, you should carefully read the legislation and regulations of the program, eligibility requirements, information on any priority set by the Secretary, and the selection criteria for this competition. Your program narrative should be clear, concise, and to the point. Begin the narrative with a one page abstract or summary of your project. Then describe the project in detail, addressing each selection criterion in order. The Secretary strongly suggests that you limit the program narrative to no more than 30 double-spaced, typed pages (on one side only), although the Secretary will consider your application if it is longer. Be sure to number consecutively ALL pages in your application. You may include supporting documentation as appendices to the program narrative. Be sure that this material is concise and pertinent to this program completion. You are advised that_ (a) The Department considers only information contained in the application in ranking applications for funding consideration. Letters of support sent separately from the formal application package are not considered in the review by the technical review panels. (34 CFR 75.217) (b) The technical review panel evaluates each application solely on the basis of the established technical review criteria. Letters of support included as appendices to the application will strengthen the application only if they contain commitments that pertain to the established technical criteria, such as commitment of resources.
