FR940617-0-00177 FR940617-0-00026 (f) Hydrocarbon analyzer burner air. The concentration of oxygen must be within 1 mole percent of the oxygen concentration of the burner air used in the latest oxygen interference check (%O 2 I). If the difference in oxygen concentration is greater than 1 mole percent, then the oxygen interference must be checked and, if necessary, the analyzer adjusted to meet the %O 2 I requirements. The burner air must contain less than 2 ppmC hydrocarbon. §89.313&hyph;96 Initial calibration of analyzers. (a) Warming-up time. The warming-up time should be according to the recommendations of the manufacturer. If not specified, a minimum of two hours shall be allowed for warming up the analyzers. (b) NDIR and HFID analyzer. The NDIR analyzer shall be tuned and maintained according to the instrument manufacturer's instructions. The combustion flame of the HFID analyzer shall be optimized in order to meet the specifications in §89.319&hyph;96(b)(2). (c) Zero setting and calibration. (1) Using purified synthetic air (or nitrogen), the CO, CO 2 , NO X , and HC analyzers shall be set at zero. (2) Introduce the appropriate calibration gases to the analyzers and the values recorded. The same gas flow rates shall be used as when sampling exhaust. (d) Rechecking of zero setting. The zero setting shall be rechecked and the procedure described in paragraph (c) of this section repeated, if necessary. §89.314&hyph;96 Pre- and post-test calibration of analyzers. Each operating range used during the test shall be checked prior to and after each test in accordance with the following procedure. (A chronic need for parameter adjustment can indicate a need for instrument maintenance.): (a) The calibration is checked by using a zero gas and a span gas whose nominal value is between 80 percent and 100 percent of full-scale, inclusive, of the measuring range. (b) After the emission test a zero gas and the same span gas will be used for rechecking. The analysis will be considered acceptable if the difference between the two measuring results is less than 2 percent of full scale. §89.315&hyph;96 Analyzer bench checks. (a) Prior to initial use and after major repairs verify that each analyzer complies with the specifications given in Table 3 in appendix A of this subpart. (b) If a stainless steel NO 2 to NO converter is used, condition all new or replacement converters. The conditioning consists of either purging the converter with air for a minimum of 4 hours or until the converter efficiency is greater than 90 percent. The converter must be at operational temperature while purging. Do not use this procedure prior to checking converter efficiency on in-use converters. §89.316&hyph;96 Analyzer leakage and response time. (a) Vacuum side leak check. (1) Any location within the analysis system where a vacuum leak could affect the test results must be checked. (2) The maximum allowable leakage rate on the vacuum side is 0.5 percent of the in-use flow rate for the portion of the system being checked. The analyzer flows and bypass flows may be used to estimate the in-use flow rates. (3) The sample probe and the connection between the sample probe and valve V2 (see Figure 1 in appendix B of this subpart) may be excluded from the leak check. (b) Pressure side leak check. The maximum allowable leakage rate on the pressure side is 5 percent of the in-use flow rate. (c) The response time shall be accounted for in all emission measurement and calculations. §89.317&hyph;96 NO X converter check. (a) Prior to its introduction into service, and monthly thereafter, the chemiluminescent oxides of nitrogen analyzer shall be checked for NO 2 to NO converter efficiency. Figure 2 in appendix B of this subpart is a reference for the following paragraphs.
