FR940317-2-00133 FR940317-2-00078 (c) Appropriateness of the size of the target population and the anticipated impact for the proposed expenditure. 2. Delivery Mechanisms (20 points): Applicants will need to specify the mechanism for delivery of services to the population of beneficiary companies (the target population). Factors that will be considered include: (a) Appropriateness and effectiveness of proposed delivery mechanism for meeting the identified needs of the target population. (b) Demonstration of capacity to form effective linkages and partnerships with other appropriate service providers. (c) Technical quality of the proposed approach, including knowledge and use of best industrial modernization practices. 3. Coordination with Existing Resources (20 points): Applicants will need to describe how they will coordinate with existing or newly-formed technology/industrial assistance services and resources that will allow for increased economies of scale and complementary capabilities, and will avoid duplication of efforts in providing assistance to small and medium-sized manufacturers. It will be important to show how the proposed approach can reach across political or institutional boundaries to provide access to services. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Demonstrated understanding of existing organizations and resources relevant for providing technology assistance related services to the target population. (b) Strength of plans to establish and maintain linkages and partnerships with existing organizations (particularly across state boundaries), and a clear definition of those organizations' roles in the proposed activities. (c) Proposed activity does not duplicate existing services or resources. (d) Consistency with comprehensive state plans if such plans exist. 4. Program Evaluation (20 points): The applicant should specify plans for evaluation of the effectiveness of the proposed program and for ensuring continuous improvement of program activities. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Thoroughness of evaluation plans, including internal evaluation for management control, external evaluation for assessing outcomes of the activity, and ``customer satisfaction'' measures of performance. (b) Plans for the documentation, analysis of the results, and how the results can be used in program development. 5. Financial Plan (10 points): Applicants should show the relevance and cost effectiveness of the financial plan for meeting the objectives of the project; the firmness and level of the applicant's total financial support for the project; and the plan to maintain the program after the cooperative agreement has expired. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Reasonableness of the budget, both in income and expenses. (b) Strength of commitment of the proposer's cost share. (c) Effectiveness of management plans for control of the budget. (d) Appropriateness of matching contributions. (e) Plan for maintaining the program after the cooperative agreement has expired .
