FR940105-0-00020 FR940105-0-00005 One commenter requests that the FAA require Honeywell TCAS II processors that are already installed be operated in the ``traffic advisory (TA) only'' mode until the updated software package is installed. The commenter indicates that ``possible hidden problems'' could exist between the different versions of logic that are installed currently in the TCAS II processors. The FAA does not concur with the commenter's request. Operation of currently installed TCAS II processors in the ``TA only'' mode would impair the capability of those processors to alert the flight crew of appropriate aircraft maneuvers that must be taken to prevent mid-air collisions. Further, the FAA is unaware of any ``possible hidden problems'' between the different versions of logic installed currently in the TCAS II processors, as suggested by the commenter. Therefore, the FAA concludes that currently installed TCAS II processors should not be operated in the ``TA only'' mode until the updated software packaged is installed. One commenter requests clarification of the unsafe condition specified in the proposed rule. This commenter points out differences in the wording of the unsafe condition between this proposed rule and two existing proposals that address the same CAS logic change for Rockwell International/Collins Air Transport Division (Collins), and Allied Signal Aerospace Company/Air Transport Avionics (Allied Signal), TCAS II processors. From this comment, the FAA infers that the commenter requests that the proposed statement of unsafe condition more closely parallels the statement of unsafe condition in the other two proposals addressing the same subject. The FAA concurs. The FAA has revised the unsafe condition specified in this final rule to coincide with the proposals that address Collins and Allied Signal TCAS II processors to more explicitly reference safety considerations, as follows: ``*␣*␣* to prevent collisions or near misses caused by incompatibility between the TCAS II processors and the current air traffic control system.'' One commenter, Falcon Jet Corporation, indicates that Honeywell TCAS II processors are installed on Mystere-Falcon Model 50 and 900 series airplanes, and requests that these airplanes be included in the portion of the applicability of the AD that lists airplanes on which this TCAS II processor may be installed. The FAA concurs with the commenter's request and has revised the final rule accordingly. In addition, the FAA has become aware of other airplane models affected by this AD and has included those models in that portion of the applicability statement of the final rule. The FAA clarifies that, as stated in the preamble and the applicability of the proposal, the affected Honeywell TCAS II processors are installed on various transport category airplanes and are not limited only to those airplanes listed in the applicability of this AD. Several commenters request that the FAA revise the economic impact information specified in the proposal to reflect costs borne by suppliers, installers, and airline operators associated with development, testing, and certification of the modified processor. The FAA does not concur with the commenters' request to revise the economic impact information contained in this AD. The appropriate number of hours required to accomplish the required actions, specified as 3 in the economic impact information, below, was provided to the FAA by the processor manufacturer based on the best data available to date. This number represents the time required to gain access, remove the existing processor, install a diskette containing the revised software, and close up. The cost analysis in AD rulemaking actions typically does not include costs associated with development, testing, and certification of a modified processor, as suggested by the commenter. After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the changes previously described. The FAA has determined that these changes will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. There are approximately 2,700 transport category airplanes in the worldwide fleet on which the Honeywell TCAS II computer units may be installed. The FAA estimates that 1,150 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD, that it will take approximately 3 work hours per airplane to accomplish the required actions, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Required parts will be supplied by the manufacturer at no cost to operators. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $189,750, or $165 per airplane. This total cost figure assumes that no operator has yet accomplished the requirements of this AD. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A final evaluation has been prepared for this action and it is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. §39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive:
