FR940524-1-00019 FR940524-1-00007 48 CFR Part 9904 Cost Accounting Standards Board; Treatment of Gains or Losses Subsequent to Mergers or Business Combinations by Government Contractors AGENCY: Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, OMB. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM). SUMMARY: The Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Cost Accounting Standards Board (CASB), proposes to amend the Cost Accounting Standards relating to treatment of gains or losses attributable to tangible capital assets subsequent to mergers or business combinations by government contractors. To resolve the problems that have been identified in this area, the Board proposes to amend CAS 404, ``Capitalization of Tangible Assets'' and CAS 409, ``Depreciation of Tangible Capital Assets''. The proposed amendments are based on an approach involving a ``no step-up, no step-down'' of asset bases and no recognition of gain or loss on a transfer of assets following a business combination by contractors subject to CAS. Section 26(g)(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act requires that the Board, prior to the promulgation of any new or revised Cost Accounting Standard, publish a report and an ANPRM. This ANPRM addresses the Board's proposal to amend CAS 404 and CAS 409 to deal with the issue of gains and losses subsequent to a merger or business combination. DATES: Comments should be received by July 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Dr. Rein Abel, Director of Research, Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 725 17th Street, NW., room 9001, Washington, DC 20503: Attn: CASB Docket No. 91&hyph;06(2). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Rein Abel, Director of Research, Cost Accounting Standards Board (telephone 202&hyph;395&hyph;3254). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Regulatory Process The Cost Accounting Standards Board's rules and regulations are codified at 48 CFR chapter 99. Section 26(g)(1) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, 41 U.S.C. 422(g)(1), requires that the Board, prior to the establishment of any new or revised Cost Accounting Standard, complete a prescribed rulemaking process. This process consists of the following four steps: 1. Consult with interested persons concerning the advantages, disadvantages and improvements anticipated in the pricing and administration of government contracts as a result of a proposed Standard. 2. Promulgate an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. 3. Promulgate a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. 4. Promulgate a Final Rule. This proposal is step two in the four step process. B. Background and Report Prior Promulgations The issues addressed in this proposal were first identified by commenters in response to the Board's request for suggested agenda topics in November 1990. Subsequently two Staff Discussion Papers (SDP) were issued. The first, dated August 26, 1991 and titled ``Recognition and Pricing of Changing Asset Values Resulting from Mergers and Business Combination by Government Contractors,'' raised some broader issues such as the scope of the proposed project, the basis for any Government claim to gains or losses resulting from a business combination and the likely economic consequences of a policy that would prohibit revaluation of assets following a merger. The responses to this SDP were used by the Board as basis for discussing the basic issues involved in this case. As a result of this discussion, the Board decided to issue a second SDP dealing with a series of questions mostly concerning the specific procedures needed to deal effectively with the recognition, allocation and recovery of the gain or loss subsequent to a merger or business combination. The second SDP, titled ``Treatment of Gains or Losses Subsequent to Mergers or Business Combinations by Government Contractors,'' was issued on November 4, 1993. The responses to this SDP were of significant assistance to the Board in developing the current ANPRM. Public Comments Fifteen sets of public comments were received. Three of these were from government agencies, five from government contractors, four from trade and professional associations and three from individuals and other commenters. The comments were most useful to the Board in its decision-making process and, represented a wide spectrum of views on the various issues that were raised. The SDP included a series of questions dealing with the measurement of the gain or loss subsequent to a merger or business combination, its allocation between the government and the contractor and the possible methods of recovery that the government could employ in trying to recover its share of a gain or loss. In many instances, the responses to these questions indicated that the commenters believed that a comprehensive and equitable process of allocating gains or losses between the Government and contractors would entail use of complex and cumbersome procedures that would add significantly to the implementation cost of any Standard that would sanction revaluation of tangible capital assets subsequent to a merger or business combination. The comments that were received are discussed below in greater detail, under Section E., Public Comments. The Board and the CASB staff express their appreciation for the thoughtful and generally constructive responses provided by the commenters.
