FR940404-2-00123 FR940404-2-00083 [Release No. IC&hyph;20171; 812&hyph;8752] AUSA Life Insurance Company, Inc. et al. March 28, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemptions under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: AUSA Life Insurance Company, Inc. (``AUSA''), Diversified Investors Variable Funds (the ``Account''), and Diversified Investors Securities Corp. (``DISC''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) for exemptions from sections 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit them to deduct a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Account, which funds group variable annuity contracts (the ``Contracts''). FILING DATES: The application was filed on January 3, 1994 and amended on March 10, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on April 22, 1994, and must be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests must state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 4 Manhattanville Road, Purchase, New York 10577. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. Christopher Sprague, Senior Staff Attorney, at (202) 504&hyph;2802, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, at (202) 272&hyph;2060, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. AUSA is a stock life insurance company that was incorporated under New York law, and it is an indirect, wholly-owned subsidiary of AEGON USA, Inc. On November 30, 1993, AUSA established the Account as a separate account under New York insurance law. Although AUSA is the legal holder of the Account's assets, such assets will be segregated from AUSA's other assets, and will not be chargeable with liabilities arising out of any other business that AUSA may conduct. AUSA will at all times maintain assets in the Account with a total market value that is at least equal to the reserve and other Contract liabilities of the Account. The Account's assets may include accumulations of the charges that AUSA assesses against the Contracts participating in the Account. The Account consists of ten subaccounts, each of which invests in a series of one of the following open-end, diversified management investment companies: Diversified Investors Portfolios, the Calvert Socially Responsible Series of Acacia Capital Corporation, and the Managed International Portfolio of Scudder Variable Life Investment Fund. 2. DISC will be the principal underwriter and distributor of the Contracts. DISC is registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. 3. The Contracts may be purchased as a funding vehicle for retirement plans maintained by state educational organizations and certain tax-exempt organizations, IRA programs for employees of taxed and tax-exempt organizations and members of associations, Internal Revenue Code section 401(a) and 401(k) plans, and corporate non-qualified deferred compensation plans. During the period prior to the annuity purchase date, the Contractholder may allocate purchase payments among the Account's ten subaccounts. The Contractholder also may surrender all or part of the Contract at any time prior to the annuity purchase date subject, however, to restrictions that may be imposed by the applicable retirement plan. No surrender charge is imposed under the Contract. On the annuity purchase date, subject to certain limitations, the Contractholder may apply the accumulation value to one of several payment options, including a fixed annuity. 4. On each Contract anniversary prior to the annuity purchase date, AUSA may deduct a contract charge from the Contractholder's accumulation account to reimburse AUSA for administrative expenses relating to the maintenance of the Contracts. Initially, this charge will not be imposed, but any such charge that AUSA does assess would not exceed $50. AUSA does not anticipate that it would receive any profit from this charge. Deductions may be made from purchase payments for premium or similar taxes.
