FR940712-1-00023 FR940712-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants: Notice of Finding on a Petition to Emergency List the Rocky Mountain Capshell as an Endangered Species Throughout Its Range AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of 12-Month Petition Finding. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 12-month finding for a petition to amend the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. The Service finds that listing the Rocky Mountain capshell ( Acroloxus coloradensis ) as endangered is not warranted. DATES: The finding announced in this document was approved on July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Questions or comments concerning this finding should be sent to U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 730 Simms Street, Suite 290, Golden, Colorado 80401. The petition, finding, and supporting data are available for public inspection by appointment during normal business hours at the above office. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 LeRoy W. Carlson, Field Supervisor, at the above address or telephone (303) 231&hyph;5280. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(B) of the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires that for any petition to revise the Lists of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants that contains substantial scientific and commercial information a finding be made within 12 months of the date of receipt of the petition on whether the petitioned action is (i) not warranted, (ii) warranted, or (iii) warranted but precluded by other efforts to revise the lists, and expeditious progress is being made in listing and delisting species. Notice of the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . This notice meets the latter requirement for the 12-month finding made earlier for the petition discussed below. Information contained in this notice is a summary of the information in the 12-month finding, which is the Service's decision document. A petition dated September 30, 1992, was received from the Biodiversity Legal Foundation and Dr. Shi-Kuei Wu of the University of Colorado on October 5, 1992. The petitioners requested the Service to emergency list the Rocky Mountain capshell ( Acroloxus coloradensis ) as endangered and to designate critical habitat concurrently with the listing. The petitioners submitted biological, distributional, historical, and other information and scientific references in support of the petition. The notice of a 90-day finding was published in the Federal Register on May 14, 1993 (58 FR 28543), indicating that the petitioners provided substantial information to warrant the requested action. Concurrent with publishing the notice, the Service initiated a status review. When the 90-day finding was completed, the Rocky Mountain capshell was thought to be restricted to only two populations in the United States and five in Canada. In the United States, one population existed at Peterson Lake, Boulder County, Colorado, and the other at Glacier National Park in Montana. In Canada, the Rocky Mountain capshell was known to occur in three lakes in Quebec and two ponds in Ontario. The species was presumed extirpated from two lakes in Jasper National Park, Alberta (Clarke 1992a). During the summer of 1993, an extensive survey effort in Colorado increased the number of known Rocky Mountain capshell populations in Colorado from one to five, with four of these populations apparently in ``good health'' and occurring on National Park Service or U.S. Forest Service lands (Pioneer Environmental Services 1993, Riebesell and Kovalak 1993). The fifth population is located on privately owned land and appears to be the only Colorado population that is in peril. A status survey conducted at Lost Lake, Montana in September 1992 found that Rocky Mountain capshell population to be stable. This population is estimated to contain between 20,000 and 40,000 individuals, based on the number of snails found per square meter and the amount of available habitat (A.H. Clark, Ecosearch Inc., in litt ., 1992).
