FR940830-2-00071 FR940830-2-00042 Participants will be required to fulfill their contract service agreements through full-time clinical practice at an Indian health program site determined by the Secretary. Loan repayment sites are characterized by physical, cultural, and professional isolation, and have histories of frequent staff turnover. All Indian health program sites are annually prioritized by discipline, based on need or vacancy by the Agency. All health professionals will receive up to $30,000 per year, regardless of their length of contract. Where payments under the Loan Repayment Program result in an increase in Federal income tax liability, the IHS will pay up to 31 percent of the participant's total loan repayments to the Internal Revenue Service on the participant's behalf for all or part of the increased tax liability of the participant. Pursuant to Section 108(b), to be eligible to participate in the Loan Repayment Program an individual must: (1) A. Be enrolled: (i) In a course of study or program in an accredited institution, as determined by the Secretary, within any state and be scheduled to complete such course of study in the same year such individual applies to participate in the Loan Repayment Program. (The term ``State'' includes, in addition to the several States, only the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, The Virgin Islands, Guam, America Samoa, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau); or (ii) In an approved graduate training program in a health profession; or B. Have a degree in a health profession and a license to practice; and (2) A. be eligible for, or hold an appointment as a Commissioned Officer in the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service, or B. Be eligible for selection for civilian service in the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service; or C. Meet the professional standards for civil service employment in the IHS; or D. Be employed in an Indian health program without service obligation; and (3) Submit to the Secretary an application and contract to the Loan Repayment Program; and (4) Sign and submit to the Secretary, a written contract agreeing to accept repayment of educational loans and to serve for the applicable period of obligated service in a priority site as determined by the Secretary; and (5) Sign an affidavit attesting to the fact that they have been informed of the relative merits of the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned Corps and the Civil Service as employment options. Upon approval of the applicant for participation in the Loan Repayment Program, the applicant will receive confirmation of his/her loan repayment award and the duty site at which he/she will serve his/her loan repayment obligation. The IHS has identified the positions in each Indian health program for which there is a need or vacancy and ranked those positions in order of priority by developing discipline specific prioritized lists of sites. Ranking criteria for these sites include the following: Historically critical shortages caused by frequent staff turnover Current unmatched vacancies in a Health Profession Discipline Projected Vacancies in a Health Profession Discipline Ensuring that the staffing needs of Indian health programs administered by an Indian tribe or tribal or health organization receive consideration on an equal basis with programs that are administered directly by the Service; and Giving priority to vacancies in Indian health programs that have a need for health professionals to provide health care services as a result of individuals having breached Loan Repayment Program contracts entered into under this section.
