FR940822-2-00107 FR940822-2-00061 I. Background The State Justice Institute (``Institute'') was established by Pub. L. 98&hyph;620 to improve the administration of justice in the State courts in the United States. Incorporated in the State of Virginia as a private, nonprofit corporation, the Institute is charged, by statute, with the responsibility to: A. Direct a national program of financial assistance designed to assure that each citizen of the United States is provided ready access to a fair and effective system of justice; B. Foster coordination and cooperation with the Federal judiciary; C. Promote recognition of the importance of the separation of powers doctrine to an independent judiciary; and D. Encourage education for judges and support personnel of State court systems through national and State organiza-tions, including universities. To accomplish these broad objectives, the Institute is authorized to provide funds to State courts, national organiza-tions which support and are supported by State courts, national judicial education organizations, and other organizations that can assist in improving the quality of justice in the State courts. The Institute is supervised by an eleven-member Board of Directors appointed by the President, by and with the consent of the Senate. The Board is statutorily composed of six judges, a State court administrator, and four members of the public, no more than two of whom can be of the same political party. Through the award of grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements, the Institute is authorized to perform the following activities: A. Support research, demonstrations, special projects, technical assistance, and training to improve the adminis-tration of justice in the State courts; B. Provide for the preparation, publication, and dissemination of information regarding State judicial systems; C. Participate in joint projects with Federal agencies and other private grantors; D. Evaluate or provide for the evaluation of programs and projects funded by the Institute to determine their impact upon the quality of criminal, civil, and juvenile justice and the extent to which they have contributed to improving the quality of justice in the State courts; E. Encourage and assist in furthering judicial education; F. Encourage, assist, and serve in a consulting capacity to State and local justice system agencies in the develop-ment, maintenance, and coordination of criminal, civil, and juvenile justice programs and services; and G. Be responsible for the certification of national programs that are intended to aid and improve State judicial systems.
