FR941207-0-00015 FR941207-0-00002 Eight commenters were in favor of eliminating the requirement that the processor ensure that invoices clearly show the discount included or refund due to the recipient agencies for the end product purchased. Commenters provided two main reasons for wishing to eliminate this requirement: 1) it has proved very difficult to require distributors to identify refunds due or discounts given on the invoices and 2) the requirement had become somewhat obsolete because FCS policy currently allows processors/distributors to provide pricing summaries to recipient agencies in lieu of providing the pricing information on invoices. Five commenters were opposed to the proposal and indicated that they wanted to retain the pricing information on the invoices because the invoice is the best place to alert recipient agencies that a refund is due or a discount has been given. One commenter added that many processors who utilize the refund system provide a pre-printed rebate application which lists the commodity value for each end product. Two commenters indicated that the proposed rule would have little, if any, effect on their operations. Only one comment was received on the changes proposed for the NCP Program. That commenter endorsed the proposed provisions in section 252.4(c)(4). In the past, several processors and distributors have expressed concern to FCS about the added cost of redesigning and reprinting invoices in order to accommodate the requirement in the current regulations that the processor/distributor invoices clearly indicate the discount included or the refund due on end products. In response to the growing concern, on May 2, 1989, FCS issued a policy memorandum which allowed processors or distributors to provide recipient agencies a fact sheet, which clearly identified that the processed end products are made from commodities and indicates the amount of refund or discount due eligible recipient agencies for such purchases. The Department believes it is appropriate to incorporate this existing policy into the final rule. These pricing information summaries need only consist of information such as the product code, gross price, refund due or discount given and net price. These summaries, as well as any updates to the summaries, must be prepared by processors and furnished to recipient agencies by either the processor or the distributing agency. Based on the above, this final rule adopts sections 250.30(c)(4)(xvii), 250.30(d)(3) and 250.30(e)(2)of the proposed State processing regulations and section 252.4(c)(4) of the proposed NCP regulations without change. Substitution of Donated Food Section 250.30(f)(1)(i), of the proposed rule would allow the substitution of commercial food for those donated foods specifically listed as substitutable in the current regulations without requesting prior approval from the distributing agency. Additionally, sections 250.30(f)(1)(iii), 250.30(f)(2), and 250.30(f)(4) of the proposed State processing regulations include the following provisions: 1) Processors may continue to request approval from FCS to substitute other commercial foods (except meat and poultry), although without the requirement that requests may be made only when the distributing agency's inability to maintain the necessary inventory of donated food at the processing plant would disrupt the production of end products and in all cases in which a State processing contract permits substitution, provided that processors must provide documentation sufficient to substantiate that they continue to acquire sufficient substitutable commercial foods necessary to meet the 100 percent yield requirement; 2) Distributing agencies can withhold deliveries of donated food from processors which have reduced their level of commercial production because of participation in the State processing program; and 3) Authorization to substitute commercial foods for donated foods not specifically listed applies only for the duration of all contracts currently entered into by the processor. Sections 252.3(c) and 252.4(c)(7) of the proposed rule would similarly amend the NCP regulations. The Department received sixteen comments on this proposal. All commenters concurred that processors should not need written approval from the distributing agency to substitute those donated foods listed as substitutable in the regulations with commercial foods. However, two commenters stated that the Department should consider making all donated foods substitutable and one commenter stated that all donated food, except for meat and poultry, should be considered as substitutable. Those commenters who favored a total or almost total substitution of all donated foods provided conditions under which substitution should be permitted: 1) USDA's Food Safety Inspection Service inspectors and/or USDA's Agricultural Marketing Service graders verify that the commercial food being substituted is of equal or better quality and is of the same generic identity as the donated food; 2) the processor must provide the specifications of the commercial food used to substitute for donated food, along with a certification that the substituted foods are of equal or better quality; and 3) the processor must report all substitution on the monthly performance report to the distributing agency. Three comments were received in response to the proposal which would permit distributing agencies to withhold deliveries of donated food from processors who have reduced their level of commercial production because of participation in the State processing program. These commenters made it clear that they believe distributing agencies do not have access to a processor's records on the production of commercial end products in order to determine whether withholding donated food is appropriate. One processor expressed concern that the documentation necessary to substantiate that the processor acquires sufficient amounts of substitutable donated food would increase the overall workload of the distributing agency staff.
