FR940111-0-00077 FR940111-0-00019 Statistical business expense data for the years 1977&hyph;1987 presented by the FFDA, 78 and analyzed by an economist for the AARP, indicates that funeral home costs arguably most related to the Rule (such as legal, accounting and consulting costs) have increased at lower rates than other expenses (such as depreciation and casket cost), 79 and that overall cost increases have resulted more from a general increase in all business expenses than from a dramatic increase in any one expense category. 80 Mr. Hahn of the FFDA further testified that the Rule has played a very minor role in business expense and price increases, 81 which he and other witnesses attributed generally to inflation and individual funeral home business decisions. 82 78 Federated Funeral Directors of America (FFDA) processes records from 1,500 funeral home clients in 30 states that conduct about 181,000 funerals a year, representing just under 10% of all deaths. FFDA is the largest company of its type in the country. Hahn, Tr. II, 662&hyph;663. 79 Dr. Barnow, speaking on behalf of the AARP, reported that his review of the FFDA data showed that accounting, consultants and legal costs were responsible for 2.6% of the real increase in overall funeral home costs since 1981, whereas depreciation and casket cost respectively accounted for 14.9% and 9.3% of the real increase in costs. See Dr. Barnow, HX&hyph;118 at 14 and Exhibit 2, pp.12&hyph;13. Dr. Barnow further stated that increased compliance would not substantially increase the Rule's costs, because there are no identifiable, major costs imposed by the Rule now on providers. Tr. Vol. I, 880, 883. 80 HX&hyph;118 at 14. Dr. Berry, an economist and industry observer appearing on his own behalf, agreed that the Rule has not had a significant influence on funeral home costs. Tr. Vol. I, 151. 81 Tr. Vol. II, 681, 683&hyph;85, 689&hyph;90. 82 Id. at 678&hyph;80, 683, 688&hyph;689, 709; R&hyph;C&hyph;7 ( American Funeral Director magazine interview with Mr. Hahn) at 3; Pierson, R&hyph;D&hyph;1 at 2; Ninker, R&hyph;G&hyph;1 at 3; Davis, Illinois FDA, R&hyph;G&hyph;2 at 1; Botimer, Tr. Vol. III, 1292; and FDSA of Chicago, R&hyph;G&hyph;5 at 25;; Krause, Tr. Vol. II, 24; and Longmire, R&hyph;D&hyph;2 at 5; see also, R&hyph;N&hyph;1 (SR) at 83, n. 402 and McChesney, HX&hyph;126&hyph;A at 53, which contains the following quote from Business Trends Analysts: When first proposed, many believed the Funeral Rule would lower funeral and cremation service prices because lower-priced options would be made known to the consumer. However, when put into effect, the Funeral Rule caused funeral directors to examine their costs. In doing so, many realized that they had been ``giving away'' some services. In effect, funeral directors became more business-oriented as a result of the FTC rulings, and found that they could actually raise prices. Further record analysis of the FFDA statistical data by BE staff indicates that funeral homes' personnel expenses appear to have increased very slightly since 1984, but that personnel expense as a proportion of overall business expense has not significantly changed in many years, including the period covered by the Rule. Similar analysis shows that salary expense as a proportion of personnel cost has likewise remained stable. 83 Mr. Hahn of the FFDA testified that significant changes in those areas should have occurred if the Rule were significantly increasing funeral homes' personnel costs. 84 83 See HX&hyph;50 (BE Personnel Expense Data Analysis). 84 Tr. Vol. II, 688. e. State Regulation of Funeral Providers. The rulemaking record finally documents that most individual states favor the continued existence and strong enforcement of the Funeral Rule to protect funeral consumers, rather than reliance on the states to adopt comprehensive, state-specific legislation. A 1987 staff survey of the states' funeral industry statutes, regulations and rules revealed that ten states have incorporated the Rule by reference into their laws or adopted provisions similar to six of the Rule's most salient requirements; six have enacted at least four of those provisions, and, overall, thirteen to twenty-five states have laws that include one or more provisions similar to the Rule. 85 No party presented evidence during the review that additional states have adopted relevant funeral laws or that existing laws have been significantly strengthened. 85 See R&hyph;C&hyph;12 (staff survey); R&hyph;J&hyph;1 (Conference of Funeral Service Examining Boards survey) at 4&hyph;6. Testimonial evidence presented by state legislators and officials further indicates that, although the Rule has helped stimulate the enactment of similar funeral industry laws in several states, such reform is unlikely in their or other states because of industry opposition. Those witnesses expressed their views that the Funeral Rule needs to be retained as a result, and is beneficial to consumers, funeral providers, and state enforcement officials. 86 86 See the testimony cited in R&hyph;N&hyph;1 (SR) at 97&hyph;100. C. Section-by-Section Analysis 1. Introduction The Rule as amended contains two major changes_deletion of the affirmative telephone disclosure requirement and the prohibition of non-declinable fees (such as so-called ``casket handling fees'' and ``basic facilities fees'') charged in addition to the non-declinable fee for basic professional services of the funeral director and staff. These primary changes, and a number of ``fine-tuning'' amendments, are intended to increase the Rule's benefits and reduce its costs by facilitating funeral providers' compliance with, and consumer understanding of, the Rule's requirements, while preserving the integrity of the Rule's ``unbundling'' and price disclosure requirements. Finally, the Commission has made several technical amendments to the Rule that are necessary to correct inconsistencies or unnecessary language in certain Rule provisions, or to complement other amendments. 2. Affirmative Telephone Disclosure Repeal: Section 453.2(b)(1)(i) Section 453.2(b)(1)(i) of the original Rule required funeral providers to affirmatively tell persons who call and ask about the ``terms, conditions, or prices'' at which funeral goods or funeral services are offered that price information is available over the telephone. The Commission has decided that the affirmative telephone disclosure provision should be deleted from the Rule because its costs outweigh its actual and potential benefits to consumers, and because the integrity of the Rule's price disclosure requirements will be maintained by retaining the requirement to provide price information over the telephone on request. The Commission designed this provision to help consumers in two ways. First, it would alert them to the availability of price information over the telephone, and, second, it might diminish consumers' reluctance to seek such information. The Commission intended that affirmative disclosure provision to facilitate consumers' comparison shopping for a provider. 87 87 R&hyph;B&hyph;5 (SBP) at 42273. Empirical evidence presented by the Replication Study, however, indicated that few consumers comparison shop before selecting a provider. The Commission in the NPR thus requested public comment on whether: (1) Consumers are aware of their right to seek price information over the telephone; (2) compliance with this provision is costly; and (3) it should retain the affirmative telephone disclosure provision in view of the study results. 88 88 R&hyph;A&hyph;1 at 19869 (Question 7).
