FR940912-0-00043 FR940912-0-00006 (A) Provide, in tabular form, the component amounts and the total amount of FCS debt obligations, debt obligations issued by banks individually, and Financial Assistance Corporation debt obligations outstanding at yearend for each of the past 2 fiscal years. List debt obligations issued by System institutions separately by type, also separating insured obligations from uninsured obligations. For each type of debt obligation listed, provide the following, at a minimum, for each fiscal year listed: (1 ) The beginning balance, the total amount of debt issued, the total amount of debt retired, and the yearend balance; and ( 2 ) The average maturities and average interest rates on debt outstanding at yearend, and the average maturities and average interest rates of new debt issued during the year. (B) Summarize any other sources of funds, including lines of credit with commercial lenders, and their terms. (ii) Liquidity. (A) Include a brief overview of any FCA regulations or System policies with regard to liquidity and liquidity reserves. (B) Identify any known trends, demands, commitments, events, or uncertainties that will result in, or that are reasonably likely to result in, System liquidity increasing or decreasing in any material way. If a material liquidity deficiency is identified, indicate the course of action that has been taken or is proposed to be taken by management of affected System institutions to remedy the deficiency. (iii) Investment. Provide a brief overview of the System's investment policies and objectives, any regulatory limitations thereon, and the contents of the System's existing investment portfolio. (iv) Interest rate sensitivity. (A) Provide a brief overview of the System's asset and liability management practices, including interest rate risk measurement systems, and methods used to control interest rate risk, such as the use of investments, derivatives, and other off-balance-sheet transactions. (B) Provide an analysis of the System's exposure to interest rate risk and its ability to control such risk. (4) Capital resources. (i) Describe any material commitments to purchase capital assets and the anticipated sources of funding. (ii) Describe any material trends, favorable or unfavorable, in the System's capital resources, including any material changes in the mix of capital and debt, the relative cost of capital resources, and any off-balance- sheet financing arrangements. (iii) Provide a general discussion of any trends, commitments, contingencies, or events that are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on System institutions' ability to comply with regulatory capital standards. (5) Insurance Fund. (i) Describe the purposes for which expenditures from the Insurance Fund may be made and the statutory requirements for making such expenditures. (ii) Provide a schedule itemizing the amount of Insurance Fund assets that have been specifically identified by the FCSIC for payment of estimated obligations of the FCSIC and the amount of Insurance Fund assets for which no specific use has been identified or designated by the FCSIC. Information provided shall be as of the end of the most recent fiscal year. (iii) Explain how FCSIC expenditures or designations of Insurance Fund assets for payment of future obligations affect the combined assets and capital of the System, and quantify the effect, if any. (6) Instructions for discussion and analysis. (i) The purpose of the discussion and analysis (D&A) shall be to provide to investors and other users information relevant to an assessment of the combined financial condition and results of operations of System institutions as determined by evaluating the amounts and certainty of cashflows from operations and from outside sources. The information provided pursuant to this section need only include that which is available to System institutions and which does not clearly appear in the combined financial statements. (ii) The D&A of the financial statements and other statistical data shall be presented in a manner designed to enhance a reader's understanding of the combined financial condition, results of operations, cashflows, and changes in capital of System institutions. Unless otherwise specified in ยง630.20(g), the discussion shall cover the period covered by the financial statements and shall use year-to-year comparisons or any other understandable format. Where trend information is relevant, reference to the 5-year selected financial data required by paragraph (f) of this section may be necessary. (iii) The D&A shall focus specifically on material events and uncertainties known at the time of reporting that would cause reported financial information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition. This should include descriptions and amounts of: (A) Matters that would have an impact on future operations but that have not had an impact in the past; and (B) Matters that have had an impact on reported operations but are not expected to have an impact on future operations.
