FR940112-0-00124 FR940112-0-00024 The Commission received one comment specifically responding to the request for information on the Regulatory Flexibility Act 54 and two comments that otherwise included certain economic material relating to small business costs of compliance. 55 54 Stem, 13, 3. 55 Cram, 18, 1; and Cong. Meyers. Mr. Stempnik responded to the regulatory flexibility questions by stating: Exclusions should be only what is required by the revised FPLA and no more. *␣*␣* I do not support exemptions because labels are changed frequently for marketing reasons and companies can stockpile unlimited quantities of old labels before the deadline and continue to use them until they are used up. 56 56 Stem, 13, 3. Cramer Products commented, without substantiating information, that there would be an average cost per product of $200 to change its labels to bring them into compliance, and Congresswoman Meyers was concerned that the deadline for compliance of February 14, 1994 would cause harm to small business. 57 57 These comments are discussed in connection with Part IV.D. The Commission's Regulatory Review Program, above. The amended regulations that the Commission adopts today cover every company in the economy that produces consumer commodities other than those commodities falling within the authority of other agencies or otherwise exempted from the statute's coverage. Based on the information now available on the public record, it is not feasible for the Commission to estimate the number of entities within this class of industry that also are small companies within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. (5 U.S.C. 601(3).) Nevertheless, the information in hand suggests that the overall economic impact of the metric amendments to the regulations issued under FPLA may not be significant. In essence, all the amendments require is that companies make simple mathematical conversions from the inch/pound measurement system into the metric measurement system and include the metric equivalents on already mandated label disclosure of contents of consumer commodities. 58 The FPLA states that non-complying labels printed prior to February 14, 1994 may continue to be used until the supply is exhausted. 58 Further, whatever economic impact on small business, if any, that may come from metric measurement translation and disclosure is not the result of the proposed amendments to the regulations but is the consequence of the amendments to FPLA by Congress.
