FR940414-0-00009 FR940414-0-00001 One commenter felt that section (2)(xv) was unnecessary because the Software License is an Addendum to the Contract and the Contract is subject to REA approval. Response: Separate provisions for REA approval of the Software License Agreement makes the Agreement more prominent and helps ensure that arbitrary changes are not made to the Agreement without REA's knowledge or approval. One commenter wanted four additional paragraphs added to section (2) of the Software License. One commenter wanted two additional paragraphs added to section (2) of the Software License. These six paragraphs are summarized here. (i) One paragraph specified that the obligations of the Licensee under this agreement shall survive after the termination of this Agreement. (ii) One paragraph specified that the Licensee shall not, without the prior written permission of the Licensor, use in advertising, publicity, or otherwise, any trade name, trademark, or any other identification owned by the Licensor. (iii) One paragraph specified that the Software License Agreement shall prevail notwithstanding any conflicting terms or legends which may appear on or in the Licensed Software. (iv) One paragraph specified that nothing contained herein shall be construed as conferring by implication or otherwise (1) any license or right to use any name, trade name, trademark or any other identification, or simulation thereof; (2) any obligation to furnish to any person, including Licensee, any assistance whatsoever, or any documentation other than Licensed Software and related documentation as specified in this Agreement; (3) a grant to sell, lease, or otherwise transfer or dispose of Licensed Software, except as specified. (v) One paragraph specified that the Licensee shall not decompile or reverse assemble the Licensed Software. (vi) One paragraph specified that the Licensee assumes sole responsibility for ensuring that the Billing Center can correctly read call records and risk of loss for any data, use, revenue or profit shall be the responsibility of Licensee. Response: (i) REA agrees and has added the suggested language to the Software License Agreement in section (2)(xiv). (ii) REA agrees that the Licensor and Licensee have a right to protect their trademarks, trade names and other forms of identification. Language has been added to the Software License to reflect this in section (2)(xv). (iii) REA believes that this is the intent of the Software License Agreement and has added the suggested language to the Software License in section (2)(xvi). (iv) REA believes that the language added to the Software License for paragraph (ii) covers part (1) of this paragraph. Part (2) of this paragraph has not been added as the Licensor must provide support and assistance as required by the Contract. REA has not added part (3) of this paragraph because section (2)(ii) of the Software License already states the requirements for sale of the System. (v) Although REA has not added a new section, the suggested language has been added to section (2)(iii). (vi) REA believes it is the responsibility of the Licensor to determine what format is required for the call records and react accordingly. This paragraph has not been added to the Software License. List of Subjects 7 CFR Part 1753 Communications equipment, Loan programs_communications, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas, Telephone. 7 CFR Part 1755 Loan programs_communications, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas, Telephone. For the reasons set out in the preamble, Chapter XVII of title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1753_TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
