FR941220-0-00024 FR941220-0-00005 Comment: One commenter suggested that §409.46(c) be revised to specify that only skilled nurses or physical therapists with special training in respiratory care be allowed to furnish respiratory therapy services. Response: We have not accepted this comment for two reasons. First, the purpose of this section is to describe certain services that are allowable administrative costs, not to establish requirements for coverage of skilled nursing or physical therapy services; therefore, such a revision would not be appropriate to this section. Second, we do not believe that such a revision is necessary because State practice acts and professional standards of practice generally regulate the services that can be provided by nurses and therapists, thus preventing nurses or therapists from furnishing services they are not qualified to provide. Place of Service Requirements (§409.47) Comment: One commenter suggested that this section be revised to reflect the place of service provisions formerly at §409.42(e)(1). Response: We have accepted this comment. We have revised this section to reflect the specific provisions of section 1861(m)(7) of the Act and previous regulations at §409.42(e) more closely. As stated in the revised §409.47(b), an outpatient setting may include a hospital, a SNF or a rehabilitation center with which the HHA has an arrangement in accordance with §484.14(h) of this chapter. We believe that this revised requirement, by duplicating the provisions of section 1861(m) of the Act, more closely reflects the original congressional intent to restrict home health coverage of outpatient services to only a few specific outpatient facilities and thus ensure that home health services would be primarily provided in the homes of the beneficiaries. It has also been brought to our attention that the definition of a beneficiary's home at proposed §409.47(a) and the definition of ``confined to the home'' at proposed §409.42(a) were not entirely consistent. We have revised §409.42(a) so that both sections define a beneficiary's home for purposes of Medicare home health coverage as any place in which the beneficiary resides that is not a hospital, SNF, or nursing facility as defined in sections 1861(e)(1), 1819(a)(1), or 1919(a)(1) of the Act, respectively. Comment: One commenter suggested that the place of service requirements contained in §409.47(b) be expanded to allow Medicare home health coverage of outpatient services furnished in a variety of settings, such as general outpatient clinics and adult day care facilities. Response: As we explained in the previous response, the Act specifically allows Medicare coverage of outpatient home health services furnished in a hospital, SNF, or rehabilitation center. We have revised paragraph (b) to reflect the statutory provision. We have not expanded the list of allowable outpatient settings because such a revision would not be consistent with the plain language of the statute. Also, it is important to note that section 1861(m)(7)(A) of the Act provides for coverage of outpatient home health services only when the beneficiary requires a service which ``involves the use of equipment of such a nature that the items and services cannot readily be made available to the individual'' in his or her home. This means that Medicare coverage of outpatient home health services is available only when the primary service cannot be furnished in the home, not merely when it is more convenient to the HHA or beneficiary to provide the service in an outpatient setting. Because coverage of outpatient home health services is available only in such specific circumstances, we believe that the statutory limitation of the services to certain specific facilities is appropriate and does not restrict a beneficiary's access to covered home health outpatient care.
