FR940912-1-00027 FR940912-1-00010 The General Provisions of 40 CFR part 60 require the owner or operator to submit certain notifications and reports to the Administrator. Section 60.7(a)(1) of the General Provisions requires a notification of the date construction or reconstruction of an affected facility is commenced; the proposed rule requires that certain general information regarding the wastewater generated by the source be submitted with this notification. Section 60.7(a)(3) of the General Provisions requires a notification of the actual date of initial startup of an affected facility; the proposed rule requires that the owner or operator provide with this notification more detailed information and data on the wastewater streams generated by the affected process unit. This information includes a determination of whether the stream is an affected wastewater stream, the compliance approach utilized if the stream is being controlled in accordance with the requirements of ยง60.109(b) of the proposed rule, the identification of the waste management units receiving or managing each affected wastewater stream, and certain information on the treatment processes and control devices used to comply with the rule. Section 60.7(c) of the General Provisions requires that each owner or operator required to install a continuous monitoring system (CMS) or monitoring device submit an excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and/or a summary report to the Administrator on a quarterly basis when the CMS data are to be used directly for compliance determination, as is the case for control devices in this proposed rule. In order to be consistent with the reporting requirements of the HON, which also regulates this industry, the EPA is exempting the owner or operator from the quarterly reporting requirement and is requiring only a semiannual report in the proposed rule. The semiannual report will contain information on the excursions or exceedances as determined by the CMS data, performance test results, and other information on treatment processes and control devices. III. Impacts of the Proposed NSPS To estimate the impacts of the proposed regulation, the EPA estimates the quantity of VOC that the affected industry would emit to the atmosphere in the absence of the rule. This estimated quantity serves as a baseline from which the impacts of the rule are measured. Following estimation of the baseline level of emissions, the Agency estimates the emission reduction that would occur as a result of the regulatory alternatives for the rule. Studies are then made to estimate the impacts of the rule on the environment, the economics of the industry and the nation, and on energy consumption. Collectively, these estimates represent the impacts of the standard. Estimated impacts include emission reductions, costs, impacts on non-air environmental media, and energy usage. The impacts presented here are those estimated to occur in the fifth year after promulgation. All of the impacts are calculated as an increment relative to the impacts of the wastewater rules included in the HON. Additional details of the impacts analysis can be found in the BID and from documentation developed in support of the HON. A. Environmental Impacts Under the proposed NSPS, it is estimated that 68 percent of all new SOCMI chemical production process units would have wastewater streams that require control under the NSPS but do not require control under the HON. It is further estimated that the total annual emission reduction achieved by the NSPS in the fifth year would be approximately 16,200 megagrams per year (Mg/yr) of VOC. Because the NSPS requires the treatment of wastewater prior to discharge, there would be no negative impacts on water quality. In fact, the impacts of the rule on water quality could be positive. Impacts of the rule on solid waste are estimated to be negligible. Other environmental impacts of the rule are estimated to be small. Due to the increased energy requirements of control, emissions of carbon monoxide are estimated to increase by about 4 Mg/yr and emissions of nitrogen oxides are estimated to increase by about 35 Mg/yr. Energy impacts of the proposed rule include the combustion of fossil fuels to generate steam for steam stripping systems. These impacts are partially offset by the recovery of organics from the treatment system. Estimated energy impacts of the proposed rule in the fifth year consist of an increase of 0.6 million kilowatt hours per year (Kw-hr/yr) of electricity usage, an increase in natural gas consumption of 133 million British thermal units per year (Btu/yr), and an increase in steam usage of 133 billion Btu/yr.
