FR941130-0-00029 FR941130-0-00003 Also, as prescribed by 12 CFR 563b.3(c)(23), and further clarified in the final rule, if the final conversion stock valuation exceeds the maximum conversion stock offering range, up to ten percent of the total offering of shares may be sold to the tax-qualified employee stock benefit plans. This provision generally will allow ESOPs to be allocated stock during periods of an active and strong thrift securities market; however, such allocation generally will not be available when the final pro forma market value as approved by the OTS and disclosed in the stock offering materials does not exceed the maximum conversion stock offering range. 8 If the ESOP is not able to purchase conversion stock, the ESOP or any other tax-qualified plan may purchase shares in the open market or utilize authorized but unissued shares only with prior OTS approval. Disclosure must be made in the conversion stock offering materials of the potential open market purchases or use of authorized but unissued shares to fund the ESOP and its effect on the association and its shareholders. The final rule reflects these clarifications. 8 In the nearly 1,000 conversions completed since 1983, a majority were sold for a conversion price that did not exceed the maximum conversion stock offering range. D. Revision to Eligibility Record Date The OTS currently requires that the eligibility record date (ERD) be set at a date no less than one year prior to board of director approval of the plan of conversion. In the interim final rule, the OTS also requested public comment as to whether a longer minimum time period would be appropriate. The majority of commenters supported the revision to the ERD based on the reasoning that it properly protects the legitimate interests of core depositors and provides sufficient assurance that long-term supporters of an institution are given priority. A couple of commenters recommended setting a maximum time limit of two years and one recommended not extending beyond one year; one requested that ``depositor'' be defined as one who has ``savings in any type of a deposit account of at least $100 continuously during the eligibility period.'' Two commenters disagreed with the revision because it eliminates legitimate local depositors and is impractical since accurate records about depositors are not readily available. One commenter noted that directors and executive officers will have to plan further ahead, maintaining records for longer periods of time. Two commenters stated that the revision has no effect since professional investors are in place for a considerable period. One commenter recommended waivers for institutions of $100 million or less that can demonstrate that information is not available. A few commenters suggested eliminating the supplemental eligible account holder category, because the date for determining such account holders is close to the record date, and therefore duplicative, or in the alternative, setting a supplemental eligibility record date (SERD) only if the ERD is more than 18 months prior to the date of the latest application amendment filed before OTS approval. One commenter suggested moving the SERD from the current 15 month period to a 24 month period; and also noted that the ERD revision and the local community depositor preference create three additional categories, making for extraordinary processing difficulties. One commenter suggested: (1) giving purchase preference to both depositors and borrowers as of the ERD; (2) giving preference to the eligible and supplemental eligible account holders whose accounts remain open at the voting record date over those who terminated their account relationship; and (3) amending the regulation to replace the 100 share initial allocation 9 with a provision that the initial allocation may be tailored to the circumstances of the thrift's offering. 9 See 12 CFR 563b.3(c) (2)(ii) and (4)(iv). The interim final rule will continue in effect without change for the reason stated by most commenters and supported by OTS: it properly protects the legitimate interests of core depositors and provides sufficient assurance that these depositors are given priority. ``Eligible account holders'' are defined as those holders with savings accounts in place for a minimum of one year prior to board of director adoption of the plan of conversion. The OTS also believes there is no compelling reason to set a maximum time limit for an ERD. As stated in the interim final rule, the one year period is a minimum time period. Converting associations may designate such longer time periods as they may deem appropriate to encompass longer term depositors in the local communities served by the institution.
