FR940413-2-00104 FR940413-2-00057 D. Matching Requirements The Department of Labor funding under these awards shall equal 80 percent of the total grant cost. The awardee shall provide not more than 10 percent from other federal sources and the remainder from non-federal sources. The matching funds can be in cash or in-kind. E. Statement of Work Proposed projects for single site pilot projects can be either an existing project or a new innovative idea for serving out-of school youth. Projects proposed for a multisite pilot should already exist. Grants funded under this competition must include an evaluation component that tracks the implementation and operation of the pilot sites and the outcomes of participants. If the pilot sites appear to be successful, the Department at some later point may wish to formally evaluate these models through the random assignment of program applicants to treatment and non-treatment groups. 1. Single Site Grant Competition Under this part, the Department will provide a number of small grants to pilot-test new approaches to serving out-of-school youth in an initial site or a second site. These models will not be formally evaluated at this stage. This generally should be seen as an initial pilot project stage, which may eventually lead to pilot-testing in multiple sites and later to formal demonstration and evaluation. Applicants for these grants should explain in their proposals why the idea they plan to implement has the potential for serving out-of-school youth effectively. If it is a new idea to be tried for the first time, justification as to why the model should be successful in meeting the needs of youth should be provided in the proposal. If it is an existing program to be pilot-tested in a second site, documentation should be provided regarding the characteristics of enrollees in the existing program, services provided, and outcomes. The proposal should also demonstrate an understanding of what else has been tried in serving out-of-school youth, and how the suggested model differs from other approaches. The application should include an evaluation component to document the implementation and operation of the pilot project. The evaluation should not include random assignment of program applicants, but should document the characteristics of youth served, services provided, how the services were provided and outcomes of participants. 2. Multi-Site Grant Competition Under this part, the Department wants to pilot test a structured model that holds promise for serving out-of-school youth. Applicants under this part should make a strong case that the model they are proposing holds promise for serving out-of-school youth effectively. The model being proposed should already be in operation in at least one site. Evidence should be provided in the proposal that the model is being successfully implemented at the existing site. The proposal should also demonstrate an understanding of what else has been tried in serving out-of-school youth, and how the suggested model differs from other approaches. Documentation should be provided as to number of youth served, types of services provided, and outcomes. The multi-site pilot project that will be funded here should be seen as a preliminary stage to formal demonstration and evaluation. The model can be implemented in approximately five pilot sites across the country, within a State or local districts within a large metropolitan area. The sites do not need to be identified at the time the application is made. Applications under this part should include an evaluation component that tracks the implementation and operation of the program model in the pilot sites. The evaluation should not include random assignment of program applicants, but should document the characteristics of youth served, services provided, and outcomes of participants. 3. Program Model for Both Single and Multi-Site Grants If the applicant proposes to pilot-test a new idea that has never been tried before, the proposal should discuss why the proposed model holds promise for serving out-of-school youth effectively. The proposal should delineate the key elements of the model to be implemented, and provide detailed plans as to the site in which it will be operated, the organization that will run the program, the population of youth who will be the focus of the program, what services will be provided, and what other agencies will coordinate with the project. If the applicant is proposing to pilot-test an existing program in an additional site or in multiple sites, the proposal should discuss what the program does, who it serves, how it provides the service, what and who are involved, and the outcomes. It should discuss the dynamics of replicating the program in another community and the projected differences between the initial and new communities. It should also discuss the flexibility of the program and how it will be adapted to address the needs in the community where replication will occur. The proposal should discuss the planning, staff development, and implementation. The applicant should discuss preliminary communication with sites in which the pilot testing may occur, but no formal selection needs to be made by the time of application.
