FR940404-1-00009 FR940404-1-00002 The avocado import maturity regulation (7 CFR 944.31) is based on the maturity requirements in effect for avocados grown in Florida under the order throughout the year. Under the order, any person may handle avocados without regard to established grade, size, quality, or maturity requirements provided that such avocados are handled for: (1) Consumption by charitable institutions; (2) distribution by relief agencies; (3) commercial processing into products; (4) seed; or (5) individual shipments of up to 55 pounds. Prior to issuance of this rule, the only exemption allowed under the avocado import regulation was that for individual shipments of up to 55 pounds. Thus, this proposed rule would add consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, seed, and commercial processing into products to the list of exemptions allowed under the avocado import regulation. To ensure that imported avocados exempt from the maturity requirements are utilized in exempt outlets, this rule proposes that such avocados be subject to the safeguard procedures for imported fruit established in ยง944.350 (58 FR 69182, December 30, 1993). Under these procedures, an importer wishing to import avocados covered herein for uses in other than regulated commercial channels, would complete in triplicate, prior to importation, an ``Importer's Exempt Commodity Form.'' One copy would notify the Marketing Order Administration Branch (MOAB) of the Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, and the second copy would notify the U.S. Customs Service of the importer's intent to import a commodity under an exemption. The third copy would accompany the exempt lot to the receiver. The form could be obtained from either the inspection or customs offices serving the port of entry. The form could also be obtained from the MOAB in Washington, DC or from its Marketing Field Offices in Fresno, California; Portland, Oregon; McAllen, Texas; or Winter Haven, Florida. At the time the commodity enters the United States the importer would complete the form; surrender a copy of the completed form to the U.S. Customs at the time the commodity is offered for importation; and would forward a copy of the completed form to MOAB within 15 days after completeion of the form. Information called for on the ``Importer's Exempt Commodity Form'' would include: (1) The commodity and the variety (if known) being imported, (2) The date and place of inspection, if applicable, (3) Identifying marks or numbers on the containers,
