FR940719-1-00071 FR940719-1-00015 Paragraph (b) of the proposal would require that once a hazardous condition is found, a record would be required to be kept in a book maintained for this purpose on the surface at the mine. A description of the hazardous condition, its location, and actions taken to correct the condition would be recorded. So as to make the information concerning hazardous conditions available to oncoming shifts, the proposal would require the record to be entered in the book by or at the end of the shift in which the hazardous condition was discovered. As explained in the preamble to the existing rule, commenters stated that a record of all hazards found during the examination is necessary to enable the examiner to double-check, during subsequent examinations, areas where problems have occurred. The Agency agrees with this position and therefore, consistent with the requirements of §75.360, is proposing in paragraph (b) that a record be made of any hazardous condition found by or reported to the mine foreman, assistants to the mine foreman, or other certified person designated by the operator to conduct examinations under this subpart D. Additionally, knowledge by mine management of the action necessary to correct a hazardous condition is important for the proper evaluation of the effectiveness of various actions. For example, if a hazardous condition occurs repeatedly and the action taken to correct it is the same each time, management should reevaluate the effectiveness of the corrective action being taken. Therefore, the Agency is proposing in paragraph (b) that the record also include the action required to correct the hazardous condition. Paragraph (b) would not require a record of hazardous conditions found during preshift or weekly examinations, since the proposed regulations at §§75.360(f) and 75.364(h) would require records of hazardous conditions found during these examinations. To assure the accuracy and completeness of the record, paragraph (c) of the proposal would require that the record be made either by the certified person or by a person designated by the operator. As with other records required by this subpart, when the record is made by a designated person other than the certified person making the examination, the person making the record need not be certified. If the record is made by a person designated by the operator, the certified person would be required to verify the record by initials and date. Paragraph (c) of §75.363 would also include provisions identical to those proposed in paragraph (f) of §75.360 and paragraph (h) of §75.364 for countersigning records and for keeping the records in a state-approved book or in a bound book with sequential machine-numbered pages. As discussed above under the section-by-section discussion for §75.360(f), the requirements for countersigning would increase safety, particularly through increasing the awareness of the appropriate mine officials of the hazardous conditions requiring correction. Consistent with the requirements for the retention of records in the existing rule, paragraph (d) of the proposal would require the record to be retained for at least 1 year at a surface location at the mine and be made available for inspection by the representative of the miners and by authorized representatives of the Secretary. Records of examinations provide the operator and other interested parties with a history of the types of problems discovered and changes in the ventilation system that have occurred. In the opinion of the Agency, a 1-year retention period is sufficient to satisfy this need. Section 75.364␣Weekly Examination MSHA proposes to revise paragraphs (a), (b) and (h) of existing §75.364. Paragraph (a) of the proposal would modify the requirements addressing the measurements to be made during the weekly examination to evaluate the effectiveness of bleeder systems and the ventilation of worked-out areas. Proposed paragraph (a)(1) would require that in addition to measuring the methane and oxygen concentrations and determining if the air is moving in its proper direction in worked-out areas where no pillars have been recovered, the examiner would measure the air quantity where the air enters and leaves the worked-out area. Paragraph (a)(1) would also clarify that sufficient oxygen and methane measurements be made to assure adequate air quality. Commenters suggested, and the Agency agrees, that all of these measurements, including quantity and quality, are essential to the proper evaluation of the ventilation of the worked-out area. Proposed paragraph (a)(2) would require that air quantity measurements be made at specific locations in bleeder entries. These locations include: where air enters the worked-out area, paragraph (a)(2)(i); where air leaves the worked-out area, paragraph (a)(2)(ii); and, locations specified in the mine ventilation plan to determine the effectiveness of the bleeder system, paragraph (a)(2)(iii). The proposed measurement of air quantity, as with the currently required measurement of methane and oxygen and determination that air is traveling in its proper direction, is essential to the proper evaluation of the effectiveness of a bleeder system. Proposed paragraph (a)(2)(iv) is intended to provide a mechanism for evaluating the effectiveness of bleeder systems without traveling the bleeder entries in their entirety. It is anticipated that this alternative will be utilized in those cases when travel is not possible or when it is not safe to travel the bleeder entries in their entirety. When elected, the method proposed for evaluation would be required to provide proper evaluation of the effectiveness of the bleeder system.
