FR940603-0-00137 FR940603-0-00029 II.C.2_Special Documentation Requirements Information to support that the area chosen represents one well-defined area, distinguishable from the immediate surrounding areas, includes: •political jurisdictions •major trade areas (shopping patterns) •traffic flows •shared/common facilities (for example, educational, medical, police and fire protection, school district, water, etc.) •organizations/clubs whose membership is made up exclusively of persons within the area •newspapers or other periodicals published for and about the area •census tracts •common characteristics and background of residents (for example, income, religious beliefs, primary ethnic groups, similarity of occupations, household types, primary age group, etc.) •history of area •in general, what distinguishes the chosen area and its residents to be distinguishable from the immediate surrounding areas and residents_some examples are old, well established ethnic neighborhoods, planned communities and small/rural towns The following information must be provided to support a need for a community credit union: •a list of credit unions presently in area •a list of other financial institutions (for example, banks, savings and loan associations) that service the area Necessary written documentation (for example, letters, surveys, studies, pledges, petitions) reflecting support for the application for or the conversion to a community credit union is as follows: •For the residents of the area: •Approximate number contacted. •Number in favor of the credit union. •Number against the credit union. •Number who will join the credit union. •Number who have pledged initial and/or systematic savings and amount of pledges. •For the employers: •Number of area employers and number of employees. •Number contacted. •Number in favor of the credit union. •Number against the credit union. •Number willing to provide payroll deductions to the credit union. •Number willing to provide other type(s) of support to the credit union. •For organizations (including churches): •Number in areas and number of members. •Number contacted. •Number in favor of the credit union. •Number against the credit union. •Number willing to provide some type of support to the credit union, i.e., advertising facilities, etc. •letters of support from area civic leaders. If the community is also a recognized legal entity, it may comprise or be included in the field of membership_for example, ``DEF Township, Kansas'' or ``GHI County, Minnesota.'' II.C.3_Community Service Area The service area of a community federal credit union is the area defined in its charter, usually with north, east, south, and west boundaries. II.C.4_Sample Community Fields of Membership Some examples of community common bond definitions are: •``Persons who live or work in, and businesses located in the area of XYZ City bounded by Fern Street on the north, Long Street on the east, Fourth Street on the south, and Elm Avenue on the west.'' •``Persons who live or work in Green County, Maine.␣.␣.␣.'' •``Persons who live, worship or work in and businesses and other legal entities located in Independent School District No. 1, DuPage County, Illinois.␣.␣.␣.'' •``Persons who live or work within a twenty mile radius of the main post office in Walnut, Illinois.␣.␣.␣.'' (Rural areas only.) Some examples of insufficiently defined community common bond definitions are: •``Persons who live or work within and businesses located within a ten-mile radius of Washington, DC.'' (Not a recognized neighborhood, community, or rural district.) •``Persons who live or work in the industrial section of New York, New York.'' (Not a recognized neighborhood, community, or rural district.) II.D_Multiple Occupational/Associational Common Bonds II.D.1_General NCUA may charter a federal credit union to serve a combination of distinct, definable occupational and/or associational common bonds. For a common bond which will constitute a majority of the federal credit union's field of membership, the requirements for occupational and associational fields of membership apply. Any other group constituting an occupational or associational common bond to be included within the federal credit union's field of membership must be within what will be the credit union's operational area. A proposed federal credit union's operational area is the area which, as determined by NCUA in its sole discretion, may reasonably be served by the service facilities that will be accessible by the groups to be included in the field of membership when the credit union begins operation. A credit union's service facility is a place where, also as determined by NCUA in its sole discretion: (1) Shares are accepted for members' accounts; (2) loan applications are accepted or loans are disbursed; (3) a member can deal directly with a credit union representative; and (4) the service provided is clearly associated with that particular credit union. An automated teller machine or similar device is not a federal credit union service facility. Similarly, a branch or service center shared by a number of credit unions is not a service facility for purposes of this Chapter. Any members of a group who will have access to one of a proposed federal credit union's service facilities may be included in the field of membership. In addition, the group as a whole will be considered to be within a proposed credit union's operational area when: •A majority of the group's members live, work, or gather regularly within the operational area; •The group's headquarters is located within the operational area; or •The group's ``paid from'' or ``supervised from'' location is within the operational area. The following special additional requirements pertaining to multiple group applications must be satisfied before NCUA will grant such a charter: •Each group to be included in the proposed field of membership of the federal credit union must have its own occupational or associational common bond. •Except for employee groups in the same industrial park, shopping center or similar facility, each group must individually request inclusion in the proposed federal credit union's charter. •The proposed federal credit union's business plan must show that the credit union will possess the financial resources and management capability to provide quality credit union service to each group. •The proposed federal credit union must show that, when it begins operations, each group to be added will be within the operational area of a service facility to which the group will have access. II.D.2_Sample Multiple Group Field of Membership An example of a multiple group field of membership is: ``The field of membership of this federal credit union shall be limited to the following: 1. Employees of Dupont Corporation who work in Wilmington, Delaware;
