FR940325-0-00077 FR940325-0-00016 Response: The Department believes the rule appropriately balances the need for objective procedures against the need for flexibility. In order to comply with the statutory requirement to identify best available procedures for assessing natural resource damages, the Department has developed a detailed, standardized process that incorporates a specific range of acceptable alternative methodologies. However, the type B rule was also intended to have broad application. Natural resource damage cases range from situations involving discrete injury of one resource caused by a small, incidental release of a single substance to incidents involving extensive injury of multiple resources caused by large, long-term releases of mixtures of substances. In light of the myriad of possible natural resource damage scenarios, a type B rule that mandates a particular course of action at each stage of every assessment would generally be unusable or result in unreasonable assessment costs. Therefore, in certain areas the rule allows trustee officials to use their best judgment. Although trustee officials do have some discretion, the rule imposes a number of checks on that discretion. The rule requires trustee officials to document the rationale for their decisions. The rule also provides an opportunity for public comment and review of trustee officials' actions, which the Department believes will ensure a significant level of accountability for trustee officials. Also, the Department notes that all decisions made by trustee officials will ultimately be reviewable in court. Therefore, the rule includes criteria by which courts can evaluate trustee decisions. 2. Public and PRP Involvement Comment: Several commenters voiced opinions about the opportunity for PRP and public participation in the assessment process. Some commenters stated that the proposed rule would provide an appropriate level of public and PRP participation. Other commenters thought that the Department should encourage earlier involvement of PRPs to encourage settlement and avoid duplication of effort. A few commenters suggested that the rule be revised to clarify that trustee officials are authorized to allow PRPs to conduct assessment work. Response: This final rule does not affect the level or timing of PRP or public participation in the natural resource damage assessment process. The Department agrees that early participation of PRPs in the assessment process promotes amicable settlement of natural resource damage claims but does not think that any revisions of the rule are necessary in this regard. Section 11.32(d) already provides trustee officials with the discretion to allow PRPs to conduct assessment work. However, as was stated in the August 1, 1986, preamble: The Department's intention has always been that the decision to allow or not to allow potentially responsible parties to participate in the implementation of the Assessment Plan should rest solely with the authorized official, or the lead authorized official, when appropriate. Furthermore, a decision to allow such participation should only be made when the authorized official believes that a fair and accurate damage assessment will result from the potentially responsible party's participation and will be ensured through adequate direction, guidance, and monitoring by the authorized official *␣*␣*. The Department emphasizes that any and all actions taken by potentially responsible parties to implement an Assessment Plan occur under the ultimate approval and authority of the authorized official acting as trustee. The potentially responsible party functions in a strictly ministerial role. The final choice of methodologies rests solely with the authorized official. 51 FR 27704. Further clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. 3. Separate Assessments for Each Injury Comment: Some commenters stated that the rule should encourage trustee officials to perform separate assessments for each injury in order to facilitate settlement. Response: Natural resources are generally highly interdependent. The selection of methods to address one injured resource will often affect the selection of methods to address other resources. Therefore, the rule leaves it to the discretion of the trustee officials whether separate assessments should be conducted for each injury. Further clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. 4. Focus of Assessments Comment: Some commenters stated that the Department should take precautions to ensure that trustee officials do not undertake unnecessary basic research when performing damage assessments. These commenters suggested that the Department provide a list of sources of existing scientific data and prohibit trustee officials from performing new research unless there are no existing data regarding the effect of the particular substance on the particular natural resources involved. Response: As was noted in the August 1, 1986, preamble to the original type B rule: General research studies are not compensable under a damage assessment performed pursuant to this rule, since it is inappropriate that experimental research studies to advance general scientific understanding be included as a part of a specific natural resource damage claim. 51 FR 27710. Further clarification is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. C. Resources Covered by the Natural Resource Damage Assessment Regulations Comment: There were numerous comments on the issue of the resources covered by the natural resource damage assessment regulations. Several commenters supported the Department's proposal not to define which privately owned resources are covered by the regulations. These commenters stated that the question of whether a particular resource is covered by the regulations is governed by a wide variety of Federal, State, local, and tribal laws that are constantly evolving. These commenters further stated that trustee officials are the most familiar with these laws and, therefore, are in the best position to determine whether a particular resource is covered by the regulations.
