FR940603-0-00037 FR940603-0-00017 Other Comments In the preamble to the proposed rule, NARA asked for specific comments on NARA's selection criteria and criteria for performance measurement. Comments received on selection criteria are discussed under the heading ``SELECTION PROCESS'' above. Several agencies *␣*␣* commented on criteria for performance measurement. One agency suggested that ``one approach would be to establish a baseline for specific functions/responsibilities via a status survey and to monitor improvement progress for those functions.'' Another agency suggested that a performance measurement could be ``how well agencies *␣*␣* carry out recommendations without follow-up notification and reviews.'' Another idea is ``whether violations of applicable laws or regulation *␣*␣* has been corrected timely.'' Other commentators suggested that NARA conduct a government-wide survey of all Federal agencies' records management programs. Such a survey would provide an initial starting point for identifying problems or regulations that are difficult to implement and enforce. NARA plans to develop performance measurements that will help determine how effectively agencies are implementing evaluation recommendations. NARA also plans to develop measures to assess the success of its evaluation program in terms of programmatic improvements or improved work products. Three agencies offered general comments on the evaluation process. One agency would like to see NARA conduct studies of more agencies in shorter time frames and then share the findings government-wide. This would be ``more beneficial to the government and an improved use of limited NARA resources.'' One agency thinks the time frame (13 months) to conduct an evaluation is too excessive. NARA will continue to conduct full evaluations of agency records management programs. Additionally, in FY95 NARA will begin conducting additional shorter and more focused evaluations. Another agency suggested that, while NARA evaluations are similar to GSA IRM reviews, they are conducted very differently. GSA, for example, takes steps to prepare agencies for reviews by using standard scoping questionnaires and with self assessment tools that are linked to their evaluation process. GSA issues its cyclical review schedule each year so agencies know well in advance when they can expect to be reviewed and can prepare for it. Since NARA only notifies an agency 60 days before an evaluation, this can result in agencies being more surprised than prepared and the evaluation can become a negative rather than a positive experience. We agree that earlier notification would assist agencies being evaluated, and have modified §1220.54 (a) to provide the notice of a planned evaluation at least 180 days in advance. NARA also intends to work with the appropriate office in GSA to determine how best to coordinate the evaluation processes of both agencies. This rule is not a significant regulatory action for the purposes of Executive Order 12866 and has not been reviewed by OMB. As required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act, it is hereby certified that this proposed rule will not have a significant impact on small business entities. List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 1220 Archives and records. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, part 1220 of the title 36 Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 1220_FEDERAL RECORDS; GENERAL 1. The authority citation for part 1220 continues to read as follows: Authority: 44 U.S.C. 2104(a) and chs. 29 and 33. 2. In §1220.14, the term Evaluation is added in alphabetical order to read: §1220.14 General definitions. * * * * * Evaluation means the selective or comprehensive inspection, audit, or review of one or more Federal agency records management programs for effectiveness and for compliance with applicable laws and regulations. It includes recommendations for correcting or improving records management policies, procedures, and activities, and follow-up activities, including reporting on such activities, for implementing the recommendations. * * * * * 3. Section 1220.42 is added to subpart B to read as follows: §1220.42 Agency internal evaluations. Each agency should periodically evaluate its records management programs relating to adequate and proper documentation, maintenance and use of records, and records disposition. These evaluations should determine compliance with NARA regulations in Subchapter B and assess the effectiveness of the agency's programs. Criteria for agency self-evaluations are available from NARA's Office of Records Administration, Agency Services Division (NIA).
