FR940511-2-00114 FR940511-2-00071 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management [WO&hyph;660&hyph;04&hyph;4120&hyph;02] Information Collection Submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for Review Under the Paperwork Reduction Act The proposal for the collection of information listed below has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35). Copies of the proposed collection of information and related forms and explanatory material may be obtained by contacting the Bureau's Clearance Officer at the phone number listed below and or by writing the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Projects (1004&hyph;34), Washington, DC 20503. Title: Coal Management, 43 CFR Group 3400. OMB Approval Number: 1004&hyph;0073. Abstract: The Federal Coal Management Program regulations are located at 43 CFR Group 3400 and require applicants, lessees, licensees, and/or operators involved in operations for the discovery, testing, development, mining or processing of Federal coal to submit information to the Bureau of Land Management. The information required is needed to allow the authorized officer, on behalf of the Federal Government, to: gather data relevant to the extent and qualities of the public coal resource and to the environmental impacts of coal leasing and development; manage the leasing and development of coal in the public interest; determine the qualifications of prospective lessees and licensees to mine; properly administer the statutes applicable to coal mining, production, resource recovery and protection, operations, and exploration on Federal leases and licenses; ensure that lessees comply with applicable statutes, regulations, and policies; and ensure that accurate records are kept of all Federal coal produced. No revisions to the regulations are being proposed at this time. Information requirements are located in several sections of the regulations. All requirements are consistent with the Secretary of the Interior's authority to: Manage federally owned coal through leasing or exchange; oversee exploration, development, production, resource recovery and protection, diligent development, continued operation, preparation, handling, and certain abandonment operations on Federal coal lands; and require that coal mining operations are conducted in an environmentally sound manner. In many cases, a specific form is not required to collect information as that information is generated as part of routine industry practice. In these cases, information requirements in the regulations are acceptable in any form which meets the regulatory specifications. The obligation to respond is generally required to obtain a benefit, although it is mandatory for some requirements once the lease or license is obtained. Failure to collect the information covered by this information collection would result in violations of statute and in lack of knowledge about Federal coal resources and would reduce the effectiveness of the program in meeting policy and statutory objectives. Frequency: On occasion, quarterly, semiannually, and annually. Description of Respondents: Coal lessees, licensees, operators, applicants, and members of the general public. Estimated completion time: On average, 19 hours. Annual Responses: 1,299. Annual Burden Hours: 24,737. Bureau Clearance Officer: Dorothy Chambers, Bureau of Land Management (873), Washington, DC 20240, (202) 452&hyph;5012. Dated: March 22, 1994. Adam A. Sokoloski, Acting Assistant Director, Energy and Mineral Resources. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11461 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;84&hyph;M
