FR941110-0-00316 FR941110-0-00019 One question was raised about §906.8(h) of the PHA rule, which mandates a preference for residents who have completed self-sufficiency and job training programs. (There is no parallel provision in the IHA rule). The commenter asked whether a resident who completes such a program in one PHA may qualify for the preference under another PHA's Section 5(h) homeownership plan. That is a matter for local determination. In general, a plan should allow for recognition of sound self-sufficiency and job training programs, regardless of where completed, but the regulation leaves each HA discretion to define the standards for acceptability. Sections 905.1009/906.9␣(Counseling, Training, and Technical Assistance) One commenter recommended that HUD set minimum standards for counseling, in connection with the requirements of §§905.1009/906.9 ( Counseling, training, and technical assistance ). Detailed regulatory requirements on this subject would be inappropriate for the wide variety of local situations that may be presented by particular Section 5(h) homeownership plans. While the rule establishes basic standards, it is intended to allow due flexibility for HAs to design the kinds of counseling, training and technical assistance activities that are necessary and appropriate for each local situation. Sections 905.1010/906.10␣(Nonpurchasing Residents) Two commenters recommended that §§905.1010/906.10 ( Nonpurchasing residents ) be changed to delete the prohibition against involuntary displacement of nonpurchasing residents. The final rule retains that prohibition. Another commenter urged that assistance under the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Act of 1970 (URA) be extended to residents who relocate voluntarily. The final rule does not adopt that recommendation. The rule mandates that nonpurchasing residents be provided the opportunity to relocate to another suitable and affordable unit, with counseling and advisory services, along with payment of moving expenses. However, it is noted that the rule also provides that a violation of the prohibition against involuntary displacement may trigger a requirement that the HA provide URA relocation assistance. Some changes have nevertheless been made in this section, largely editorial revisions to clarify the requirements that were reflected in the interim rule. In paragraph (b) of the PHA version only, familial status has been added to the list of nondiscrimination factors. (The IHA version covers nondiscrimination by cross-reference to §905.115.) In both the IHA and PHA versions, a new paragraph (c) has been added to clarify requirements for temporary relocation of nonpurchasing residents in connection with repair or rehabilitation. This prohibition applies only against displacement for the specific purpose of making the unit available for Section 5(h) sale to another family. It is not intended to prohibit a permanent move for any other reason required or authorized by the existing occupant's lease (or homebuyer agreement), consistent with applicable statutes and HUD occupancy regulations. For example, where the size of the unit in relation to family size results in overhousing or underhousing, a family may be required to move to another unit of suitable size, pursuant to the HA's assignment policy. Sections 905.1011/906.11␣(Nonroutine Maintenance Reserve) In §§905.1011/906.11 ( Nonroutine maintenance reserve ), the interim rule's references to ``maintenance reserve'' have been changed to ``nonroutine maintenance''. This clarifying change was prompted by the suggestion of one commenter that the term ``capital improvement and replacement reserve'' be used. Two other commenters objected to this section entirely as an undue restriction on local discretion. The Department believes that, considering the flexibility allowed, this reserve requirement is justified by the financial viability test that is implicit in Section 5(h) of the Act, and expressly stated in Sec. 6(c)(4)(D) of the Act. Sections 905.1014/906.14␣(Limitation on Resale Profit) One commenter pointed out that the last sentence of paragraph (a) of §§905.1014/906.14 ( Limitation on resale profit ) seemed to contradict the authorization for limited equity or shared equity arrangements. In the final rule, this sentence has been revised to make it clear that, under a limited or shared equity arrangement, the resale provisions may limit the seller to a portion of the resale profit attributable to appreciation in value. Language to similar effect has also been inserted in the limited equity option under paragraph (c) of this section. Another commenter urged that the regulation be modified to require or strongly encourage restriction of resale to low-income families only. The final rule does not adopt this recommendation. Although the regulation allows HA discretion to design limited equity arrangements with such resale restrictions, the statute does not authorize the Department to mandate that for all cases. Sections 905.1016/906.16␣(Replacement Housing) With regard to §§905.1016/906.16 ( Replacement housing ), one commenter objected to the inclusion of replacement options other than development of additional public or Indian housing units. As an alternative to such a narrow restriction, the commenter suggested that the options included in the interim rule be given priority in the order listed. Other commenters objected to the options for rehabilitation of vacant public or Indian housing units and for use of Section 8 certificates and vouchers. The final rule makes no change in the replacement options stated in the interim rule. Those options are statutory, and the Department has no authority to change them by regulation.
