FR940505-1-00504 FR940505-1-00012 (5) Public inspection. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the EPA shall make available for public inspection, at the district's office and the Regional Office of the EPA, the information submitted by the applicant and the EPA's analysis no later than the date the notice of the preliminary decision is published pursuant to paragraph (d)(4) of this section. Information submitted that contains trade secrets shall be handled in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 2. (6) Authority to Construct, final action. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the EPA shall provide written notice of the final action to the applicant, and shall make the notice and all supporting documents available for public inspection at the district's office and Regional Office of the EPA. Within 30 days after the final decision has been made on the authority to construct, the applicant or any person who filed comments of the preliminary determination, may petition the EPA to review any condition of the permit. Any person who failed to file comments on the preliminary decision, may petition for administrative review only on the changes from the preliminary to the final determination. (7) Requirements, authority to construct. (i) General conditions. As a condition for the issuance of an Authority to Construct, the EPA shall require that the emissions unit and stationary source, and any emissions units which provide offsets, be operated in the manner stated in the application in making the analysis required to determine compliance with this section, and as conditioned in the Authority to Construct. (ii) Emissions limitations. All of the following emissions limitations shall be included in the Authority to Construct, if applicable: (A) The Authority to Construct shall include emission limitations which reflect Best Available Control Technology. Such condition(s) shall be expressed in a manner consistent with testing procedures, such as ppmv NO X , g/liter VOC, or lbs/hr. (B) A quarterly emissions limitation for each affected pollutant for which offsets are being provided pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be contained in the Authority to Construct.
