FR940412-0-00022 FR940412-0-00005 Economic Impact Nineteen commenters discussed the economic impact and the majority found fault with RSPA's assessment that the rule would add minimally to the average expense of pipeline design and construction. As a result of information presented by the commenters, RSPA has excepted various categories of pipelines from the final rule. These exceptions are: Piping associated with storage facilities, other than gas transmission lines; piping sizes for which a smart pig is not commercially available; gas transmission lines, operated in conjunction with a distribution system, which are installed in Class 4 locations; and offshore pipelines other than certain gas transmission and liquid main lines. Additionally, operators are permitted to make a provisional determination of impracticability in instances of emergencies, construction time constraints or other unforeseeable construction problems that require immediate action. Other less urgent problems can be handled through the newly established procedure in ยง190.9, ``Petitions for finding or approval.'' Accordingly, these exceptions together with others carried forward from the NPRM substantially reduce the cost of compliance with the rule. RSPA finds that the compliance costs will be minimal. A Regulatory Evaluation has been prepared and is available in the Docket. Regulatory Notices and Analyses Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This final rule is not considered a significant regulatory action under 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, is not subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget. The rule is not considered significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979). RSPA believes that the rule will add minimally to the average expense of pipeline design and construction. The information RSPA has collected for the study under section 304 of the Reauthorization Act shows that about 90 percent of hazardous liquid pipelines and 60 percent of gas transmission lines have been constructed to accommodate the passage of smart pigs. This information confirms RSPA's field experience that most operators are now constructing new and replacement gas transmission lines and hazardous liquid pipelines to accommodate smart pigs. RSPA lacks detailed information about carbon dioxide pipelines which recently became subject to part 195. However, there are only about 10 such pipeline systems and we understand that they are not expected to grow in mileage or to require a significant amount of replacement in the near term. Thus, those pipelines should not be greatly affected by the revision of ยง195.120. Federalism Assessment This final rule will not have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the Federal Government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612 (52 FR 41685; October 30, 1987), RSPA has determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Regulatory Flexibility Act There are very few small entities that operate pipelines affected by this rulemaking. To the extent that any small entity is affected, the regulatory evaluation accompanying this rule shows that the costs are minimal. Based on these facts, I certify that under section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act that this final regulation does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects 49 CFR Part 190 Administrative practice and procedure, Penalties, Pipeline safety. 49 CFR Part 192 Pipeline safety, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
