FR941025-1-00012 FR941025-1-00002 9 CFR Part 117 [Docket No. 93&hyph;048&hyph;1] Viruses, Serums, Toxins, and Analogous Products; Test Animals AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to amend the regulations to allow appropriate treatment of sick or injured test animals or the human destruction of dying animals used in the testing of veterinary biological products. The effect of this action would eliminate unnecessary discomfort to animals used in vaccine testing. This amendment would provide the firms with a previously unauthorized option for test animals that are accidentally injured or become ill or exhibit unfavorable reactions for reasons not due to the test. These animals may be removed from the test and treated or humanely destroyed. In addition, test animals that show clinical signs of illness resulting from the test may be treated or humanely destroyed when death is certain to occur without therapeutic intervention. This action is necessary to provide for the treatment or humane destruction of ill or injured test animals under defined conditions, an option not currently allowed by the regulations for test animals as a group. DATES: Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before December 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, P.O. Drawer 810, Riverdale, MD 20738. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 93&hyph;048&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. David A. Espeseth, Deputy Director, Veterinary Biologics, BBEP, APHIS, USDA, room 838, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;8245. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Veterinary biological products are licensed under the Virus-Serum-Toxin Act on the basis of their purity, safety, potency, and efficacy. In the course of evaluating a biological product, it may be necessary to conduct potency, safety, or efficacy tests in animals. The current regulations in 9 CFR part 117 require that once an animal test has begun, no treatment which could interfere with a true evaluation of the biological product may be used ( see ยง117.4(c)). However, test animals may become accidently injured or ill or exhibit unfavorable reactions as a result of factors not due to the test. These occurrences are unpredictable, and no provisions are available in the current regulations for the appropriate treatment or humane destruction of such animals. The proposed rule would provide that test animals which exhibit clinical signs of illness, become accidentally injured or exhibit unfavorable reactions not associated with the test, may be removed from the test and be treated or humanely destroyed.
