FR940419-0-00083 FR940419-0-00019 EPAAR 1552.227&hyph;76, Project Employee Confidentiality Agreement, is added to ensure that EPA enforcement efforts under the Superfund program are not damaged by contractor employees' release of information which has either been provided to the contractor by the Government or first generated under contract. Employees of contractors will be prohibited from release of such information to any parties external to EPA, the Department of Justice or the contractor without permission of the EPA Contracting Officer. Superfund contractors will be required to obtain confidentiality agreements from all employees working on requirements under the contract. The contractor must also include the clause in all subcontracts and consultant agreements unless specifically excluded under this clause. As a result of public comment, the following changes have been made: _``Including subcontractors and consultants'' is removed from paragraph (a) in response to: (1) Comments that it is redundant because of the mandatory flow down provision; and (2) commenters' mistaken interpretation that the proposed clause required contractors to maintain files for their subcontractors. _The language in the prescription to this clause, EPAAR 1527.409 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses, has been changed to be consistent with prescription for the Organizational Conflict of Interest Clause. The final prescription includes a small purchase limitation threshold. Other comments and EPA's response include: 1. Exemption of lower level employees. Some commenters stated that contractors' lower level employees should be exempted from the requirement that contractors obtain confidentiality agreements from all employees working under requirements of the EPA contract. We disagree. Because of the sensitivity of Superfund work and the potential for serious damage to enforcement efforts as a result of unauthorized release of information at any level, we cannot exempt any employees working under the requirements of the EPA contract. However, it is not our intention to impose an undue hardship on our contractors. To comply with this clause, it would suffice for contractors to obtain one non-disclosure agreement from its employees who work on multiple EPA contracts. 2. Scope of information. One commenter stated that it is unrealistic to limit discussion of information already in the public domain and one commenter stated that this clause should not preclude disclosure of information routinely disclosed in the normal course of business. We disagree. This clause's limitation is on data of a sensitive nature provided by the Government or first generated during contract performance. Such information should not be categorically authorized for release. However, if a contractor believes such information may be releasable, the contractor may, on a case-by-case basis, request written permission from the EPA Contracting Officer to disclose such information. Such requests will be carefully evaluated to ensure adequate protection of sensitive information. 3. Liability for post-employment release of information. One commenter expressed concern that contractors have no control over employees after their employment and that EPA should make it clear that contractors are not liable for employees who have left their employment. We agree that contractors should not be held liable for employees breaching confidentiality agreements after they have left the firm. The intent of this clause is to have contractors obtain confidentiality agreements from employees to ensure that employees are aware of their obligation not to disclose sensitive information. D. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, [58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)] the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities;
