FR940505-1-00483 FR940505-1-00012 (i) Each employer who is subject to this section or who receives by certified mail a standard registration form shall complete a standard registration form for each work location in the Sacramento ECO Program Area. The form must be signed by the highest ranking responsible officer at the location who shall attest to the accuracy of the information reported. An employer shall provide the following information on the form: (A) The name of the employer and address of the work location; (B) The name and telephone of the highest ranking responsible officer at the location; (C) Designation of the location as a single site, headquarters, or branch; (D) The total number of employees at the location and the number assigned to report to the work location during the peak travel period; and (E) The name, telephone number, and address (if different from that named in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) (A) and (B) of this section) of the employee transportation coordinator (ETC) at the location to receive APO survey and compliance plan forms and who will serve as the employer's contact with the EPA. (ii) An employer with more than one location in the Sacramento ECO Program Area shall complete a separate registration form for each work location, but individual registration forms may be submitted together. The employer shall designate an ETC for EPA to contact at each location. Notwithstanding this provision, an employer may designate a single contact person to receive APO survey and compliance plan forms for all work locations. (g) Average Passenger Occupancy (APO) target. (1) Designation of target APO. The CAA has established average passenger occupancy (APO) at a work location as the performance measure for determining an employer's compliance. The APO performance target is 125 percent of the average vehicle occupancy (AVO) for the Sacramento ECO Program Area. Given a baseline AVO of 1.11, the target APO for the Sacramento ECO Program Area is 1.38. (2) Deadline for compliance with the target APO. Not later than March 1, 1999, each employer is required to increase the APO at the employer's work location during the peak travel period to the target APO. An employer that has achieved the target APO is required to maintain the location APO at a level at least as high as the target APO, but is not required to increase its APO beyond the target APO. Each employer shall annually document achievement of the target APO at each work location through the APO survey described in paragraph (h) of this section, and report the location's compliance with the target APO to the Administrator in the maintenance plan, as required by paragraph (i) of this section. (h) Average Passenger Occupancy (APO) survey requirements. (1) Notice of requirement to survey. Within 180 days of receiving completed registration forms from employers, but not later than March 1, 1996, the Administrator shall notify each employer of the requirement to conduct an APO survey and to develop and implement a compliance plan in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section. The notice shall include copies of the required APO survey and compliance plan forms. Failure of an employer to receive such notification shall not relieve any employer of the obligation to comply with all applicable obligations of this section. Employers not receiving such forms may request them from EPA by contacting the Region IX office. (2) Requirement to survey. For the purpose of documenting the work location APO, each employer shall conduct annual APO surveys of the commute patterns of the employees who arrive at its work location during the peak travel period. An employer with more than one location in the Sacramento ECO Program Area shall conduct a survey at each location. (3) Survey procedure. An employer shall conduct an APO survey of all employees assigned to report to the work location during the peak travel period using the following procedure, except as provided in paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section: (i) Except as provided below, an employer shall use the standard APO survey form provided by the EPA. The APO survey form is designed to collect information on the commute patterns of employees and to allow the employer to calculate the work location APO as described in this paragraph. The standard form shall be used without alteration. If the employer's individual survey form has been submitted to and approved by the Administrator prior to administration of the survey, the Administrator may permit the employer to use this pre-approved form as a substitute for the standard APO survey form. The Administrator shall not approve any survey form that could be expected, in the Administrator's judgement, to produce different survey results than if the standard form had been used. An employer is permitted to attach additional survey forms to the standard form if desired, without prior approval of the Administrator. (ii) Employers shall choose a typical week in which to conduct the APO survey. A week shall not be considered typical if it: (A) Includes a holiday observed by the employer; (B) Immediately follows a week in which a holiday was observed on Friday or precedes a week in which a holiday will be observed on Monday; (C) Is a week during which the employer holds a rideshare fair or other intensive information promotion related to the ECO program;
