FR940527-1-00099 FR940527-1-00014 This results in a net update recommendation of 0.0 percent. Response: We agree with ProPAC's recommendation not to propose a payment rate increase for dialysis services. The 1991 audited data support this decision. As the Commission points out, these data show that independent renal facility composite payment rates are higher than their Medicare allowable costs, while hospital renal facilities continue to report costs in excess of their payment rates. The audits did not provide an explanation for the higher reported costs of hospital renal facilities relative to independent renal facilities. However, auditors found that hospital renal facilities often fail to maintain adequate records for allocation costs in the renal department. Since hospitals' payments are not affected by renal cost reports, Supplement Worksheet I of HCFA&hyph;2552, hospitals do not always complete their cost reports accurately. Although we realize the importance of regular renal audits, the budget for audits continues to decline. Thus, we do not plan to conduct renal audits in 1994 or 1995. We have requested funds to conduct renal audits in 1996. During this 2-year interval, we would review the 1992 and 1993 cost report data for those renal facilities in the 1991 audit sample. We believe that this analysis will provide cost information about the ESRD program in lieu of audited data for these years. Furthermore, it will provide a basis for analyzing cost data over time and allow for better comparison of audited and unaudited costs. D. Nursing Facility Wage Index (Recommendation 17) Recommendation: The Secretary should collect data on employee compensation and paid hours of employment for employees of nursing facilities that care for Medicare skilled nursing facility (SNF) patients. Once these data become available, the Secretary should develop a nursing facility wage index and use it to adjust Medicare skilled nursing facility payments. Response: In recommending an adjustment to SNF payments, we presume that ProPAC is referring to the SNF cost limits. We agree that HCFA should collect the data necessary to develop a SNF wage index. In the conference report on OBRA 1993, the conferees indicated an expectation that HCFA collect such data (H.R. Rep. No. 2264, 103d Cong., 1st Sess. 747 (1993)). However, we do not believe it is prudent to recommend implementing a SNF wage index to adjust the SNF cost limits until the accuracy of those data and impact of the resulting wage index have been thoroughly analyzed. Under current Medicare rules, most SNFs are paid their reasonable costs for routine services subject to a cost limit. The current methodology for computing the SNF routine service cost limits utilizes the hospital wage index to account for geographic variations in wages. Only about 35 percent of facilities have costs at or above these cost limits. We have maintained that, because hospitals and SNFs generally compete for employees in the same labor market, one would expect that the relationship of hospital area average wages to hospital national average wages would fairly represent the relationship of SNF area average wages to SNF national average wages. Therefore, we believe the hospital wage index is an accurate mechanism for adjusting the SNF routine service cost limits for geographic variations in wages. While certain limited studies have suggested that a SNF-specific wage index may be more accurate, no substantial empirical data have been offered to refute our policy. The study undertaken by ProPAC utilized only limited data to develop a simulated wage index. Due to the limited scope of this study, we believe it is not a sufficient basis for refuting the accuracy of the hospital wage index relative to SNF wages. We plan to begin collecting SNF wage data for potential use in the development of a SNF wage index. These data will help us answer two important questions related to the development of a SNF wage index. The first is whether SNFs, which are smaller than hospitals and have less sophisticated accounting systems, can develop and provide accurate wage index data on a national basis. If such data can be provided, our second question is whether differences between the resulting wage index and the hospital wage index would be significant enough to justify the increased Medicare costs involved and the increased reporting and information collection burden on SNFs (especially small and rural SNFs), the fiscal intermediaries, and HCFA. The collection of SNF wage data also will allow us to determine the potential impact of a SNF wage index on payments to individual SNFs. A change in the wage index may favorably impact SNFs in some areas while it may disadvantage SNFs in other areas (possibly significantly), even within the same State. While this latter point is not a reason to avoid the use of a SNF wage index, it does point out the absolute necessity for collecting accurate wage index data from SNFs for construction of the wage index. Our experience with the development of a home health agency (HHA) wage index is also relevant. In 1988, HCFA implemented an HHA-specific wage index based on data received from HHAs. Subsequently, HCFA and Congress received numerous complaints from providers concerning the burden that the reporting requirements posed and the accuracy of the data. As a result, Congress retroactively repealed its mandate for use of the HHA wage index and required continued use of the hospital wage index. This caused great confusion among both providers and fiscal intermediaries. Until SNF wage data have been collected and examined, we believe it is premature to recommend their use for the adjustment of either the SNF cost limits or any future prospective payment system that may require a wage adjustment. E. Improving Outlier Payment Policy (Recommendation 18) Recommendation: The Commission believes the outlier payment provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 will improve the current policy for identifying outlier cases and determining outlier payments under the prospective payment system. However, the following changes also should be implemented for FY 1995: •The estimated cost of the case and the outlier payment amount should no longer be adjusted to reflect the hospital's indirect medical education and disproportionate share status. •The marginal cost factor for cost outliers should be increased to 80 percent. These changes would further increase the effectiveness of outlier payment in protecting against the risk of large losses on some cases. They would also improve the distribution of outlier payments across hospitals, including hospitals that receive a large number of transfer cases. Response: The Commission's first recommendation with regard to improving outlier payment policy concerns the methodology we use to determine whether the cost of a case exceeds the cost outlier threshold. ProPAC is asking that Medicare no longer standardize hospital costs to remove the effects of the indirect costs of medical education (IME) and the costs associated with serving a disproportionate share of low income patients (DSH). The effect of standardizing the hospital's charges to remove the effects of their IME and DSH adjustments is to lower the ``costs'' of cases, for purposes of applying the cost outlier threshold, for teaching and disproportionate share hospitals relative to other hospitals. We responded to this same recommendation in our May 26, 1993 proposed rule (58 FR 30255). In that response, we noted that sections 1886(d)(5)(B)(i) and 1866(d)(5)(F)(ii) of the Act require that we pay hospitals for IME and DSH costs associated with their outlier payments. Given this statutory requirement, we believe it would be inappropriate to implement the Commission's recommendation without a change to the law.
