FR940707-2-00166 FR940707-2-00091 Therefore, the proposed change requests an exception to ANSI N18.1&hyph;1971 to allow use of ANSI/ANS&hyph;3.1&hyph;1987 in a limited circumstance. Specifically, the proposed revision to Technical Specification 6.3.1 would require the Operations Manager to either hold an SRO license at Millstone Unit No. 2 or have held an SRO at a PWR other than Millstone Unit No. 2. If the Operations Manager does not hold an SRO license at Millstone Unit No. 2, the proposal will require the Assistant Operations Manager to hold, and continue to hold, an SRO license. The proposed change includes the requirement to have held a license for a similar unit (a PWR) in accordance with Section 4.2.2 of ANSI/ANS&hyph;3.1&hyph;1987, if the Operations Manager does not hold an SRO license at Millstone Unit No. 2. For those areas of knowledge that require an SRO license, the Assistant Operations Manager will hold an SRO license and provide technical guidance normally required by the Operations Manager. The proposed change does not alter the design of any system, structure, or component, nor does it change the way plant systems are operated. It does not reduce the knowledge, qualifications, or skills of licensed operators, and does not affect the way the Operations Department is managed by the Operations Manager. The Operations Manager will continue to maintain the effective performance of his personnel and ensure the plant is operated safely and in accordance with the requirements of the operating license. Additionally, the Control Room operators will continue to be supervised by the licensed Shift Supervisors. The proposed change does not detract from the Operations Manager's ability to perform his primary responsibilities. In this case, by having previously held an SRO license for a similar unit, he has achieved the necessary training, skills, and experience to fully understand the operation of plant equipment and the watch requirements for operators. In summary, the proposed change does not affect the ability of the Operations Manager to provide the plant oversight required of his position. Thus, it does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. The proposed change to Technical Specification 6.3.1 does not affect the design or function of any plant system, structure, or component, nor does it change the way plant systems are operated. It does not affect the performance of NRC licensed operators. Operation of the plant in conformance with technical specifications and other license requirements will continue to be supervised by personnel who hold an NRC SRO license. The proposed change to Technical Specification 6.3.1 ensures that the Operations Manager will be a knowledgeable and qualified individual by requiring the individual to have held an SRO license at a PWR. Based on the above, the proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed change involves an administrative control which is not related to the margin of safety as defined in the technical specifications. The proposed change does not reduce the level of knowledge or experience required of an individual who fills the Operations Manager position, nor does it affect the conservative manner in which the plant is operated. The Control Room operators will continue to be supervised by personnel who hold an SRO license. Thus, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. The Commission is seeking public comments on this proposed determination. Any comments received within 15 days after the date of publication of this notice will be considered in making any final determination. Normally, the Commission will not issue the amendment until the expiration of the 15-day notice period. However, should circumstances change during the notice period, such that failure to act in a timely way would result, for example, in derating or shutdown of the facility, the Commission may issue the license amendment before the expiration of the 15-day notice period, provided that its final determination is that the amendment involves no significant hazards consideration. The final determination will consider all public and State comments received. Should the Commission take this action, it will publish in the Federal Register a notice of issuance. The Commission expects that the need to take this action will occur very infrequently. Written comments may be submitted by mail to the Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Service, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, and should cite the publication date and page number of this Federal Register notice. Written comments may also be delivered to Room 6D22, Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, from 7:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m. Federal workdays. Copies of written comments received may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555. The filing of requests for hearing and petitions for leave to intervene is discussed below. By August 8, 1994, the licensee may file a request for a hearing with respect to issuance of the amendment to the subject facility operating license and any person whose interest may be affected by this proceeding and who wishes to participate as a party in the proceeding must file a written request for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene. Requests for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene shall be filed in accordance with the Commission's ``rules of Practice for Domestic Licensing Proceedings'' in 10 CFR Part 2. Interested persons should consult a current copy of 10 CFR 2.714 which is available at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555 and at the local public document room located at the Learning Resource Center, Three Rivers Community-Technical College, Thames Valley Campus, 574 New London Turnpike, Norwich, Connecticut 06360. If a request for a hearing or petition for leave to intervene is filed by the above date, the Commission or an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board, designated by the Commission or by the Chairman of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel, will rule on the request and/or petition; and the Secretary or the designated Atomic Safety and Licensing Board will issue a notice of hearing or an appropriate order. As required by 10 CFR 2.714, a petition for leave to intervene shall set forth with particularity the interest of the petitioner in the proceeding, and how that interest may be affected by the results of the proceeding. The petition should specifically explain the reasons why intervention should be permitted with particular reference to the following factors: (1) The nature of the petitioner's right under the Act to be made a party to the proceeding; (2) the nature and extent of the petitioner's property, financial, or other interest in the proceeding; and (3) the possible effect of any order which may be entered in the proceeding on the petitioner's interest. The petition should also identify the specific aspect(s) of the subject matter of the proceeding as to which petitioner wishes to intervene. Any person who has filed a petition for leave to intervene or who has been admitted as a party may amend the petition without requesting leave of the Board up to 15 days prior to the first prehearing conference scheduled in the proceeding, but such an amended petition must satisfy the specificity requirements described above. Not later than 15 days prior to the first prehearing conference scheduled in the proceeding, a petitioner shall file a supplement to the petition to intervene which must include a list of the contentions which are sought to be litigated in the matter. Each contention must consist of a specific statement of the issue of law or fact to be raised or controverted. In addition, the petitioner shall provide a brief explanation of the bases of the contention and a concise statement of the alleged facts or expert opinion which support the contention and on which the petitioner intends to rely in proving the contention at the hearing. The petitioner must also provide references to those specific sources and documents of which the petitioner is aware and on which the petitioner intends to rely to establish those facts or expert opinion. Petitioner must provide sufficient information to show that a genuine dispute exists with the applicant on a material issue of law or fact. Contentions shall be limited to matters within the scope of the amendment under consideration. The contention must be one which, if proven, would entitle the petitioner to relief. A petitioner who fails to file such a supplement which satisfies these requirements with respect to at least one contention will be permitted to participate as a party. Those permitted to intervene become parties to the proceeding, subject to any limitations in the order granting leave to intervene, and have the opportunity to participate fully in the conduct of the hearing, including the opportunity to present evidence and cross-examine witnesses. If the amendment is issued before the expiration of the 30-day hearing period, the Commission will make a final determination on the issue of no significant hazards consideration. If a hearing is requested, the final determination will serve to decide when the hearing is held.
