FR941117-0-00034 FR941117-0-00008 Moreover, the statute requires the State plan to include provisions for furnishing medical assistance under the plan ``to individuals who are residents of the State but are absent therefrom'' (section 1902(a)(16); 42 U.S.C. section 1396a(a)(16)). This provision recognizes a State's continued responsibility for its Medicaid eligible residents during temporary periods of absence in another jurisdiction, but only as long as they remain residents. In light of these rules, we have for many years taken the position that the Secretary is permitted to approve a plan which limits eligibility to all State residents and consequently denies medical assistance to individuals who do not reside in the State. It is our understanding that most States expressly require individuals to be residents of the State in order to receive medical assistance under the State plan, although they could choose to cover non-residents. The right to continued receipt of Medicaid normally ends when an individual establishes residency in a new State. If an individual seeks medical assistance in the new State, eligibility is determined based on the State plan of the new State. If Congress had intended in section 406(h) a major departure from this traditional role of States under the Medicaid statute, we believe this would have been clear from either the statute or legislative history. Our review of the statute and the legislative history for section 406(h) does not reflect that Congress intended this result. We also do not believe that section 406(h) requires an individual's new State of residence to provide continued Medicaid coverage. This provision simply deems an individual to be an AFDC recipient for Medicaid purposes for an additional four calendar months; that is, as an add-on to the period of coverage the individual has already received under the State plan of his or her original State. HCFA does not regard section 406(h) as creating a portable status that entitles the individual to different Medicaid coverage in a different State. The fact that an individual is an AFDC recipient in State A does not get that individual Medicaid benefits in State B. Similarly, the fact that an individual is deemed to be an AFDC recipient in State A would not necessarily get that individual Medicaid benefits in State B (unless State B chooses to cover the individual or has an interstate agreement which does so). If the individual is deemed to be an AFDC recipient for Medicaid purposes for an additional four months, the individual should therefore receive extended Medicaid only in the State in which he or she lost AFDC status and was granted the four months of extended coverage. One commenter also raised the question of whether our policy has constitutional implications because the commenter believes that it violates an individual's right to interstate travel. The commenter points out that other residents in the new State would be eligible for extended benefits while the newly arrived individuals with exactly the same circumstances would not be eligible. We believe that the commenter is incorrect in assuming that the individual who has moved is equally situated with other residents of the new State who are receiving the additional four months of Medicaid. The individual's former State may well have had a higher AFDC eligibility standard than the new State, which enabled the individual to get Medicaid in the old State before he or she lost AFDC because of a support payment. In the new State, the individual may never have been eligible for AFDC even without the increased collection. We do not believe the residency requirement for extended Medicaid has any significant effect on managed care. Ordinarily, an HMO will lose an enrollee when he or she has moved to another State, because HMOs have defined service areas and provider networks. In most cases, when a recipient enrolled in an HMO moves to another State, he or she would no longer be in the service area of the HMO. As such, the recipient would no longer be qualified to remain in the HMO, regardless of the residency requirement. In addition, the effect of the residency requirement on recipients of extended Medicaid is no different from the effect of the residency requirement on any Medicaid eligible HMO recipient who moves from the State. Regulatory Procedures Executive Impact Analysis These regulations have been reviewed pursuant to Executive Order 12866 to ensure their consistency with the priorities and principles set forth in that Executive Order. An assessment of the costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives (including not regulating) demonstrated that the approach taken in the regulation is the most cost-effective and least burdensome while achieving the regulatory objectives. Paperwork Reduction Act There will be no reporting or record keeping requirements imposed on the public or States which would require clearance by the Office of Management and Budget. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354) requires the Federal government to anticipate and reduce the impact of regulations and paperwork requirements on small businesses. The primary impact of these final rules is on State governments and individuals. Therefore, we certify that these rules will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because they affect benefits to individuals and payments to States. Thus, a regulatory flexibility analysis as provided in Public Law 96&hyph;354, the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), is not required. Section 1102(b) of the Social Security Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis if a rule may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. Such an analysis must conform to the provisions of section 603 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we define a small rural hospital as a hospital which is located outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area and has fewer than 50 beds. We are not preparing a rural impact statement since we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. List of Subjects 42 CFR Part 435 Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Grant programs_health, Medicaid, reporting and record keeping, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), Wages.
