FR940429-0-00225 FR940429-0-00015 Many commenters opposed requiring a third-party servicer to assume joint and several liability with an institution for a violation by the servicer of a Title IV, HEA program requirement. These commenters argued that to impose joint and several liability on a third-party servicer would (1) lead to increased servicing fees to compensate for increased risk assumed by the servicer; (2) force out servicers not willing to assume a level of risk in excess of the servicer's fees and compensation; and (3) interfere in contractual matters that should be left to the parties involved. These commenters recommended that instead of imposing liability on a third-party servicer, to increase accountability of the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs, the Secretary should instead focus on an institution's administrative capability and financial responsibility to achieve greater accountability. Several commenters questioned what happens to existing contracts with institutions that were negotiated under a different assumption of liability. A few of these commenters asked the Secretary not to impose retroactive liability for contracts that did not incorporate or price for such an event. Discussion: The Secretary appreciates the support from the commenters who agreed that third-party servicers should be jointly and severally liable with an institution with which the servicer contracts for any violation by the servicer of a Title IV, HEA program requirement. The Secretary agrees with these commenters that third-party servicer liability is necessary to insure compliance with Title IV, HEA program requirements. Servicers who must stand behind their work financially are more likely to use the high standard of care expected of Title IV, HEA program participants. The Secretary has reexamined his position with regard to adopting the compromise in the NPRM to limit joint and several liability to the fees and compensation that a third-party servicer has received from the institution if the servicer was not an affiliate of the institution. The Secretary does not believe that anything less than the full assumption of liability can fully protect the interest of Federal tax dollars in the form of Title IV, HEA program assistance. Otherwise, servicers have no financial incentive to insure complete program compliance. With respect to the comment that a third-party servicer should not be assessed liability unless it can be proven that the servicer is at fault, the Secretary does not consider a third-party servicer to be jointly and severally liable with an institution unless the servicer is the one that has violated a Title IV, HEA program requirement. The Secretary believes that if a third-party servicer violates a Title IV, HEA program requirement that the servicer should be held liable, along with the institution with which the servicer contracts, because a violation, even an error, impacts on the integrity of the Federal student financial assistance programs, and should be redressed. The Secretary disagrees with the comments that requiring servicer liability will necessarily increase fees so as to deny access to servicing. Some of these commenters noted that some servicers may price their service at a low-level to reflect the fact that they assume no liability. The Secretary does not believe that institutions or federal taxpayers are well served by servicers who are unwilling to stand behind the quality of their work. As agents of institutions participating in the Title IV, HEA programs, servicers are also subject to an institution's fiduciary responsibility to use the highest standard of care and diligence. By rejecting any responsibility for the quality of its work, the Secretary believes any such servicer cannot be expected to perform with the required concern for the proper expenditure of federal funds. The Secretary notes that he received favorable comments from organizations that are third-party servicers, or institutions who utilize third-party servicers, who did not raise any issue of adverse impact on fees. The Secretary has no doubt that these and similar servicers will continue to compete effectively for institutional clients at competitive prices. The Secretary notes that the higher education servicing industry is highly competitive which should restrain any excessive fee increases; in fact, by requiring all servicers to assume liability, the Secretary believes that this requirement should level the playing field by eliminating underbidding by those servicers who assume no responsibility for the quality of their work. The Secretary notes that servicers are not being asked to serve as guarantors for their client-institutions, but merely being required to answer for the consequences of their own conduct. In this regard, if the services they provide have no adverse financial impact, there is no financial exposure for such a third-party servicer, or reason to increase fees charged. With respect to those commenters who contended that the liability provision interfered in contractual matters that should be left up to the parties involved, the Secretary disagrees. The Secretary strongly believes that it is necessary to include this provision in the regulations because a third-party servicer administers aspects of the Title IV, HEA programs that are funded with Federal tax dollars. Therefore, it is entirely appropriate to establish requirements to safeguard such funds. Simply leaving this area to the parties, leaves open that possibility that no minimal care will be exercised by the servicer. An institution is free, however, under these regulations to agree to indemnify a third-party servicer in the event a third-party servicer must make any payment to the Secretary. The Secretary notes that these regulations will have the salutary effect of requiring institutions and servicers to exercise greater care in the selection of their contractual partners. The Secretary would like to make clear that a third-party servicer and an institution are only jointly and severally liable for any violations of any statutory or regulatory provision applicable to Title IV of the HEA and not for other types of violations. The Secretary is imposing requirements in contracts between third-party servicers and institutions only to the extent that a third-party servicer or institution administers any aspect of the Title IV, HEA programs. With respect to the commenters who asked about the impact on existing contracts, the Secretary states that third-party servicers will have no joint and several liability for periods prior to the effective date of these regulations. The Secretary expects that once these regulations become effective, all contracts between third-party servicers and institutions will have to include the requirements provided in ยง668.25(c), including the requirement that a third-party servicer is jointly and severally liable with the institution for any violation by the servicer of any statutory provision of or applicable to Title IV of the HEA, any regulatory prescribed under that statutory authority, and any applicable special arrangements, agreements, and limitations entered into under the authority of statutes pertaining to Title IV of the HEA. This may require modification of existing contracts. Changes: None. Comments: Some of the commenters questioned the provisions of this section governing a third-party servicer's responsibility to report all suspected instances of fraud to the Department of Education's Office of Inspector General. Two of these commenters recommended that in order to meet this requirement that third-party servicers be given an unqualified privilege exempting the servicer from any liability in connection with the referral of an institution to the Department of Education's Office of the Inspector General. In addition, one of the commenter questioned the Secretary's requirement to refer suspected instances of fraud or other criminal misconduct in connection with the Title IV, HEA programs. The commenter was concerned that if the servicer was wrong that the servicer's reputation would be irrevocably damaged. One commenter suggested that a third-party servicer should only be required to report information indicating fraud only where there is proof to substantiate the belief that an institution may have engaged in fraud. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes that third-party servicers will not always be privy to sufficient information to identify possible fraud or criminal misconduct on the part of an institution. However, if there are identifiable circumstances in which a reasonable person would believe that an institution has deliberately misreported information, recklessly reported information without regard for its accuracy, or altered official documents, then a third-party servicer should report such information to the Office of Inspector General. The servicer is not required to reach a firm conclusion as to the impropriety of the institution's actions or provide evidence to substantiate possible criminal charges, but is required to simply refer the matter to the Department of Education's Office of Inspector General for appropriate action. Since this referral requirement is a required part of any contract between a third-party servicer and an institution, an institution has no basis to object to any referral made pursuant to this requirement. The Secretary thus believes that it is unnecessary to provide an unqualified privilege as suggested by some commenters; moreover, such a privilege would allow referrals even where there is no reasonable basis to believe misconduct has occurred. The Secretary assures third-party servicers that a third-party servicer will not be held responsible for any violations that the servicer has not itself perpetrated or aided and abetted. However, the Secretary will regard failure to take appropriate action when there is reasonable cause to believe that fraud or criminal misconduct has occurred to be a serious violation of these regulations and of a participant's fiduciary obligations. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter supported the concept of the provision in this section governing the requirement that an institution must notify the Secretary within 10 days of the date that a contract between an institution or third-party servicer is modified or terminated or within 10 days of the date that a third-party servicer, under contract with that institution, goes out of business, stops providing services, or files a petition for bankruptcy. However, the commenter believed that the burden of notifying the Secretary of any changes to the contract should rest with the servicer. Many commenters opposed this provision and argued that this requirement constituted needless paperwork on the part of the institution. These commenters contended that any changes to a contract between a third-party servicer would be examined in the course of having performed an annual audit.
