FR940127-2-00092 FR940127-2-00067 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [File No. 265&hyph;19] Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34&hyph;33496 SUBJECT: Consumer Affairs Advisory Committee. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission. ACTION: Notice of establishment of the Consumer Affairs Advisory Committee. SUMMARY: The Chairman of the Commission, with the concurrence of the other members of the Commission, has established a Consumer Affairs Advisory Committee to advise the Commission on the interests and concerns of individual investors in the U.S. securities markets. DATES: January 21, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, 202/272&hyph;2600. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. App., the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') has directed publication of this notice that Chairman Arthur Levitt, with the concurrence of the other members of the Commission, has established the Consumer Affairs Advisory Committee. Chairman Levitt certifies that the creation of the Committee is necessary and in the public interest. The Committee's charter directs the Committee: (1) To advise the Commission regarding the interests and concerns of individual consumers and investors who participate, directly or indirectly, in the U.S. securities markets, and (2) to advise the Commission on how the Commission's existing and proposed rules and programs could be improved to provide better disclosure and protection to such individual consumers and investors. To achieve the Committee's goals, members will be appointed that can represent effectively the interests of individual investors with respect to a range of issues. The Committee's membership may include, among others, individuals representing consumer or investor organizations, securities market participants, securities market professionals, regulatory entities and the public at large. The Commission expects that the Committee's members will represent a variety of viewpoints and have varying experience and that the Committee will be fairly balanced in terms of points of view, backgrounds and tasks. The Committee will conduct its operations in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act. The duties of the Committee shall be solely advisory. Determinations of action to be taken and policy to be expressed with respect to matters upon which the Committee provides advice will be made solely by the Commission. The Committee will meet at such intervals as are necessary to carry out its functions. It is estimated the meetings of the full Committee will occur approximately six times each year. The Commission will provide necessary support services to the Committee. The Committee will terminate two years after its establishment unless, prior to that time, its charter is renewed in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, or unless the Chairman, with the concurrence of the other members of the Commission, determines that continuance of the Committee is no longer in the public interest. Fifteen days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register, the Commission will file a copy of the Committee's charter with the Chairman of the Commission, the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs, and the House Committee on Energy and Commerce. The Commission will also furnish a copy of the charter to the Library of Congress and place a copy in the Commission's Public Reference Room. By the Commission. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1673 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
