FR940928-2-00061 FR940928-2-00049 Excerpts From GNMA Supplemental Notice for Multiclass Securities Program That Contain the Paperwork Provisions: B. Sponsors * * * * * GNMA requires entities wishing to participate in this program as Sponsors to provide GNMA with certain information and meet certain requirements. Currently, a Sponsor must have minimum capital assets of $250 million in shareholders' equity, evidenced by the Sponsor's most recent audited financial statements. GNMA also requires that Sponsors have had at least one REMIC transaction with the Federal National Mortgage Association (``FNMA'') or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (``FHLMC''). If an entity that wishes to sponsor GNMA guaranteed transactions has not had this experience, GNMA requires an alternative demonstration of experience, as GNMA determines appropriate. A computer bulletin board, gREX, will be used to announce revisions to this policy. Entities that would like to obtain application forms or obtain further information should contact Chemical New York, Inc., 1325 G St., N.W., Suite 640, Washington, D.C. 20005. C. Selection of Trustee * * * * * To secure trustee services, GNMA has requested applications from qualified institutional trustees under a CAP. In the meantime, the trustees approved for the initial stage will continue to serve as trustees for multiclass securities transactions. Trustee services must include tax administration as well as customary securities administrative and payment functions. Trustees approved pursuant to the CAP will be authorized to serve with respect to securities issued during the period (not more than five years) specified in the request for applications. Once a trustee is assigned to a specific transaction, it will continue to act as trustee for the life of the security, unless removed in accordance with the Trust Agreement. Sponsors will use trustees approved pursuant to the CAP. Trustees will be paid from funds related to the transaction. D. Trust Counsel and Accounting Firms Trust counsel selected by the Sponsor will provide customary securities and tax opinions on the transactions, in accordance with GNMA's requirements. Accounting firms selected by the Sponsor will perform customary procedures with respect to financial information included in the offering documents and as part of the closing process, in accordance with GNMA's requirements. GNMA currently requires entities wishing to participate in GNMA guaranteed transactions to submit certain information to GNMA. Interested parties may obtain the appropriate forms from Chemical New York, Inc. (``Chemical Bank'') at the address set out in section II.B. above. * * * * *
