FR940304-1-00108 FR940304-1-00014 The Department also notes that standards resulting in price increases on gas water heaters would cause switching to electric water heaters only if similar or greater price increases did not occur for efficiency improvements to electric water heaters, which is certainly not the case. Supplying Electricity to Gas-Fired Storage Water Heaters Several comments addressed inclusion of installation and maintenance expenses in the engineering analyses. The Southern Gas Association, American Gas Association, and Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, among others, stated that installation (electric supply and venting alterations) and maintenance for gas water heater designs that would require electricity, such as intermittent ignition device, induced draft combustion, power venting, and condensing, must be included in the analyses. (Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 10; American Gas Association, No. 23 at 3; and Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 8). The American Gas Association, Southern Gas Association, and several other gas utilities gave estimates of costs for providing electric service to a water heater. For an existing appliance location, costs ranged from $75 to $200 and for new construction from $15 to $50. (American Gas Association, No. 23 at 5; Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 3; Lone Star, No. 39 at 6; Energen, No. 12 at 5; Equitable Resources, No. 72 at 2; South Carolina Gas and Electric Company, No. 34 at 2, 3; Arkansas Western Gas Company, No. 64 at 5; ENTEX, No. 58 at 5; Public Service Company of North Carolina, No. 74 at 4; Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, No. 57 at 3.) The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association stated that installation expenses for electric service could double the installed price of the water heater. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 3). On the other hand, Flair said that in northern climates, the water heater most likely stands next to the furnace, which has an electrical supply readily and cheaply available to the water heater. Flair estimated that the average price of adding electricity is much less than the cost of the water heater. (Flair, No. 85 at 1). The Department used a cost of $11.20 for the installer to add a small plug-in transformer and install low-voltage wiring to the water heater. 24 The Department assumed this would not require an electrician, and would allow the water heater to be installed a large distance from an existing outlet. This would provide sufficient power to run safety controls, spark ignition, flue damper, and a small venting fan. For design options, such as condensing flue gases, submerged combustion, and direct firing, which would require higher voltage, a charge of $100 was used as the installation price of providing electricity. This figure was presented to the Department by Southern Gas Association. 24 Paul, D.D., Stickford, G.H., & Locklin, D.W. Assessment of Technology for Improving the Efficiency of Residential Gas Water Heaters, Second Interim Report, June 3, 1991, Battelle, Columbus OH, prepared for Gas Research Institute.
