FR940405-2-00120 FR940405-2-00043 95. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.109(b)(3)(iv). Project/Activity: In determining the operating subsidy eligibility for the Gilbert, MN Housing and Redevelopment Authority, a request was made for an extension of a previous waiver to permit the Housing Agency (HA) to use its actual occupancy rate of 88% as its projected occupancy percentage. Nature of Requirement: The regulation requires a Low Occupancy HA without an approved Comprehensive Occupancy Plan (COP) to use a projected occupancy percentage of 97%. Granted By: Michael B. Janis, General Deputy Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: April 19, 1993. Reasons Waived: The HA is a small agency with 49 units of elderly housing. It has been hampered in its efforts to reduce vacancies by local economic dislocations and loss of population. HA was allowed to use a goal of 82% for its fiscal year ending in 1992. Since the time of the last waiver, the HA has made progress in reducing its vacancies from nine to six units. Further reductions may be expected if the HA's application for CIAP funds are approved and some of the vacant units are reconfigured into larger units and/or converted into nondwelling use. Because of the progress made, the HA was permitted to use 88% as its projected occupancy percentage for its fiscal year ending 6/30/93. 96. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.109(b)(3)(iv). Project/Activity: In determining the operating subsidy eligibility for the Atlanta Housing Authority, TX, a request was made to use 94% as the projected occupancy percentage instead of 97%. Nature of Requirement: The regulation requires a Housing Agency (HA) which does not reach an occupancy percentage of 97% at the end of its Comprehensive Occupancy Plan (COP) to use a projected occupancy percentage of 97%. Granted By: Michael B. Janis, General Deputy Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: April 28, 1993. Reasons Waived: The goal of the COP was to achieve a vacancy level of five or fewer vacant units, which for this 80 unit HA corresponded to a 94% level. The HA and Ft. Worth Office did not realize until recently that the Department had recognized that the use of 97% in this type of situation created an inequity. Failure to achieve an acceptable goal of 94% should not result in the imposition of an even higher occupancy level of 97% on the HA. A waiver was granted to allow the use of 94% as the projected occupancy percentage in order to correct this inequitable situation. 97. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.109(b)(3)(iv). Project/Activity: A request was made by the Newark, NJ Housing Authority to have the Department approve a 12-year Comprehensive Occupancy Plan (COP). Nature of Requirement: Current regulations require a Low Occupancy PHA to submit a COP when first eligible in order to use an occupancy percentage of less than 97% in the determination of operating subsidy eligibility. A Low Occupancy PHA without an approved COP must use a projected occupancy percentage of 97%. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: July 22, 1993. Reasons Waived: The Newark Housing Authority (NHA) did not submit an approvable COP when it was first eligible to do so for its fiscal year beginning 4/1/87. Instead, with the Department's approval, NHA has used a series of Memorandums of Agreement (MOAs) that included an occupancy goal to be used in determining its operating subsidy eligibility. In March 1993, the NHA requested approval of a 12-year COP. Based on experience gained from Public Housing Agencies (PHAs) implementing the vacancy rule, the Department found that large PHAs designated as ``troubled authorities'', such as NHA, had vacancy problems of such a magnitude and complexity that long-term planning was very difficult. Plans that were approved for such PHAs quickly became obsolete and much time and effort were spent justifying changes to occupancy goals. Since the Department continues to believe that it is very difficult for large troubled PHAs to adhere to a long term plan with fixed occupancy goals, the request for a waiver that would result in the approval of a 12-year COP was not approved. Instead, good cause was found to waive the subject regulation and allow the NHA to use an occupancy goal of 72% for its 1993 fiscal year and 78% for its 1994 fiscal year. Conditions were also placed on how the additional operating subsidy generated as a result of the waiver could be used.
