FR940426-1-00148 FR940426-1-00018 (e) Special responsibilities of the recipients and subrecipient(s) relating to eligiblity . (1) Each recipient or subrecipient shall recertify the income of each enrollee under its grant or subgrant, respectively, once each project year, according to the schedule set forth in the grant agreement and shall maintain documentation to support the recertification. Enrollees found to be ineligible for continued enrollment because of income shall be given, by the recipient or subrecipient, a written notice of termination and shall be terminated 30 days after the notice. No enrollee shall participate in a community service position for more than 12 months without having his or her income recertified. (2) If, at any time, the recipient or a subrecipient determines that an enrollee was incorrectly declared eligible as a direct result of false information given by the individual, the individual shall be given a written notice explaining the reason or reasons for the determination and shall be terminated immediately. (3) If, at any time, the recipient or subrecipient determines that an enrollee was incorrectly declared eligible through no fault of the enrollee, the recipient or subrecipient shall give the enrollee immediate written notice explaining the reason or reasons for termination, and the enrollee shall be terminated 30 days after the notice. (4) When a recipient or subrecipient makes an unfavorable determination on continued eligibility, it shall explain in writing to the enrollee the reason(s) for the determination and shall provide notice of the right of appeal in accordance with the required procedures set forth in §641.324. (5) When a recipient or subrecipient terminates an enrollee for cause, it shall inform the enrollee in writing, of the reason(s) for termination and of the right of appeal in accordance with the required procedures set forth in §641.324. (6) When a recipient or subrecipient makes an unfavorable determination of enrollment eligibility pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) or (3) of this section, it should assure that the individual is given a reason for non-enrollment and referred to other potential sources of assistance. §641.306 Enrollment priorities. (a) As set forth in sections 502(b)(1)(M) and 507(1) of the Act, enrollment priorities for filling vacant authorized positions shall be as follows: (1) Eligible individuals with the greatest economic need; (2) Eligible individuals who are 60 years old and older; and (3) Eligible individuals who seeks re-enrollment following termination of a job because of illness or engaging in unsubsidized employment, provided that re-enrollment is sought within one year of termination. (b) Within all enrollment priorities, those persons with poor employment prospects shall be given preference. (c) Enrollment priorities established in this section shall apply to vacant positions and shall not be interpreted to require the termination of any eligible enrollee. §641.307 [Reserved] §641.308 Orientation. (a) Enrollee. After an individual enrolls in a community service employment assignment, the recipient or subrecipient shall, as soon as practicable, provide orientation to the enrollee. The orientation shall provide, as appropriate, information related to: project objectives; community service employment assignments; training; supportive services; responsibilities, rights, and duties of the enrollee; permitted and prohibited political activities; plans to transition to unsubsidized employment and a discussion of safe working conditions at the host agencies. (b) Host agency. The recipient or a subrecipient shall provide to those individuals who will supervise enrollees at the host agencies, the orientation described in paragraph (a) of this section. This is to assure that enrollees will receive adequate supervision and opportunities for transitioning to the host agency staff or other unsubsidized employment. (c) Supevision. The recipient or subrecipient shall ensure that host agencies provide adequate orientation, instruction, and supervision for enrollees job responsibilities regarding responsibilities and safety.
