FR940930-0-00221 FR940930-0-00029 Both APTA and the LIRR claimed that the recordkeeping requirements of this section are redundant since under §234.9 railroads must file Form F 6180.83 which includes information pertaining to the time and date of the reported malfunction, actions taken and the time and date of the repair. FRA notes that in an attempt to minimize paperwork burdens on the railroads, proposed §234.109 did not require filing of reports. It requires only that a railroad maintain records pertaining to compliance_records which we believe most railroads would keep for their internal purposes in any event. All that is required by this section is that a railroad have the required information available for inspection. It is acceptable for that information to be contained in a data base a railroad maintains in order to comply with §234.9's reporting requirements. FRA notes that the requirements of §234.9(b), which required reports for each false activation, expired on April 1, 1994. Those reports, which comprised the vast majority of reports required under §234.9, will thus no longer be required. Section 234.9(b) requires that records referred to in §234.9(a) be retained for one year. Because various records required by §234.9(b) will in some cases be made on different days, the retention period is one year from the latest date of railroad activity in response to a credible report of malfunction. That date would typically be the date of repair of the warning system. The labor/management group suggested that it be made clear that keeping records by electronic means is acceptable. FRA agrees, and has revised paragraph (a) of this section accordingly. Final Rule Paragraph (a) of this section requires each railroad to keep records pertaining to compliance with this subpart. Records may be kept on forms provided by the railroad or by electronic means. Each railroad is required to keep the following information for each credible report of warning system malfunction: location of crossing (by highway name and DOT/AAR Crossing Inventory Number); time and date of receipt by railroad of report of malfunction; actions taken by railroad prior to repair and reactivation of repaired system; and time and date of repair. Paragraph (b) requires that each railroad retain for at least one year (from the latest date of railroad activity in response to a credible report of malfunction) all records referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. Records required to be kept shall be made available to FRA as provided by 49 U.S.C. 20107 (formerly section 208 of the Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (45 U.S.C. 437)). Subpart D_Maintenance, Inspection, and Testing Maintenance Standards Section 234.201␣Location of Plans The proposed rule requires that plans and other information required for the proper maintenance and testing of highway-rail grade crossing warning systems, be available for use at each warning system location. The labor/management group and New Jersey Transit commented that the phrase ``and other information'' should be eliminated from the rule. Labor/management group was concerned that ``other information'' has not been defined by FRA and could include such things as manufacturers' manuals for various types of warning system equipment. The parties note that 49 CFR 236.1, the equivalent requirement pertaining to signal and train control systems, does not contain such a requirement. While complete consistency between the two sets of regulations is not necessarily appropriate in every case, in this instance we agree that the phrase ``and other information'' is vague and unnecessary. It has been deleted from the final rule. Final Rule The final rule requires that plans required for the proper maintenance and testing of highway-rail grade crossing warning systems be available for use at each warning system location. Plans shall be legible and correct to protect against errors in circuitry connections.
