FR940805-1-00088 FR940805-1-00013 (ii) screening for diet counselling for medical reasons; (iii) collection of additional data to complete the medical, dental, psychiatric and immunization histories, with attention to elements that may indicate the presence of chronic disease, such as diabetes; (iv) recording of height, weight, pulse, blood pressure and temperature; (v) administration of laboratory and other tests and examinations as appropriate; (vi) notation of additional comments as needed; and (vii) initiation of therapy as appropriate. (20) Health examination. Qualified health care personnel shall complete a health examina tion for each juvenile within thirty days of admission. The examination shall include: (i) a ``hands-on'' examination by an appropriately licensed health care professional; (ii) dental screening, hygiene and treatment when the health of the juvenile would be adversely affected; (iii) mental health appraisal; and (iv) additional health care services as indicated by qualified health care personnel. (21) First aid kits. The administrator shall ensure that first aid kits are available in designated areas of the facility as determined by the Safety Officer during the annual inspection. The health care provider shall determine the appropriate content of first aid kits. (22) Special medical/mental health programs. The health authority shall provide specialized health education and treatment programs, including, but not limited to, personal hygiene, diet and exercise, family planning, communicable diseases, including sexually transmitted diseases and substance abuse education, prevention, intervention and treatment. (23) Serious and infectious disease. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan for the management of juveniles with serious and infectious disease. The administrator and health authority shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. The plan shall include, at a minimum precautions taken to prevent the spread of disease; (24) special needs or requirements of the juvenile; and (i) procedures for treatment, limiting activities, if appropriate, legally mandated reporting and medical pass-on as directed by the health authority; and (ii) housing location. (25) Detoxification. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to guide the clinical management of chemically dependent juveniles. The plan shall specify the process for involving the health authority and the substance abuse program on both a continuing and crisis-intervention basis. The plan shall include: (i) assessment as required by Public Law 99&hyph;570 or warranted by additional indications; (ii) detoxification under clinically supervised conditions; (iii) diagnosis of chemical dependency; (iv) determination as to whether an individual requires non-pharmacologically or pharmacologically supported care; and (v) referrals to specified community resources for the development of individual treatment plans by a multi-disciplinary team. (26) Substance abuse programming. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to provide substance abuse education, intervention, assessment and treatment to juveniles who are diagnosed as substance abusers. The administrator, health authority and substance abuse program provider shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. The plan shall link existing community programs and services to the facility program. The plan shall include, at a minimum: (i) assessment and evaluation; (ii) referral for treatment, if requested or court-ordered; and (iii) availability of appropriate self-help groups. (27) Informed consent. The health authority shall observe informed consent standards of the community for all juvenile care, examinations, treatments and procedures affected by informed consent. The informed consent of a parent, guardian or legal custodian shall apply when required by law. Health care shall be rendered against an juvenile's will only in accordance with law. (28) Participation in research. The health authority shall prohibit the use of juveniles for medical, pharmaceutical, or cosmetic experiments. This standard shall not preclude individual treatment of a juvenile based on need for a specific medical procedure that is not generally available. (29) Confidentiality of health records. In compliance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) (the Privacy Act of 1974) as amended and 42 CFR Part 2 (Regulations on Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient Records), the health authority shall keep the health record confidential. The health authority shall require that, at a minimum: (i) the active health record shall be maintained separately from the confinement record; (ii) access to the health record shall be controlled by the health authority; and (iii) the health authority shall share with the administrator or designee information regarding a juvenile's medical management, security and the ability to participate in programs. (30) Medical record contents. The health authority shall approve the method of recording entries in the record and the form and format of the record. A juvenile's medical/mental health record shall contain: (i) copies of the completed intake screening form; (ii) the health appraisal data collection form; (iii) prescribed medications and their administration; (iv) laboratory, x-ray and diagnostic studies; (v) the signature and title of each documenter; (vi) consent and refusal forms; (vii) release of information forms; (viii) place, date and time of health encounters; (ix) discharge summary of hospitalization (if applicable); and (x) health service reports (e.g., dental, psychiatric and other consultations).
