FR940217-1-00010 FR940217-1-00005 The Commission specifically solicits comments on the appropriateness and feasibility of these proposed uses of the ID System. The Commission would welcome comments that identify other ID System information or procedures that would reduce the burden of the reproposed rule without diminishing its effectiveness for accomplishing the objectives of the Market Reform Act. With respect to the reproposed rules for aggregation of accounts and Form 13H, the Commission solicits comments on additional simplification or means for reducing the burden of determining who is a large trader and completing Form 13H. The Commission also solicits comments on the appropriateness of the supervisory safe harbor. Finally, the Commission solicits comments on whether a proposed plan for implementing the transaction reporting requirements would be feasible. III. Discussion of the Reproposed Rule A. Application and Scope The fundamental scope and application of the reproposed rule is established by the definition of a large trader. The definition of a large trader and its separately defined terms were found in paragraph (f) of the proposed rule. These definitions have been reorganized into paragraph (a) of the reproposed rule in order to clarify the fundamental application and scope of the reproposed rule. As mentioned above, many of the comments raised concerns that generally may be described as a question of ``who is a large trader.'' The terms of the reproposed rule essentially would provide that every person who effects aggregate transactions reaching the identifying activity level, through accounts carried by a registered broker-dealer, which are aggregated based on ownership or control, would be a large trader. 1. Definition of a Large Trader The term large trader, as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of the reproposed rule, would mean every person who, for an account that he owns or controls, effects transactions for the purchase or sale of any publicly traded security or securities by use of any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce or of the mails, or of any facility of a national securities exchange, directly or indirectly by or through a registered broker or dealer in an aggregate amount equal to or in excess of the identifying activity level. The reproposed definition of a large trader closely tracks the definition provided in Section 13(h)(8)(A) of the Exchange Act. 9 9 See 15 U.S.C. 78m(h)(8)(A) (1990). The reproposed rule varies from the proposed rule and statutory definition only to the extent that the phrase ``*␣*␣* for an account that he owns or controls *␣*␣*'' has replaced the phrase ``*␣*␣* for his own account or an account for which he exercises investment discretion *␣*␣*'' 10 The Commission believes that this modification does not change the proposed definition of a large trader, but merely clarifies the interrelationship between the definition of a large trader and its separately defined terms. 10 See Proposing Release, 56 FR 42561 (proposed text). The definition of a large trader remains dependent upon the definitions of a person, account, ownership, control, publicly traded security, transaction, the identifying activity level, and the rules for aggregation. The Commission believes that the modifications to the proposed definitions of these terms address the questions raised by the commenters, clarify the proposed rule, and narrow the proposed definition of a large trader.
