FR941202-0-00002 FR941202-0-00001 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Parts 30, 32, and 35 RIN 3150&hyph;AD69 Preparation, Transfer for Commercial Distribution, and Use of Byproduct Material for Medical Use AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is amending its regulations for the medical use of byproduct material. This action is being taken in response to a petition for rulemaking. This final rule is intended to provide greater flexibility by allowing properly qualified nuclear pharmacists and authorized users who are physicians greater discretion to prepare radioactive drugs containing byproduct material for medical use. This final rule, while allowing research involving human subjects using byproduct material, requires NRC licensees who conduct such research to obtain the informed consent of the human subjects and the prior review and approval of an ``institutional review board'' within the meaning of the Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects. This final rule also allows medical use of radiolabeled biologics. In addition, this final rule contains other miscellaneous and conforming amendments necessary to clarify or update the current regulations. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 1, 1995. ADDRESSES: Copies of the public record, including the final regulatory analysis and any public comments received on the proposed rule, may be examined and copied for a fee in the Commission's Public Document Room at 2120 L Street, NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Anthony N. Tse, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;6233. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Petition for Rulemaking In early 1989, the American College of Nuclear Physicians (ACNP) and the Society of Nuclear Medicine (SNM) approached the NRC staff with concerns that the Commission's regulations failed to accommodate the functions and responsibilities of the practice of nuclear pharmacy. At the suggestion of the NRC staff, the ACNP and SNM submitted a petition for rulemaking requesting the Commission to amend its regulations to fully recognize the role of licensed nuclear pharmacists and physicians. On September 15, 1989 (54 FR 38239), the Commission published in the Federal Register a notice of receipt of a petition for rulemaking for public comment (PRM&hyph;35&hyph;9). During the development of the ACNP-SNM petition, one NRC staff member provided substantial assistance in the preparation of the petition. However, that individual has not participated in the NRC's resolution of the petition or in the development of this rule. Another NRC staff member reviewed the petition prior to its formal submittal to the Commission and participated, to some extent, in the NRC's resolution of the petition and in the development of the rule. The Commission, while aware of this background, considered the petition on its own merits. The petition included the following requests: A. The petitioners requested that authorized users who are physicians (physician authorized users) be given greater flexibility regarding the medical use of radiopharmaceuticals containing byproduct material. Specifically, the petitioners requested that these physicians be permitted to: (1) Use radiopharmaceuticals to treat diseases that are not listed in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved package insert; (2) Use methods of administration of radiopharmaceuticals that are not listed in the package insert; (3) Use radiopharmaceuticals other than those for which the FDA has accepted an Investigational New Drug (IND) or an approved New Drug Application (NDA); (4) Prepare radiopharmaceuticals using radionuclide generators and reagent kits in a manner other than in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions; and (5) Compound radiopharmaceuticals in accordance with State law.
