FR940725-0-00070 FR940725-0-00008 2. The Section 6 School System or Military Department concerned may oppose a request to waive the hearing. In that event, the hearing officer shall rule on the request. 3. Documents submitted to the hearing officer in a case determined without a hearing shall comply with paragraph D.1.g. of this appendix. A party submitting such documents shall provide copies to all other parties. F. Appeal 1. A party may appeal the hearing officer's findings of fact and decision by filing a written notice of appeal with the Director, DOHA, within 5 calendar days of receipt of the findings of fact and decision. The notice of appeal must contain the appellant's certification that a copy of the notice of appeal has been provided to all other parties. Filing is complete upon mailing. 2. Within 10 calendar days of the filing the notice of appeal, the appellant shall submit a written statement of issues and arguments to the Director, DOHA, with a copy to the other parties. The other parties shall submit a reply or replies to the Director, DOHA, within 15 calendar days of receiving the statement, and shall deliver a copy of each reply to the appellant. Submission is complete upon mailing. 3. The Director, DOHA, shall refer the matter on appeal to the DOHA Appeal Board. It shall determine the matter, including the making of interlocutory rulings, within 60 calendar days of receiving timely submitted replies under section F.2. of this appendix. The DOHA Appeal Board may require oral argument at a time and place reasonable convenient to the parties. 4. The determination of the DOHA Appeal Board shall be a final administrative decision and shall be in written form. It shall address the issues presented and set forth a rationale for the decision reached. A determination denying the appeal of a parent in whole or in part shall state that the parent has the right under Pub. L. 101&hyph;476, as amended, to bring a civil action on the matters in dispute in a district court of the United States without regard to the amount in controversy. 5. No provision of this part or other DoD guidance may be construed as conferring a further right of administrative review. A party must exhaust all administrative remedies afforded by this appendix before seeking judicial review of a determination made under this appendix. G. Publication and Indexing of Final Decisions The Director, DOHA, shall ensure that final decisions in cases arising under this Appendix are published and indexed to protect the privacy rights of the parents who are parties in those cases and the children of such parents, in accordance with 32 CFR part 310. Dated: July 19, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register, Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17937 Filed 7&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
