FR940906-2-00142 FR940906-2-00085 Tuesday September 6, 1994 Part IV Department of Education Rehabilitation Training Programs; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 171␣/␣Tuesday, September 6, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION RIN 1820&hyph;ZA01 Rehabilitation Training Programs AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed priorities. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes priorities for three programs administered by the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. The Secretary may use these priorities for competitions in fiscal year (FY) 1995 and subsequent years. The Secretary takes this action to focus Federal financial assistance on areas of identified national need. These priorities are intended to prepare individuals to enter rehabilitation professions and to maintain and upgrade the basic skills and knowledge of trained rehabilitation professionals. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed priorities should be addressed to Tom Finch, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW., Room 3038 Switzer Building, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2649. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The name, address, and telephone number of the person at the Department to contact for information on a specific proposed priority is in the section describing the program under which the priority is being proposed. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice contains one proposed priority under the statutory authority for Rehabilitation Training, one proposed priority under the Rehabilitation Continuing Education Programs, four proposed priorities under the Rehabilitation Short-Term Training program, and two proposed priorities under the Interpreter Training for Individuals Who Are Deaf and Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind program. A separate competition would be established for each priority. These programs are authorized by section 302 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The purpose of each program is stated separately under the title of that program. The Secretary will announce the final priorities in a notice in the Federal Register . The final priorities will be determined by responses to this notice, available funds, and other considerations of the Department. Funding of particular projects depends on the availability of funds, the nature of the final priorities, and the quality of the applications received. The publication of these proposed priorities does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities, nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only these priorities, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. These priorities support the National Education Goal that, by the year 2000, every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. The Department supports a variety of training activities in vocational rehabilitation, and training enhances the knowledge and skills of personnel. Note: This notice of proposed priorities does not solicit applications. In any year in which the Secretary chooses to use a priority, the Secretary invites applications through a notice in the Federal Register . When inviting applications the Secretary designates a priority as absolute or competitive preference or invitational. The effect of each type of priority follows: Absolute priority: Under an absolute priority the Secretary funds only applications that meet the priority (34 CFR 75.105(c)(3)). Competitive preference priority: Under a competitive preference priority the Secretary gives competitive preference to applications by either (1) awarding, to an application that meets the competitive priority in a particularly effective way, additional points beyond any points the application earns under the selection criteria (34 CFR 75.105(c)(2)(i)); or (2) selecting an application that meets the competitive priority over applications of comparable merit that do not meet the priority (34 CFR 75.105(c)(2)(ii)). Invitational priority: Under an invitational priority the Secretary is particularly interested in applications that meet the invitational priority. However, an application that meets the invitational priority does not receive competitive or absolute preference over other applications (34 CFR 75.105(c)(1)).
