FR940805-1-00061 FR940805-1-00013 (9) Monitoring and assessment. The Agency Superintendent or designee shall review and inspect operations and programs at least annually. (10) Annual report. The administrator shall submit a written annual report to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, through the Area Director and Agency Superintendent, and shall forward a copy to the appropriate court and health care authority. The report shall address goals, objectives, population data, programs and services provided, budget, space and equipment needs and major developments. (11) Public information program. The administrator or designee shall provide for a public information program. (12) Legal counsel. Legal counsel shall be available to the administrator and other staff as needed in the performance of their duties. (13) Separation of adults and juveniles. The administrator shall prohibit the confinement of juveniles under the age of eighteen within the facility unless in compliance with 42 U.S.C. 223(a)(13)(14) (the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974) as amended and 28 CFR Part 31. (b) Fiscal management _(1) Budgetary compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with the directives of the Agency regarding budget preparation, submission, and administration. If operated by a tribe, the facility shall comply with the directives of the tribe regarding budget preparation, submission, and administration. (2) Accounting compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with the Agency accounting directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal accounting directives. (3) Basis of budget. The administrator shall document a direct relationship between the budget and planned operational, staffing and program needs. (4) Property management compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency property management directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal property management directives. (5) Federal acquisition regulation compliance. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency directives for facility services, equipment and supply purchases. If operated by a tribe, the facility shall comply with tribal directives for facility services, equipment and supply purchases. (6) Space and equipment needs and deficiencies. The administrator shall report space and equipment needs and deficiencies annually to the Area Director through the Agency Superintendent. (7) Program needs and deficiencies. The administrator shall report program needs and deficiencies, i.e., staffing, supplies, training and contract services, annually to the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, through the Area Director and Agency Superintendent. (8) Cost of inmate board. The facility shall charge all contract users at the same rate. (9) Fund accounts. The administrator shall arrange for an independent audit of inmate fund accounts, including canteen or commissary, following standard accounting practices. The administrator shall use any profit or interest which accrues for the benefit of the inmates. (c) Personnel _(1) Personnel policy. If operated by the BIA, the facility shall comply with Agency personnel management directives. If operated by a Tribe, the facility shall comply with Tribal personnel management directives. (2) Personnel manual. The administrator shall make a copy of the applicable personnel manuals and regulations available to every employee. (3) Staffing requirements. The administrator shall review employee workload annually to ensure that the legitimate safety and security needs of staff and inmates are addressed. The administrator shall develop and update the facility's shift relief factor annually. (4) Criminal record check. The administrator or designee shall conduct a criminal record check of all new employees prior to employment to determine if there are criminal convictions that have a specific relationship to job performance. (5) Physical examination. All employees who have direct contact with inmates shall have a pre-employment physical examination. There shall be provisions for re-examination. (6) Physical fitness. Detention officers shall meet BIA or comparable tribal standards for physical fitness. (7) Code of ethics. The facility shall have a written Code of Ethics that outlines the professional standards expected of all employees and recognizes that detention personnel may be held to a higher behavioral standard because of the nature of their duties. (8) Confidentiality. Consultants, contract personnel, employees of other public and private agencies and volunteers who work with inmates shall agree to comply with the facility's policies on confidentiality of information. (d) Training and staff development _(1) Management of training programs. A qualified employee, who has received training in training delivery methods, shall plan, coordinate and supervise employee and volunteer training programs. The administrator shall identify, evaluate and update job-related training needs annually. (2) Training curriculum approval. The Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, in conjunction with the Indian Police Academy, shall approve training programs and curriculum required by these standards. (3) Outside resources. The facility shall support the integration of IHS-approved and other training with the approval of the administrator. (4) Education and training. The administrator shall encourage employees to continue their education and training. (5) Cultural awareness. Orientation training shall include a component on cultural issues relative to the local tribe(s). (6) Detention officer orientation training. All new full or part-time detention officers shall receive the number of hours of orientation training recommended by the Chief, Division of Law Enforcement, during their first year of employment. Employees shall complete forty of these hours prior to being independently assigned to work in the facility. (7) Detention officer in-service training. All full or part-time detention officers shall receive an additional forty hours of job-relevant training each subsequent year of employment.
