FR940128-1-00040 FR940128-1-00006 (4) Thirty-five percent documented lack of adequate cleaning or sanitizing of processing equipment. (5) Twenty-one percent documented processing equipment that was not constructed so that it could be easily cleaned and sanitized. (6) Eighteen percent documented processing equipment that was not made of suitable materials. (7) Fifteen percent documented hand sanitizers that were not kept at proper sanitizing levels. (8) Eighteen percent documented failure to have hand sanitizers available in the processing area. (9) Thirty percent documented processing areas that were not maintained in a clean and sanitary manner. (10) Forty-two percent documented processing areas with exterior openings that were not sealed/covered properly to prevent the entrance of pests or insects. (11) Sixteen percent documented waste material not being collected/covered in suitable containers or not being disposed of properly. (12) Twenty-three percent documented handling of finished product in a manner that did not preclude contamination. (13) Twenty-two percent documented employees not taking necessary precautions to avoid food contamination. During fiscal years 1991&hyph;92, FDA conducted abbreviated inspections of nearly all domestic manufacturers in its seafood establishment inventory. These inspections provide data on sanitation practices and conditions that are generally consistent with the above findings (Ref. 62). Examples of these data are: (1) Sixteen percent of firms had problems with the general sanitation condition of their processing areas. (This percentage is lower than for item 9 above because the universe is all firms, not just firms with deficiencies.) (2) Nineteen percent of firms did not clean and sanitize their processing areas or equipment throughout the day's production. (This matches most closely with item 4 above but is lower, presumably for the reason stated in the previously numbered paragraph.) (3) Twenty-eight percent of firms had employees that were not following proper sanitation practices in processing activities. (This figure does not precisely match any of the items listed above because the EIR's break employee practices down into specific categories, such as the wearing of hair nets. Some categories involve relatively minor matters, others are more significant. Findings with respect to these employee practices were not listed above for the sake of brevity.) (4) Twenty percent had employees that were not following proper sanitation practices for packaging and finished product storage. (The parenthetical observations in the previously numbered paragraph apply here as well.) (5) Thirty-six percent of firms either lacked hand sanitizers in their processing areas or had sanitizers that were not kept at proper sanitizing levels. (This finding is equivalent to a combination of items 7 and 8 above. Surprisingly, this finding is roughly the same as 7 and 8 added together, even though it includes all processors rather than processors with deficiencies.) Sanitation problems found by NMFS during the operation of its fee-for-service inspection program for seafood manufacturers, as described earlier, are generally consistent with FDA's findings. Entrants into the NMFS program undergo initial sanitation surveys by NMFS and are checked for sanitation practices thereafter. NMFS' data show significant sanitation deficiencies during the initial surveys (Ref. 35, p. 40). Some of the most common for 1989 include: (1) Sixty-four percent of plants had discrepancies relating to proper cleaning and sanitizing of product contact surfaces or equipment, containers, or utensils after use. (2) Fifty-one percent of plants had discrepancies relating to design, materials, or construction that prevented their being maintained in a sanitary manner. (3) Forty-five percent of plants had discrepancies relating to design of equipment, containers, and utensils so that they did not provide protection from contaminants and could not be readily cleaned and effectively sanitized. (4) Forty-three percent of plants had discrepancies relating to improper storage of equipment, litter, waste, uncut weeds, and grass.
