FR941128-2-00076 FR941128-2-00046 B. ``Cyanamid'' means American Cyanamid Company. C. ``Acquirer'' means the entity to whom AHP shall divest AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets pursuant to Paragraph II of this Order. D. ``New Acquirer'' means the entity to whom the trustee shall divest AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets pursuant to Paragraph IV of this Order. E. ``Rotavirus Licensee'' means the entity to whom AHP shall license Cyanamid's Rotavirus Vaccine Research pursuant to Paragraph V of this Order. F. ``Respondent'' means AHP. G. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. H. ``Acquisition'' means the acquisition by AHP of the common stock of Cyanamid pursuant to a tender offer commended on August 10, 1994. I. ``AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets'' means AHP's assets relating to the manufacture and sale of AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines that are not part of AHP's physical facilities or other tangible assets. ``AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets'' include but are not limited to all formulations, patents, trade secrets, technology, know-how, specifications, designs, drawings, processes, production information, manufacturing information, testing and quality control data, research materials, technical information, distribution information, customer lists, information stored on management information systems and specifications sufficient for the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, to use such information, software used solely in connection with AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines and all data, materials and information relating to United States Food and Drug Administration (``FDA'') approvals for Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines. ``AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccine Assets'' do not include any manufacturing assets of AHP or any assets acquired by AHP from American Cyanamid as a result of the Acquisition or AHP's Vaccine Filling and Packaging Assets. J. ``AHP's Vaccine Filling and Packaging Assets'' means a non-exclusive license to all patents, trade secrets, technology and know-how relating to filling vials, syringes or other forms of filling or packaging used by AHP for Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines at any time up to and including the date of the Acquisition, including but not limited to the Tubex ® filling system. ``AHP's Vaccine Filling and Packaging Assets'' do not include any manufacturing assets of AHP or any assets acquired by AHP from American Cyanamid as a result of the Acquisition. K. ``Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines'' means vaccines used to create and maintain antitoxin levels in human beings to prevent tetanus and/or diphtheria, including tetanus toxoid vaccine, tetanus-diphtheria toxoids vaccine (adult) and diphtheria-tetanus toxoids vaccine (pediatric), approved by the FDA for sale in the United States. L. ``Contract Manufacture'' means the manufacture of Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines by AHP for sale to the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, in Finished Packaged Form, in annual volumes not to exceed: Tetanus Toxoid (fluid) 1,000,000 doses; Tetanus Toxoid (absorbed) 3,000,000 doses; diphtheria-tetanus toxoids vaccine (pediatric) 1,000,000 doses; and tetanus-diphtheria toxoids vaccine (adult) 13,000,000 doses. M. ``Finished Packaged Form'' means packaged in a form acceptable for commercial sale in the United States, in each form of packaging, or substantially similar thereto (including Tubex ® & prefilled syringes) as that used by AHP (any time up to and including the date of the Acquisition) in the distribution and sale of AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines, with information including but not limited to the name and identification codes of the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, inscribed on the packaging of the Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines, and packaged in units specified by the Acquirer or the New Acquirer, as applicable, as permitted by AHP's existing FDA approvals. N. ``Cost'' means AHP's actual per unit cost of manufacturing AHP's Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines, which may be adjusted once annually to reflect any increases in AHP's actual cost, provided, however, that for any year, the total rate of such adjustment with respect to all components of cost other than material and labor shall not exceed the rate of increase in the Consumer Price Index for such year. O. ``Formulation'' means any and all information, including both patent and trade secret information, technical assistance and advice, relating to the manufacture of Tetanus and Diphtheria Vaccines that meet United States Food and Drug Administration approved specifications therefor. P. ``Cyanamid's Rotavirus Vaccine Research'' means: (1) All of the patents and patent applications that Cyanamid holds, has an option to hold or is licensed to practice under and that are directed to the development of a vaccine to protect humans against rotavirus disease; (2) All of the know-how that Cyanamid received from licensors or developed itself that is directed to the development of a vaccine to protect humans against rotavirus disease;
