FR941110-1-00115 FR941110-1-00011 (ii) the intended reclamation destination of each controlled substance in a shipment. (2) Every person who imports reclaimed controlled substances must present a letter to United States Customs for entry clearance, that contains the following: (i) the previous use(s) of each controlled substance in a shipment, and (ii) the reclamation facility (or name of equipment used) in the foreign country where the controlled substance was reclaimed. (p) Persons who export used, recycled or reclaimed controlled substances must label their bill of lading or invoice indicating that the controlled substance is used, recycled or reclaimed. (q) Persons who import heels of controlled substances must label their bill of lading or invoice indicating that the controlled substance in the container is a heel. (r) Every person who brings back a container with a heel to the United States must report the annual quantity brought back into the United States within 45 days of the end of the control period. (s) Every person who imports or exports used, recycled or reclaimed group II, class I controlled substances, or class II controlled substances must report its annual level within 45 days of the end of the control period. (t) Every person who transships a controlled substance must maintain records that indicate that the controlled substance shipment originated in one country destined for another country, and does not enter interstate commerce with the United States. (u) Any person who submits an order to a producer or importer for a controlled substance for an essential use must report the annual quantity received from each producer or importer within 45 days of the end of the control period. Those persons receiving controlled substances under the exemption for laboratories must provide a detailed description of the analytical procedures for which the specific controlled substance is essential and reference the published instructions, standards or specifications. The person reporting should submit the following: (1) The identity and address of the person; (2) The name, quantity, and level of controlled substance transformed or the name, quantity and volume destroyed; (3) A copy of the invoice or receipt documenting the sale of the controlled substance to the person; (4) A certification that production allowances were expended for the production of the controlled substance; (5) If the controlled substance is transformed, the name, quantity, and verification of the commercial use of the resulting chemical transformed; and (6) If the controlled substance is destroyed, the efficiency of the destruction process.
