FR940627-0-00192 FR940627-0-00019 (b) Manufacturer Determination. Manufacturers shall determine whether the information gathered pursuant to the literature search in §79.52(d) contains the results of adequately performed and adequately documented previous testing which provides information reasonably comparable to that supplied by the health tests described in §§79.62 through 79.68 regarding the carcinogenicity, mutagenicity, neurotoxicity, teratogenicity, reproductive/fertility measures, and general toxicity effects of the emissions of the fuel or additive. When manufacturers make an affirmative determination, they need submit only the information gathered pursuant to §79.52(d) for such tests. EPA maintains final authority in judging whether the information is an adequate substitution in lieu of conducting the associated tests. EPA's determination of the adequacy of existing information shall be guided by the considerations described in paragraph (d) of this section. If EPA finds that the manufacturer has relied upon inadequate test data, then the manufacturer will not be considered to be in compliance until the corresponding tests have been conducted and the results submitted to EPA. (c) Testing. (1) All testing required pursuant to this section must be done in accordance with the procedures, equipment, and facility requirements described in §§79.57, 79.60, and 79.61 regarding emissions generation, good laboratory practices, and inhalation exposure testing, respectively, as well as any other requirements described in this subpart. The laboratory conducting the animal studies shall be registered and in good standing with the United States Department of Agriculture and regularly inspected by United States Department of Agriculture veterinarians. In addition, the facility must be accredited by a generally recognized independent organization which sets laboratory animal care standards. Use of inadequate test protocols or substandard laboratory techniques in performing any testing required by this subpart may result in cancellation of all affected registrations. (2) Carcinogenic or mutagenic effects in animals from emissions exposures shall be determined pursuant to §79.64 In vivo Micronucleus Assay, §79.65 In vivo Sister Chromatid Exchange Assay, and §79.68 Salmonella typhimurium Reverse Mutation Assay. Teratogenic effects and reproductive toxicity shall be examined pursuant to §79.63 Fertility Assessment/Teratology. General toxicity and pulmonary effects shall be determined pursuant to §79.62 Subchronic Toxicity Study with Specific Health Effect Assessments. Neurotoxic effects shall be determined pursuant to §79.66 Neuropathology Assessment and §79.67 Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein Assay. (d) EPA Determination. (1) After submission of all information and testing, EPA in its judgment shall determine whether previously conducted tests relied upon in the registration submission are adequately performed and documented and provide information reasonably comparable to that which would be provided by the tests described herein. Manufacturers' submissions shall be sufficiently detailed to allow EPA to judge the adequacy of protocols, techniques, experimental design, statistical analyses, and conclusions. Studies shall be performed using generally accepted scientific principles, good laboratory techniques, and the testing guidelines specified in these regulations. (2) EPA shall give appropriate weight when making this determination to the following factors: (i) The age of the data; (ii) The adequacy of documentation of procedures, findings, and conclusions; (iii) The extent to which the testing conforms to generally accepted scientific principles and practices; (iv) The type and number of test subjects; (v) The number and adequacy of exposure concentrations, i.e. , emission dilutions; (vi) The degree to which the tested emissions were generated by procedures and under conditions reasonably comparable to those set forth in §79.57; and
