FR940110-1-00048 FR940110-1-00006 FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE BOARD 12 CFR Part 960 [No. 93&hyph;94] Affordable Housing Program AGENCY: Federal Housing Finance Board. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Housing Finance Board (Board) is proposing to amend in its entirety its regulation governing the operation of the Affordable Housing Program (AHP or Program). The proposed rule modifies or carries forward requirements of the Board's existing AHP regulation, adds new provisions, and incorporates, with modifications, the provisions of the Board's existing policy guidelines governing the award of funds to loan funds and loan consortia. DATES: Comments on this proposed rule must be received in writing on or before March 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to: Federal Housing Finance Board, Executive Secretary, 1777 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006. Comments will be available for public inspection at this address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Diane E. Dorius, Deputy Director, or Sylvia C. Martinez, Director, Housing Finance Directorate, (202) 408&hyph;2576, or Sharon B. Like, Attorney-Advisor, (202) 408&hyph;2930, or Brandon B. Straus, Attorney-Advisor, (202) 408&hyph;2589, Office of Legal & External Affairs-Legal Division, Federal Housing Finance Board, 1777 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20006. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Statutory and Regulatory Background A. General Section 10(j)(1) of the Federal Home Loan Bank Act (Act) requires each Federal Home Loan Bank (Bank) to establish a Program to subsidize the interest rate on advances to members of the Federal Home Loan Bank System (Bank System) engaged in lending for long-term, low- and moderate-income, owner-occupied and affordable rental housing at subsidized interest rates. The Board is required to promulgate regulations governing the Program. 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(1). The Board's existing regulation governing the operation of the AHP appears at part 960 of the Board's regulations. 12 CFR part 960. This proposed rule amends the Board's existing AHP regulation to address operational issues that have arisen during the three and one-half years that the AHP has been in existence. The proposed amendments are intended to make the AHP more responsive to low-income housing needs in each of the twelve Federal Home Loan Bank Districts (Districts), to increase efficiency in the administration of the Program, and to enhance coordination of the AHP with other housing programs whose funds are used in conjunction with AHP funds. These issues are discussed in greater detail below in the Analysis of Proposed Rule section. II. Analysis of Proposed Rule A. AHP Application Approval Process The proposed rule makes a fundamental change to the AHP by vesting the Banks, instead of the Board, with the authority to approve AHP applications. The current application approval process implemented by the Board's existing AHP regulation may be briefly described as follows. The Banks receive AHP applications and first evaluate them for satisfaction of certain threshold requirements contained in the existing regulation. See 12 CFR 960.5(a)(1), (2). Those applications meeting the threshold requirements are evaluated by the Banks to determine if they meet at least three of the priorities contained in the existing regulation. If they do, they are scored by the Banks on the priorities and on other scoring objectives contained in the existing regulation before applications that meet fewer than three priorities. See id. ยง960.5(a)(3), (b) through (e). Under the existing regulation, the Bank then forwards to the Board the highest scoring applications, and submits a summary of such applications. See id. ยง960.5(f)(1), (2). The Board reviews the applications to ensure consistency with the threshold, priorities and scoring requirements, and makes final funding decisions on the applications. See id. ยง960.5(f)(3).
