FR940620-0-00008 FR940620-0-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;173&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8940; AD 94&hyph;12&hyph;12] Airworthiness Directives; Boeing Model 737&hyph;300 Series Airplanes Equipped With a Pemco Aeroplex Main Deck Cargo Door That Has Been Modified in Accordance With Supplemental Type Certificate (STC) SA2969S0 AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Boeing Model 737&hyph;300 series airplanes, that requires replacement of the forward and aft hinge shims and the lower hinge fairings of the main cargo door with new shims and fairings. This amendment is prompted by reports of a slight separation between the end hinge shims and the cargo door; this separation can cause bending loads on the fasteners. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent fatigue failure of the hinge fasteners, loss of structural integrity of the cargo door hinge, possible loss of the cargo door, and subsequent rapid decompression of the airplane. DATES: Effective July 20, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of July 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Pemco Aeroplex Inc., P.O. Box 2287, Birmingham, Alabama 34201. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Small Airplane Directorate, Atlanta Aircraft Certification Office, suite 210C, 1669 Phoenix Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Curtis Jackson, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ACE&hyph;120A, FAA, Small Airplane Directorate, Atlanta Aircraft Certification Office, suite 210C, 1669 Phoenix Parkway, Atlanta, Georgia 30349; telephone (404) 991&hyph;2910; fax (404) 991&hyph;3606. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Boeing 737&hyph;300 series airplanes was published in the Federal Register on December 6, 1993 (58 FR 64198). That action proposed to require replacement of the forward and aft hinge shims and the lower hinge fairings of the main cargo door with new shims and fairings. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. Two commenters support the proposal. One commenter considers there is no justification for issuing the proposed rule, since most of the affected airplanes have already been modified in accordance with the proposed requirements. The FAA does not concur. Although the commenter has provided the FAA with data indicating that the proposed modification has been accomplished on all airplanes currently on the U.S. Register, this data did not provide positive indication, verified by FAA personnel, that the modification had been accomplished on airplanes not currently on the U.S. Register. Should one of these affected airplanes be imported to the U.S. in the future, this AD is necessary in order to ensure that the required actions are accomplished on the airplane prior to it being placed on the U.S. Register. Further, as is indicated in the final rule, operators are given ``credit'' for previously accomplishing the requirements of the rule; therefore, no further action is required on the part of the operators in these cases. Another commenter contends that there is no justification for the proposed AD, since the Supplemental Type Certificate (STC) holder (Pemco) has not indicated that the referenced Pemco service bulletin concerns an airworthiness problem. The commenter states that Pemco has portrayed the service bulletin as addressing only a reliability problem. The FAA does not concur. In developing this AD action, the FAA reviewed the relevant data which indicated that this STC door design allows slight separation between the end hinge shims and the cargo door during pressurization cycles; such separation can cause increased bending loads on the door hinge fasteners. The FAA determined that this situation constitutes an unsafe condition since, if not corrected, it could lead to fatigue failure of the hinge fasteners, loss of structural integrity of the cargo door hinge, possible loss of the cargo door, and subsequent rapid decompression of the airplane. Regardless of whether or not the wording in the service bulletin describes the procedures specified within it as addressing an airworthiness problem, the FAA finds that accomplishment of those procedures will serve to eliminate the identified unsafe condition. One commenter suggests that the wording that identifies the location of the affected cargo door be clarified. The commenter points out that the notice identified this door as the ``main cargo door;'' however, a more correct identification would be ``main deck cargo door.'' The FAA concurs and has changed the pertinent wording in the final rule accordingly. After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the change previously described. The FAA has determined that this change will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD.
