FR940429-0-00322 FR940429-0-00016 (iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(8) (i) and (ii) of this section, a student did not have the ability to benefit from training offered by the school if the student had, at the time of enrollment, a condition or status, including one based on a physical or mental condition, age, or criminal record, that would have prevented the student from satisfying the physical requirements or the legal requirements of the State in which the student resided when the loan was made for either acceptance into the educational program offered by the school or performance of the occupation for which the program of instruction was designed to prepare the student. (f) *␣*␣* (2) Suspension of collection activity. If the lender is notified that a borrower has filed a petition for relief in bankruptcy, the lender shall immediately suspend any collection efforts outside the bankruptcy proceeding against the borrower and_ (i) Against any co-maker or endorser if the borrower has filed for relief under Chapters 12 or 13; and (ii) Against any co-maker or endorser who has filed for relief in bankruptcy. (3) Determination of filing. The lender shall determine that a borrower has filed a petition for relief in bankruptcy on the basis of receiving a notice of the first meeting of creditors or other confirmation issued by the bankruptcy court. (4) Proof of claim. Unless instructed otherwise by the guaranty agency, the lender shall file a proof of claim with the bankruptcy court within_ * * * * * (g) Claim procedures for a loan held by a lender_ (1) Documentation . A lender shall provide the guaranty agency with the following documentation when filing a death, disability, closed school, false certification, or bankruptcy claim: (i) The original promissory note, or, if the lender no longer has the original promissory note, a copy of the note certified by the lender as a true and accurate copy; * * * * * (vi) In the case of a closed school claim, the documentation described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, or any other documentation as the Secretary may require; (vii) In the case of a false certification claim, the documentation described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. (2) Filing deadlines. A lender shall file a death, disability, closed school, false certification, or bankruptcy claim within the following periods: (i) Within 60 days of the date on which the lender determines that a borrower (or the student on whose behalf a parent obtained a PLUS loan) has died, or the lender determines that the borrower is totally and permanently disabled. (ii) In the case of a closed school claim, the lender shall file a claim with the guaranty agency no later than 60 days after the borrower submits to the lender the written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section or after the lender is notified by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee or by the guaranty agency to do so. (iii) In the case of a false certification claim, the lender shall file a claim with the guaranty agency no later than 60 days after the borrower submits to the lender the written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section or after the lender is notified by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee or by the guaranty agency to do so. * * * * * (h) Payment of death, disability, closed school, false certification, and bankruptcy claims by the guaranty agency. (1) *␣*␣* (iii) In the case of a closed school claim or a false certification claim based on the determination that the borrower did not sign the loan application, the promissory note, or the authorization for the electronic transfer of loan funds, or that the school failed to test, or improperly tested, the student's ability to benefit, the guaranty agency shall document its determination that the borrower is eligible for discharge under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this section and pay the borrower or the holder the amount determined under paragraph (h)(2) of this section. (2) *␣*␣* (ii) The amount of loss payable to a lender on a closed school claim or on a false certification claim is equal to the sum of the remaining principal balance and interest accrued on the loan, collection costs incurred by the lender and applied to the borrower's account within 30 days of the date those costs were actually incurred, and unpaid interest determined in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
