FR940503-1-00041 FR940503-1-00010 If the Respondent fails either to request a hearing or to submit evidence in lieu of a hearing, he would be in default under section 113(d)(3) of the Act. That section states that the penalty assessed by the field citation becomes final where the Respondent fails to request a hearing within the time required by the implementing regulation. In the case of a Respondent's default by failure to request a hearing, Agency counsel is required under this proposal to file, within ten days, a written justification for the penalty imposed by the field citation. At any time prior to final Agency action, a disputed field citation may be settled by a consent order. The consent order may conclude the citation in whole or in part, and may contain conditions. Upon service, the consent order constitutes a final order that is not appealable. Additionally, the field citation may be revoked by the Agency, in whole or in part and without prejudice, prior to payment of the penalty. Under the proposed part 59 procedures, the prehearing conference is optional. The purposes of the conference, which must be held no later than thirty days after the Respondent's response, are to simplify issues and to attempt to reach stipulations of fact. The Presiding Officer may also set the time and place for the hearing and schedule an information exchange during the prehearing conference. Within twenty days following the prehearing conference, the Presiding Officer may issue a written prehearing order to memorialize the rulings made at the conference. Each party has the authority to require that the other provide it with certain information. The information that may be exchanged is limited to: (1) Documents intended to be introduced at the hearing that have not already been filed with the Hearing Clerk; (2) witness lists, qualifications of expert witnesses and the subject matter of intended witness testimony; and (3) information known to the Respondent relating to the Respondent's inability to pay a civil penalty, economic benefit of noncompliance; and good faith efforts to comply with the applicable Clean Air Act requirements. The hearings on field citations will be conducted by an impartial Presiding Officer who, in most cases, will be the Judicial Officer or the Regional Judicial Officer. Such Judicial Officer will be an Agency employee who may perform other functions within the Agency, but who has no prior connection with the case being presided over. The Presiding Officer and other officials involved in deciding the case are prohibited under today's rule from engaging in ex parte contacts with interested parties both inside and outside of the Agency. The prohibition applies to the Regional Administrator as well as to his advisors. The Presiding Officer is required to schedule a hearing expeditiously. An extension of time for scheduling the hearing is only authorized for good cause and if no prejudice results. The hearing procedures provide that the Respondent may be represented by counsel. The Agency representative initiates the hearing by introducing into evidence the field citation and the relevant material supporting its issuance. The Respondent or his counsel may then provide facts, statements, arguments, documents, testimony and other exculpatory evidence responding to the evidence presented. Although the Presiding Officer may limit the number of witnesses and determine the appropriate form of testimony, either party has the right to cross-examine a witness who has provided direct testimony. The opportunity for rebuttal, and response to rebuttal, falls within the Presiding Officer's discretion. Consistent with the informal nature of the proceedings, the Presiding Officer is not bound by the Federal Rules of Evidence. The Presiding Officer is, however, authorized to take administrative notice of pertinent matters. Section 113(e) of the Act contains criteria that must be used in assessing whether the field citation penalty is appropriate. Under today's proposal, the Presiding Officer is required to consider these criteria when reviewing the assessed penalty. Those criteria include: The size of the business; the economic impact of the penalty on the business; the Respondent's full compliance history; the Respondent's good faith efforts to comply; the duration of the violation as established by any credible evidence; payment by the Respondent of penalties previously assessed for the same violation; the economic benefit of noncompliance; the seriousness of the violation; and such other factors as justice may require. Some or all of these criteria may be relevant to the issues presented in the case before the Presiding Officer. The burden of proof with respect to these criteria is assigned to the party with access to information concerning the particular factor. Consequently, the Agency must provide evidence regarding the duration and seriousness of the violation, and the Respondent must provide evidence regarding the other criteria. EPA is considering adopting a similar approach where the penalty assessment becomes final under section 113(d)(3) of the Act because a respondent fails either to request a hearing or submit evidence in lieu of a hearing within the time required by the regulations. When such a default occurs, the penalty assessed by the field citation becomes final by operation of section 113(d)(3). As previously discussed, under the proposed procedures, Agency counsel would then submit a written justification for the record concerning the amount of the assessed penalty. EPA is considering adopting a regulatory presumption that in cases of such default the penalty assessed in the field citation would be presumed to be appropriate with respect to those penalty assessment criteria where the regulations would place the burden of going forward on the respondent if a hearing had been requested. The purpose of this presumption would be to clarify the requirements of section 113(e) in such a default situation, and at the same time, reflect the authority of the agency to establish reasonable presumptions based on the circumstances of a case. The hearing will normally be tape recorded, unless the parties decide otherwise in the interests of preventing a serious delay in the proceedings. Tape recording the proceedings is desirable to develop a clear administrative record for later review. Transcription of the proceedings is not required, but may be made by a party, at its own expense, or may be ordered by the Presiding Officer. Any party causing a transcript to be made must provide copies to the other party and to the Presiding Officer. The transcript then becomes a part of the administrative record. The parties are permitted to submit a written statement for the Presiding Officer's consideration within a reasonable time after the hearing. The written statements, which may only address matters raised at the hearing, may be in the form of proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. As soon as practicable after the hearing, the Presiding Officer is required to prepare a recommended decision in the case based on substantial evidence in the administrative record as a whole. The recommended decision will recommend either that the field citation be affirmed, modified or withdrawn. The recommended decision must be filed with the Regional Administrator. Within a reasonable time after receipt of the recommended decision, the Regional Administrator may either affirm, reverse, modify or remand the case to the Presiding Officer for further proceedings. The Regional Administrator may compromise, modify, or remit the penalty assessed by the field citation, with or without conditions.
