FR940804-1-00054 FR940804-1-00014 For the reasons discussed below, the Service finds that Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii is likely to become endangered within the foreseeable future throughout all or a significant portion of its range. Threats to this taxon include the following: habitat destruction and degradation resulting from hydrologic alterations, grazing, trampling by recreational activities, the inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms, stochastic extinction, and competition from exotic plant species. The Service has determined that threatened rather than endangered status is appropriate for L.g. ssp. parishii primarily because the California Department of Parks and Recreation, the Cleveland National Forest, and The Nature Conservancy have initiated some measures to protect this species. Within these areas, management activities have included fencing, signing, and monitoring of habitat supporting L.g. ssp. parishii . However, most localities containing this taxon remain vulnerable to trespass and trampling and to hydrologic alterations. The largest population of this species occurs mostly on private lands that are not protected. For these reasons, the Service finds that L.g. ssp. parishii is likely to become endangered in the foreseeable future if present threats and declines continue. The alternative of not listing these species would result in inadequate protection for these species, and would be inconsistent with the purposes of the Act. For the reasons discussed below, the Service is not proposing to designate critical habitat for these species at this time. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary propose designation of critical habitat at the time a species is proposed for listing as endangered or threatened. Section 4(b)(6)(C) further indicates that a concurrent critical habitat designation is not required if the Service finds that a prompt determination of endangered or threatened status is essential to the conservation of the involved species, or that critical habitat is not then determinable. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat for Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii and Downingia concolor var. brevior is prudent but not presently determinable. Within 2 years of the publication date of this rule the Service will designate critical habitat unless the designation is found to be not prudent. The Service intends to propose designation of critical habitat for those populations of Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii and Downingia concolor var. brevior that would not likely be imperiled by the threat of vandalism, collecting, or other human activities. Section 7(a)(2) of the Act requires Federal agencies to insure that their actions are not likely to destroy or adversely modify critical habitat, or jeopardize the continued existence of a listed species. On lands subject to Federal funding, authorization, or licensing, critical habitat would provide an added benefit to the conservation of these species. The populations of L. gracilis ssp. parishii and D. concolor var. brevior on land owned by the Cuyamaca Recreation and Park District, land subject to funding through the National Park Service and the five populations of L. gracilis ssp. parishii on National Forest land would receive this added benefit from critical habitat designation. On non-federal land, additional protection may be provided as a result of the increased public awareness afforded by the critical habitat designation. In addition, the designation of critical habitat could be useful for State landowners and local regulatory agencies to identify areas of special concern and to establish priorities for land management and acquisition. Designation of critical habitat would be likely to result in more attention and hence protection by the State and county agencies (J. Shu, pers. comm., 1994). Section 4(b)(2) of the Act requires the Service to consider economic and other impacts of designating a particular area as critical habitat. The Service must evaluate the effects of activities that occur within the ranges of these plants, and gather data on precise habitat requirements and ownership boundaries in order to precisely define the critical habitat of these two plant taxa. In addition, the Service must analyze the economics impacts that could result from the designation of particular areas as critical habitat. Designation of critical habitat for Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii and Downingia concolor var. brevior is currently not determinable due to the need for this type of information. A proposal to designate critical habitat at this time would delay this proposed rule to list the species as threatened or endangered. The Service finds that a prompt determination of endangered or threatened status for these species is essential to ensure the full benefits of conservation measures under the Act. The Service intends to propose a critical habitat designation at a later date. After receiving additional information, the Service may determine that designation of critical habitat is not prudent for L. gracilis ssp. parishii or D. concolor var. brevior. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain practices. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(4) requires Federal agencies to confer informally with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a proposed species or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a species is listed subsequently, section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service.
