FR940112-0-00046 FR940112-0-00016 Schlagenhauf noted with approval the discussion of the ``good cause'' requirement in Guilford National Bank v. Southern R. Co., 297 F.2d 921, 924 (4th Cir. 1962). In Guilford , the court stated that ``the Rules indicate that there must be a greater showing of need under Rules 34 and 35 than under the other discovery rules,'' and that the requirement would be ``meaningless'' if it could be established by ``merely'' showing that the information sought is relevant. Guilford , 297 F.2d at 924. Although the Guilford court discussed the ``good cause'' requirement in the context of the plaintiff's Rule 34 request for production of documents (which the court denied), it stated the policy reason for imposing the ``good cause'' requirement of Rule 35: ``the invasion of an individual's privacy by a physical or mental examination is so serious that a strict standard of good cause, supervised by the district courts, is manifestly appropriate.'' Id. The court further stated, ``[R]elevancy is not the equivalent of good cause *␣*␣*.'' Guilford , 297 F.2d at 925. Other precedents establish that ``The ability of the movant to obtain the desired information by other means is also relevant'' to the determination of whether good cause is shown. Schlagenhauf , 379 U.S. at 118. This principle has been applied in several subsequent reported decisions. In Anson, 110 F.R.D. at 186, a traffic accident case, the court considered the fact that the defendants had utilized other discovery procedures before seeking a mental examination of the plaintiff. In ordering a mental examination of the plaintiff, Anson considered the defendant's attempts first to obtain information through alternative means such as submitting the plaintiff's medical records to the defendants' own expert for analysis. Other tort cases have recognized that where medical reports are provided, good cause may no longer exist for ordering a mental examination. See Hughes v. Groves , 47 F.R.D. 52, 57 (1969); Petition of Trinidad Corp. , 238 F. Supp. 928, 935 (1965). This principle has been applied as well in cases where the plaintiff seeks a mental examination of the defendant. For example, in Marroni v. Matey , 82 F.R.D. 371 (1979), a tort case involving a child injured in a boating accident, the plaintiff requested a psychological exam of the defendant boat operator to show that he was incapable of properly operating it and understanding safety rules. The court denied the request holding that the plaintiff first had to utilize less intrusive methods of discovery to attempt to obtain the desired information. Marroni , 82 F.R.D. at 372. 2. Application of Rule 35 Standard to Fair Housing Cases Two recent Federal Administrative decisions, HUD v. Ocean Sands, Inc. , HUDALJ 04&hyph;90&hyph;0231&hyph;1, Order (April 20, 1993); HUD v. Ocean Parks Jupiter Condominium Association, Inc. , HUDALJ 04&hyph;90&hyph;0589&hyph;1 and 04&hyph;90&hyph;0604&hyph;1, Order Denying Motion for Protective Order (December 8, 1992), appear to set a standard under which a defendant may obtain a mental examination of an aggrieved person simply because damages for emotional distress are being sought. The Secretary believes such a standard is inappropriate in fair housing cases. Rather, as provided for in this revised rule, fair housing cases are governed by a more restrictive standard, consistent with the standards that have been applied in other civil rights contexts. The Department, following the lead of courts, has commonly relied on civil rights cases in other contexts, especially employment discrimination precedents, for guidance in housing discrimination cases under the Fair Housing Act. See, e.g., Huntington Branch, N.A.A.C.P. v. Town of Huntington , 844 F.2d 926, 935 (2d Cir.), aff'd, 488 U.S. 15 (1988); HUD v. Blackwell , Fair Housing-Fair Lending (P&hyph;H) para. 25,001 at 25,005 (1989). This rule furthers that practice by looking to Federal court precedents construing Rule 35 to allow such examinations only in limited circumstances. Under the revised standard, the fact that the Secretary, on behalf of an aggrieved person, or an intervening aggrieved person, may request a large amount of monetary relief and/or significant relief for emotional distress, would not support an order requiring the aggrieved person to submit to a mental examination. Rather, the Department adopts a standard consistent with Rule 35 which requires that the moving party demonstrate that the aggrieved person's mental condition is ``in controversy'' and that ``good cause'' exists. a. Application of ``In Controversy'' Requirement The Department believes that a claim of emotional distress is different from putting mental condition ``in controversy.'' See Cody , 103 F.R.D. at 422 n.2. Rather, the Department adopts the two factors cited in Cody , to distinguish circumstances in which the ``in controversy'' requirement is met from those in which the requirement is not met, where the respondent is seeking a mental examination of an aggrieved person. In general, unless one or more of these factors is met, an aggrieved person should not be ordered to undergo a mental examination. The first factor that the Department will apply is whether the plaintiff has made ``a claim of a psychiatric disorder requiring psychiatric or psychological counseling'' or ``a claim of emotional distress.'' See Cody , 103 F.R.D. at 423. Generally, in the former circumstance, the ``in controversy'' requirement would be met, while in the latter circumstance it would not be met. The second factor that the Department will apply under the revised standard is whether the aggrieved person intends to introduce at hearing the expert testimony of a psychiatrist or psychologist to support a claim of mental or emotional injury. See Cody , 103 F.R.D. at 423. In general, if so, the ``in controversy'' requirement will be met but if not, the ``in controversy'' requirement will not be met. b. Application of ``Good Cause'' Requirement In determining whether the second requirement, ``good cause'' is met, the Department will require more than mere relevancy. Instead, where there is a claim of mental or emotional distress, the Department will consider whether the respondents have had and exercised the opportunity to obtain and present information about an aggrieved person's mental or emotional state through other less intrusive means. These alternatives may, in appropriate circumstances, include deposing the aggrieved person in advance of trial as to his or her injuries, using direct or cross examination of the aggrieved person at hearing as to such injuries, interrogatories, requests for production of documents, and, where aggrieved persons have consulted psychiatrists or psychologists, evaluation of those records by respondents' own experts. See Schlagenhauf , 379 U.S. at 118; Hughes, supra; Petition of Trinidad Corp., supra; Anson , 103 F.R.D. at 186. Where a mental examination is requested, the burden shall be on the moving party to establish why these alternative methods have not been used, or where used, why these alternative methods have proven insufficient.
