FR940526-2-00112 FR940526-2-00063 5.2.3.2␣Impact of Road Surface upon Fuel Performance For its analysis, Runzheimer assumed that federally controlled roadways are typically composed of concrete and/or high-load asphalt and that locally controlled roadways are typically composed of low-load asphalt. EPA's research indicates that cars are generally more fuel-efficient on the firmer, high-load surfaces than on the softer, low-load surfaces. Although traffic patterns and road usage certainly vary among areas, Runzheimer could find no relevant studies of these issues. Therefore, Runzheimer assumed that federally controlled roadways generally support twice the traffic of or are used at least twice as much as locally controlled roadways. In each allowance area, Runzheimer researched the total mileage falling into either the federal or local categories. For example, Hawaii contains 1,456 miles of federally controlled roads and 2,606 miles of locally controlled roads. The usage assumption allowed Runzheimer to increase federal road mileage by a factor of two. Runzheimer applied the average low-load asphalt factor (which reflects dry, wet, and snowy conditions) to the local mileage percentage and the average concrete and/or high-load asphalt factor to the federal mileage percentage to create a weighted average factor for each area. The weighted factor for the allowance areas surveyed was 0.98. The Washington, D.C., area was assigned a factor of 1.00 on the premise that the vast majority of traffic in that area travels on dry, high-load surfaces. (See section 5.2.3.4 for application of this factor in estimating overall MPG.) 5.2.3.3␣Impact of Gradient upon Fuel Performance Runzheimer consulted EPA's Passenger Car Fuel Economy: EPA and Road to determine the effect of local topography (i.e. gradient) upon fuel efficiency. EPA provides mileage factors based upon various gradients ranging from less than 0.5% (essentially flat) to greater than 6% (steep). Runzheimer reviewed the topographic features of each area and found a wide range of road conditions. However, Runzheimer was unable to find information on the types of terrain drivers typically encounter in each area or the number of miles drivers travel in each type of terrain. Lacking such information, Runzheimer assumed that drivers in the allowance areas generally travel roads having approximately the same gradients that are found on average in the United States. Applying the information from EPA's research, Runzheimer computed a fuel-performance factor of 0.981 for this type of driving. This factor was assigned to each allowance area. Runzheimer assigned a factor of 1.00 to the Washington, D.C., area on the premise that the vast majority of traffic in that area travels on major freeways and highways that are relatively flat. (See section 5.2.3.4 for application of this factor in estimating overall fuel efficiency.) 5.2.3.4␣Overall Impact upon Fuel Performance Runzheimer applied the results of the analyses described above to ``localize'' or make geographically sensitive adjustments to the EPA average ratings and establish reasonable fuel-performance ratings for each allowance area. In the table below, the factor 1.00 means that no adjustment to EPA fuel performance is appropriate. A factor of less than 1.00 means that the estimated gasoline mileage in the area is less than the EPA average. For example, the total adjustment factor for Guam is 0.95. This means that the estimated gasoline mileage in Guam is 95% of the EPA estimated average. Note that the adjustment factor for the Washington, D.C., area (0.94) indicates that average gasoline mileage in that area is below the EPA estimate also. Summary of Fuel-Performance Adjustments 1Location 1Temperature 1Road Surface 1Gradient 1Total Hawaii 0.99 0.98 0.98 0.95 Guam .99 .98 .98 .95 Puerto Rico 1.01 .98 .98 .97 Virgin Islands 1.01 .98 .98 .97 Washington, D.C .94 1.00 1.00 .94 Note: These adjustments compound. That is, the Total adjustment is the result of multiplying the three individual factors together for each location/area.
