FR940406-0-00153 FR940406-0-00011 (ii) If the distance from the emission laboratory to the test track is less than 5 miles (8.05 km) the vehicle may be driven to the test track at a speed not to exceed 25 mph. If the distance is greater than 5 miles (8.05 km) the vehicle shall be moved to the test track with the engine off. (iii) Except with the advance approval of the Administrator, the number of UDDSs required to consume 85 percent of tank fuel capacity (total capacity of both tanks when the vehicle is equipped with dual fuel tanks) shall be determined from the fuel economy on the UDDS applicable to the test vehicle and from the number of gallons to the nearest 0.1 gallon (0.38 liter) that constitutes 85 percent of tank volume. If this ``fuel consumed point'' occurs partway through a UDDS cycle, the cycle shall be completed in its entirety. (iv) The vehicle shall be driven at a speed not to exceed 25 mph from the test track to the laboratory provided the distance from the test track to the laboratory does not exceed 5 miles (8.05 km). If the distance from the test track to the emission laboratory is greater than 5 miles (8.05 km) the vehicle shall be moved from the test track with the engine off. (v) For vehicles equipped with dual fuel tanks, fuel switching from the first tank to the second tank shall occur at the 10 percent volume of the first tank regardless of the point in the UDDS cycle at which this occurs. (vi) If necessary to accommodate work schedules, the engine may be turned off and the vehicle parked on the test track. The vehicle may be parked off of the test track to facilitate maintenance or repairs if required. If the vehicle is moved from the test track, it shall be returned to the track with the engine off when mileage accumulation is to be resumed. (3) Drive schedule for partial refueling test. The Administrator may conduct a partial refueling test involving a shortening of the drive procedures described in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section and a modified soak and refueling procedure as described in paragraph (e) of this section and §86.154&hyph;98(e)(7)(i). The drive shall be performed as described in paragraph (d) (1) or (2) of this section except that the drive shall be terminated when at least 10 percent but no more than 85 percent of the fuel tank nominal capacity has been consumed and not partway through a UDDS cycle. The amount of fuel consumed in the drive shall be determined by multiplying the number of UDDSs driven by the mileage accumulated per UDDS and dividing by the fuel economy for the UDDS applicable to the test vehicle. (e) Vehicle cool down_ (1) Partial refueling test. If the Administrator is conducting the non-integrated system partial refueling test, after the driving procedure specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the vehicle shall be parked (without starting the engine) and soaked at 80 # 3 ○F (27 # 1.7 ○C) for a minimum of 1 hour and a maximum of 6 hours. (2) For all other refueling emission tests. Within 10 minutes of completion of refueling emissions canister stabilization (see paragraph (c) or (d) of this section), the refueling emissions canister(s) shall be disconnected. Within 60 minutes of completion of refueling emissions canister stabilization (see paragraph (c) or (d) of this section), the vehicle fuel tank(s) shall be drained, the fuel tank(s) fueled to 10 percent of nominal tank capacity determined to the nearest one-tenth of a U.S. gallon (0.38 liter) with the specified fuel, and the vehicle parked (without starting the engine) and soaked at 80 # 3 ○F (27 # 1.7 ○C) for a minimum of 6 hours and a maximum of 24 hours.
