FR941202-1-00028 FR941202-1-00004 Special Transition Rule for Previously-Approved Plans The proposed amendments modify §1.162&hyph;27(h)(3)(i) to clarify that, in order for a plan to qualify under the special transition rule for previously-approved plans, the disinterested directors need only administer the plan (and need not also establish it). Reliance Period for Special Transition Rule for Previously-Approved Plans Section 1.162&hyph;27(h)(3)(ii) provides that the reliance period that applies to the transition rule for previously-approved plans under §1.162&hyph;27(h)(3)(i) ends upon the earliest of the expiration or material modification of the plan or agreement, the issuance of all employer stock or other compensation that has been allocated under the plan, or the first meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected that occurs after December 31, 1996. Questions have been raised as to whether, under this provision, and under the example provided, the deductions attributable to stock options, stock appreciation rights, and restricted property must be taken within the paragraph (h)(3)(ii) reliance period in order to take advantage of the transition relief. This was not the intention of the IRS or Treasury. Accordingly, this provision and the related example are amended to provide that stock options, stock appreciation rights, and restricted property need only be granted before the end of the reliance period. Proposed Effective Date Except as otherwise provided, these amendments are proposed to be effective for any payment that would be deductible for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1994. Later effective dates are proposed for several of the amendments under §1.162&hyph;27(i)(2). Special Analysis It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Comments and Requests for Public Hearing Before adopting these amendments to the proposed regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments that are submitted timely (preferably 8 copies) to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying. A public hearing may be held upon written request to the Commissioner by any person who has submitted written comments. If a public hearing is held, notice of the time and place will be published in the Federal Register . Drafting information The principal authors of the amendments to the proposed regulations are Charles T. Deliee and Robert Misner, Office of the Associate Chief Counsel (Employee Benefits and Exempt Organizations), IRS. However, other personnel from IRS and the Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Amendments to the Proposed Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 1 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority for part 1 continues to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣* Par. 2. Section 1.162&hyph;27, as proposed to be added on December 20, 1993 at 58 FR 66313, is amended as follows: 1. Paragraph (c)(1)(ii) is amended by adding two sentences after the first sentence. 2. Paragraph (c)(4) is revised. 3. Paragraph (e)(2) is amended as follows: a. In paragraph (e)(2)(i), the second sentence is removed and two new sentences are added in its place. b. Paragraph (e)(2)(iii) is amended as follows: i. A new sentence is added at the end of paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(A). ii. Paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(B) is revised. iii. Paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(C) is added. c. Paragraphs (e)(2)(iv) and (v) are revised.
