FR941107-2-00106 FR941107-2-00054 DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner [Docket No. D&hyph;94&hyph;1078; FR&hyph;3812&hyph;D&hyph;01] Redelegation and Designation of Authority agency: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner. action: Notice of redelegation an designation of authority. summary: This notice redelegates authority from the Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner to the Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Single Family Housing, who retains and redelegates this authority to the Director, Officer of Insured Single Family Housing, who retains and redelegates it to the Deputy Director, Office of Insured Single Family Housing, who retains and redelegates it to the Director, Single Family Servicing Division, who retains and redelegates it to O. Thomas Miles, William C. Ingleton, Richard E. Harrington, Mary Louis Hinchey, and James Sorrentino. Each of the named positions and individuals is redelegated the authority to sign limited powers of attorney whereby, in each case, they grant on behalf of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), to a specified party, the power and authority to carry out certain functions on behalf of HUD pertaining to the sale and assignment of a mortgage by HUD. effective date: October 26, 1994. for further information contact: Joseph C. Bates, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW, room 9178, Washington, DC 20410, telephone (202) 708&hyph;3680. A telecommunications device for the hearing-impaired (TDD) is available at 202&hyph;708&hyph;4594. [These are not toll-free numbers.] supplementary information: On occasion, HUD sells Secretary-held single family mortgages that it has acquired pursuant to various statutes and regulations. When a mortgage is sold by HUD, the mortgage must be assigned to the purchaser and the assignment must be recorded in one of the approximately 650 jurisdictions throughout the country where the sale has taken place. In addition, there are other responsibilities which must be carried out on behalf of HUD. HUD needs assistance in carrying out these functions incident to each mortgage sale. To obtain such assistance, HUD provides individuals, corporations and other entities throughout the country with limited powers of attorney so that they may execute and record each assignment on behalf of HUD, and engage in other responsibilities as specified. Accordingly, the Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner redelegates authority as follows: Section A. Authority Redelegated The Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Single Family Housing is redelegated the power and authority to grant in writing to individuals, corporations or other entities the limited power of attorney to act on HUD's behalf, in signing documents and carrying out other duties as described in the limited power of attorney, relating to the sale of Secretary-held single family mortgages from HUD to those person(s) or other entities listed in the limited power of attorney. The Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary for Single Family Housing retains this power and authority, and redelegates it to the director, Office of Insured Single Family Housing, who retains and redelegates it to the Deputy Director, Office of Insured Single Family Housing, who retains and redelegates it to the Director, Single Family Servicing Division, who retains and redelegates it to O. Thomas Miles, William C. Ingleton, Richard E. Harrington, Mary Louis Hinchey, and James Sorrentino. Section B. No Authority To Redelegate The authority granted pursuant to Section A., above, may not be further redelegated pursuant to this redelegation. Authority: Sec. 7(d), Department of Housing and Urban Development Act [42 U.S.C. 3535(d)]. Dated: October 26, 1994. Nicolas P. Retsinas, Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27530 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;M
