FR941027-2-00043 FR941027-2-00027 Record access procedures: Same as above. Contesting record procedures: Same as above. Record source categories: Complainants, respondents, third parties who have been requested, or subpoenaed, to produce relevant information, and the Federal Election Commission. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: With respect to open investigations, the system is exempt pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2). See 11 CFR 1.14. FEC 4 System name: Mailing Lists. System location: Federal Election Commission, Washington, DC 20463. Categories of individuals covered by the system: (a) Individuals and institutions who have requested a subscription to the Record . (b) Individuals who have requested FEC publications. (c) State and local election officials interested in keeping informed of developments. (d) Reporters who request releases; media added by the Press Office. Categories of records in the system: (a) Lists of names, addresses, principal areas of interest. (b) List of names, addresses and subjects of interest to the requestor. (c) List of names, addresses, duties and jurisdictions. (d) Computer listings. Authority for maintenance of the system: 2 U.S.C. 438(a) for all categories. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: (a) Distribution of monthly newsletter, the Record , to subscribers. (b) To forward new publications and other informational materials to persons who have expressed an interest in the subject matter. (c) To distribute publications and other materials of interest to those who administer the election law of the states. (d) To mail press releases. Routine use for disclosure to the Department of Justice for use in litigation: It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such reports by the Department of Justice is deemed by the Federal Election Commission to be relevant and necessary to the litigation provided, however, that in each case the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Routine use for Agency disclosure in litigation: It shall be a routine use of records maintained by this agency to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency, or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the Federal Election Commission determines that, on a case-by-case basis, use of such records is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that the agency determines that disclosure of the records is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Politics and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Computerized for all categories. Retrievability: (a) Name or identification numbers.
