FR941205-1-00013 FR941205-1-00003 The OTS intends to continue to use net income to date during the calendar year plus 50 percent of surplus capital above the adequately capitalized level as the general rule of thumb for determining the permissible amount of a capital distribution. Under the proposal, however, this limit would no longer be prescribed by regulation. The effect of its removal from regulatory language would be that institutions not in a holding company structure with composite ratings of 1 or 2 could make capital distributions that exceeded the limit without any notice to the OTS. The OTS invites comment on whether it would be preferable to retain a notice requirement for all capital distributions above the amount described by the general rule of thumb regardless of an institution's CAMEL rating. Commenters are also invited to address and suggest alternatives to the computation that OTS uses to determine the permissible amount of a capital distribution. Finally, the proposal would explicitly reserve the OTS's authority to prohibit any capital distribution that it determines would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice. Comment Solicitation In addition to the specific requests for comment that appear above, the OTS solicits comment on all aspects of the proposal. Executive Order 12866 The Director of the OTS has determined that this regulation does not constitute a significant regulatory action for purposes of Executive Order 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the Office certifies that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This regulation merely conforms the capital distribution regulation to standards already in place for all institutions as a result of PCA. Paperwork Reduction Act The reporting requirements contained in this proposed rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)). Comments on the collections of information should be sent to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1550), Washington, DC 20503 with copies to the Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street NW., Washington, DC 20552.
