FR941004-0-00045 FR941004-0-00018 11. The new rule's requirement that investors take only passive interest also provides more assurance that the minority and women principals maintain control of their companies. As a result, we reduce the opportunity for fronts and help ensure that only bona fide designated entities will be able to take advantage of the 40 percent bidding credit and installment payments offered in the regional narrowband auctions. 12. In addition, we believe that modifying the definition in this manner provides consistency with the definition of a small business adopted in the Third Memorandum Opinion and Order , which also uses a ``control group'' approach. Thus, businesses will not have to satisfy disparate rules regarding levels of equity investment to receive both bidding credits and the installment payment option available to small businesses. 13. Although not explicitly stated in the Third Memorandum Opinion and Order, we also clarify here that we are departing from the provision in the Second Report and Order that bars publicly traded companies from qualifying as minority and women-owned businesses. This prohibition was based on our assumption that companies traded on the public market would not require government-sponsored measures to succeed in spectrum auctions. The high prices paid for the nationwide narrowband PCS licenses in the auction held in July 1994 has led us to conclude, however, that even publicly traded companies owned by women and minorities will require bidding credits and installment payments to participate successfully in the regional auction. We recognized these increased capital requirements in the Third Memorandum Opinion and Order by raising significantly the financial thresholds for qualifying for small business installment payments. The same rationale applies to our decision here to give publicly traded minority and women-owned applicants government assistance in the form of bidding credits and installment payments. We emphasize, however, that these companies must comply with the control group and equity investment requirements set out above and in our rules. 14. Finally, we do not intend to suggest that by clarifying this rule change here we have reached a decision regarding the designated entity issues raised by petitioners in the broadband PCS auction proceeding. After further analysis of those petitions, it is possible that we will make additional adjustments to our rules with regard to broadband PCS. In addition, if those changes loosen the restrictions on designated entities, we may decide to apply them to designated entity licensees in the regional narrowband service. III. Conclusion 15. Accordingly, it is ordered That Part 24 of the Commission's Rules is amended as set forth below. 16. It is further ordered That the rules changes made herein will become effective 30 days after their publication in the Federal Register . This action is taken pursuant to Sections 4(i), 303(r) and 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §§154(i), 303(r) and 309(j). List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 24 Communications common carriers, Communications equipment, Competitive bidding, Radio, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
