FR940119-2-00105 FR940119-2-00070 3. A detailed description of any changes or modifications in the plan that were made or proposed to be made in the project during the report period, the warrants for the changes, and the expected results of the changes; 4. If an interim report, a summary of the trends, both short term and long term, and results to date of the testing and evaluation program; and 5. If a final report, a detailed summary of the results of the tests and evaluations and the conclusions drawn from the project, including the long term prospects of the technology, the intended use of the results, and the technology transfer plans to be implemented by the agency conducting the project and those recommended for execution by the FHWA and others. Technology Transfer A discussion of the plans for use of the information derived from the project must be included in the proposal. Plans for the implementation of new technologies resulting from the experiment must include a discussion of the intended development of specifications, reports, technical papers, training courses, conferences, demonstrations, or other means of disseminating the useful results throughout the transportation community. Selection Criteria Evaluation plans for the proposed T&E projects prepared by HITEC and submitted to the FHWA for funding under the ART Program will be reviewed annually on a fiscal year basis. Selection will be based on specific characteristics of the projects as presented in the proposals. The selection criteria to be used by the FHWA in evaluating and rating proposals are listed below in descending order of priority: 1. Applicability of the proposed project to the categories of general technologies. Does the project specifically address one or more of the general categories of technologies covered in the legislation and discussed above in these guidelines? 2. Timeliness of the proposed project as a part of an approved and funded construction project of new construction, rehabilitation, upgrading, or replacement. Does the proposed project fit into an activity that has been approved and funded for early construction and that will likely proceed with or without the new technology component? Is the opportunity for the technology limited to the proposed project or are there frequent opportunities to fit the technology into similar projects? Are there unique characteristics of the project (such as location) that make it especially appropriate for testing and evaluating the proposed technology? 3. Clarity of focus and applicability of the new technology being evaluated to areas of need in the national transportation program. Does the proposed project clearly address a technology of recognized importance in the national transportation program? Does the proposed technology offer the potential for solving a major problem in current highway programs or systems (such as bridge deck deterioration, pavement failures, snow and ice control, or urban network capacity and safety)? 4. Level of funding to be provided by the applicant for the T&E project. While ART funds are available for up to 80 percent of the cost of construction of the T&E project and up to 100 percent of the testing, data collection, and reporting, extra consideration will be given to projects with higher-than-minimum levels of participation by the applicant agencies. Non-Federal funding may include, in addition to a monetary match, the furnishing of materials and/or equipment, specially trained workers used in installing or performing the new technology, and other tangible contributions of goods or labor specifically related to the project. 5. Appropriateness of the costs and budget for the project to the potential return on investment in terms of future increases in safety, serviceability, productivity, durability, economy, environmental quality, and other benefits to the national transportation systems. What is the anticipated cost-benefit ratio for the proposed project? What are the potential benefits to the nation's transportation system of the new technology, if successful, in terms of direct cost savings in construction and/or operations or indirect savings through improved safety, efficiency, capacity, or other relevant characteristics? 6. Completeness and technical quality of the project plan and design. The caliber of the plan as a well-designed project will be assessed. Are the objectives of the project well defined? Are they specific, realistic, and achievable? Do the steps in the plan focus on those objectives? Are the installation and evaluation procedures, including instrumentation and data collection, carefully planned and described? Is the proposed plan statistically sound? Have the relevant variables been accommodated in the plan? 7. Suitability of the proposed project location(s) for providing the needed environmental and operational conditions for the evaluation of the technology being studied, the required geographic diversity of locations, and the convenience and accessibility of the proposed site(s). Is the proposed site for the project suitable to the needs of the technology and practical for performance of the observations and data collection? 8. Quality, clarity, comprehensiveness, and applicability of the proposed technology transfer program. The plan for the use of the results must be included in the evaluation of the proposal. That plan must address the following issues: How are the results of the technology to be used at the completion of the project, if successful? If unsuccessful? What technology transfer procedures will be followed for implementation of the new technology in the applicant's agency and nationally? Post Selection On a fiscal year basis, the FHWA will announce the selection of approved T&E projects for funding under the ART Program from the candidates submitted by HITEC. This will take place early in the first quarter of each fiscal year. The FHWA will notify the States of the approved project(s) and the funding amount(s). The States will be requested to develop Plans, Specifications, and Estimates (PS&E) for the construction of the projects. Allocation of Federal funds for construction will be based on the approved PS&E. Funding of the approved projects will be through the normal Federal-aid procedures with the selected States and funding will be processed through the FHWA field offices. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1212 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;P
