FR940414-2-00084 FR940414-2-00062 Changes characterized as less restrictive have been subdivided into four additional subcategories. They include: (A) Relocating details to TS Bases, the Updated Safety Analysis Report (USAR), or procedures. The requirements to be transposed from the TS to the Bases, USAR or procedures are the same as those currently included in the existing TS. The TS Bases, USAR and procedures containing the relocated information are subject to 10 CFR 50.59 and are subject to the change control provisions in the Administrative Controls section of the TS. (B) Extension of instrumentation surveillance test intervals and allowed outage times. The proposed changes affect only the STIs and AOTs and will not impact the function of monitoring system variables over the anticipated ranges for normal operation, anticipated operational occurrences, or accident conditions. However, the changes are expected to reduce the test related plant scrams and test induced wear on the equipment. General Electric Topical Reports GENE&hyph;770&hyph;06&hyph;1 and GENE&hyph;770&hyph;06&hyph;2 showed that the effects of these extensions of STIs and AOTs, which produced negligible impact, are bounded by previous analyses. Further, the NRC has reviewed these reports and approved the conclusions on a generic basis. (C) Relocation of instrumentation only requirements (which provide no post-accident function). These requirements are part of routine operational monitoring and are not considered in the safety analysis. Changes made to the Bases, USAR and procedures containing the relocated information will be made in accordance with 10 CFR 50.59 and are subject to the change control provisions in the Administrative Controls section of the TS. These proposed changes will not impose or eliminate any requirements. (D) Other less restrictive changes. Additional changes that result in less restrictions in the TS are discussed individually in the licensee's submittal. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. By May 16, 1994, the licensee may file a request for a hearing with respect to issuance of the amendment to the subject facility operating license and any person whose interest may be affected by this proceeding and who wishes to participate as a party in the proceeding must file a written request for a hearing and a petition for leave to intervene. Requests for a hearing and petitions for leave to intervene shall be filed in accordance with the Commission's ``Rules of Practice for Domestic Licensing Proceedings'' in 10 CFR part 2. Interested persons should consult a current copy of 10 CFR 2.714, which is available at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555 and at the local public document room located at the Vespasian Warner Public Libary, 120 West Johnson Street, Clinton, Illinois 61727. If a request for a hearing or petition for leave to intervene is filed by the above date, the Commission or an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board, designated by the Commission or by the Chairman of the Atomic Safety and Licensing Board Panel, will rule on the request and/or petition, and the Secretary or the designated Atomic Safety and Licensing Board will issue a notice of hearing or an appropriate order. As required by 10 CFR 2.714, a petition for leave to intervene shall set forth with particularity the interest of the petitioner in the proceeding, and how that interest may be affected by the results of the proceeding. The petition should specifically explain the reasons why intervention should be permitted with particular reference to the following factors: (1) The nature of the petitioner's right under the Act to be made a party to the proceeding; (2) the nature and extent of the petitioner's property, financial, or other interest in the proceeding; and (3) the possible effect of any order which may be entered in the proceeding on the petitioner's interest. The petition should also identify the specific aspect(s) of the subject matter of the proceeding as to which petitioner wishes to intervene. Any person who has filed a petition for leave to intervene or who has been admitted as a party may amend the petition without requesting leave of the Board up to fifteen (15) days prior to the first prehearing conference schedule in the proceeding, but such an amended petition must satisfy the specificity requirements described above.
