FR940819-0-00114 FR940819-0-00020 (1) The amendments to §40.23(a) are effective February 16, 1995, but compliance with these amendments is authorized on August 19, 1994; (2) The amendments to §§40.25(f)(10)(ii) (B) and (C) and 40.29(b)(1) are effective August 15, 1994; (3) The amendments to §40.29 (e) and (f) are effective September 1, 1994; and (4) The amendments to §40.25 (c) and (h) are effective on August 19, 1994. Comments should be received by September 19, 1994, except that comments on the amendment to §40.23 should be received by October 18, 1994. Late-filed comments will be considered to the extent practicable. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert C. Ashby, Deputy Assistant General Counsel for Regulation and Enforcement, 400 7th Street, S.W., Room 10424. 202&hyph;366&hyph;9306. Information may also be obtained from the Office of Drug Enforcement and Program Compliance, 202&hyph;366&hyph;3784. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department is publishing this final rule to make several minor or technical amendments to its drug and alcohol testing procedures, 49 CFR Part 40. The changes to Part 40 are described below. The changes are intended, among other things, to conform Part 40 to a number of provisions in the recently revised Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) guidelines (59 FR 29908; June 9, 1994) and to correct a misinterpretation of the Department's chain of custody requirements. The Department is seeking comments on these amendments and will publish a notice in the Federal Register responding to comments received including, if appropriate, any changes to the amendments based on the comments. The Drug Testing Custody and Control Form As the result of a lengthy process of consultation among the Department of Transportation, the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), and other interested parties, the Department has made modifications to the drug testing custody and control form. This form will be used in Federal employee testing as well as testing under DOT rules. The form is reproduced in Appendix A. OMB has approved the form under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Under the current rule, program participants have had the discretion to modify the drug testing custody and control form, as long as the contents of the form met the requirements of the regulatory text describing the form in §40.23(a). In the Department's experience, this has led to a proliferation of different forms, with consequent confusion and increased probability of error. In the alcohol testing procedures, we required employers to use the Department's alcohol testing form without modification. Now that we have an improved drug testing custody and control form, we believe that it should be used universally in the program, without exception and without modification. For this reason, we are amending §40.23 to delete the regulatory text description of the form (which is no longer needed, since everyone would be using exactly the form printed in Appendix A) and to require participants in the program to use the Department's form without modification. We recognize that participants have stocks of existing forms. To provide participants a reasonable time to exhaust these stocks and begin to obtain new forms, this amendment will not be made effective until February 16, 1995. In addition, we are providing 60 days for interested persons to comment on this amendment (i.e., on the requirement to use the form without modification, not on the content or format of the form itself). Employers and other participants are authorized to use the new form immediately. We believe it would be very useful for those employers who must begin split sample testing on August 15, 1994, to begin using the new form as soon as possible, since we believe the new form is better suited to split sample testing than its predecessors. We emphasize that seven-part forms must be used in all cases for split samples. Older seven-part split sample forms may continue to be used during the six month transition period (six-part forms may never be used in split sample testing). After that, the new seven-part form must be used. RSPA and Coast Guard employers who choose to use single sample collection may continue to use old six-part forms during the six month transition period, and thereafter must use the new form, discarding copy three. The Alcohol Testing Form and Log Book Currently, Copy 1 of the Alcohol Testing Form (the original) is designated as the breath alcohol technician's (BAT's) copy of the form, for which there is no record retention requirement stated. Copy 3 is designated the employer's copy, which the employer must retain. It makes more sense, in our view, for the original of the form to be retained by the employer, rather than a copy. Consequently, we are switching the form designations, so that Copy 1 will be the employer's copy and Copy 3 will be the BAT's copy. The statement to be signed by the employee in Step 4 of the form is reworded slightly to emphasize the employee's agreement that the test reflected on the form is the test that the employee took and that the result is recorded accurately.
