FR941012-0-00035 FR941012-0-00011 III. Basis for agency action A. Hazards B. Accident, injury and other data C. Need for agency action IV. Major Issues V. Summary and Explanation of the Final Standard VI. Regulatory Impact Analysis, Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, and Environmental Impact Assessment VII. References VIII. Statutory Considerations IX. Recordkeeping X. Federalism XI. State Plan Standards XII. Index Terms XIII. Authority and Signature XIV. Final Standard References to the rulemaking record are provided in the text of the preamble. References are identified as ``Ex.'' followed by a number to designate the reference in the rulemaking docket. For example, ``Ex. 1'' means exhibit one in the Docket S&hyph;048. Exhibit 1 is a copy of the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for Logging Operations that was published in the Federal Register on May 2, 1989 (54 FR 18798). References to the transcripts of the public hearings are given as ``Tr.'' followed by the location and page. The July 24, 1990, Washington, D.C., hearing transcript is identified as ``W1.'' The July 25, 1990, Washington, D.C., hearing transcript is identified as ``W2.'' The Oregon hearing transcript is designated as ``OR.'' A list of exhibits, copies of the exhibits and copies of the transcripts are available in the OSHA Docket Office, Room N&hyph;2625, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210, (202)&hyph;219&hyph;7894. I. Introduction The Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) is issuing a final standard detailing safety requirements for logging operations, regardless of the end use of the forest products (saw logs, veneer bolts, pulpwood, chips, etc.). Logging consists of felling trees (usually by chain saws), removing the limbs and branches (limbing), and cutting or splitting the trees into manageable logs (bucking). Trees and logs are then moved (yarding) to central locations (landings) by one of several methods (e.g., skidding or forwarding). In relatively flat terrain, logs are hooked to a tractor and dragged to the landing. When terrain is very steep or rough, logs may be transported by steel cables attached to a winching apparatus (cable yarder) via a system of cables, blocks, pulleys, and carriages (cable yarding). Then logs are partially suspended and dragged over the ground (high-lead yarding) or hoisted into the air and conveyed on overhead cables (sky-line yarding) to the landing. At the landing, logs are mechanically loaded onto trucks, railroad cars or barges for transport to sawmills. In some cases logs are formed into log rafts for transport by water to sawmills. Logging operations require employees to work in all types of weather, on all types of terrain and in isolated, remote locations. (Logging operations and regional characteristics are discussed in greater detail in the profile of the logging industry in the Regulatory Impact Analysis.) II. Regulatory History OSHA's existing pulpwood standard was adopted pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 (the OSH Act) (29 U.S.C. 655(a)). Section 6(a) permitted OSHA, within two years of the enactment of the OSH Act, to promulgate as OSHA standards any existing national consensus standard or established Federal standard. At that time, the only national consensus standard covering logging operations was the American National Standards Institute standard that was limited to pulpwood logging (ANSI O3.1&hyph;1971, Pulpwood Logging Safety Standard) (Ex 2&hyph;13). OSHA's pulpwood standard has remained virtually unchanged since it was first adopted.
