FR940119-1-00025 FR940119-1-00007 §292.43 Protection and preservation of cultural and paleontological resources. (a) Other Lands. The following standards and guidelines of this section apply to the protection and preservation of cultural and paleontological resources in the Other Lands category of the HCNRA: (1) The primary objective of managing cultural resources is the protection of the resource from damage or destruction. To the extent consistent with protection, cultural resources may also be managed for public education and enjoyment. (2) The Ranger shall establish priorities for management emphasis and protection of cultural resources based, in part, on whether the appropriate State Historic Preservation Office has concurred with the Forest Service's determination that a cultural resource is significant. (3) Significant cultural resources are to be protected on-site, unless the Ranger determines that off-site protection is preferable because the resource is already adequately represented and protected on-site elsewhere, is within Wilderness Lands, or for other good cause shown. Information about significant cultural resources shall be documented. (4) The primary objective of managing paleontological resources is for scientific study. Written authorization from the Ranger must be secured before paleontological resources can be disturbed or removed in conjunction with scientific study. (b) Wilderness Lands. The following standards and guidelines apply to the protection and preservation of cultural and paleontological resources in the Wilderness Lands category of the HCNRA: (1) The standards and guidelines for Other Lands in paragraph (a) of this section also apply to Wilderness Lands. (2) Public education and information activities concerning cultural resources on Wilderness Lands may not be offered or established inside Wilderness Lands. (3) New trails and relocations of existing trails may not be developed for the sole purpose of providing public access to cultural resource sites on Wilderness Lands. §292.44 Use of motorized and mechanical equipment. The standards and guidelines of this section apply to the use of motorized and mechanical equipment in the HCNRA. These standards and guidelines shall not be construed to impair or preclude the Forest Service's administration of the HCNRA; authorized scientific and other research activities within the HCNRA; timber harvesting, mining, or grazing activities as authorized in §§292.46&hyph;292.48 of this subpart; responses by the Forest Service or any other federal, state, or local agency to public health or safety emergencies; or access to private inholdings within the HCNRA. (a) Other Lands. The following standards and guidelines apply to the use of motorized and mechanical equipment in the Other Lands category of the HCNRA: (1) Motorized and mechanical equipment may be used on designated Forest Service access roads and existing airstrips subject to terms and conditions necessary for the safe use of such facilities.
