FR940512-0-00048 FR940512-0-00018 (4) The documentation that assures the Secretary that the amount of funds provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section will supplement and not supplant funds expended for State and local early intervention programs and State need- and non-need-based student financial grant and scholarship assistance expended during the fiscal year 2 years prior to the fiscal year in which the State first received funds under this program; and (5)(i) Proposed changes to the initial State plan that was approved by the Secretary, according to §693.10(b), for the review and approval of the Secretary; or (ii) If no changes to its initial plan are proposed, an assurance that the State will continue to operate its NEISP Program according to the existing State plan approved by the Secretary under §693.10(b). (b) The Secretary waives the requirement in §693.10(b)(5)(iv) and allows the State to exceed the 50 percent limit on expenditure of its Federal allotment for the early intervention component if the State can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the State has another adequate means to provide scholarships to eligible students under the NEISP Program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;22) (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1840&hyph;0677) Subpart C_How Does the Secretary Make a Grant to a State? §693.20 What criteria does the Secretary use to determine whether a State's proposed early intervention component meets the requirements under this program as a formula grant program? The Secretary uses the following criteria to determine whether a State's early intervention component proposed under §693.10(b)(3)(i) meets the requirements of §693.11: (a) Plan of operation. (1) The Secretary reviews each State's plan for information that shows the quality of the operating plan of the early intervention component. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) High quality in the design of the component; (ii) An effective plan of management that ensures proper and efficient administration of the component; (iii) A clear description of how the State's proposed early intervention component relates to the purpose of the program; (iv) The way that the State plans to use its resources and personnel to achieve the objectives of the component; (v) A clear description of the methods that the State will use to target early intervention services to priority students. The State must base the proposed methods on the latest available State data. The State may target services on priority students by__ (A) Elementary and secondary schools with high concentrations of priority students within the State; (B) Appropriate identifiable geographic areas such as counties or school districts (including both public and private schools) with high concentrations of priority students within the State; or (C) Other methods proposed by a State and approved by the Secretary; (vi) A clear description of the comprehensive long-term mentoring and advising that the State plans to provide to eligible students; and (vii) The extent to which other State grant funds are available to eligible NEISP students for postsecondary educational scholarships if the Federal scholarship component of the program is unfunded or reduced. (b) Quality of key personnel. (1) The Secretary reviews each State plan for information that shows the qualifications of the key personnel the State plans to use to administer its early intervention component. (2) The Secretary looks for information that shows_ (i) The qualifications of the director of the early intervention component; (ii) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used in the component; and (iii) The amount of time each person referred to in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section will spend working in the activities under this component. (3) To determine the qualifications of the key personnel, the Secretary considers evidence of past experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the early intervention component as well as other information the State provides.
