FR941220-2-00081 FR941220-2-00051 Internal Revenue Service Privacy Act of 1974, as Amended; System of Records AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service, Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed amendment to Privacy Act system of records. SUMMARY: The Treasury Department, Internal Revenue Service, gives notice of a proposed amendment to the system of records entitled Compliance Programs and Projects Files_Treasury/IRS 42.021, which is subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a. DATES: Comments must be received no later than January 19, 1995. This revised system of records will be effective January 30, 1995, unless comments are received which result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Office of Disclosure, Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC. 20224. Comments will be made available for inspection and copying in the Freedom of Information Reading Room, (202) 622&hyph;5164 upon request. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Larry Faulkner, Compliance 2000 Executive, (202) 622&hyph;6900. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Internal Revenue Service is redesigning business and work processes to improve the way we use technology to maximize the availability of information resources. This will require long-term, continuous improvement to product quality, productivity, and customer satisfaction. One of the strategies to implement this change is Compliance 2000. This is a mission-based philosophy of tax administration that emphasizes taxpayer education and assistance coupled with a more focused use of enforcement resources. Compliance 2000 will address making the tax system easier for taxpayers to comply voluntarily, yet recognizes that despite the Service's best efforts some people will not voluntarily respond. One goal of Compliance 2000 is to identify and address causes of noncompliance. This system presently includes records relating to information gathering to identify noncompliance with the Internal Revenue Code. Enhancements are being added to the system to enable the Internal Revenue Service to identify causes of noncompliance. These enhancements will be accomplished by use of an automated information system to form an integrated, on-line resource network. Instead of each function or level within a geographical area addressing isolated or systemic compliance or business issues on its own (National, Regional, District, or Service Center), we will approach business from a more unified perspective to provide one-stop information to compliance personnel within a local area and greatly reduce the need for separate contracts with outside sources. Data will be drawn from the Audit Information Management System (AIMS)_Treasury/IRS 42.008; the Individual Master File (IMF)_Treasury/IRS 24.030; the Business Master File (BMF)_Treasury/IRS 24.046; the Returns Compliance Programs File_Treasury/IRS 26.016; the Taxpayer Delinquent Accounts Files (TDA)_Treasury/IRS 26.019; Taxpayer Delinquency Investigation (TDI) Files_Treasury/IRS 26.020; Wage and Information Returns Processing (IRP) System_Treasury/IRS 22.061; the International Enforcement Program Files_Treasury/IRS 42.017; the Case Management and Time Reporting System_Treasury/IRS 46.002; and from the Centralized Evaluation and Processing of Information Items_Treasury/IRS 46.009. In addition, data will be drawn from other third party sources. As an example, these third party sources may include commercial sources, state and local agencies, construction contract information, license information from state and local agencies, Currency and Banking Reports (CBRS), data regarding assets and financial transactions from state and local agencies, and information on significant financial transactions from reviews of periodicals and local newspapers, and other media sources. The system of records notice is being amended to give a more definitive description of the records that are to be included in the system. This notice will also reflect the change to consolidate this new information within each geographical location and for on-line access to this information on a need-to-know basis. There will be additional authorized users within each local area network. Internal Revenue Service will develop and maintain database and retrieval systems accessed through automated local area networks. The purpose of these systems will be to combine information from sources inside and outside the IRS, such as motor vehicle data, business license data, currency and banking data (CBRS), commercial database information, into a centralized processing unit which will serve as a comprehensive compliance network for each district, service center, region, etc. These databases would be available for use by all IRS functions on a need-to-know basis. As an example, a database may be configured to identify a particular grouping or market segment of taxpayers and their assets in a more efficient and effective manner than is presently available. Previously this was not possible because of the format and configuration of the original databases. For example, in addition to taxpayer data from the system of records listed herein, this system may include on-line access to such information as the Currency and Banking Retrieval System (CBRS), any state's Department of Motor Vehicle (DMV), Credit Bureau information, real estate ownership information, and commercial databases.
