FR941213-2-00079 FR941213-2-00050 TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY Land Between The Lakes Natural Resources Management Plan, Lyon and Trigg Counties, Kentucky and Stewart County, Tennessee; Record of Decision AGENCY: Tennessee Valley Authority. ACTION: Issuance of Record of Decision. SUMMARY: This notice is provided in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act and ยง5.4.9 of TVA's implementing procedures, 48 FR 19264 (1983). TVA has decided to adopt the modified preferred alternative (Alternative E) identified in its ``Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on the Natural Resources Management Plan (NRMP) at Land Between The Lakes (LBL).'' The Final EIS was made available to the public on October 17, 1994. Under Alternative E (modified), natural resource management will be used to enhance recreation and environmental education, with emphasis on scenic beauty, sightseeing, wildlife viewing, and a more natural appearance of the forest. Multiple use of resources will be allowed, including hunting, fishing and timber harvesting. The final NRMP also identifies measures to integrate LBL's designation as a United Nations Man and the Biosphere Reserve into resource planning and management. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dale V. Wilhelm, Manager, National Environmental Policy Act, Environmental Management, Tennessee Valley Authority, 400 West Summit Hill Drive, WT 8C, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902&hyph;1499; telephone (615) 632&hyph;6693. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: LBL is a 170,000-acre tract of federal land in western Kentucky and Tennessee. It is located between Kentucky Reservoir and Lake Barkley. The area was established in 1963. TVA manages LBL to promote recreation and environmental education. Management of the area's natural resources is a very important element in the fulfillment of these goals. Natural resources which are managed include forests, open lands ( e.g., agricultural fields, wildlife openings), wildlife, and water. TVA first developed an NRMP in 1964 and subsequently revised it several times. The NRMP was last revised in 1985. Since then, a number of new resource management issues have arisen and there have been changes in public desires for resource management. In addition, LBL was designated an international biosphere reserve by the United Nations in 1991. The UN's biosphere reserve program identifies examples of the world's major managed and preserved ecosystems and emphasizes resource conservation and research at those areas. LBL was designated a UN biosphere reserve ``to provide a research demonstration of how preserved lands, managed lands, and man can coexist.'' To obtain the public's views on new resource issues and possible changes to the management plan, TVA decided to prepare an EIS in concert with its consideration of possible revisions to the NRMP. Following scoping, TVA released a draft EIS and NRMP on November 10, 1993. A public hearing was held on December 14, 1993, and a 60-day period was provided for receipt of written comments. TVA received approximately 2,900 letters and 64 statements were made at the public hearing. After considering all comments, TVA revised the EIS appropriately. The Final EIS was distributed to commenting agencies and the public on October 17, 1994. Alternatives Considered In light of LBL's broad goals, a number of management philosophies and plans could be implemented. Consequently, TVA purposefully formulated alternatives for the EIS that captured a reasonable range of appropriate management approaches. Certain of the alternatives were then modified, first in response to comments received during the scoping stage and then in response to comments received on the draft EIS. As presented in the Final EIS, the alternatives evaluated and considered included: Alternative A: No Action Under Alternative A, there would be no change in the basic management guidance provided by the 1985 Natural Resources Management Plan. Since 1985, there have been several modifications in management practices used at LBL as knowledge has improved and new management techniques were developed. These modifications will be formally incorporated into a revised NRMP. Aside from these modifications, choosing Alternative A would essentially mean taking no action because it represents current management objectives and guidelines for LBL's natural resources. The basic management approach for forest resources would continue commercial forest management (the removal and sale of merchantable timber) by even-aged management, including shelterwood and clearcut harvests. However, harvest levels would be substantially lower than annual growth, with a rotation age for hardwoods of 276 years. Approximately 13,150 acres would be designated as biosphere reserve core area. TVA would protect water resources through use of silvicultural and agricultural best management practices (BMPs), would manipulate water levels on selected interior ponds, and would construct artificial wetlands to benefit shorebirds and waterfowl. Alternative B: Emphasis on Wildlife Management for Game Species Even-aged forest management practices would continue to be used, including shelterwood and clearcut harvests but the volume of trees cut would be increased. Increasing even-aged practices would retard shade-tolerant hardwood encroachment into LBL's forests and maintain a higher proportion of oak-hickory forest types. Oak-hickory forests produce more mast (seeds and nuts such as acorns and hickory nuts) than other forest types. Increasing even-aged practices also would increase the amount of young plant growth and edge communities. Both changes would benefit wildlife, especially game species, and associated recreational activities such as hunting and wildlife viewing. Timber harvest levels would still be less than annual growth (less wood volume would be removed than grows each year). However, the rotation age for hardwoods would decrease to approximately 100 years. Biosphere reserve core areas would total 20,650 acres. Water resource and wetland management would be the same as in Alternative A.
