FR940602-2-00176 FR940602-2-00094 4. Give full and complete consideration to both appraisals. If the two appraisals disagree in value by more than 10 percent, ask the two appraisers to try and reconcile or reduce their differences. If the appraisers cannot agree, the Forest Supervisor will utilize either or both appraisals to determine the fee, unless a third appraisal is requested and accepted by the Supervisor. 5. When requested, seek a third appraisal. a. The cost shall be shared equally by the holder and the Forest Service. b. This appraisal must meet the same standards of the first and second appraisals. The Forest Supervisor has discretion to accept or reject the third appraisal. Forest Service Manual Chapter 2720_Special Uses Administration 2721.23e_Recreation Residence Continuance. See FSM 2347.1 for the general policy on recreation residence use. Follow the direction in this section and the procedures in section 41.23, FSH 2709.11 in determining whether recreation residence term permits may be issued for a new term at current sites. Exhibit 01, section 41.23c, FSH 2709.11, depicts the permit continuance process. The Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest plan) provides direction for continuance of the recreation residence use (FSM 1920). As Forest plans are revised, availability for recreation residence use shall be explicitly addressed in the plan through delineation of management areas and associated management area prescriptions (FSM 1920). Decisions to issue new recreation residence term permits following expiration of the current term permit require a determination of consistency with the current Forest plan. Make this determination by evaluating the extent to which continued recreation residence use adheres to the standards and guidelines which apply to the appropriate management area. Address continuation of recreation residence use on a tract or group of tracts basis, not on individual lots. 1. Use Is Consistent With Forest Plan. When recreation residence use is consistent with the Forest plan, it shall continue. If the use has been analyzed sufficiently as part of a EA or EIS completed within the 5 years prior to permit expiration, issue a new term permit upon expiration of the current term permit. Issue a record of decision or a decision notice and finding of no significant impact only if the use was not specifically approved in the appropriate decision document. If the use has changed and such change has not been analyzed sufficiently as part of a completed EA or EIS, complete the appropriate environmental analysis (FSH 1909.15). If the EA or EIS indicating the use is consistent with the Forest Plan was completed more than 5 years prior to permit expiration, additional environmental documentation is necessary (FSH 1909.15, sec. 18.03). Initiate action to issue a new term permit within 2 years prior to permit expiration. 2. Use May Not Be Consistent With Forest Plan. When the lands currently authorized for recreation residence use are allocated to alternative public uses through amendment or revision of the Forest Plan, and continued recreation residence use may be inconsistent with standards and guidelines which apply to the appropriate management area, the Forest Supervisor shall conduct a project analysis of the alternative public use(s) (FSH 1909.15). This project analysis shall consider continuation of existing recreation residence use through appropriate modification of the term permit provisions or amendment of the Forest plan to accommodate the use, or discontinuation of the use (See FSM 2347.1 for recreation residence use continuance). Decisions reached by the project analysis must comply with NEPA requirements and are subject to appeal under Department of Agriculture appeal regulations at 36 CFR part 215 and 36 CFR part 251, subpart C. a. If the project analysis results in a decision to amend the Forest plan so that the recreation residence use may continue, modify the provisions of the current term permits as appropriate. New term permits can be issued following current permit expiration. Additional environmental documentation may be necessary (FSH 1909.15). b. If the project analysis results in a decision to convert a lot to an alternative public use at some point in the future, grant the holder at least 10 years continued use from the date of the decision, unless the continued use conflicts with law and regulation, and identify the specific alternative public use(s) for which the land is being recovered. As provided by FSM 2347.1, the authorized officer may allow continued use of the lot until such time as conversion of the new use is ready to begin by issuing a new permit for the remaining period and amending the Forest plan if needed. c. Review the project analysis decision two years prior to permit expiration to determine if there have been any changes in resource conditions that require another look at the decision. If the decision was made less than 5 years prior to permit expiration and the review shows that conditions have not changed, implement the project analysis-based decision. Affirmation of such decision is not appealable (36 CFR 251.83). If the decision was made more than 5 years from permit expiration and/or review indicates that resource conditions have changed, update the analysis to determine the proper action. Decisions arising from this new analysis are appealable. 2721.23f_In-Lieu Lots. When new permits will not be issued following expiration of the present permit, make a reasonable effort to provide an in-lieu lot, if available, at locations not needed in the foreseeable future (generally, the period covered by the Forest plan) for alternative public uses in accordance with FSM 2347.1, paragraph 6 and FSH 2709.11, section 41.23d. 2721.23g_Land Exchange. Proposals to convey recreation residence tracts into private ownership by land exchange may be considered at any time. Such proposals must be processed in accordance with the instructions in FSM 5430 applicable to all land exchanges. 2721.23h_Cooperation and Issue Resolution. Authorized officers shall strive to reduce conflict between holders and the Forest Service arising from permit administration. As necessary, specify a Forest Officer to work with the holders, their representatives, and other interested parties on specific issues. 1. Provide opportunity for holders and their representatives to participate in issue resolution. Where practicable, except where an imminent hazard or risk to health and safety or resources requires immediate action prior to issuing written decisions related to permit administration, consult and meet in person, or by telephone, with holders and their representatives to discuss any issues or concerns related to the permit and to reach a common understanding and agreement.
