FR941021-0-00119 FR941021-0-00020 (n) The DOE may convert a recipient from advance payment to reimbursement whenever the recipient no longer meets the criteria for advance payment specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Any such conversion may be accomplished only after the DOE has advised the recipient in writing of the reasons for the proposed action and has provided a period of at least 30 days within which the recipient may take corrective action or provide satisfactory assurances of its intention to take such action. (o) With prior DOE approval and in accordance with written DOE instructions, a recipient may assign to a bank, trust company or other financing institution, including any Federal lending agency, reimbursement by Treasury check due from DOE under the following conditions: (1) The award provides for reimbursement totaling $1,000 or more; (2) The assignment covers all amounts payable under the award that have not already been paid; (3) Reassignment is prohibited; and (4) The assignee files a written notice of award payment assignment and a true copy of the instrument of assignment with DOE. Any interest costs resulting from a loan obtained on the basis of an assignment are unallowable charges to DOE award funds or any required cost sharing. (p) Recipients shall observe the requirements of this section in making or withholding payments to subrecipients except that the forms used by recipients are not required to be used by subrecipients when requesting advances or reimbursement. ยง600.123 Cost sharing or matching. (a) All cost sharing or matching contributions, including cash and third party in-kind, shall meet all of the following criteria. (1) Are verifiable from the recipient's records. (2) Are not included as contributions for any other federally-assisted project or program. (3) Are necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives. (4) Are allowable under the applicable cost principles. (5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another award, except where authorized by Federal statute to be used for cost sharing or matching. (6) Are provided for in the approved budget.
