FR940523-2-00033 FR940523-2-00021 Preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement for the Continued Operation of the Pantex Plant and Associated Storage of Nuclear Weapon Components AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (the Department) announces its intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement, pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ), in accordance with the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508) and the Department's implementing procedures (10 CFR part 1021). The purpose of this Notice is to invite public participation in the process and to encourage public dialogue on alternatives that should be considered. This Environmental Impact Statement will address the potential environmental impacts concerning the continued operation of the Pantex Plant, including near- to mid-term foreseeable activities and the nuclear component storage activities at other Department sites associated with nuclear weapon disassembly at the Pantex Plant, over the next 5 to 10 years. The Secretary of Energy committed to preparing this Environmental Impact Statement in a letter to the Governor of Texas and also in the Finding of No Significant Impact (59 FR 3674, January 26, 1994) for the Environmental Assessment for Interim Storage of Plutonium Components at Pantex (DOE/EA&hyph;0812, January 1994). The Pantex Plant, near Amarillo, Texas, is the site at which the Department fulfills its responsibilities regarding the disassembly of nuclear weapons, certain maintenance and monitoring activities of the nuclear weapons stockpile, modification and assembly of nuclear weapons, and production of high explosive components for nuclear weapons. The Department also conducts certain quality evaluation of weapons, quality assurance testing of weapon components, and research and development activities supporting nuclear weapons at the Pantex Plant. The Department's responsibilities are mandated by statute, Presidential direction, and Congressional authorization and appropriation. Currently, most of the work taking place at the Pantex Plant is the disassembly of nuclear weapons. The nuclear components resulting from the disassembly of the weapons are either stored at the Pantex Plant; stored or processed at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in Los Alamos, New Mexico; or stored or processed at the Oak Ridge Reservation near Knoxville, Tennessee. Tritium pressure vessels are processed and the tritium is recycled at the Savannah River Site near Aiken, South Carolina. In order to meet the Department's continuing responsibilities regarding the nuclear weapons stockpile, the Department proposes to continue the current operations of the Pantex Plant, continue the current nuclear component storage activities at the various Department sites, and implement projects and facility upgrades at Pantex consistent with current responsibilities over the next 5 to 10 years. Other alternatives being considered for discussion in this Environmental Impact Statement include the relocation of some of the Pantex Plant operations and relocation of current storage activities to other Department or Federal sites, as well as the ``No Action'' alternative required by NEPA. In addition, an alternative discussing the shutdown of operations at the Pantex Plant will be considered in evaluating baseline conditions. This Notice of Intent reflects commitments made to the State of Texas and stakeholders during the public participation efforts conducted for the Environmental Assessment for Interim Storage. The Department will shortly announce other NEPA analyses that might affect the scope of this Environmental Impact Statement or how commitments will be addressed. If this occurs, updates on the proposed scope of this Environmental Impact Statement will be published and the public will be given the opportunity to discuss and comment on any changes during the scoping process. DATES: The Department invites the general public, other government agencies, and all other interested parties to comment on the appropriate scope and content of this Environmental Impact Statement for the continued operation of the Pantex Plant and associated storage of nuclear components to ensure that the full range of significant environmental issues and alternatives related to this proposal are addressed. The public scoping period will continue until June 30, 1994. All comments and suggestions received or postmarked by that date, whether written, oral, submitted directly to the Department, or presented during the scoping meetings, will be given equal consideration in defining the scope of this Environmental Impact Statement and the issues to be discussed. Comments received or postmarked after June 30, 1994 will be considered to the extent practicable. In addition, the Department is committed to providing opportunities for the involvement of interested individuals and groups in this and other Department planning activities outside of the formal scoping process of this Environmental Impact Statement. Public Scoping Meetings Public scoping meetings are scheduled to be held at the following times and locations: Amarillo Civic Center, 400 South Buchanan, Amarillo, Texas Date: Tuesday, June 7, 1994 Time: 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. Los Alamos High School, 1300 Diamond Drive, Los Alamos, New Mexico Date: Thursday, June 9, 1994 Time: 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m. The Holiday Inn, 325 East Flamingo Road, Las Vegas, Nevada Date: Tuesday, June 14, 1994 Time: 1 p.m. to 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m.
