FR941122-0-00016 FR941122-0-00005 (f) Office of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Management _(1) General. Headed by the Executive Associate Commissioner for Management, the office is responsible for planning, developing, directing, coordinating, and reporting on Service management programs and activities. The Executive Associate Commissioner for Management promulgates Servicewide administrative policies and coordinates all financial, human resource, administrative, and information resources management functions. The Executive Associate Commissioner for Management provides direction to, and supervision of, the: (i) Office of Security; (ii) Office of Equal Employment Opportunity; (iii) Office of Human Resources and Administration; (iv) Office of Finance; (v) Office of Information Resources Management; (vi) Office of Files and Forms Management; and (vii) Administrative Centers. (2) Office of Security. Headed by the Director of Security, the office is responsible for all security programs of the Service, including those related to personnel, physical, information and documents, automated data processing, telecommunications, and emergency preparedness planning. (3) Office of Equal Employment Opportunity. Headed by the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity, the office is responsible for developing, planning, directing, managing, and coordinating equal employment opportunity programs and evaluating programs relating to the civil rights of all employees and applicants to ensure compliance with the law. This office also coordinates the affirmative employment and discrimination complaints programs of the Service and those of the Department of Justice as they apply to the Service. (4) Office of Human Resources and Administration. Headed by the Associate Commissioner for Human Resources and Administration, the office is responsible for planning, developing, directing, managing, and coordinating the personnel, career development, contracting, facilities, and administrative support programs of the Service. The Associate Commissioner for Human Resources and Administration directly supervises the: (i) Human Resources and Development Division; and (ii) Administration Division. (5) Office of Finance. Headed by the Associate Commissioner for Finance, the office is responsible for planning, developing, directing, managing, coordinating, and reporting on, the budget, accounting, and resource management programs of the Service. The Associate Commissioner for Finance directly supervises the: (i) Budget Division; and (ii) Financial Management Division. (6) Office of Information Resources Management. Headed by the Associate Commissioner for Information Resources Management, the office is responsible for planning, developing, directing, managing, coordinating, and reporting on Service information management programs and activities including automated data processing, telecommunications, and radio communications. The Associate Commissioner for Information Resources Management directly supervises the: (i) Data Systems Division; and (ii) Systems Integration Division. (7) Office of Files and Forms Management. Headed by the Director of Files and Forms Management, the office is responsible for the administration of records policy, and correspondence files. The Director of Files and Forms Management directly supervises the: (i) National Records Center; (ii) National Forms Center; (iii) Systematic Alien Verification Entitlement (SAVE) Program; and (iv) Centralized Freedom of Information Act and Privacy Act (FOIA/PA) program. (8) Office of the Administrative Center. Headed by directors, these offices are responsible for administrative servicing, monitoring, and liaison functions within their respective geographic boundaries. The directors direct and supervise regional staff who administer human resources, administrative, information systems, security, and financial functions.
