FR940912-2-00090 FR940912-2-00057 IX It is further ordered that respondents shall forthwith distribute a copy of this Order to all principals and managers and to all personnel, agents, licensees and distributors, engaged in the preparation or placement of advertisements or promotional materials covered by this Order and shall obtain from each such employee, agent, licensee and distributor a signed statement acknowledging receipt of the Order. X It is further ordered that for a period of five (5) years from the date of entry of this Order, respondents George Page Rank and James W. Nugent shall provide written notice to the Federal Trade Commission within thirty (30) days of: A. Any change in his business or employment that may affect compliance obligations arising out of this Order; B. The discontinuance of his business or employment; and C. His affiliation with any new business or employment; each such notice to include his business address and telephone number, home address, and a statement describing the nature of the business or employment and his duties and responsibilities. XI It is further ordered that respondents shall, within sixty (60) days after service upon them of this Order, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which they have complied with this Order. Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement, subject to final approval, to a proposed consent order from respondents RN Nutrition, a limited partnership, and George Page Rank and James W. Nugent, individually and as co-partners, trading and doing business as RN Nutrition. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement and take other appropriate action or make final the agreement's proposed order. This matter concerns claims made in respondents' direct mail and mail order catalog advertisements for their calcium supplement, ``BoneRestore.'' The Commission's complaint alleges that respondents engaged in deceptive advertising by making unsubstantiated claims that BoneRestore prevents, treats, and cures bone disease, bone ailments and their related symptoms, and that the product is superior in this regard to other calcium supplements and/or estrogen. The complaint also alleges that respondents falsely claimed to have scientific substantiation for these claims. In addition, the complaint alleges that respondents made unsubstantiated claims that consumer testimonials appearing in their advertisements reflect the typical or ordinary experience of members of the public who have used BoneRestore. The proposed consent order contains provisions designed to remedy the violations charged and to prevent the respondents from engaging in similar acts and practices in the future. Part I of the proposed order prohibits the respondents from representing that BoneRestore, or any food or dietary supplement, food, or drug: builds and restores bone; stops bone loss; helps persons with weak bones; treats osteoporosis; relieves pain; is superior to calcium or estrogen; prevents fractures; straightens spinal curvatures; and that it provides any benefit in the prevention, treatment or cure of osteoporosis, arthritis, back pain, or other bone ailments, unless respondents possess competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. Part II of the proposed order prohibits respondents from representing that any endorsement of BoneRestore represents the typical or ordinary experiences of members of the public who have used the product, unless respondents possess competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation.
