FR940512-2-00186 FR940512-2-00078 4. Describe how training and technical assistance will build on current program strengths and assist grantees in program improvement. Approach 1. Describe the approach, philosophy, strategies, methodologies and models that would be used to assess and address the unique training and technical assistance needs of runaway and homeless youth service providers in the geographic area(s) to be served. Describe the proposed effort and activities in detail. 2. Describe interaction with grantees to support assessment of training needs, development of training plans and design of training and technical assistance strategies. 3. Discuss the approach that will be used to provide quality staff training which focuses on skill development that provides opportunities for hands-on participation, direct observation, practice and expert feedback; which analyzes, integrates and transmits knowledge obtained from research findings, curricula, and models of greatest interest to grantees; and recognizes new and emerging youth issues and provides intensive skills training in these areas. 4. Describe the approach that will be used for the collaborative exchange of monitoring and MIS information for runaway and homeless youth programs for the purpose of planning, training, and technical assistance for the geographic area to be served. Include a discussion of training and technical assistance that is a follow-up to monitoring and responsive to the needs of individual grantees. 5. Describe the approach that would be used to promote the transmittal of knowledge and skills from highly skilled youth service providers to less experienced staff. 6. Describe the approach for establishing a cooperative relationship with other training and technical assistance providers. 7. Provide a detailed description of the efforts that will be carried out by the applicant directly and those efforts to be carried out in conjunction with other agencies or consultants. Discuss how these efforts will enhance training and technical assistance provision. 8. Describe the methodology that will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of the training and technical assistance provided to runaway and homeless youth service providers in the geographic area(s). 9. Discuss the approach that would be used to encourage cultural competency of runaway and homeless youth service providers in areas such as outreach, program design, staffing and board development. 10. Include proposed time frames for accomplishing major milestones, levels of effort, letters of commitment and support. Staff Background and Organizational Experience 1. Describe the organizational history, structure, and experience providing training and technical assistance. Discuss operating principles with respect to the development and implementation of training and technical assistance. 2. Clearly define roles and provide job descriptions of key project positions. 3. Provide resumes of current and proposed staff. Include skills, experience, and qualifications working with runaway and homeless youth, and developing and designing training and technical assistance for youth service providers.
