FR940810-0-00230 FR940810-0-00021 (B) Vacuums equipped with HEPA filter, disposable dust bag, and metal floor tool (no brush) shall be used to clean floors. (C) Resilient sheeting shall be removed by cutting with wetting of the snip point and wetting during delamination. Rip-up of resilient sheet floor material is prohibited. (D) All scraping of residual adhesive and/or backing shall be performed using wet methods. (E) Dry sweeping is prohibited. (F) Mechanical chipping is prohibited unless performed in a negative pressure enclosure which meets the requirements of paragraph (g)(5)(iv) of this section. (G) Tiles shall be removed intact, unless the employer demonstrates that intact removal is not possible. (H) When tiles are heated and can be removed intact, wetting may be omitted. (I) Resilient flooring/deck material in buildings/vessels constructed no later than 1980, including associated mastic and backing shall be assumed to be asbestos-containing unless an industrial hygienist determines that it is asbestos-free using recognized analytical techniques. (ii) For removing roofing material which contains ACM the employer shall ensure that the following work practices are followed: (A) Roofing material shall be removed in an intact state to the extent feasible. (B) Wet methods shall be used where feasible. (C) Cutting machines shall be continuously misted during use, unless a competent person determines that misting substantially decreases worker safety. (D) All loose dust left by the sawing operation must be HEPA vacuumed immediately. (E) Unwrapped or unbagged roofing material shall be immediately lowered to the ground via covered, dust-tight chute, crane or hoist, or placed in an impermeable waste bag or wrapped in plastic sheeting and lowered to ground no later than the end of the work shift. (F) Upon being lowered, unwrapped material shall be transferred to a closed receptacle in such manner so as to preclude the dispersion of dust. (G) Roof level heating and ventilation air intake sources shall be isolated or the ventilation system shall be shut down. (iii) When removing cementitious asbestos-containing siding, shingles (CACS), or transite panels containing ACM, the employer shall ensure that the following work practices are followed: (A) Cutting, abrading or breaking siding, shingles, or transite panels shall be prohibited unless the employer can demonstrate that methods less likely to result in asbestos fiber release cannot be used. (B) Each panel or shingle shall be sprayed with amended water prior to removal. (C) Unwrapped or unbagged panels or shingles shall be immediately lowered to the ground via covered dust-tight chute, crane or hoist, or placed in an impervious waste bag or wrapped in plastic sheeting and lowered to the ground no later than the end of the work shift. (D) Nails shall be cut with flat, sharp instruments. (iv) When removing gaskets containing ACM, the employer shall ensure that the following work practices are followed: (A) If a gasket is visibly deteriorated and unlikely to be removed intact, removal shall be undertaken within a glovebag as described in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section. (B) The gasket shall be thoroughly wetted with amended water prior to its removal. (C) The wet gasket shall be immediately placed in a disposal container. (D) Any scraping to remove residue must be performed wet. (v) When performing any other Class II removal of asbestos containing material for which specific controls have not been listed in paragraph (g)(8)(iv) (A) through (D) of this section, the employer shall ensure that the following work practices are complied with. (A) The material shall be thoroughly wetted with amended water prior and during its removal. (B) The material shall be removed in an intact state unless the employer demonstrates that intact removal is not possible.
