FR940128-2-00165 FR940128-2-00107 Fish and Wildlife Service Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora; Ninth Regular Meeting; Thirty-First Meeting of the Standing Committee; Public Meeting AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) publishes the time and place for the ninth regular meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), and announces a public meeting to discuss the upcoming thirty-first meeting of the CITES Standing Committee and agenda items for the upcoming meeting of the Conference of the Parties. DATES: The public meeting will be held on February 22, 1994 from 2&hyph;4 p.m. The Service will consider information and comments from the public concerning items of concern to the ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties received by March 1, 1994 (except for items relating to listing of species in the Appendices). ADDRESSES: The public meeting will be held in Conference Room 200 of the Fish and Wildlife Service building, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA. Comments on the provisional agenda should be sent to the Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, c/o Office of Management Authority, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, room 432, Arlington, VA 22203. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, TIAS 8249, hereinafter referred to as CITES, is an international treaty designed to control and regulate international trade in certain animal and plant species which are or may become threatened with extinction, and are listed in Appendices to the Convention (and are available from the Office of Management Authority at the address, above). Currently, 120 countries, including the United States, are CITES Parties. CITES calls for biennial meetings of the Conference of the Parties (COP) which review its implementation, make provisions enabling the CITES Secretariat in Switzerland to carry out its functions, consider amendments to the list of species in Appendices I and II, consider reports presented by the Secretariat, and make recommendations for the improved effectiveness of the Convention.
