FR940711-1-00026 FR940711-1-00003 (i) No public utility or transmitting utility may seek recovery of wholesale stranded costs if such recovery is explicitly prohibited by a contract or settlement agreement, or by any power sales or transmission rate schedule or tariff. (ii) If wholesale stranded costs are associated with a new wholesale requirements contract containing an exit fee or other explicit stranded cost provision, and the seller under the contract is a public utility, the public utility may seek recovery of such costs, in accordance with the contract, through rates for electric energy under sections 205&hyph;206 of the FPA. The public utility may not seek recovery of such costs through any transmission rate for section 205 or 211 transmission services. (iii) If wholesale stranded costs are associated with a new wholesale requirements contract, and the seller under the contract is a transmitting utility but not also a public utility, the transmitting utility may not seek an order from the Commission allowing recovery of such costs. (iv) If wholesale stranded costs are associated with an existing wholesale requirements contract, if the seller under such contract is a public utility, and if the contract does not contain an exit fee or other explicit stranded cost provision, the parties to the contract must make a good faith attempt to negotiate an explicit stranded cost amendment to the contract by [a date three years from the date a final rule is published in the Federal Register ]. If the parties negotiate a proposed amendment, the public utility seller under the contract must file the proposed amendment under section 205 or 206 of the FPA no later than [the end of the three-year period]. If the parties do not negotiate an explicit stranded cost amendment, the public utility seller may unilaterally file a proposed stranded cost amendment no later than [the end of the three-year transition period]. In such case, the customer may propose an alternate amendment. The filing or proposal of such amendment(s) will not affect any contractual rights the customer may have to continue taking service beyond [the end of the three-year transition period]. (v) If a customer under an existing wholesale requirements contract, prior to [the end of the three-year period], gives notice pursuant to the contract that it will no longer purchase requirements service under the contract but will purchase unbundled section 205 or section 211 transmission services from the selling utility in order to reach a different supplier of electric energy, and the transmission services will commence prior to [the end of the transition period], a public utility or transmitting utility may file by [the end of the transition period] a proposal to recover stranded costs in rates for the wholesale transmission services. (2) Evidentiary Demonstration for Wholesale Stranded Cost Recovery. A public utility or transmitting utility seeking to recover wholesale stranded costs in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) (iv) and (v) of this section must demonstrate that:
