FR941102-1-00102 FR941102-1-00018 Subject to the provisions of §1068.52, the class prices per hundredweight of milk containing 3.5 percent butterfat and the component prices for the month shall be as follows: (a) Class I price. The Class I price shall be the basic formula price for the second preceding month plus $1.20. * * * * * (e) Class I differential price. The Class I differential price shall be the difference between the current month's Class I and Class III prices (this price may be negative). (f) Class II differential price. The Class II differential price shall be the difference between the current month's Class II and Class III prices (this price may be negative). (g) Skim milk price. The skim milk price per hundredweight, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be the Class III price less an amount computed by multiplying the butterfat differential by 35. (h) Butterfat price. The butterfat price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be the Class III price plus an amount computed by multiplying the butterfat differential by 965 and dividing the resulting amount by one hundred. (i) Protein price. The protein price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be 1.32 times the average monthly price per pound for 40-pound block Cheddar cheese on the National Cheese Exchange as reported by the Department. (j) Other solids price. Other solids are herein defined as solids-not-fat other than protein. The other solids price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be the skim milk price times .965, less the average protein test of the basic formula price as reported by the Department for the month times the protein price, and dividing the resulting amount by the average other solids test of the basic formula price as reported by the Department. If the resulting price is less than zero, then the protein price will be reduced so that the other solids price equals zero. (k) Somatic cell adjustment. The somatic cell adjustment per hundredweight shall be computed by subtracting the monthly average somatic cell count, in thousands, of the producer's milk from 350 and multiplying the remaining quantity by .0005 times the monthly cheddar cheese price as defined in paragraph (i) of this section. 4. Section 1068.53 is revised to read as follows: §1068.53 Announcement of class and component prices. (a) On or before the 5th day of the month, the market administrator shall announce the following prices: (1) The Class I price for the following month; (2) The Class III price for the preceding month; (3) The Class III&hyph;A price for the preceding month; (4) The skim milk price for the preceding month; (5) The butterfat price for the preceding month; (6) The protein price for the preceding month; (7) The other solids price for the preceding month; and (8) The butterfat differential for the preceding month. (b) On or before the 15th day of the month, the market administrator shall announce the Class II price for the following month computed pursuant to §1068.50(b). 5. The section heading in §1068.60 and the undesignated centerheading preceding it, the introductory text and paragraphs (a), (f), and (g), are revised to read as follows: Producer Price Differential §1068.60 Handler's value of milk. For the purpose of computing a handler's obligation for producer milk, the market administrator shall determine for each month the value of milk of each handler described in §1068.9 (a), (b), and (c). (a) The handler's obligation for producer milk shall be computed as follows: (1) Multiply the total hundredweight of producer milk in Class I as determined pursuant to §1068.44(c) by the Class I differential price for the month;
