FR940810-0-00336 FR940810-0-00022 Changes: None. Comment: Two commenters suggested that, if an exception is granted, there would be no comparative data on student achievement as there now are with pre- and post-norm-referenced test scores. Discussion: It is true that comparative data on individual children would not be required under an exception just as it is not required under the statute. However, regardless of whether a State assessment system includes comparative data, nothing would prevent an LEA from augmenting the State assessment system to obtain comparative data if the LEA believes the data would be useful. Changes: None. Comment: Several commenters suggested that the basic technical standards contained in §200.81 of the Chapter 1 regulations be maintained. Discussion: The Chapter 1 statute does not mandate that specific technical standards be prescribed. Moreover, exceptions granted under these regulations would govern a limited period from the present until the reauthorization of Chapter 1 takes effect. The Secretary does not want to prescribe technical standards for this limited period that may run counter to standards that may be required under reauthorization. In addition, these regulations come at a time when the testing community, in general, is grappling with new forms of assessments that better measure what children should know and be able to do and redefining what technical standards best meet the needs of those assessments. The technical standards in §200.81 of the current regulations are often construed as prohibiting assessments other than those that are nationally normed or those that are modeled after these tests. The Secretary is very concerned, however, that State assessment systems being developed to support systemic education reform efforts are of high quality and useful and that exceptions under these regulations only would be granted where evaluation results under Chapter 1 and the MEP provide meaningful indicators about the progress under Chapter 1 and MEP. The Secretary, therefore, is requiring under these regulations the following basic technical standards for the assessment system: (1) that the system yields consistent results and (2) that those results accurately reflect what the assessment system was designed to measure. The Secretary has determined that to impose any additional technical standards on new assessment measures for the Chapter 1 and MEP programs is not necessary to ensure that the results of evaluations of these programs are sufficiently meaningful and useful. The Secretary is confident that the other requirements of these regulations ensure that a State would not implement a new assessment system and make educational judgments based on results from that system until the State has determined that the assessment accurately measures what children are expected to know and be able to do. Changes: As noted above, §§200.90(b) and 201.57(b) have been revised to require that an assessment system for which an exception has been requested must yield consistent results that accurately reflect what the assessment system was designed to measure and may not impair the SEA's or LEA's ability to account for results under Chapter 1 or the MEP. Comment: One commenter asked whether the feeder pattern concept would be acceptable in LEAs with schools that do not contain a grade in which the State administers an assessment. For example, if a State assessment consists of a test in third grade, the commenter asked whether it would be permissible for schools with only grades K&hyph;2 to be considered part of a K&hyph;6 grade span. Another commenter suggested adding clarifying language that information be available from at least one grade ``in each Chapter 1 school.'' Discussion: The proposed regulations stated that a State assessment system must provide information about the yearly performance of each Chapter 1 school and that this information must be from at least one grade level. It was the Secretary's assumption that, to meet this requirement, a State's assessment system would have to provide information from at least one grade level in each Chapter 1 school. To clarify this assumption, however, the regulations have been revised accordingly. Changes: Section 200.90(b) has been revised to clarify that assessment information must be collected from at least one grade level in each Chapter 1 school. Comment: One commenter asserted that ``achievement of basic and more advanced skills all children are expected to master'' is clearer than ``and challenging subject matter'' and suggested that the regulations be revised to state that the assessment must provide an assessment of the degree to which Chapter 1 students have mastered the basic and more advanced skills all children are expected to master.
