FR940620-1-00097 FR940620-1-00009 (b) Justification. The Contractor shall maintain records sufficient to justify the validity of any markings that assert restrictions on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, perform, display, release, or disclose computer software delivered or required to be delivered under this contract and shall be prepared to furnish to the contracting officer a written justification for such restrictive markings in response to a request for information under paragraph (d) or a challenge under paragraph (f) of this clause. (c) Direct contact with subcontractors or suppliers. The Contractor agrees that the contracting officer may transact matters under this clause directly with subcontractors or suppliers at any tier who assert restrictions on the Government's right to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose computer software. Neither this clause, nor any action taken by the Government under this clause, creates or implies privity of contract between the Government and the Contractor's subcontractors or suppliers. (d) Requests for information. (1) The contracting officer may request the Contractor to provide sufficient information to enable the contracting officer to evaluate the Contractor's asserted restrictions. Such information shall be based upon the records required by this clause or other information reasonably available to the Contractor. (2) Based upon the information provided, if the_ (i) Contractor agrees that an asserted restriction is not valid, the contracting officer may_ (A) Strike or correct the unjustified marking at the Contractor's expense; or, (B) Return the computer software to the Contractor for correction at the Contractor's expense. If the Contractor fails to correct or strike the unjustified restriction and return the corrected software to the contracting officer within sixty (60) days following receipt of the software the contracting officer may correct or strike the markings at that Contractor's expense. (ii) Contracting officer concludes that the asserted restriction is appropriate for this contract, he or she shall so notify the Contractor in writing. (3) The Contractor's failure to provide a timely response to a contracting officer's request for information or failure to provide sufficient information to enable the contracting officer to evaluate an asserted restriction shall constitute reasonable grounds for questioning the validity of an asserted restriction. (e) Government right to challenge and validate asserted restrictions. (1) The Government, when there are reasonable grounds to do so, has the right to review and challenge the validity of any restrictions asserted by the Contractor on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose computer software delivered, to be delivered under this contract, or otherwise provided to the Government in the performance of this contract. Except for software that is publicly available, has been furnished to the Government without restrictions, or has been otherwise made available without restrictions, the Government may exercise this right only within three years after the date(s) the software is delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government, or three years following final payment under this contract, whichever is later. (2) The absence of a challenge to an asserted restriction shall not constitute validation under this clause. Only a contracting officer's final decision or actions of an agency Board of Contract Appeals or a court of competent jurisdiction that sustain the validity of an asserted restriction constitute validation of the restriction. (f) Challenge procedures. (1) A challenge must be in writing and shall_ (i) State the specific grounds for challenging the asserted restriction; (ii) Require the Contractor to respond within sixty (60) days;
