FR940727-0-00117 FR940727-0-00026 (oo) Third party in-kind contributions means the value of non-cash contributions provided by non-Federal third parties. Third party in-kind contributions may be in the form of real property, equipment, supplies and other expendable property, and the value of goods and services directly benefiting and specifically identifiable to the project or program. (pp) Unliquidated obligations, for financial reports prepared on a cash basis, means the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient that have not been paid. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, they represent the amount of obligations incurred by the recipient for which an outlay has not been recorded. (qq) Unobligated balance means the portion of the funds authorized by DOL that has not been obligated by the recipient and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized. (rr) Unrecovered indirect cost means the difference between the amount awarded and the amount which could have been awarded under the recipient's approved negotiated indirect cost rate. (ss) Working capital advance means a procedure whereby funds are advanced to the recipient to cover its estimated disbursement needs for a given initial period. §95.3 Effect on other issuances. For awards subject to this part, all administrative requirements of codified program regulations, program manuals, handbooks and other nonregulatory materials which are inconsistent with the requirements of this part shall be superseded, except to the extent they are required by statute, or authorized in accordance with the deviations provision in §95.4. §95.4 Deviations. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) may grant exceptions for classes of grants or recipients subject to the requirements of this part when exceptions are not prohibited by statute. However, in the interest of maximum grant-wide uniformity, exceptions from the requirements of this part shall be permitted only in unusual circumstances. DOL may apply more restrictive requirements to a class of recipients when approved by OMB. DOL may apply less restrictive requirements when awarding small awards, except for those requirements which are statutory. Exceptions on a case-by-case basis may also be made by DOL. §95.5 Subawards. Unless sections of this part specifically exclude subrecipients from coverage, the provisions of this part shall be applied to subrecipients performing work under awards if such subrecipients are institutions of higher education, hospitals, other non-profit organizations, commercial organizations, foreign governments, organizations under the jurisdiction of foreign governments, and international organizations. State and local government subrecipients are subject to the provisions of regulations implementing the grants management common rule, ``Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments,'' and codified by DOL at 29 CFR part 97 or its successor. Subpart B_Pre-Award Requirements §95.10 Purpose. Sections 95.11 through 95.17 prescribe forms and instructions and other pre-award matters to be used in applying for Federal awards.
