FR941027-2-00127 FR941027-2-00077 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY Freedom Support Act_NIS Secondary School Initiative for School Linkages ACTION: Notice_Request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Office of Citizen Exchanges, Division of the NIS Secondary School Initiative, of the United States Information Agency's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs announces an open competition for an assistance award to conduct exchanges through the multiple secondary school linkage program with select countries of the NIS. The countries are Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan. Public or private non-profit organizations meeting the provisions described in IRS regulation 501(c)(3) may apply either to enhance/expand existing linkages or to develop new school linkage programs. Both models are described in the guidelines section of this solicitation. Applicants may submit a proposal for only one of the two models . All submissions must contain an Educator (teacher and/or administrator) exchange component AND a Student exchange component. Approximately one third of the grants awarded will be to promote the development of new linkages. Organizations asking for USIA funding for previously established linkages must demonstrate the value of the linkages to the NIS Secondary School Initiative program as well as show evidence that the linkage is designed to outlast USIA funding. Overall funding and grant making authority for this program is contained in the Freedom Support Act (Pub. L. 102&hyph;391). These exchanges represent part of the activities for the NIS Secondary School Initiative and are subject to the availability of funding for the Fiscal Year 1995 program. Proposals for programs and projects must conform with Agency requirements and guidelines outlined in the Solicitation Package. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications with USIA concerning this announcement should refer to the above title and reference number E/P&hyph;95&hyph;25. This is a request for proposals for reciprocal exchanges based on multiple school linkages . Requests for proposals in support of other programs under the aegis of the NIS Secondary School Initiative are published separately. DATES: Deadline for proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, D.C. time on Wednesday, December 21, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on Wednesday, December 21, 1994 but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. Subject to the availability of funding, grants will be awarded April 1, 1995 for exchanges to begin after August 1, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: NIS Secondary School Division, E/PY, Room 314, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20547, telephone: (202) 619&hyph;6299; Fax: (202) 619&hyph;5311; e-mail irome@usia.gov to request a Solicitation Package, which includes more detailed award criteria, all application forms, and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific criteria for preparation of the proposal budget. For specific questions or concerns regarding the solicitation, contact USIA Program Officer Diana Aronson. Interested applicants should read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the USIA or submitting their proposals. Once the RFP deadline has passed, representatives of the USIA and the Division of NIS Secondary School Initiative may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until after the Bureau proposal review process has been completed. ADDRESSES: Applicants must follow all instructions given in the Solicitation Package and send only complete applications to: U.S. Information Agency Ref.: E/P&hyph;95&hyph;25, Office of Grants Management, E/XE, Room 336, 301 4th Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20547.
