FR940826-2-00126 FR940826-2-00066 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34554; International Series Release No. 702, File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;18] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 by the American Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing and Trading of Options on the Israeli Index August 19, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on May 31, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. On August 2, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change, the subject matter of which supersedes the original proposal. 1 On August 8, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 2 (``Amendment No. 2'') to the proposal to clarify how the index will be weighted when the composition of the index changes from its current number of eleven components. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 In the original proposal, the Amex originally sought approval of a narrow-based, capitalization-weighted index comprised of ten components. 2 See Letter from Nathan Most, Senior Vice President, New Products Development, Amex, to Michael Walinskas, Derivative Products Regulation, SEC, dated August 5, 1994. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Amex proposes to trade options on the Amex/Oscar Gruss Israel Index (``Israeli Index'' or ``Index''), a new stock index developed by the Amex in conjunction with Oscar Gruss & Son, Inc. based on Israeli stocks (or ADRs thereon) trades on the Amex, New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE''), or that are National Market (``NM'') securities traded through the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation system (``NASDAQ''). The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, Amex and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Amex included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Amex has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Amex has developed a new index called The Amex/Oscar Gruss Israel Index, based entirely on shares of widely held Israeli stocks and American Depository Receipts (``ADRs'') traded on the NYSE, or that are NM securities. The Index contains securities of highly capitalized companies with major business interests in Israel. These include companies which are incorporated in Israel, whose offices are located in Israel, or whose research and development activities are concentrated in Israel. Index Calculation and Maintenance The Index is calculated using a ``modified'' equal dollar weighting methodology. Five of the eleven component securities have been given a higher weighting in the Index in order to more closely approximate the weight the industry represented by that component has in the Israeli stock market. For example, ECI Telecom Ltd. and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, which are the largest capitalized components in the Index, will have a higher weight in the Index, but not as high as if the Index were capitalization weighted. The Amex believes that this ``modified'' equal dollar weighting methodology allows the Index to be a more accurate reflection of the Israeli market since it provides a higher weighting for the larger capitalized components, yet does not permit those stocks not dominate the Index. The Exchange believes that this method of calculation is important given the great disparity in market value of a few of the Index's components. It has been the Exchange's experience that options on market value weighted indexes dominated by one or two components are less useful to investors, since the index will tend to represent the one or two components and not the group as a whole. The following is a description of how the ``modified'' equal dollar weighting calculation method works. As of the market close on June 17, 1994, a $100,000 portfolio comprised of eleven Israeli component securities was established representing a hypothetical ``investment'' (rounded to the nearest whole share) of $12,000 in the five largest capitalized Index components and $6,667 in each of the six remaining Index Components. The value of the Index equals the current market value ( i.e. , based on U.S. primary market prices) of the sum of the assigned number of shares of each of the Index components divided by the Index divisor. The Index divisor was initially determined to yield the benchmark value of 213.00 at the close of trading on June 17, 1994. Each quarter thereafter, following the close of trading on the third Friday of March, June, September and December, the Index components will be ranked in descending market capitalization order and the Index portfolio adjusted by changing the number of whole shares of each component stock so that the five largest capitalized stocks in the Index represent 60% of the Index value, and the remaining 40% of the Index value is evenly distributed over the remaining securities. If the number of components in the Index changes from eleven securities, the Amex will continue to weight the five components with the highest market capitalization 12%. The remaining components will then be weighted equally. 3 For example, if two new components are added to the Index, the five securities with the highest market capitalizations will be assigned 12% weightings while the remaining eight securities in the Index would be weighted 5%. 3 See Amendment No. 2.
