FR941212-1-00017 FR941212-1-00011 33 CFR Parts 162 and 165 [CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;007] RIN 2115&hyph;AE84 Regulated Navigation Area; San Francisco Bay Region, CA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to establish regulated navigation areas (RNAs) within the San Francisco Bay Region in the waters of the Golden Gate, Central Bay, Lower Bay, San Pablo Bay and Carquinez Strait. This action is necessary due to vessel congestion in areas where maneuvering room is limited. These RNAs will increase navigation safety in the San Francisco Bay Region by organizing traffic flow patterns; reducing meeting, crossing, and overtaking situations between large vessels in constricted channels; and limiting vessel speed. The proposed rulemaking will also remove existing regulatory language relating to the Pinole Shoal Channel which will be incorporated into the RNA. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 10, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Commanding Officer, Vessel Traffic Service San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94130&hyph;5013, or may be delivered to the San Francisco Vessel Traffic Center on Yerba Buena Island between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The Eleventh Coast Guard District Commander maintains the public docket for this rulemaking. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at the District Aids to Navigation Branch, Suite 6200, Eleventh Coast Guard District Office, Long Beach, California. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Commander Dennis Sobeck, Commanding Officer, Vessel Traffic Service San Francisco, San Francisco; telephone (415) 556&hyph;2950. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;007) and the specific section of the proposal to which each comment applies, and give the reason for each comment. The coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bound materials is requested. Persons wanting acknowledgement of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Project Manager at the address under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Commander Dennis Sobeck, Project Manager, Vessel Traffic Service San Francisco, and Lieutenant Robin Barber, Project Counsel, Eleventh Coast Guard District Legal Office. Background and Purpose In 1972, the Coast Guard, with input from various members of the San Francisco Bay maritime community, established voluntary vessel traffic routing measures for the San Francisco Bay region that consisted of traffic lanes in the Golden Gate and the Central Bay extending to Pinole Shoal Channel; separation zones; a precautionary area east of Alcatraz Island; and an Oakland Harbor Limited Traffic Area. Compliance with these routing measures was voluntary and intended for use by vessels 300 gross tons or greater. In 1991, the precautionary area east of Alcatraz Island was expanded to include the water area between the San Francisco waterfront and Treasure Island, replacing the traffic lanes in that area. A deep water route was established north of Harding Rock. In 1993, the Coast Guard, with input from the Harbor Safety Committee of the San Francisco Bay Region, modified the voluntary traffic routing measures to better conform to International Maritime Organization (IMO) traffic routing standards. The 1993 modification added a Golden Gate precautionary area, a deep water traffic lane separation zone north of Harding Rock and an expanded Central Bay precautionary area. It eliminated the traffic lanes in the North Ship Cannel and San Pablo Strait. The presence of numerous recreational boats, windsurfers, and commercial fishing boats that transit the proposed RNAs poses a navigational hazard for vessels of 1600 or more gross tons which are constrained by their draft and maneuvering capabilities. By limiting or requiring the use of established traffic lanes, this rule will relieve congestion and promote safer transiting of the RNAs by vessels with restricted maneuverability. It will make the present voluntary traffic measures mandatory and require vessels 1600 gross tons or more, or tugs with a tow of 1600 gross tons or more, to follow traffic measures similar to those currently used on a voluntary basis. The regulation will also define precautionary areas and establish overtaking, meeting, crossing and speed restrictions for certain vessels transiting specific channels within the RNAs. The RNAs defined in this proposal are each considered to constitute a narrow channel or fairway. Therefore, Rule 9 of the Inland Navigation Rules (INRs) (33 U.S.C. 2009), in conjunction with the provisions of the associated INRs, is specifically made applicable within the defined RNAs and will be enforced. Discussion of Proposed Regulations The proposed RNAs, which lie within the San Francisco VTS are (33 CFR 161.50), are as follows: San Francisco Bay RNA, North Ship Channel RNA, San Pablo Strait Channel RNA, Pinole Shoal Channel RNA, Southern Pacific Railroad Bridge RNA, Southhampton Shoal/Richmond Harbor RNA, and Oakland Harbor RNA. General Requirements for All Proposed RNAs The depth of the water and geography of the San Francisco Bay Region, and the density of vessel traffic, which includes numerous ferries and recreational boats, severely constrain the ability of a vessel to maneuver in the event of an emergency. This proposed regulation will limit the maximum speed within the RNAs to 15 knots through the water for vessels 1600 gross tons or greater, or a tug with a tow of 1600 gross tons or greater, and requires those vessels to operate their engine(s) in a control mode and on fuel that will allow for an immediate response to any engine order, ahead or astern, including stopping its engine(s) for an extended period of time. Limiting vessel speeds to 15 knots or less through the water within the prescribed RNAs will reduce the risk of serious maritime accidents. There may be situations where vessels would be unable to safely comply with the requirements of this regulation. In such cases, the Captain of the Port, or the Commanding Officer, VTS San Francisco, acting as a representative of the Captain of the Port, may allow a vessel to deviate from this regulation. The RNAs defined in this proposal are each considered to constitute a narrow channel or fairway. Therefore, Rule 9 of the Inland Navigation Rules (INRs) (33 U.S.C. 2009), in conjunction with the provisions of the associated INRs, is specifically made applicable within the defined RNAs and will be enforced. Specific Requirements for Individual Proposed RNAs The geographic descriptions and proposed requirements specific to each RNA are as follows:
