FR940324-2-00102 FR940324-2-00047 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Bureau of Land Management Susanville District Manager will be responsible for issuing the Record of Decision for public (BLM) land, and the Forest Supervisors for the Modoc National Forest and the Toiyabe National Forest will be responsible for issuing Records of Decision for National Forest System lands. Sierra Pacific Power Company (SPPCo) of Reno, Nevada, has submitted right-of-way applications to the Bureau of Land Management and the United States Forest Service for the purpose of constructing, operating and maintaining a 345KV electric power transmission line from Alturas to Reno. Permits would also be needed from the California Public Utilities Commission and the Public Service Commission of Nevada. SPPCo proposes to buld this line to provide increased reliability and electric power capability to the Reno/Lake Tahoe area. The line would tap into a Bonneville Power Administration electric transmission line north of Alturas, CA, and run approximately 160 miles south to tie into the existing SPPCo electric power grid near Reno, NV. The proposed route generally parallels U.S. Highway 395 from Alturas to the vicinity of Wendel, CA, then runs east of Honey Lake and Herlong, CA, then south in the vicinity of Highway 395 again to the Reno area. This proposed route parallels the proposed Tuscarora gas pipeline route for much of the distance between Alturas and Herlong. The proposal includes the construction of two new electrical substations, one northwest of Alturas and one near Bordertown, Nevada. The existing SPPCo North Valley Road substation, near McCarran Blvd. in Reno, would be improved to allow a tie-in by the new 345KV line. SPPCo proposes to build the powerline using tubular steel H-Frame structures, made of a steel which will weather to a dark brown color. The structures would support six non-reflective (``non-specular'') stranded aluminum/steel conducting wires (one inch in diameter), arranged in three pairs of two wires, plus two steel ``shield'' wires which protect the line from lightning strikes. The shield wires would be 3/8 ’ ’ diameter stranded steel wires with fiberoptic cables inside the wires for SPPCo transmission operational communications. The proposed line route would follow existing dirt and paved roads to the extent possible. New road construction would be limited as much as possible, and there are likely to be areas where the structures would be installed using helicopters. Dated: March 15, 1994. Herrick E. Hanks, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6757 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;40&hyph;M
