FR941107-2-00192 FR941107-2-00105 Monday November 7, 1994 Part II Department of Education Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services; Training Personnel for the Education of Individuals With Disabilities, et al.; Notice Inviting Applications for New Awards for Fiscal Year (FY) 1995; Notices Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 214␣/␣Monday, November 7, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of final priority. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces a final priority to provide a competitive preference to applications funded under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) that serve communities that have been designated as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities under section 1391 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended by title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. This priority is intended to focus resources on the needs of infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities and their families who live in these communities and who are often underserved. For 1995, the Secretary anticipates using this priority with competitions for Parent Training and Information Centers under the Training Personnel for the Education of Children and Youth with Disabilities program, and Outreach Projects under the Early Education for Children with Disabilities program. EFFECTIVE DATE: This priority takes effect on December 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lee Coleman, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Switzer Building, Room 4615, Washington D.C. 20202&hyph;2732. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8166. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at (202) 205&hyph;8170. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On July 26, 1994, the Secretary published a notice of proposed priority for projects funded under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act in the Federal Register (59 FR 38082). The Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community program is a critical element of the Administration's community revitalization strategy. The program is a first step in rebuilding communities in America's poverty-stricken inner cities and rural heartlands. It is designed to empower people and communities by inspiring Americans to work together to create jobs and opportunity. Under this program, the Federal Government will designate up to nine areas as Empowerment Zones and up to 95 areas as Enterprise Communities in accordance with Internal Revenue Code section 1391, as amended by title XIII of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;66). To be eligible for designation, an area must be nominated by one or more local governments and the State or States in which it is located or by a State-Chartered Economic Development Corporation. A nominated area must be one of pervasive poverty, unemployment, and general distress, and must have a poverty rate of not less than the level specified in section 1392 of the Internal Revenue Code. In the Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community program, communities have been invited to submit strategic plans that comprehensively address how the community would link economic development with education and training as well as how community development, public safety, human services, and environmental initiatives will together support sustainable communities. Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities will be designated by the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) based on the quality of their strategic plans. Designated areas will receive Federal grant funds and substantial tax benefits and will have access to other Federal programs. (For additional information on the Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community program, contact HUD at 1&hyph;800&hyph;998&hyph;9999.) The Department of Education is supporting the Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community initiative in a variety of ways. It is encouraging Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities to use funds they already receive from Department of Education programs (including Chapter 1 of Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the Drug-Free Schools and Community Act, the Adult Education Act, and the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act) to support the comprehensive vision of their strategic plans. The Department of Education also intends to give preferences to Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities in a number of discretionary grant programs that are well-suited for inclusion in a comprehensive approach to economic and community development. In addition to the programs under IDEA, the Department intends to give preferences to Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities in the Rehabilitation Act Projects with Industry program, the Rehabilitation Act Special Demonstration Projects program, the Urban Community Service program, and a variety of discretionary programs under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act. The discretionary programs funded under IDEA are well suited to play a role in Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities because of the close relationship between poverty and disabilities. While the risk factors associated with disabilities are highest in low income areas, these areas often serve the lowest numbers of children with disabilities. Under the authority of IDEA, the Department supports a wide range of programs related to providing special education, related, and early intervention services to infants, toddlers, children, and youth with disabilities and their families. Coordinated and comprehensive approaches to services, such as those under the Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community program, can be effective tools in addressing the needs of these children. For FY 1995, the Secretary expects to use this priority in conjunction with priorities under the following programs: Parent Training and Information Centers (funded under IDEA Part D, Training Personnel for Education of Children and Youth with Disabilities program); and Outreach Projects (funded under IDEA Part C, Early Education for Children with Disabilities program).
