FR940513-0-00081 FR940513-0-00019 V. Joint Election to Have §§1.1398&hyph;1 and 1.1398&hyph;2 Apply to Cases Commenced Before November 9, 1992 For cases commenced prior to November 9, 1992, and terminating on or after that date, the proposed regulations apply only if a joint election is made by the debtor and the estate. In cases under chapter 7, the election is valid only with the written consent of the bankruptcy trustee. In cases under chapter 11, the election is valid only if it is incorporated (a) into a bankruptcy plan that is confirmed by the bankruptcy court, or (b) into an order of the court. Additionally, the caption ``ELECTION PURSUANT TO §1.1398&hyph;1 (or §1.1398&hyph;2)'' must be placed prominently on the first page of each of the debtor's returns that is affected by the election (other than returns for taxable years that begin after the termination of the estate) and on the first page of each of the estate's returns that is affected by the election. One commentator recommended eliminating the requirement that the debtor join in the election. In general, this commentator felt that this requirement gave the debtor exclusive control over the passive activity losses and credits and unused section 465 losses to the detriment of the creditors. The final regulations retain the requirement that the debtor join in the election. This requirement permits debtors to rely on the law in effect at the time they entered into bankruptcy. One commentator suggested that because the consent of the debtor is required, the regulations should clarify that the written consent of the debtor is required in cases under chapter 7, in addition to the written consent of a bankruptcy trustee. The proposed regulations require the debtor to show consent by actually making the election. The debtor's election will be evidenced by the return on which it is made, and it is not clear what purpose would be served by an additional paperwork requirement. Accordingly, this suggestion was not adopted. A commentator requested clarification as to whether the election could be made on an amended return. In response to this comment, the regulations clarify that the election can be made on an amended return. Finally, a commentator requested that the regulations clarify whether the election is available for estates that are terminated after November 9, 1992, but before the adoption of final regulations. Because the regulations are sufficiently clear on this point, this comment was not adopted. VI. Other Comments One commentator requested that the regulations provide guidance on the determination of basis under section 1398(g)(6), which provides that, in the case of assets acquired by the estate from the debtor, the estate succeeds to the debtor's basis, determined as of the first day of the debtor's taxable year in which the case commenced. The specific guidance requested concerned the effect on basis of events (such as depreciation or distributions received by the debtor as the result of holding an interest in a passthrough entity) that occur after the first day of the debtor's taxable year in which the case commenced, but prior to the commencement date. It was also requested that the regulations provide guidance on the application of the ``varying interest'' rule of section 706(d)(1) to the estate. This guidance is outside the scope of these regulations. Accordingly, the final regulations do not provide guidance on these issues. Special Analysis It has been determined that these final regulations are not significant rules as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It has also been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations. Therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, a copy of the proposed rules was submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Amy J. Sargent of the Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Income Tax and Accounting), IRS. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 602 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR parts 1 and 602 are amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣*
