FR940323-2-00093 FR940323-2-00067 _Cost and utilization. _Promotion of public/consumer education. A funding priority will be placed on projects from historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs). An approved proposal from an HBCU will receive a 0.5 point favorable adjustment of the priority score in a 4 point range before funding decisions are made. • Grants/Amounts: About $3.5 million will be available for this MCHIP category, to support up to 24 new projects. This is a change from information in an Advance Notice of Application Deadline Dates published in the Federal Register on February 2 at 59 FR 4925. The project period is up to 4 years. • Contact: For programmatic or technical information, contact Merle McPherson, M.D., Director, Division of Services for Children With Special Health Care Needs; telephone: 301 443&hyph;2350. 4.1.4.3. Data Utilization and Enhancement • Application Deadline: June 15, 1994. • Purpose: To enable Federal, State, and local MCH/CSHCN agencies, in collaboration with State primary care planning, to develop data and data systems required under Title V that facilitate needs assessment, planning, monitoring or evaluation of maternal and child agencies and comprehensive health services. • Priorities/Special Concerns: Applicants in this MCHIP category are invited to submit proposals in the following program areas: _Enhancement of data collection and analysis capabilities of State and local health agencies. _Compilation of new data and development and application of analytic techniques regarding the health status of and delivery of comprehensive health care to mothers and children. _Networking, coordination, and integration of existing and proposed resources and data and analysis systems developed in other States or organizations. _Increasing State and local entities capacity to respond to and implement changes in the organization of health care resources. Special consideration will be given to applications which demonstrate capabilities in a range of data and analysis areas relevant to MCH training and information model development. • Grants/Amounts: An estimated $500,000 will be available to support three cooperative agreements. This is a change from information in an Advance Notice of Application Deadline Dates published in the Federal Register on February 2 at 59 FR 4925. Project periods are up to 3 years. • Contact: For programmatic or technical information, contact Russ Scarato, telephone: 301 443&hyph;2340. 4.1.4.4. Healthy Tomorrows Partnerships for Children • Application Deadline: May 2, 1994. • Purpose: To support projects for children that improve access to health services and utilize preventive strategies. The initiative encourages additional support from the private sector and from foundations to form community-based partnerships to coordinate health resources for pregnant women, infants and children. • Priorities/Special Concerns: Special consideration will be given by the reviewers to proposals in this MCHIP category which address particularly well both of the areas identified below:
