FR941007-1-00061 FR941007-1-00009 Many commenters from small institutions criticized the presumption in the December proposal that a 60% loan-to-deposit ratio was reasonable. These commenters pointed out that economic conditions, institutional capacity and other constraints may result in loan-to-deposit ratios significantly below this figure. Although the agencies did not intend the December proposal to suggest that a loan-to-deposit ratio below 60% would have been presumed less than reasonable, the agencies have eliminated the use of any fixed percentage. Instead, the revised proposal would require that an institution's loan to deposit ratio, adjusted for seasonal variation and, as appropriate, other lending related activities, must be reasonable given the institution's size, financial condition, and the credit needs of its service area. The adjustment for lending related activities, such as secondary market sales and community development lending and investment, is new in the revised proposal. This provision responds to concerns that institutions that package and sell their loans would be disadvantaged, compared to portfolio lenders, by a strict loan-to-deposit ratio test. The proposed adjustment also addresses concerns raised by commenters that the small institution assessment method in the December proposal would have ignored the community development lending performance of small institutions. Many industry commenters also criticized the requirement in the December proposal that, to be presumed to be performing satisfactorily, an institution would have needed a good loan mix, which would have included offering, to the extent permitted by law, a variety of loans to customers across economic levels. These commenters were concerned that an institution would have been required to offer all permissible loan products to all customers. The agencies agree that the focus on the types of products offered was inconsistent with the tenor of the proposed regulation as a whole and have altered the criterion in the revised proposal to eliminate any requirement concerning the types of products that an institution offers. The revised proposal would retain the aspect of the criterion focussing on lending to customers across economic levels. In a related change, the revised proposal would broaden the criterion in the December proposal concerning the distribution of loans by institutions required to report loan data under HMDA. The revised proposal would explicitly provide that the agencies would consider the geographic distribution of loans of all small institutions, not just these subject to HMDA. The agencies believe this consideration was implicit in the December proposal, which required lending across economic levels. In any event, the agencies do not intend this change to result in any increased documentation burden on small institutions. The geographic analysis would be performed by the agencies' examiners and would not be required of the institutions. The agencies also received comments questioning the meaning of the criterion in the December proposal focussing on the complaint record of small institutions. Because of concerns by commenters that a ``legitimate, bona- fide complaint'' was not adequately defined, the agencies have now proposed a criterion that would focus on the institution's record of taking appropriate action, as warranted, in response to written complaints about its CRA performance. Many commenters expressed concern that the December proposal was unclear regarding the circumstances under which a small institution could have earned an ``outstanding'' or less than ``satisfactory'' rating. The changes in the revised proposal clarify and conform the treatment of small banks to the requirement proposed for large retail institutions_that lending performance must be ``satisfactory'' for an institution to receive an overall satisfactory rating. Under the revised proposal, the agencies would consider a small institution's investment and service performance in order to determine whether it is eligible for an ``outstanding'' rating. Strong investment or service performance could help boost a small institution's rating to the ``outstanding'' level. Poor investment or service performance would not lower a small institution's rating below ``satisfactory'' but could prevent the institution from receiving an ``outstanding'' rating. The agencies would not consider investment and service performance to offset less than ``satisfactory'' performance by a small institution on the basic assessment criteria. The revised proposal also reflects minor changes to clarify the treatment of small institutions. The agencies have eliminated the criterion in the December proposal relating to discrimination because the issue is addressed in the section on the assignment of overall ratings. In addition, consistent with the changes in the proposal for large institutions, the discussion of the examination procedures for small institutions with multiple service areas has been eliminated.
