FR941021-2-00050 FR941021-2-00037 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5094&hyph;5] Transfer of Data to Contractors agency: Environmental Protection Agency. action: Notice of Transfer of Data and Request for Comments. summary: EPA will transfer to its contractor Hydrogeologic, Inc., and its subcontractors, SAIC, DPRA, Inc., Ambiotech, Inc., and S.S. Papadopulos, Inc., information which has been or will be submitted to EPA under Section 3007 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). Under RCRA, EPA is responsible for identification of hazardous wastes and the regulation of solid and hazardous waste management activities. The agency uses fate and transport models for these activities. Some of the information may have a claim of confidentiality. dates: Transfer of confidential data submitted to EPA will occur no sooner than October 31, 1994. addresses: Comments should be sent to Margaret Lee, Document Control Officer, Office of Solid Waste (5305), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. Comments should be identified as ``Transfer of Confidential Data.'' for further information contact: Margaret Lee, Document Control Officer, Office of Solid Waste (5305), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, 202&hyph;260&hyph;3410. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Transfer of Data Under EPA Contract 68&hyph;W4&hyph;0017, Hydrogeologic, Inc., and its subcontractors will assist the Characterization and Assessment Division of the Office of Solid Waste in enhancing and implementing the fate and transport models to support the development of regulations for the identification of hazardous wastes and will perform categories of tasks such as validation and adaptation of models; modelling support; data collection and management; technical, statistical and regulatory support; and training and graphics support. Confidential Business Information submitted to the Office of Solid Waste program offices under Section 3007 of RCRA will be required to complete the above noted analyses. The contractor needs to access several agency sources including the Petroleum Refinery Database, the Toxic Release Inventory, the EPA National Survey of Hazardous Waste Generators, and Industries Studies Database. The data will be used to develop inputs to the models for predicting the fate and transport of contaminants from oily wastes. These results will be used for estimating risks to human health and the environment from the management of oily wastes so as to develop better policies for the protection of human health and the environment. In accordance with 40 CFR 2.305(h), EPA has determined that Hydrogeologic, Inc., and its subcontractors, require access to CBI submitted to EPA under the authority of RCRA to perform work satisfactorily under the above-noted contract. EPA is submitting this notice to inform all submitters of CBI that EPA may transfer to these firms, on a need-to-know basis, CBI collected under the authority of RCRA. Upon completing their review of materials submitted, Hydrogeologic, Inc., will return all such materials to EPA. Hydrogeologic, Inc., and its subcontractors have been authorized to have access to RCRA CBI under the EPA ``Contractor Requirements for the Control and Security of RCRA Confidential Business Information Security Manual.'' EPA will review the security plan of the contractor and approve it prior to RCRA CBI being transmitted to the contractor. Hydrogeologic, Inc., and its subcontractors will be required to sign non-disclosure agreements and be briefed on appropriate security procedures before they are permitted access to confidential information. Dated: October 13, 1994. Elliott P. Laws, Assistant Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26021 Filed 10&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
