FR940506-1-00047 FR940506-1-00012 (f) Rebates for observer coverage (Applicable from January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1995.) _(1) General. During the first year of the Research Plan, NMFS will rebate the cost for required observer coverage. (2) Applicability. (i) Each processor that retains fish for processing from a Research Plan fishery must collect and pay the Research Plan fee under procedures set forth under paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. (ii) All catcher vessels and processors of Research Plan fisheries must obtain observer coverage based on coverage requirements at §677.10(a). (iii) Catcher vessels and processors that pay for required observer coverage are eligible for rebates issued by NMFS during the first year of the Research Plan. (3) Recordkeeping and reporting, for purposes of this paragraph (f) _(i) Requirement. All NMFS-certified observer contractors and observer contractors supplying observers for processor vessels participating in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab fishery under Alaska State regulations must submit to the Regional Director a completed Observer Coverage Rebate Application (Form FPP&hyph;2; see figure 2). Completed forms must be submitted within 15 days after the end of each calendar month during which payment is received for observer services provided by the observer contractor for vessel or processor compliance with observer coverage requirements at §677.10(a). (ii) Observer Coverage Rebate Application. Observer contractors may obtain Observer Coverage Rebate Application forms from the Regional Director. The application form requests the following information: (A) Observer contractor name and signature of a person serving as a representative for the observer contractor; (B) The name and mailing address of the person from whom payment of observer coverage was received and to whom the rebate will be issued; (C) Identification of the vessel or shoreside processing facility that received observer coverage; (D) The total amount paid for observer coverage and the total number of standard observer days paid for; and (E) Name of the observer(s) and date(s) of standard observer day(s) paid for. (4) Issuance of rebates. (i) Rebates for observer coverage will be based on information provided to NMFS by observer contractors on the Observer Coverage Rebate Application. (ii) NMFS will issue rebates to the persons who paid an observer contractor for observer services. The rebate for each standard observer day an observer is deployed for service at a processor or aboard a vessel will equal either the actual payment to the observer contractor per standard observer day or the standardized cost of a standard observer day, whichever is less. (iii) NMFS will issue rebates authorized under this paragraph (f) within 6 months of the receipt of the completed application form described under paragraph (f)(3) of this section. No rebate will be issued to a processor until all Research Plan fees required under this section are paid. §677.7 General prohibitions. In addition to the general prohibitions specified in §620.7 of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following: (a) Forcibly assault, resist, oppose, impede, intimidate, or interfere with an observer. (b) Interfere with or bias the sampling procedure employed by an observer, including sorting or discarding any catch before sampling; or tamper with, destroy, or discard an observer's collected samples, equipment, records, photographic film, papers, or personal effects without the express consent of the observer. (c) Prohibit or bar by command, impediment, threat, coercion, or by refusal of reasonable assistance, an observer from collecting samples, conducting product recovery rate determinations, making observations, or otherwise performing the observer's duties. (d) Harass an observer by conduct that has sexual connotations, has the purpose or effect of interfering with the observer's work performance, or otherwise creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive environment. In determining whether conduct constitutes harassment, the totality of the circumstances, including the nature of the conduct and the context in which it occurred, will be considered. The determination of the legality of a particular action will be made from the facts on a case-by-case basis. (e) Process fish from a Research Plan fishery without a valid permit issued pursuant to this part. (f) Deliver fish from a Research Plan fishery to a processor not possessing a valid permit issued pursuant to this part. (g) Apply for or receive a rebate for observer coverage under provisions of §677.6(f) that is based on false or inaccurate information. (h) Fail to carry an observer when required by the Regional Director. (i) Fish without an observer aboard a vessel that is required to carry an observer under §677.10. (j) Require an observer to perform duties normally performed by crew members, including, but not limited to, cooking, washing dishes, standing watch, vessel maintenance, assisting with the setting or retrieval of gear, or any duties associated with the processing of fish, from sorting the catch to the storage of the finished product. §677.8 Facilitation of enforcement. See §620.8 of this chapter.
