FR940503-2-00078 FR940503-2-00054 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Social Security Administration Disability Process Reengineering Proposal: Notice of Public Meeting Agency: Social Security Administration, HHS. Action: Notice of public meeting. Summary: Notice is hereby given that the Disability Process Reengineering Team of the Social Security Administration (SSA) will hold a public meeting to discuss the proposal to redesign the disability claims process that was issued on March 31, 1994 and published as a notice in the Federal Register on April 15, 1994. This proposal was developed by the Disability Process Reengineering Team_comprised of SSA and State Disability Determination Services (DDS) employees_and is intended to achieve dramatic improvements in customer service to the public. This public meeting is being held in conjunction with a national dialogue period to obtain the views, concerns, and ideas of all interested parties before the Team makes a final recommendation to the Commissioner of Social Security on what changes should be made to the disability claims process. The national dialogue period will end on May 27, 1994. Dates: May 16, 1994, 1:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. Addresses: VOA Auditorium, Department of Health and Human Services, Cohen Building, 330 Independence Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20201. For Further Information Contact: Disability Process Reengineering Team, Room 4&hyph;N&hyph;3, Operations Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235, (410)966&hyph;8255. Supplementary Information: The aim of the proposal to redesign the disability claims process is to achieve dramatically improved levels of service to the public. For purposes of this initiative, the process considered begins with the initial contact of the claimant when an intent to file an application for disability benefits is expressed, and continues through the payment of benefits or the final administrative appeal. The proposed redesigned process is characterized by opportunities for claimants to participate fully throughout the process, enabled by information about the process and personal contact with a single employee during the initial claims process. The appeals process is streamlined, with more efficient management of pre-hearing development and an opportunity for claimants to receive favorable decisions without a hearing if the evidence so warrants, or faster decisions if a hearing is held. The decision methodology used at all levels would be simplified and streamlined to be more understandable by lay persons and medical persons alike, and there is an emphasis on individualized functional assessment. Employees work in an atmosphere characterized by teamwork, contributions by claimants and interested third parties, adequate training and quality feedback, and technological supports. The Team's proposal intends to make the process more efficient and customer friendly for all claimants for Social Security or Supplemental Security Income disability benefits; to give claimants the right decision at the earliest point possible in the process. It is the Team's intention that claims for benefits which are correctly paid today will continue to be paid, but in a more expedited manner. The Team's proposal is not intended to affect the benefits of current disability beneficiaries, to reduce the percentage of cases that are allowed under the current process, or to make it more difficult for an individual to be found disabled. The Disability Process Reengineering Team is interested in receiving public comments on the concepts in the proposal, particularly the public's response to the following questions about the proposal's goals: •Does the proposal have the potential to provide a process that is easy for claimants and those who assist claimants to access and understand? •Will it enable SSA and the State DDS to make the right decision the first time a case is adjudicated? •Will it result in dramatically improved processing times? •Will it result in a more efficient use of SSA and State DDS personnel? •Will it create jobs for employees in the process that are satisfying? In considering these questions, interested parties are encouraged to identify factors that would assure that the proposed concepts will achieve these goals. To the extent that the proposal is not seen as achieving these goals, alternative suggestions about how to do so are of particular interest to the Team. The Commissioner of Social Security or her designee will preside over the public meeting and chair a panel including members of the Disability Process Reengineering Team. The meeting will be open to the public to the extent that space is available. Individuals who would like to present comments to the panel should contact the Project Team at 410&hyph;966&hyph;8255 by COB May 11, 1994 to sign up for a specific time for their presentations. Times for presentations will be scheduled on a first-come, first-served basis. Time allowing, each presenter will be given 5 minutes to make a presentation to the panel. Participants in this meeting are asked to submit 1 written copy of their full presentation on the day of the public meeting and be prepared to give an abbreviated statement at the public meeting. While we will try to provide all interested parties with an opportunity to present comments to the panel, individuals who do not pre-register to make a presentation may not be able to be accommodated within the three hours reserved for the meeting. In such cases, written statements may be submitted on the day of the public meeting. A sign language interpreter will be available; the room is accessible for wheelchairs. Written comments on the proposed disability claims process published in the April 15, 1994 Federal Register should be directed to: SSA_Disability Process Reengineering Project, P.O. Box 17052, Baltimore, MD 21235. Written comments can also be telefaxed to 410&hyph;966&hyph;9884. Comments should be sent by May 27, 1994 to ensure that they will be considered. The transcript of the meeting will be available at cost. Transcripts may be ordered from the Project Team. The transcript will become part of the record of this meeting. Dated: April 25, 1994. Rhoda M. G. Davis, Director, Process Reengineering Program. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10466 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;P
