FR940224-2-00057 FR940224-2-00036 This is a revision of an existing collection. Modifications to the existing Form EIA&hyph;871A ``Building Questionnaire'' include eliminating questions that are not related to Federal buildings or to EPACT requirements and adding several questions related to: water heating, energy audits conducted by the DOE Office of Federal Energy Management Programs, and energy consumption. III. Request for Comments Prospective respondents and other interested parties should comment on the actions discussed in item II. The following general guidelines are provided to assist in the preparation of responses. As a potential respondent: A. Are the instructions and definitions clear and sufficient? If not, which instructions require clarification? B. Can the data be submitted using the definitions included in the instructions? C. Can data be submitted in accordance with the response time specified in the instructions? D. Public reporting burden for this collection is estimated to average 27 minutes per respondent. Given that this survey will be conducted by telephone, how much time do you estimate it will require you to review the advanced letter mailed to you, gather the necessary data needed (square footage of building, year constructed and annual energy consumption) and respond to the telephone interview which includes questions about the physical characteristics of the building and energy-related equipment. E. What is the estimated cost of completing this form, including the direct and indirect costs associated with the data collection? Direct costs should include all costs, such as administrative costs, directly attributable to providing this information. F. How can the form be improved? G. Do you know of any other Federal, State, or local agency that collects similar data? If you do, specify the agency, the data element(s), and the means of collection. As a potential user: A. Can you use data at the levels of detail indicated on the form? B. For what purpose would you use the data? Be specific. C. How could the form be improved to better meet your specific needs? D. Are there alternate sources of data and do you use them? What are their deficiencies and/or strengths? E. For the most part, information is published by EIA in U.S. customary units, e.g., cubic feet of natural gas, short tons of coal, and barrels of oil. Would you prefer to see EIA publish more information in metric units, e.g., cubic meters, metric tons, and kilograms? If yes, please specify what information (e.g., coal production, natural gas consumption, and crude oil imports), the metric unit(s) of measurement preferred, and in which EIA publication(s) you would like to see such information. EIA is also interested in receiving comments from persons regarding their views on the need for the information contained in the form EIA&hyph;871A (FS), ``Commercial Buildings Energy Consumption Survey, Building Questionnaire (Federal Supplement)''. Comments submitted in response to this notice will be summarized and/or included in the request for OMB approval of the form; they also will become a matter of public record. Statutory Authorities: Section 2(a) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;511), which amended Chapter 35 of Title 44 of the United States Code (See 44 U.S.C. 3506 (a) and (c)(1)). Issued in Washington, DC, February 18, 1994. Yvonne M. Bishop, Director, Statistical Standards, Energy Information Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4183 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
