FR941028-0-00056 FR941028-0-00009 (Emphasis added.) See 54 FR 18438, 18447&hyph;18448 (April 28, 1989). Certainly, it could be reasonable, depending upon particular circumstances, for a regulatory authority to require both a plan of abatement and a permit condition implementing such plan. The agency has previously rejected the view, however, that there is only one correct option or options from the alternative remedies provided in the improvidently issued permit rule which is or are appropriate for all circumstances. Id. The provisions of the regulation afford the regulatory authority the opportunity to tailor a remedy ``package'' appropriate for the particular circumstances under which a permit was improvidently issued. The goals of any such remedy are ``to correct the defect in the permit and achieve a state of compliance.'' Id., at 18447. If either a permit condition or an abatement agreement could reasonably be expected to accomplish these goals under the circumstances, then either would be sufficient to resolve the improvidently issued permit. In the event that it becomes apparent that selected remedial measures are not effective, each of the remedies affords leverage to the regulatory authority to compel compliance. Such choices are appropriately made by the regulatory authority, subject to OSM's oversight under 30 CFR 843.21. At this time, OSM sees no reason to amend the regulation to routinely require the use of both remedies in all circumstances where abatement of a violation is to be undertaken as a necessary part of the resolution of an improvidently issued permit. Section 773.21_Improvidently issued permits: Rescission procedures. In the proposed rule, OSM proposed to amend the then current regulation at 30 CFR 773.21(a) to make the provisions of proposed ยง773.26, standards for challenging ownership or control links and the status of violations, applicable when a regulatory authority invokes the automatic suspension and rescission procedures of 30 CFR 773.21. The rationale for such amendment is the same as that discussed above with respect to similar language contained in ยง773.20. In substance, that was to assure that the standards, responsibilities, and procedures created by proposed ยง773.26 were consistently applied to permit issuance and to determinations regarding improvident permit issuance. OSM proposed such an approach in the belief that this would enhance the fairness of the permitting process and the prospect for the uniform enforcement of nationwide minimum standards. Further, OSM proposed to delete paragraph (c) of then current 30 CFR 773.21 which provided for appeals of rescission notices. Under the proposal, rescission appeal procedures were to be incorporated in 30 CFR 773.20. One commenter representing a State regulatory authority asserted that the States typically have provisions for the administrative review of a regulatory authority's decision to suspend or rescind a permit. Accordingly, this commenter questioned why OSM's proposed rules needed to include provisions for the appeals of permit rescissions due to improvidently issued permits. The rationale for providing appeal procedures for permit rescissions incident to improvidently issued permits is essentially the same as the rationale for providing appeal procedures for permit suspensions. In substance, a permittee has, in fact and as a matter of law, assumed the rights and responsibilities incident to the permit to engage in surface coal mining operations. Indeed, OSM's regulation provides that a valid permit carries with it the right of successive renewal. See 30 CFR 774.15(a). Thus, a permittee has an interest which is deserving of protection. Thus, a permittee whose permit has been rescinded is entitled to a review of the decision to rescind. Prior to the proposed amendment of September, 1991, then current 30 CFR 773.21 provided notice and appeal rights with respect to permit rescission incident to improvidently issued permits. By proposing to amend this rule to achieve a common set of procedural protections for permit suspensions and permit rescissions incident to improvidently issued permits, it was not OSM's intention to reduce the appellate rights previously provided by 30 CFR 773.21 or comparable State provisions. Instead, OSM wanted to assure that procedures of review were available for both permit suspensions and permit rescissions. The absence of such procedures for suspensions was a matter which OSM sought to address.
