FR941006-0-00032 FR941006-0-00011 Final awards will be made to all States after the close of FY 1995 based on verified numbers of illegal criminal aliens and costs. All States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands (hereafter included in the term ``State'') would be eligible for these final awards. All awards will be calculated against the total amount of $130 million (as a proportion of actual cost) with any amounts initially awarded being subtracted from final awards to the same applicants. In following years, when appropriations are made, one award cycle after the close of the fiscal year will be based on each State's documentation of that year's number of illegal criminal aliens and costs of incarceration. Each State is asked to designate an administrative agency, which would presumably be their Department of Corrections, but can be any other State agency. All States must submit applications within the prescribed time periods to receive awards pursuant to this program. The application must conform with the requirements set out below. Each State will receive a proportion of total costs expended each year on the incarceration of an illegal alien. The formula will be based on the number of States that wish to participate in this program and the figures submitted in their applications. BJA, in cooperation with INS, will work together to ensure that all information submitted is verified and supports the final awards made. Comment is particularly solicited on the issue of whether or not the definition of custody in ยง82.3 should be expanded to include local/county facilities which are housing criminal alien felons as defined herein. Should the coverage of this program be so expanded, the State would remain the primary Grantee and would be responsible for administering or sub-granting funds to local entities for program purposes. Also, comments on the verification provisions in Section 82.8 are especially welcomed. Administrative Requirements This regulation has been drafted and reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866, section 1(b), Principles of Regulation. This rule is a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866, section 3(f), Regulatory Planning and Review, and accordingly this rule has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. The Director, BJA, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this regulation and by approving it certifies that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The information collection requirement contained in this rule has been cleared by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3504(h). The OMB control number for this collection is 1121&hyph;0183. This regulation is being published as an interim final rule, without prior publication of notice and comment, and is made effective immediately, for good cause as explained below. Under 5 U.S.C. 553(a)(2), matters relating to grants are exempted from notice and comment requirements. Moreover, in this case, advance notice and comment would be impractical, unnecessary, and contrary to the public interest in the prompt implementation of this grant program. The Appropriations Act requires that the first one-third of the available funds must be distributed by January 1995. In order to comply with that requirement, these regulations must be effective immediately so that eligible states can apply for the preliminary grants. Publishing a notice of proposed rulemaking and awaiting receipt of comments would delay significantly the implementation of this grant program. Such delay would be contrary to the public interest and would contradict the Congressional intent to provide immediate grant assistance to the states most impacted by the cost of incarcerating illegal aliens. However, BJA is very interested in receiving public comment on all aspects of this program and will consider all such comments fully in preparing a final rule. List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 82 Grant programs_aliens, Prisons. For the reasons set out in the preamble, Title 28, Chapter I, of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended by adding a new part 82 as set forth below.
