FR940722-0-00117 FR940722-0-00019 D. The Entrepreneurs' Blocks 118. As discussed above, because the auction process itself requires additional expenditures of capital to acquire licenses, this new licensing procedure in many respects holds the potential to erect an additional barrier to entry that had not existed even under the Act's previous licensing methods, comparative hearings and lotteries. As reflected in the House Committee Report, Congress was well aware of that possibility and wanted to ensure that competitive bidding should not exclude smaller entities from obtaining licenses. 91 The inability of small businesses and businesses owned by women and minorities to obtain adequate private financing creates a serious imbalance between these companies and large businesses in their prospects for competing successfully in broadband PCS auctions. 91 See H.R. Rep. No. 103&hyph;111 at 255. 119. In addition, commenters contend that, at the outset, a small PCS business and a large local exchange carrier would value a license very differently. DCR Communications, for example, argues that a local telephone company would have much lower costs of construction and operation through equipment volume discounts, existing billing, accounting, order entry and processing, and customer service systems. Furthermore, DCR contends, the telephone company might decide to use its PCS system simply as an adjunct to a cellular system it owns in a nearby market and market wireless handsets that operate in both frequencies. DCR concludes that the telephone company could justify paying the higher value for the license because it has more ready access to capital. 92 92 Ex parte filing of DCR Communications, May 31, 1994. 120. This concern is echoed by a number of commenters. NTIA agrees that capital formation is a major barrier to full participation by small and minority-owned firms, asserting that capital-constrained firms are likely to assign lower values to PCS licenses than other bidders and are therefore less likely to obtain licenses in an open bidding market. 93 Another party, Impulse Telecommunications Corporation, states that ``giants'' can justify huge bids because they have billions of dollars of capital as well as an existing administrative, billing, operating and marketing infrastructure. In addition, Impulse asserts that PCS licenses are likely to hold strategic value for large long distance and local telephone companies, for such purposes as critical wireless access. 94 Similarly, Tri-State Radio Company states that the allocation of substantial amounts of spectrum to services such as broadband PCS has generated extensive industry expectation and speculation. With the financial stakes so high, Tri-State argues that designated entities will have little ability to bid successfully against ``communications behemoths with almost unlimited financial resources.'' 95 93 NTIA Comments at 26. 94 Ex parte filing of Impulse Telecommunications Corporation, May 27, 1994. 95 Tri-State Comments at 11. See also comments of NAMTEC (designated entities should not have to compete against ``more entrenched parties''), National Rural Telecom Association (the only way small entities can have real opportunity is if they do not have to bid against ``extremely `deep pocket' applicants''), The Small Business PCS Association (it will not be possible for designated entities ``to compete in an auction against some of the largest companies and wealthiest individuals in the United States''), JMP (without preferences for designated entities, large telecommunications firms will ``monopolize'' the auctions), Minority PCS Coalition at 6, Telephone Association of Michigan at 9&hyph;10, Iowa Network at 9, AWRT at 8, Telephone Electronics at 7&hyph;8, Sloan at 2.
