FR940126-2-00043 FR940126-2-00020 (C) Maximum expenditure: $5,000.00. (D) No award funds are used for decorative or non-essential purposes or routine maintenance/repairs. (E) All emergency repair work is completed and paid for by the end of the jurisdiction's award phase. (Expenses which occur after that date will not be accepted as eligible costs.) Documentation required: letter from Local Board indicating approval and amount approved, copy of contract including cost or invoices for supplies and contract labor, document citing building code violation requiring the repair (for building code repairs) and canceled checks. (13) Expenses incurred from accessibility improvements for the disabled are eligible for mass feeding or mass shelter facilities up to a limit of $5,000. These improvements may include those required by the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. A building code citation is not necessary for accessibility improvements. Note: All social service providers are mandated to comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Documentation required: copy of contract describing work to be done including cost, letter from Local Board indicating approval and amount approved, and canceled checks. For mass shelter providers, there are two options for eligible costs. One option must be selected at the beginning of the program year and continued throughout the entire year. Note the documentation requirements for each option. (14) Reimbursement of actual direct eligible costs; in which case canceled checks and vendor invoices for supplies/equipment essential to the operation of the mass shelter (e.g., cots, mattresses, soap, linens, blankets, cleaning supplies, etc.) must be maintained. Documentation required: receipts/invoices from vendor relating to operation of facility and canceled checks. (15) Per diem allowance of exactly $5 per person or exactly $10 per person per night for mass shelter (five beds or more) providers, only if: (i) Approved in advance by the Local Board; and, (ii) LROs total mass shelter award is expended in this manner. Note: It is the decision of the Local Board to choose between the $5/$10 rate. This rate may vary from agency to agency. The $5/$10 per diem, if elected, may be expended by the LRO for any related cost; it is not limited to otherwise eligible items. The per diem allowance does not include the additional costs associated with food. Documentation required: schedule showing daily rate of $5 or $10 and number of persons sheltered by date with totals. For rent/mortgage assistance, eligible program costs include: (16) Limited emergency rent or mortgage assistance for individuals or families, provided that: (i) Payment is in arrears; and, (ii) All other resources have been exhausted; and, (iii) The client is primary resident of the home in which rent/mortgage is being paid; and, (iv) Payment is limited to one month's cost for each individual or family; and, (v) Payment must guarantee an additional 30 days service. Note: Late fees, but not deposits, are eligible. Documentation required: letters from landlords [must include amount of one month's rent and statement that rent is past due], mortgage letters and/or copy of loan coupon showing mortgage amount and date due and canceled checks. (17) First month's rent may be paid when an individual or family: (i) Is transient and plans to stay in the area for an extended period of time; or, (ii) Is moving from a temporary shelter to a more permanent living arrangement; or, (iii) Is being evicted because one month payment will not forestall eviction. The first month's rent cannot be provided in addition to emergency rent/mortgage payment under Item 16 above. It can be provided in addition to assistance provided in Items 15 and 19. Documentation required: letters from landlords [must include amount of first month's rent] and canceled checks. For utility assistance, eligible program costs include:
