FR940304-2-00203 FR940304-2-00114 Local and Intrastate Planning Grants a. Eligibility This section supports development of planning and/or implementation strategies of local governments, intrastate multi-community or multi-county entities, and local non-profit organizations. b. Evaluative Criteria Many of the evaluative criteria applied to the previous planning grant category_questions of interoperability, identification of end-users, and incorporation of broad input_are germane to Local and Intrastate Planning Grant applications. (1) Objectives Although the focus of this subcategory is considerably less ``global'' than for Statewide, Regional, and National Planning Grants, proposals in this subcategory should nevertheless exhibit the same consistency with the long range NII objective of fostering seamless, multi-functional networks. Accordingly, questions of interoperability and connectivity should be carefully considered. Within the context of this subcategory, a number of questions become especially relevant: What provisions in the plan have been made to address crucial ``last mile'' connectivity questions? Is sufficient technical and operational expertise available at the local level to ensure efficient planning and subsequent implementation? Will service provider and/or end-user acceptance of new or expanded telecommunications services present any special difficulties? (2) Formation of Partnerships NTIA will consider favorably applications that demonstrate a partnership among groups of communities or entities for the purpose of pooling and leveraging resources. This does not mean that these groups should come together merely for the purpose of obtaining a federal grant. This partnership or coalition should demonstrate that it will continue to function and operate effectively once the NTIA grant is concluded. Can the local resources of national or regional organizations, both public and private, be enlisted in support of the planning effort? What unique linguistic, social, cultural, political, or economic impediments exist locally that might hinder the planning effort? (3) Innovation and Experimentation Information infrastructure has evolved and been used in unanticipated ways. Similarly, many of the most valuable telecommunications services (such as the Internet) and facilities now in use were once experimental. NTIA is seeking applications for planning grants that will foster and encourage experimentation with use of NII technologies at the grass roots level, build the capacity of the public to participate in the emerging NII, or address specific objectives underlying the deployment of the NII as identified in the Agenda for Action (September 21, 1993). For this reason, projects supported under Category Two should be those that are more likely to lead to the development of innovative methods, practices, or policies that will ensure that the NII activities reach a broad population. The objective is to build both the technical and human infrastructure needed to make the NII useful to citizens. These plans can serve as models for similar projects that are most likely to lead to the development of systems, projects, and policies that can stimulate similar initiatives in other areas of the country. (4) Support Applicants should clearly define the administrative or institutional support that has been generated to advance any planning effort. Can national sources of public and private funding be leveraged in support of a local planning effort? Since many local initiatives tend to rely heavily in the initial stages on volunteer energies, how will questions of continuity be addressed? c. Financial Information Grant funds may be spent on information collection, salaries, travel, lodging, and other expenses reasonably related to planning activities.
