FR940426-1-00024 FR940426-1-00004 Question 2.1. To what extent have changes in the securities markets and underwriting practices affected the manner in which stabilization is conducted? How frequently and under what circumstances are offerings stabilized (as opposed to reserving the right to stabilize)? What new techniques and trading systems (such as proprietary trading systems) are used and how are bids and purchases disclosed in such systems? Question 2.2. Should the ability to stabilize be based upon the risk assumed in connection with an offering? Do current underwriting practices allow underwriters to reduce risks to a greater extent than when the Commission established its policies on stabilization? Do issuers engage in stabilization during offerings? If so, is it appropriate? Question 2.3. Should stabilization be permitted only for certain types of distributions (e.g., firm commitments) or securities? If so, what should be the determinative criteria? Question 2.4. How should stabilizing price levels be determined? Should permissible stabilization price levels depend on the security's characteristics (e.g., the degree of transparency, liquidity, or reported/nonreported status) or should they apply uniformly to all securities? Question 2.5. What is the appropriate role of disclosure in connection with stabilization? Do the current disclosure requirements provide meaningful investor protection? B. Aftermarket Bids and Purchases Underwriters engage in numerous activities in the ``aftermarket'' of the offered security, i.e., the period following the cessation of sales efforts in the offering. In purpose or effect, these activities may support, or even raise, the market price of the security, and can have the effect of ``stabilizing'' the security's price. 91 In fact, ``stabilization'' of the market in connection with offerings may have shifted from the sales period to the aftermarket period. 91 See, e.g., Hanley, Kumar & Seguin, Price stabilization in the market for new issues, 34 J. Fin. Econ. 177 (1993). A significant volume of trading frequently occurs in the days immediately following the end of the sales of the offered securities. Three significant activities by persons who participated in the distribution often occur during this period: market making; purchases of the offered security to cover a syndicate short position; and ``penalty bids.'' Underwriters, particularly managing underwriters, generally become market makers in the security (or resume market making if it was suspended during the offering). Underwriters may have ``oversold'' the offering in order to compensate for cancellations and to create aftermarket buying power against anticipated selling pressure immediately following the offering. 92 Issuers sometimes grant an overallotment option (so-called ``Green Shoe'' option) to underwriters to purchase securities in addition to the amount that the syndicate is committed to purchase from the issuer. 93 The manager may cover the syndicate short position by exercising the option, through open market purchases, or a combination of the two. 92 Underwriters have reported that immediate aftermarket selling by substantial purchasers in the offering, known as ``flipping,'' has become common. See, e.g., Peers, Wall Street Plans to Crack Down on IPO 'Flippers,' Wall St. J., December 29, 1993, at C1. It appears to be a longstanding phenomenon of offerings. Cf. Release 34&hyph;2446, at 5. 93 Under Rule 10b&hyph;6, a distribution is deemed completed if the underwriter exercises the overallotment option, but only to the extent of the syndicate short position that remains in connection with the distribution. See Paragraph (c)(3)(ii). A ``penalty bid'' provision often is included in the agreement among underwriters. 94 The managing underwriter imposes the penalty by requiring underwriters or selling group members to forfeit their selling concession for the shares sold to their customers in the offering that are purchased in the aftermarket for the syndicate account. 94 A ``penalty bid'' is defined in the NASD By-Laws, Schedule D, part 1(15) [NASD Manual (CCH) ¶1802] as: ``A stabilizing bid that permits the managing underwriter to reclaim a selling concession granted to a syndicate member in connection with the sale of securities in an underwritten offering when the syndicate member resells such securities to the managing underwriter.'' Question 2.6. Do aftermarket bids and purchases by syndicate members support the market price of the offered security and ``facilitate the offering?'' Question 2.7. Should such bids and purchases be regulated? If so, what is the appropriate form of regulation? Is it relevant whether the syndicate has a net short position? Question 2.8. What should be the appropriate period during which the short position may be covered? 95 95 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 3506 (October 27, 1941), 11 FR 10984. Question 2.9. Does the presence of a penalty bid have the effect of ``stabilizing'' the aftermarket of the offered security? 96 96 Cf. Zweig, Spiro and Schroeder, Beware The IPO Market, Business Week, April 4, 1994, at 84.
