FR940513-0-00007 FR940513-0-00003 FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION 12 CFR Part 612 RIN 3052&hyph;AB47 Personnel Administration AGENCY: Farm Credit Administration. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Farm Credit Administration (FCA), by the Farm Credit Administration Board (Board), adopts final amendments to the regulations relating to standards of conduct for directors and employees of Farm Credit System (FCS or System) institutions, excluding the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation. This action results from a reassessment of the regulations in light of the amendments to the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (1971 Act) made by the Agricultural Credit Act of 1987 (1987 Act) and the findings of a review required by section 514 of the Farm Credit Banks and Associations Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (1992 Act). The final rule updates the regulations to reflect statutory changes and the change in focus of the FCA's regulatory oversight of personnel matters. In addition, the final rule enhances and clarifies the regulations to ensure that they fulfill the purposes of section 514 of the 1992 Act relative to the reporting of financial information and potential conflicts of interest. EFFECTIVE DATE: The regulations shall become effective upon the expiration of 30 days after publication during which either or both houses of Congress are in session or December 31, 1994, whichever is later. Notice of the effective date will be published in the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John J. Hays, Policy Analyst, Policy Development and Planning Division, Office of Examination, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, VA 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4498, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444, ␣␣or Dorothy J. Acosta, Assistant General Counsel, Regulatory Operations Division, Office of General Counsel, Farm Credit Administration, McLean, VA 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4020, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 19, 1993, the FCA proposed amendments to its regulations relating to standards of conduct for directors and employees of System institutions. See 58 FR 44139. The final regulations retain much of the content of the existing and proposed regulations, but strengthen and clarify them, expanding some of the provisions and relaxing others. The final regulations also address the concerns and suggestions received on the proposed regulations during the comment period, which expired on September 30, 1993. The FCA received seven comment letters on the proposed regulations during the comment period. Three letters were submitted by System banks, three by System associations, and one by the Farm Credit Council (FCC) on behalf of its member banks and the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation. These comments and the FCA responses are summarized below. In addition to comments received during the comment period, three letters were received concerning the proposed amendments that have also been considered by the FCA Board. Two comment letters pertaining to the proposed standards-of-conduct regulations were received pursuant to the FCA's request for comments on regulatory burden, published in the Federal Register on June 23, 1993. See 58 FR 34003. These comments related to reporting requirements and are similar to the comments received during the comment period for the proposed regulations. They are summarized and addressed in the Board's response to comments relating to reporting that were received during the comment period for the proposed regulations. One letter was received from an association as a followup to a meeting held in Dallas, Texas, between FCA's Board and senior management and directors and officers of FCS associations. The association expressed a concern regarding the ability to attract and retain qualified directors if they are prohibited from purchasing acquired property as proposed. The FCA received numerous comments on this prohibition and the Board's response appears later in the preamble. General Comments Two comments were received concerning the effective date of the amendments. The FCC urged the FCA to allow sufficient lead time between publication of the final regulations and the effective date to permit boards of directors the opportunity to consider carefully the many policy judgments that are left to their discretion by the regulations. Another comment recommended an effective date no earlier than January 1, 1995, suggesting that existing regulations and policies would continue to provide adequate direction and control in the interim. The Board agrees that there should be sufficient lead time to revise policies, especially in view of changes made in the final regulations in response to comments. Although the final regulations are substantially changed from the proposed regulations in response to the comments, the Board believes that with the delayed effective date the public will have ample opportunity to further review the regulations and bring any observations to the Board's attention prior to the effective date of the regulations. As always, the Board will consider requests for further clarification of or amendments to the regulations prior to or after their effective date. Consequently, the Board adopts final regulations with a delayed effective date not earlier than December 31, 1994.
