FR940826-2-00080 FR940826-2-00055 3. Harm to Competition Arising from the Combination of McCaw's Cellular Services and AT&T's Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Business The proposed merger may substantially lessen competition in cellular services markets. Although AT&T already has the ability to disadvantage its cellular infrastructure customers, today AT&T has no strong incentive to disadvantage one cellular carrier customer vis-a-vis another, because AT&T is not providing local cellular service. As a result of this merger, however, AT&T would gain the incentive to harm McCaw's competitors that use AT&T cellular equipment, to McCaw's advantage, by exploiting AT&T's control over the costs, capabilities and capacity to those locked-in equipment customers. Thus, the combined AT&T-McCaw would have the incentive and the ability to either raise its cellular service rivals' costs or, through the threat of doing so, reduce its rivals' incentive to compete. In either event the likely outcome is increased prices and lower quality service to consumers of cellular service. The merger also will give McCaw access to competitively sensitive and proprietary information of McCaw's competitors that AT&T acquires through its role as cellular infrastructure equipment supplier to Macaw's competitors. As described above, this information relates to planned expansions, new service offerings and other efficiency enhancing upgrades. McCaw's competitors could well decide to forgo or limit their expenditures of resources in these areas if they believe that they will not enjoy the competitive benefit of such expenditures because McCaw will have immediate access to their competitive plans. As a result, consumers of cellular service are likely to pay higher prices and receive lower quality service. The proposed merger may also harm competition in the sale of cellular infrastructure equipment used by North American cellular service providers, by giving AT&T access to competitively sensitive or proprietary information of Ericsson that McCaw acquires through its position as a customer for and user of Ericsson cellular infrastructure equipment. 4. Harm to Competition Arising from the Combination of McCaw's Cellular Services Business and AT&T's Interexchange Business Interexchange services are telecommunications services that connect calls between different local exchange areas or local cellular service areas. AT&T is the dominant interexchange carrier for both wired and cellular telephone service, with MCI and Sprint and a number of smaller firms having much smaller shares. The provision of interexchange services to cellular subscribers is a relevant product market. Customers use cellular phones to meet their needs away from landline telephones; access to interexchange service over landline telephones is inconsistent with the needs motivating cellular phone usage and thus is not a good substitute. Cellular subscribers can only access interexchange service providers that have exchange access to that cellular system. Due to the lack of effective competition in the cellular service markets, McCaw has been able to deny its cellular customers the ability to select their interexchange service provider. In those markets in which McCaw's systems are not controlled by a Bell Company that is subject to equal access requirements, 3 McCaw provides interexchange service to its cellular customers on an exclusive basis (typically reselling AT&T service), and does not generally allow its customers to access other interexchange carriers directly. In systems operated by Bell Companies subject to equal access requirements, interexchange service is provided by the interexchange carrier of the customer's choice. Thus, customers may choose between McCaw's A-side bundle of local and interexchange services or the B-side carrier's local cellular service and, where the B-side carrier is a Bell Company subject to equal access, the interexchange service offered by the customer's interexchange carrier of choice. (Where the B-side carrier is not a Bell Company, the customer's choice is between two bundles of local cellular and long distance service.) 3 Cellular companies that are affiliates of Bell Operating Companies (``Bell Companies'') are required to provide equal access to interexchange carriers under the consent decree that broke up the Bell System. United States v. Western Elec. Co., 578 F. Supp. 643, 647 (D.D.C. 1983); Order, Sept. 27, 1987 (Southwestern acquisition of Metromedia); Order, October 31, 1986 (BellSouth joint venture with MCCA). The relevant geographic markets are cellular service areas in which McCaw offers bundled cellular and interexchange services. These areas include New York, Miami, Tampa, Minneapolis, Seattle, Pittsburgh, New Orleans, Portland and Sacramento. Each of these markets is highly concentrated. Among Bell Company cellular systems providing equal access, AT&T is the dominant interexchange carrier, with more than 70 percent of subscribers, with MCI and Sprint sharing nearly all of the remainder. 4 McCaw is generally the exclusive provider of interexchange service to customers of its A-side systems that do not provide equal access. 4 Most but not all of the McCaw systems share the local market with a Bell Company affiliate. In Tampa, and in some smaller cities, McCaw faces GTE, which does not provide equal access. The merger may lessen competition substantially in the markets for the provision of interexchange service to cellular subscribers. The merger would foreclose competition between the two largest providers of interexchange service in the highly concentrated markets in which McCaw currently provides interexchange service to its cellular customers without an equal access obligation. The merger also combines AT&T, the leading provider of interexchange service, with McCaw, which has market power over the provision of interexchange service by virtue of the fact that it controls access by its cellular customers to interexchange services. As a result, competition in the provision of interexchange service to cellular customers in these areas may be substantially lessened and cellular subscribers may pay higher prices for interexchange service.
