FR940407-2-00096 FR940407-2-00051 Employment and Training Administration [TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,210] Aluminum Company of America, Lafayette, IN; Negative Determination on Reconsideration On March 22, 1994, the Department issued an Affirmative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration for workers and former workers of the subject firm. This notice will soon be published in the Federal Register . The application for reconsideration states that the Department's survey was inadequate in that only the hard alloy customers were surveyed, not the soft alloy customers. It was also stated that (1) the Russians were dumping large amounts of aluminum in the open market and that (2) workers at two other Alcoa locations were certified for TAA_Newburgh, Indiana and Wenatchee, Washington. Investigation findings show that the workers produce both hard and soft aluminum extrusions and tubes. Other investigation findings show that in 1993 Lafayette exited the commercial extrusion (soft alloy) business because of non-trade reasons. The Department's denial was based on the fact that the ``contributed importantly'' test of the Group Eligibility Requirements of the Trade Act was not met. This test is generally demonstrated through a survey of the workers; firm' major declining customers. The Department's survey showed that none of the respondents reported purchasing imports in the relevant period. On reconsideration, the Department obtained the major declining customers of soft aluminum alloy extrusions. The customers accounted for over half of the 1993 sales decline of all aluminum extrusions. The Department survey on reconsideration found that the respondents did not import soft alloy extrusion during the relevant period but transferred their business from Alcoa to other domestic producers. Other findings on reconsideration show that Alcoa's Lafayette ingot production was used internally for the production of extrusions and tubes at Lafayette. Lafayette did not use imported aluminum ingots. Lafayette's ingot production decreased in 1993 because the company exited the soft alloy extrusion business. Workers at Alcoa's Newburgh, Indiana (TA&hyph;W&hyph;28,848) and Wenatchee, Washington (TA&hyph;W&hyph;28,882) produced aluminum ingots as the finished article and were certified for TAA because they met all the worker group requirements in the period relevant to their petitions. Conclusion After reconsideration, I affirm the original notice of negative determination of eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance to workers and former workers of the Aluminum Company of America in Lafayette, Indiana. Signed at Washington, DC, this 29th day of March 1994. Stephen A. Wandner, Deputy Director, Office of Legislation & Actuarial Service, Unemployment Insurance Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8295 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
