FR941205-2-00065 FR941205-2-00042 4. The annual rental for the Property has been established by an independent appraisal performed by Messrs. Kenneth Golub, MAI, and Harvey Cohen (the Appraisers) of American Property Counselors of Armonk, New York, as of April 30, 1994. The Appraisers have also determined that the Property had a fair market value of $565,000 as of that date. The applicant represents that the Property will be personally inspected every year by a qualified, independent appraiser chosen by the Plan's independent fiduciary (see rep. 5, below) who will provide the Plan with an annual fair market rental value update. The applicant represents that the rental payment will be adjusted annually in accordance with the fair market rental value stated by the independent appraiser. The adjusted rent will either stay the same or be adjusted upward, but will never be decreased from the prior year's rent paid. 5. The applicant represents that Mr. Joseph J. Berger of Joseph J. Berger Management Associates in White Plains, New York, has been appointed to serve as the Plan's independent fiduciary with respect to the subject transactions. Mr. Berger represents that he has been a CPA for over 35 years, and that he is knowledgeable in the area of real estate and experienced in working with qualified retirement plans. The applicant represents that Mr. Berger has no relationship to the Plan or the Employer other than serving as the independent fiduciary to the Plan. 3 Mr. Berger represents that he is aware of his duties, liabilities and responsibilities as a fiduciary under the Act, and he has accepted them. 3 Mr. Berger also serves as the independent fiduciary for the profit sharing plan sponsored by the Employer with respect to the transaction which was exempted by Prohibited Transaction Exemption 93&hyph;27, 58 FR 25673, April 27, 1993. 6. Mr. Berger represents that he has undertaken the following duties as independent fiduciary to the Plan with respect to the Lease: (a) to review the Plan's proposed purchase of the Property, and in that connection to determine whether the purchase will be at fair market value as determined by an independent real estate appraiser and based upon arm's-length negotiations, and whether the purchase will be in the best interest of the Plan and its participants, taking into account the diversity of Plan assets and the Plan's need for liquidity; (b) to review the Lease (and any proposed renewals thereof) covering the Property to confirm in each case that the Lease (or renewal) is in the best interest of the Plan and its participants; (c) to confirm that the Lease (or renewal thereof) reflects the current fair market rental rate as determined by an independent real estate appraiser; (d) to review all financial statements and other documents to be filed by the Plan in connection with the Lease (or the renewal thereof); (e) to monitor the Lease to ensure that all actions are taken that are necessary or proper to safeguard the interests of the Plan; and (f) to review the Plan's assets periodically to determine whether the value of the Property remains less than 25% of the total value of Plan assets. 7. Mr. Berger represents that he completed his analysis of the transactions and, based upon his review and analysis, it is his opinion that the Property is an appropriate investment for the Plan and the acquisition and Lease thereof is in the best interests of the Plan's participants and beneficiaries. Mr. Berger represents that he has reviewed the Plan's investment portfolio and determined that while it is prudently diversified among its various securities, less than 20% of the total corpus is invested in intermediate and long-term securities. Mr Berger believes that it would be appropriate to further diversify the portfolio with a long-term investment such as the Property and the subject Lease. 8. Mr. Berger represents that after having examined the purchase contract, the proposed Lease, the appraisal report, the physical Property and the Plan's assets, he considers the purchase of the Property to be a sound and secure investment which will earn a fair market return for the Plan and will enhance the diversification of the Plan's assets and provide a more consistent and level flow of current income. Mr. Berger represents that he will continue to monitor the Lease throughout its duration and take whatever action is necessary to protect the Plan's rights under the Lease.
