FR940505-1-00215 FR940505-1-00012 4. I/M-Based Recall Program The I/M aspect of the enhanced in-use compliance program (also referred to as the I/M-based recall program) proposed today applies only if a significant portion of vehicles do not meet the enhanced in-use I/M standards. The enhanced I/M test equipment, test procedures, and other physical elements of the program will remain unchanged from that described in Section III.D.2.c. of this preamble or from any equivalent program adopted by California. All 1999 and later model year California LDVs, LDTs and MDVs covered by the enhanced in-use standards described in Section A.(2) above will be included in this program, regardless of fuel type. (See section III.D.2.c. of this preamble for a description of I/M for non-California vehicles.) Overall, the enhanced in-use I/M program does three things. First, it implements a more stringent set of I/M emission levels (hereafter referred to as the enhanced in-use I/M standards). Second, it creates a maximum fraction of any particular exhaust emission engine family which can fail the more stringent enhanced in-use I/M standards without consequence for the manufacturer (hereafter referred to as the liability threshold). Third, once the failure rate of the enhanced in-use I/M standards exceeds the liability threshold, it initiates a selective recall and makes the vehicle manufacturer liable for the repairs resulting from subsequent I/M failures. As described above, the purpose of this program is to encourage manufacturers to place a high design priority on in-use vehicle performance and ease of repair in order to ensure that vehicles comply with their certification standards in-use. The sequence of events at a typical enhanced I/M test facility will be as follows. Vehicles brought for testing will be measured against two sets of standards: the conventional enhanced I/M standards described in Section III.D.2.c. of this preamble and the lower enhanced in-use I/M standards described below. Unless a significant portion of vehicles in any engine family have failed the enhanced in-use I/M standards, vehicle owners will only be required to repair their vehicles if they fail the conventional enhanced I/M standards. However, the number of vehicles failing the more stringent enhanced in-use I/M standards will be tallied. If the percentage of a specific engine family failing the enhanced in-use I/M standards exceeds the liability thresholds described below, two events occur. First, future vehicles of this particular engine family failing the more stringent enhanced in-use I/M standards now must be repaired and retested. Second, the manufacturer, and not the vehicle owner, will be responsible for the repairs for vehicles still within their statutory useful life which have not obviously been abused or tampered with in a manner likely to affect emissions (i.e., an I/M-based selective recall). As described below, the enhanced in-use I/M standards are numerically higher than the enhanced in-use FTP emission levels. Thus, as long as vehicles are performing close to the standards to which they are certified, only the conventional enhanced I/M program will apply and there will be no post-manufacturing consequence for the manufacturer of the enhanced in-use I/M program. The sections below describe the nature of the proposed enhanced in-use I/M program including testing, enhanced in-use I/M standards, threshold for manufacturer liability, tracking of enhanced in-use I/M test results, repair responsibility, geographic coverage, and other administrative aspects of the program. a. Testing. As discussed in more detail in Section III.D.2.c. of this preamble, three types of I/M tests will be performed on light- and medium-duty vehicles. First, exhaust emissions will be measured using the I/M 240 test. Second, purge and pressure tests will be performed to establish the evaporative system's functionality and integrity. Finally, a visual inspection will be performed to check for missing canisters, catalysts, etc. which would indicate that obvious tampering or abuse has occurred. Vehicles with obvious tampering or abuse which fail the enhanced I/M 240, pressure, or purge tests will require repair at the owner's expense. EPA proposes to include post-1998 model year diesel- and alternative-fueled (CNG and LPG) vehicles in enhanced I/M testing, as well as gasoline vehicles. Evaporative system checks would be revised where appropriate for alternative-fueled vehicles, since some fuel types (e.g., diesel fuel and pressurized fuels) produce little or no evaporative emissions as long as their fuel tanks are not ruptured. Diesel-fueled vehicles are currently exempt from most I/M programs, because their HC emissions are inherently low and their historical control of NO X emissions has not depended on technologies that deteriorate significantly over time. Alternative-fueled vehicles have been exempted because of their low numbers. However, as the emission standards applicable to post-1998 model year vehicles will be very stringent regardless of fuel type, EPA is proposing that every vehicle be tested under the enhanced I/M program, regardless of fuel type. EPA requests comment on the testing of diesel- and alternative-fueled vehicles in the proposed enhanced in-use I/M program.
