FR940817-2-00261 FR940817-2-00113 Many types of behaviors (e.g., reproductive behaviors, sexually dimorphic behaviors) are dependent on the integrity of the hypothalamic-pituitary system, which could represent an important site for neurotoxic action. Pituitary secretions arise from a number of different cell types in this gland and neurotoxicants could affect these cells either directly or indirectly. Morphological changes in follicular cells, chromophobe cells, somatotropic cells, prolactin cells, gonadotropic cells, follicle-stimulating hormone secreting cells, luteinizing hormone-containing cells, thyrotropic cells, and cortico cells might be associated with adverse effects on the pituitary, which could ultimately affect behavior and the functioning of the nervous system. Biochemical changes in the hypothalamus also may be used as indices of potential changes in neuroendocrine function. However, the neuroendocrine significance of changes in hypothalamic neurotransmitters and neuropeptides is usually only inferential and data must be considered on a case-by-case basis. Most anterior pituitary hormones are subject to negative feedback control by peripheral endocrine glands and, if neurotoxicants modify peripheral secretions, neuroendocrine changes can result from this altered feedback. Modifications in the functioning of these endocrine secretions could occur after toxic exposure; a number of agents have been shown to alter blood levels of glucocorticoids, thyroxine, estrogen, corticosterone, and testosterone. Although such changes are not necessarily due to direct neuroendocrine effects, target organ changes often can be a first indication of neuroendocrine changes. 4.3.8. Other Considerations 4.3.8.1. Structure-activity relationship. Because of a general lack of epidemiologic or toxicologic data on most chemical substances, attempts have been made in toxicology to predict activities based on chemical structure. The basis for inference from structure-activity relationships (SARs) can be either comparison with structures known to have biologic activity or knowledge of structural requirements of a receptor or macromolecular site of action. However, given the complexity of the nervous system and the lack of information on biologic mechanisms of neurotoxic action, there are relatively few well-characterized SARs in neurotoxicology. Since SARs cannot be used to rule out all neurotoxic activity, it is not acceptable to use them as a basis for excluding potential neurotoxicity. Caution is warranted in interpreting SARs in anything other than the most preliminary analyses. Use of SARs requires detailed knowledge not only of structure, but also of each critical step in the pathogenetic mechanism of neurotoxic injury. Such knowledge is still generally unavailable. SAR approaches are more successful when the range of possible sites of action or mechanisms of action is narrow. Thus, SARs have had more use in relation to carcinogenicity and mutagenicity than in other kinds of toxicity. The SAR approaches used in the development of novel neuropharmacologic structures deserve consideration in neurotoxicology, but their utility depends on a better understanding of neurotoxic mechanisms. 4.3.8.2. In vitro methods. In vitro procedures for testing have practical advantages, but studies must be done to correlate the results with responses in whole animals. One advantage of validated in vitro tests is that they minimize the use of live animals. Some of the more developed in vitro tests might be simple and might not have to be conducted by highly trained personnel, but, as with many in vivo tests, the analysis and interpretation of results are likely to require expertise. Experience with the Ames test for mutagenesis confirms the advantages of in vitro procedures, but also illustrates the problems that arise when an assay is used to predict an endpoint that is not exactly what it measures (e.g., carcinogenicity rather than specific aspects of genotoxicity). In vitro changes can be markers for toxicity, even when the structural or functional consequences are not known or predicted. In addition, in vitro methods can examine the more evolutionarily conserved elements of the nervous system and improve neurotoxicity detection and could also provide suitable systems for studying developmental neurotoxicity. A broad range of tissue-culture systems are available for assessing the neurologic impact of environmental agents, including cell lines, dissociated cell cultures, reaggregate cultures, explant cultures, and organ cultures (Veronesi, 1991). Neuronal and glial cell lines are used extensively in neurobiology and have potential for neurotoxicological studies. They consist of populations of continuously dividing cells that, when treated appropriately, stop dividing and exhibit differentiated neuronal or glial properties. Neuronal lines can develop electric excitability, chemosensitivity, axon formation, neurotransmitter synthesis and secretion, and synapse formation. Large quantities of cells can be generated routinely to develop extensive dose-response or other quantitative data.
