FR940426-1-00051 FR940426-1-00006 27 CFR Part 10, Commercial Bribery New administrative provisions and definition changes were discussed previously. Section 10.4, Jurisdictional Limits ATF proposes amending this section to correct the wording of paragraph (a)(1), which appeared in error in ATF TD&hyph;74 on September 3, 1980 (45 FR 63242). The proposed section would read as follows: `` §10.4 Jurisdictional limits. (a) General. The regulations in this part apply where: (1) The industry member induces a trade buyer to purchase distilled spirits, wine, or malt beverages from such industry member to the exclusion, in whole or in part, of products sold or offered for sale by other persons in interstate or foreign commerce; and *␣*␣*'' Section 10.23, Gifts or Payments to Wholesalers This section is considered for revision because ATF feels that its purpose should be clarified. The following example of a sales representative incentive program is viewed as being within the commercial bribery provision: An industry member and a trade buyer meet to discuss, among other things, upcoming programs to promote a particular product or products. They agree that certain promotions will be run over a period of time. Some of these promotions include sales incentive programs in which sales representatives can win money and/or prizes. At the conclusion of the meeting, the parties agree or understand, or it is implied, that all or part of the funding for these sales representative incentive programs will come from monies that have been or will be provided by the industry member, usually under the guise of unrestricted funds. ATF's position is that the above example is an instance of commercial bribery since it involves the furnishing of a premium or bonus to an employee of a trade buyer. While no change to the language of the section is proposed at this time, ATF solicits comments on whether the section is unclear or ambiguous. 27 CFR Part 11, Consignment Sales New administrative provisions and definition changes were discussed previously. Section 11.24, Other Than Bona Fide Sale Section 105(d) of the Act addresses ``consignment sales.'' Section 105(d) describes consignment sales to include conditional sales (i.e., where an industry member is not paid for products until they are sold by a trade buyer); sales with a privilege of return (i.e., where an industry member agrees to repurchase products that remain unsold by the trade buyer at the end of a specified period of time); and other sales on any basis otherwise than a bona fide sale. Consignment sales are essentially arrangements pursuant to which the risk, or cost, of non-sale of a product is retained by an industry member, or transferred from a trade buyer back to an industry member at the expiration of a specified time period. ATF is proposing to add a new §11.24 to its regulations to specify certain other arrangements, in addition to conditional sales and sales with a privilege of return, in which the risk of non-sale is transferred from the trade buyer back to the industry member and which therefore do not constitute bona fide sales. In particular, the proposed rule specifies that so-called ``slotting allowances,'' arrangements pursuant to which an industry member makes payments to a trade buyer, ostensibly for shelf space, are a form of consignment sale. The practical effect of ``slotting allowances'' is to refund, in whole or in part, the purchase price of a product that has not been sold, in proportion to the period of time that it remains unsold. At a minimum, payment of ``slotting allowances'' may reimburse the trade buyer for the cost of shelf space occupied by the industry member's products. In addition, it may also compensate the trade buyer for the lost opportunity cost of having capital tied up in inventory acquired from the industry member. Ultimately, the amount refunded by this mechanism can, over any specified period of time, be the economic equivalent of simply buying back a product at the end of that period of time.
