FR941227-0-00078 FR941227-0-00015 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 1 [CGD 93&hyph;079] RIN 2115&hyph;AE68 Simplified Alternative Procedure for Resolving Civil Penalty Cases AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is adopting as final, with minor revisions, an interim rule allowing for greater delegation by the District Commander and for a simplified alternative procedure for resolving civil penalty cases. This procedure streamlines the process for resolution of certain uncontested oil discharge and pollution prevention civil penalty cases by allowing a Coast Guard official to present a notice of violation (NOV) and proposed penalty to a party in the field. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 26, 1995. ADDRESSES: Unless otherwise indicated, documents referred to in this preamble are available for inspection or copying at the office of the Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council (G&hyph;LRA/3406), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street SW., room 3406, Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001 between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (202) 267&hyph;1477. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant Jonathan C. Burton, Project Manager, Marine Environmental Protection Division (G&hyph;MEP), (202) 267&hyph;6714. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Lieutenant Jonathan C. Burton, Project Manager, Marine Environmental Protection Division, and C.G. Green, Project Counsel, Office of the Chief Counsel. Regulatory History On April 7, 1994, the Coast Guard published an interim final rule in the Federal Register (59 FR 16558) establishing an optional alternative civil penalty procedure and announced a six-month pilot implementation program to test the new procedure. The Coast Guard received 5 letters during the comment period and 4 after the comment period was closed. All comments were considered before drafting this final rule. No public hearing was requested, and none was held. Background and Purpose The procedures for assessing civil penalties by the Coast Guard are contained in 33 CFR 1.07. The civil penalty process begins when an alleged violation is detected by, or reported to, a Coast Guard official. The alleged violation is investigated and, if it appears that the elements for a violation case exist, civil enforcement action is normally initiated by preparing a case report with a recommended penalty and forwarding it to the appropriate Coast Guard District office for review. Since the establishment of the Notice of Violation (NOV) option, some cases are now eligible for issuance of a NOV and parties are afforded the option of either paying the proposed penalty and closing the case, or having the violation processed through normal procedures. If the case is not eligible for NOV issuance or if the party declines the NOV, the District staff reviews the case report to verify that there was evidence sufficient to establish a prima facie case and that the recommended penalty is appropriate. The case file is then transmitted, with a recommended action, to the Hearing Officer. Based on the case file, the Hearing Officer independently determines whether prima facie evidence of a violation exists and, if so, sends a Letter of Notification to the alleged violator. This letter specifies, among other matters, the alleged violation(s) and a penalty amount deemed appropriate based on the information provided to the Hearing Officer. A party can pay the penalty amount specified by the Hearing Officer, request an in-person hearing, or provide written evidence or arguments in lieu of a hearing. If the party pays the penalty, the case is closed and no further action is required. If the party chooses either of the latter two options, the Hearing Officer either conducts an in-person hearing or reviews the submitted written evidence and arguments. The Hearing Officer then issues a written decision assessing a penalty or dismissing the case. The Hearing Officer's decision can be administratively appealed to the Commandant of the Coast Guard.
