FR941025-2-00062 FR941025-2-00045 Outcomes of interest to NCCAN are: ``case-finding'' (families who have not been previously referred to CPS but, through participation in family support services, are discovered to be appropriate for reporting); the impact of family support and/or family preservation services on prevention; on recidivism; and on removal or non-removal of children. These four outcomes suggest a variety of research questions, as well as descriptive and/or experimental designs. Applicants should plan and design the proposed studies in collaboration with State and/or local CPS/IV&hyph;B agencies as well as community-based organizations (CBO) providing family support services for a CPS/IV&hyph;B agency (e.g., Family Resource Center, Head Start Center, non-custodial father program). Comments are also solicited regarding the suitability of denying consideration to applications that do not achieve and document this collaboration. 2. Model Development for Centers for Excellence in Research NCCAN is interested in funding one or more multi-disciplinary Centers for Excellence in Child Abuse and Neglect Research. These Centers would be partnerships among university and State or community-based agencies that provide child welfare services, including mental health services. Special consideration will be given to locating at least one such Center at a historically black college or university. All proposals submitted for this priority must describe and defend the model proposed for the Center. The primary goal of these Centers is to foster collaboration, building on models used in medical research at the National Institutes of Health and the Preventive Intervention Research Center (PIRC) that successfully focused efforts on cancer and diabetes. Models are described below (for more details, see NRC, pp. 358&hyph;359). At this time, NCCAN does not endorse any particular model. Comments are solicited regarding the merits of requiring that models proposed under this announcement make provisions for multi-disciplinary research that include social work, law, nursing, medicine, psychology, sociology, social anthropology, and education and demonstrate respect for cultural diversity and provide opportunities and services with cultural sensitivity. Since 1982, the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), has supported a number of Preventive Intervention Research Centers (PIRC). The PIRCs were developed, in part, as a response to several major problems faced similar to those currently being experienced by the field of child abuse and neglect. The goal of a PIRC is to provide a productive research environment where teams of investigators from a variety of disciplines interact and develop a program focused on the promotion of mental health and the prevention of mental and behavioral disorders and dysfunctions. Historically, the Centers provide support for a set of interrelated research projects and core or infrastructure functions. For more details about this model, see the NIMH Program Announcement PAR 94&hyph;038 (January, 1994). The National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), funds 10 Injury Control Research Centers . The Centers are multi-disciplinary and each is housed in a university. Each Center focuses on a unique aspect of injury control appropriate to its technical expertise and community setting. The Centers conduct applied research; provide opportunities for faculty development; provide training for community practitioners, other scientists, and students; provide technical assistance; disseminate findings and materials; and promote specific prevention initiatives relevant to their research findings and community needs. Activities undertaken by the proposed Centers for Excellence in Research on Child Abuse and Neglect would include but not be limited to: •Guidance and management of graduate and post-graduate Research and Medical Research Fellowships in Child Abuse and Neglect; •Research opportunities for new researchers/career development (faculty); •Support for the development of minority researchers; •Training for professionals which replicates, adapts, and builds on the culturally relevant needs assessment and curriculum tools including, but not limited to, those developed under an NCCAN grant ( # 90&hyph;CA&hyph;1443) by the People of Color Leadership Institute (POCLI). These products are available through the NCCAN Clearinghouse (1&hyph;800&hyph;394&hyph;3366); and •Development and piloting of new methodologies and measures, or refinement of existing measures, for research and evaluation in child abuse and neglect. Development activities must include testing the validity and reliability of new and/or existing instruments with new populations and across cultures.
