FR940516-1-00003 FR940516-1-00001 A. Performance Disclosures Under the proposal, past performance disclosures would be simplified and streamlined as follows. 1. All past performance presentations for pools would be reduced to a summary format containing specified core information. 2. For pools which have been in operation for at least three years, the only past performance record required generally would be that of the pool offered. 3. For pools with less than a three-year history, only the performance records of the pool offered, other pools operated by the CPO, CTAs allocated at least twenty-five percent of the aggregate initial futures margins and commodity option premiums for the pool offered and investee pools allocated at least twenty-five percent of the assets of the pool offered generally would be required. If the CPO has less than a three-year history, the past performance records of the CPO's principals would be required to be disclosed. 4. Certain performance data of secondary relevance to the pool offering would be replaced by a statement indicating whether that performance was ``adverse,'' i.e. , the performance was one hundred basis points lower than the relevant Treasury Bill rate or the pool had to be terminated due to poor performance pursuant to a loss termination provision. B. Non-Performance Disclosures Non-performance disclosures would be revised as follows. 1. Required disclosures concerning the litigation history of futures commission merchants (``FCMs'') would be significantly reduced. 2. Disclosure of the business backgrounds of principals would be limited to principals who participate in making trading or operational decisions for the pool or CTA. 3. Requirements for disclosure of conflicts of interest would no longer make specific reference to FCMs and introducing brokers (``IBs''). However, a general requirement to disclose conflicts of interest on the part of any persons providing services to the pool, which would encompass FCMs and IBs as well as persons who may not be Commission registrants, would be included. 4. The required description of each fee and expense of the pool would be supplemented by a tabular presentation of fees and expenses setting forth how the ``break-even point'' for the pool is calculated. The break-even point is the per-unit profit that the pool must realize during its first year for a participant to recoup his initial investment in the pool. C. Format Improvements to Enhance Readability A number of revisions to the rules are being proposed to enhance the accessibility and prominence of relevant disclosures. Disclosure documents would be required to contain a table of contents. General information concerning the pool, including the break-even point, would be required to be set forth in the forepart of the document. The number and content of various previously required bold-face ``boilerplate'' cautionary statements would be reduced and all information voluntarily provided would be required to follow the relevant required disclosures. D. Other Revisions Changes are also proposed to generally facilitate pool offerings, particularly with respect to areas of overlap or potential inconsistency with Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'') rules. Thus, under the revisions, CPOs may update pool disclosure documents every nine months, consistent with SEC requirements, rather than every six months, as under current CFTC rules. In addition, CPOs may provide accredited investors with a notice of intended offering and term sheet, prior to delivery of a disclosure document. Similar changes are proposed to be made to the requirements applicable to CTA disclosure documents. The proposed changes are more specifically discussed in the section-by-section analysis. II. Background In announcing the adoption of part 4 in 1979, the Commission stated that Rule 4.21, the basic disclosure document requirement for CPOs, was intended ``to protect pool participants_particularly those who are unsophisticated in financial matters_by ensuring that they are informed about the material facts regarding the pool before they commit their funds.'' 5 Similarly, Rule 4.31 was premised, in part, upon the view that ``a prospective [CTA] client or subscriber should be aware of the advisor's commodity and general business experience if he is to make an informed decision as to whether or not to avail himself of the advisor's services.'' 6 5 44 FR 1918, 1920. 6 42 FR 9278, 9279 (February 15, 1977).
