FR940927-2-00046 FR940927-2-00032 Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Maguire Daisy (Erigeron Maguirei) for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the Maguire daisy ( Erigeron maguirei ). The Maguire daisy occurs in Emery and Wayne Counties, Utah. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft recovery plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before October 27, 1994 to ensure they receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Lincoln Plaza, Suite 404, 145 East 1300 South, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115. Written comments and materials regarding this plan should be sent to the Field Supervisor at the Salt Lake City address given above. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John L. England, Botanist (see ADDRESSES above), at telephone 801/524&hyph;5001. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's (Service) endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies also will take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The Maguire daisy is a perennial, herbaceous plant in the composite family (Asteraceae). The plant's stems are up to 18 cm (7 inches) tall. One to three flower heads are borne at the end of each stem. Each floral head has 15 to 20 pinkish white ray flowers and orange disk flowers. The species range is in the San Rafael Swell in Emery County and in Capitol Reef in Wayne County, Utah. Currently 25 locations representing 5 separate populations are known with a total population of approximately 3,000 individuals. The Maguire daisy ( Erigeron maguirei var. maguirei ) was listed as an endangered species under the authority of the Act, as amended, on September 5, 1985 (50 FR 36089). The species ( Erigeron maguirei ) was proposed for reclassification as threatened on September 7, 1994 (59 FR 46219). This species was listed due to its small population size and to current and potential threats from grazing and surface disturbing activities of the species habitat. The goal of the recovery plan is to maintain viable populations to ensure the species survival and to guide recovery efforts to facilitate delisting the species. Recovery efforts will focus on protecting the species population and habitat from habitat destroying activities through the section 6, 7, and 9 prohibitions of the Act for plant species. Biological and ecological research of the species' biology and its relationship and interaction with its environment is necessary to guide future management of the species population and habitat to ensure its continued survival and the preservation of the species ecosystem. Additional recovery efforts will focus on inventory of potential habitat and minimum viable population studies of its known populations. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described above. All comments received by the date specified in the DATES section above will be considered prior to approval of the recovery plan. Authority: The authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: September 15, 1994. Terry T. Terrell, Acting Regional Director, Region 6, Denver. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23720 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
