FR940603-1-00161 FR940603-1-00009 Section 4_Delivery of Possession and Control to the Owner. Upon written request of the Owner, the Contractor will deliver to the Owner full possession and control of any portion of the Project provided the Contractor shall have been paid at least ninety percent (90%) of the cost of construction of such portion. Upon such delivery of possession and control to the Owner, the risks and obligations of the Contractor as set forth in Section 1f of this Article IV with respect to such portion so delivered to the Owner, shall be terminated; Provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall relieve the Contractor of any liability with respect to defective workmanship as specified in Article 11, Section 4. ARTICLE V_REMEDIES Section 1_Completion on Contractor's Default. If default shall be made by the Contractor or by any subcontractor in the performance of any of the terms of this Proposal, the Owner, without in any manner limiting its legal and equitable remedies in the circumstances, may serve upon the Contractor and the Surety, if any, a written notice requiring the Contractor to cause such default to be corrected forthwith. Unless within twenty (20) days after the service of such notice upon the Contractor and the Surety, if any, such default shall be corrected or arrangements for the correction thereof satisfactory to the Owner shall be made, the Owner may take over the construction of the Project and prosecute the same to completion by contract or otherwise for the account and at the expense of the Contractor, and the Contractor shall be liable to the Owner for any cost or expense in excess of the Contract price occasioned thereby. In such event the Owner may take possession of and utilize, in completing the construction of the Project, any materials, tools, supplies, equipment, appliance, and plant belonging to the Contractor or any of its subcontractors, which may be situated at the site of the Project. The Owner in such contingency may exercise any rights, claims, or demands which the Contractor may have against third persons in connection with this Proposal and for such purpose the Contractor does hereby assign, transfer, and set over unto the Owner all such rights, claims, and demands. ARTICLE VI_MISCELLANEOUS Section 1_Patent Infringement. The Contractor will save harmless and indemnify the Owner from any and all claims, suits, and proceedings for the infringement of any patent or patents covering any equipment used in the work. Section 2_Permits for Explosives. All permits necessary for the handling or use of dynamite or other explosives in connection with the construction of the Project shall be obtained by and at the expense of the Contractor. Section 3_Compliance with Statutes and Regulations. The Contractor will comply with all applicable statutes, ordinances, rules, and regulations pertaining to the work. The Contractor acknowledges that it is familiar with the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, the so-called ``Kick-Back'' Statute (48 Stat. 948), and regulations issued pursuant thereto, and 18 U.S.C. 287, 1001, as amended. The Contractor understands that the obligations of the parties hereunder are subject to the applicable regulations and orders of Governmental agencies having jurisdiction in the premises. Section 4. Equal Opportunity Provisions. a. Contractor's Representations. The Contractor represents that: It has XXXX , does not have XXXX , 100 or more employees, and if it has, that it has XXXX , has not XXXX , furnished the Equal Employment Opportunity_Employers Information Report EEO&hyph;1, Standard Form 100, required of employers with 100 or more employees pursuant to Executive Order 11246 and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The Contractor agrees that it will obtain, prior to the award of any subcontract for more than $10,000 hereunder to a subcontractor with 100 or more employees, a statement, signed by the proposed subcontractor, that the proposed subcontractor has filed a current report on Standard Form 100. The Contractor agrees that if it has 100 or more employees and has not submitted a report on Standard Form 100 for the current reporting year and that if this Contract will amount to more than $10,000, the Contractor will file such report, as required by law, and notify the Owner in writing of such filing prior to the Owner's acceptance of this Proposal. b. Equal Opportunity Clause. During the performance of this Contract, the Contractor agrees as follows: (1) The Contractor will not discriminate against any employee or applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. The Contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that applicants are employed, and that employees are treated during employment without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following: Employment, upgrading, demotion or transfer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The Contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, notices to be provided setting forth the provisions of this Equal Opportunity Clause. (2) The Contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by or on behalf of the Contractor, state that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. (3) The Contractor will send to each labor union or representative of workers, with which it has a collective bargaining agreement or other contract or understanding, a notice to be provided advising the said labor union or workers' representatives of the Contractor's commitments under this section, and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to employees and applicants for employment. (4) The Contractor will comply with all provisions of Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, and of the rules, regulations, and relevant orders of the Secretary of Labor.
