FR940503-0-00016 FR940503-0-00003 3. Conforming Changes to Mutual Holding Company Regulations and Other Technical Changes The mutual holding company regulations, 12 CFR part 575, generally incorporate the substantive and procedural standards for conversion contained in the conversion regulations. To the extent the interim final rule addresses conversion standards, those same standards apply to mutual holding company transactions. Thus, the OTS is also revising 12 CFR part 575 to make clarifying and conforming changes to those regulations to reflect the changes being made to 12 CFR part 563b. Also, the interim final rule makes certain other technical and conforming changes to the conversion regulations. 4. Proposal to Impose Convenience and Needs Test in Conversion Transactions Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , the OTS is soliciting public comment on an amendment to its conversion regulations that would impose an additional standard requiring that the OTS, in considering whether to approve a mutual to stock conversion transaction, consider the needs and convenience of the community served by the converting association. To date, a convenience and needs test generally has not been applied to these transactions. III. Paperwork Reduction Act The reporting requirements contained in this interim final rule have been submitted to and approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control No. 1550&hyph;0014 in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3507). Comments on the collection of information should be sent to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1550), Washington, DC 20503 with copies to the Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, DC 20552. The reporting requirements in this interim final rule are found in 12 CFR 563b.100. The information is needed by the OTS to further strengthen the standards governing the conversion process. The likely recordkeepers are savings associations. Estimated number of respondents: 70. Estimated average annual burden per respondent: 500. Estimated annual frequency of responses: 1. Estimated total annual reporting burden: 35,000. IV. Regulatory Flexibility Act Because no notice of proposed rulemaking was required in connection with the adoption of this interim final rule, no regulatory flexibility analysis is required under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). V. Executive Order 12866 The OTS has determined that the interim final regulation does not constitute a ``significant regulatory action'' for purposes of E.O. 12866. VI. Administrative Procedure Act Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, OTS has found good cause to dispense with both prior notice and comment on this interim final rule and with a 30-day delay of its effective date in light of the critical need to ensure an equitable conversion process while still providing converting associations access to the capital markets. The OTS has a number of conversion applications pending and it expects that it will receive significantly more in the next few weeks. Unless these revisions are implemented immediately, associations will be able to avoid compliance with the new rules by filing and attempting to obtain approval of their conversion applications before the new rules become effective. If the OTS were to proceed with a notice of proposed rulemaking, the only practical solution to this problem would be to impose an administrative moratorium on all conversions until the rulemaking process is complete. That type of rulemaking process would take a minimum of several months. The result would thus be to preclude converting savings associations from raising additional capital at a time when the capital markets are receptive to capital stock offerings by financial institutions. Should the capital markets become less favorable, such a delay could prevent savings associations from raising sufficient new capital through a mutual to stock conversion. The public interest is served by encouraging savings associations to raise additional capital because an association's capital is the financial cushion that protects the association's depositors and the federal fund that insures the depositors' accounts. In view of the need both to ensure an equitable conversion process and to provide converting associations with access to the capital markets without delay, the OTS finds that good cause exists for dispensing with the notice and comment procedures of the Administrative Procedure Act. Similarly, the OTS finds that good cause exists for eliminating the 30-day delay of the effective date. The revised rules will become effective upon publication in the Federal Register and will be applicable to all applications pending or newly filed as of that date. The OTS generally expects converting associations with pending applications to comply with the revised rules. The OTS may grant, on a case by case basis, a waiver in writing from any provision in the interim final rule for good cause shown. The request for a waiver must contain sufficient information to substantiate the justification for the waiver. The OTS, however, seeks public comment on the conversion regulations, both as to the amendments adopted here and the issues on which comment is specifically solicited and as to any other current provisions of the conversion regulations as they relate to this interim final rule. The OTS may modify the rule in response to those comments if appropriate. List of Subjects 12 CFR Part 563b Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations, Securities. 12 CFR Part 575 Capital, Holding companies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations, Securities. For the reasons set out in the preamble, parts 563b and 575 of subchapter D, chapter V, title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations are amended as follows: SUBCHAPTER D_REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS
