FR940930-2-00181 FR940930-2-00063 Xerox Corporation Profit Sharing and Savings Plan (the PSSP); Xerox Corporation Retirement Income Guarantee Plan (the RIGP); Profit Sharing Plan of Xerox Corporation and the Xerographic Division, A.C.T.W.U, AFL&hyph;CIO (the Union PSP); and the Retirement Income Guarantee Plan of Xerox Corporation and the Xerographic Division, A.C.T.W.U, AFL&hyph;CIO (the Union RIGP; Collectively, the Plans) Located in Stamford, Connecticut [Application Nos. D&hyph;9778 through D&hyph;9781] Proposed Exemption The Department is considering granting an exemption under the authority of section 408(a) of the Act and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR part 2570, subpart B (55 FR 32836, 32847, August 10, 1990). If the exemption is granted the restrictions of sections 406(a), 406(b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the sanctions resulting from the application of section 4975 of the Code, by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code, shall not apply to the proposed guarantees (the Guarantees) by the Xerox Corporation (the Employer), the sponsor of the Plans, of amounts payable to the Plans by the Aurora National Life Assurance Company (Aurora) with respect to five group annuity contracts (the GACs) originally issued by Executive Life Insurance Company of California (Executive Life); provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (A) All terms and conditions of such transactions are no less favorable to the Plans than those which the Plans could obtain in arm's-length transactions with unrelated parties; (B) The Guarantees are made solely with respect to the amounts which are due the Plans, but unpaid, with respect to the GACs; and (C) The Settlement Agreement described in the Summary of Facts and Representations, below, is approved by the U.S. District Court, District of Connecticut. Summary of Facts and Representations Introduction: In 1994, the Xerox Corporation and other defendants to certain litigation entered into a settlement agreement which requires, among other things, that Xerox Corporation guarantee the Plans' receipt of certain payments in connection with the rehabilitation of Executive Life Insurance Company of California. Xerox Corporation also has undertaken to make a similar guarantee with respect to certain of the Plans' participants who were not parties to the litigation settlement agreement. Xerox Corporation is requesting an exemption to permit these guarantees, under the terms and conditions described herein. 1. Xerox Corporation (the Employer) is a publicly-held New York corporation engaged in the development, manufacture, marketing, and servicing of document processing technology, with its corporate headquarters in Stamford, Connecticut. The Employer maintains various qualified employee benefit plans for its employees, including the Plans, the assets of which are held in the Xerox Corporation Trust Agreement to Fund Retirement Plans (the Master Trust), which had total assets of approximately $4.6 billion as of December 31, 1993. The Union PSP and the Union RIGP (the Union Plans) are maintained pursuant to collective bargaining agreements between the Employer and the Xerographic Division of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers' Union, A.F.L.&hyph;C.I.O. (the Union). The trustee of the Master Trust is the State Street Bank and Trust Company of North Quincy, Massachusetts (the Trustee), serving as a directed trustee according to directions of a delegee of a committee of representatives of the Employer's board of directors (the Committee). The PSSP and the Union PSP are defined contribution plans (the DC Plans) which provide for individual participant accounts and participant-directed investment of such accounts among investment options in the Master Trust (the MT Funds). The RIGP and Union RIGP are hybrid defined benefit plans (the DB Plans) in which certain participants may accrue benefits measured in part by reference to individual accounts consisting of contributions made on the participant's behalf. The individual accounts of the DB Plans are invested among the MT Funds.
