FR941116-0-00167 FR941116-0-00022 (b) Whenever it is determined in accordance with §1413.101 that a producer was overpaid or received payments that were not earned, and such payments were in the form of commodities or commodity certificates, the producer shall refund the amount of the overpayment either by returning commodity certificates in an amount equal to the overpayment or by making cash payments to CCC. §1413.110 Malting barley. (a) Except in counties where the State committee determines, with the concurrence of the Deputy Administrator, that malting barley is produced, an assessment for each of the 1991 through 1995 crop years will be levied on producers of malting barley who are participating in the price support and production adjustment program established for a crop of barley. The final deficiency payment for barley will be reduced by the amount of the assessment. (b) The assessment per bushel will be the smaller of: (1) 5 percent of the: (i) State weighted average market price of malting barley produced on the farm, in those States where average market prices are available from NASS, or (ii) The national average market price in all other States, or (2) The final deficiency payment rate. (c) The assessment will be calculated on the total production with respect to which deficiency payments are to be made unless a producer furnishes acceptable proof in accordance with §1413.19 that: (1) All production failed or was used for feed purposes, for which the producer will receive the full deficiency payment with no assessment. (2) Part of the production failed or was used for feed purposes, and part of the production was sold for malting purposes, such assessment will be calculated on the production sold for malting purposes. (d) If the producer does not certify to the use of the barley before receiving the final deficiency payment made based on the 5-month average market price and the assessment is deducted, a certification of the use of barley made in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section may be accepted by CCC by the later of: (1) September 1 of the year following the year of production, or (2) 30 days after redemption or forfeiture of barley under CCC loan. (e) If the producer certifies and furnishes acceptable proof in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, the payment shall be recalculated and a supplemental payment issued when applicable. Subpart K_Prevented Planted and Failed Acreage Credit §1413.121 Disaster credit. (a)(1) This section applies for prevented planted or failed acreage of a crop if the county committee determines the crop could not be planted or production was not normal because of: (i) Damaging weather including drought, excessive moisture, hail, earthquake, freeze, tornado, hurricane, typhoon, volcano, excessive wind, excessive heat, or a combination thereof: or (ii) Related conditions of insect infestation, plant disease, or other deterioration of a crop, including aflatoxin, that is accelerated or exacerbated naturally because of damaging weather occurring before or during harvest. (2) FCIC established final planting dates, made in accordance with part 400 of this title, will be used to determine prevented planting of a crop and whether the producer was prevented from replanting failed acreage. (b) In order to obtain failed acreage credit or prevented planting credit, the operator must file an application for disaster credit on form ASCS&hyph;574, Application for Disaster Credit. For prevented planted credit, the operator shall: (1) File such application with the county committee for all crops affected by a natural disaster condition within 15 calendar days after such disaster occurs; (2) File form ASCS&hyph;578, Report of Acreage, according to part 718 of this title; (3) Have attempted to plant the crop for which the prevented planted credit is requested; (4) Not have designated such acreage as ACR, conserving use for payment, or conserving use for planted and considered planted credit except as designated according to §§1413.41 and 1413.42; and (5) Not have later planted an acreage of the same crop in the same program year for which the ASCS&hyph;574 is filed. If such acreage of the crop is later planted, the ASCS&hyph;574 will be canceled for this planted acreage. (c) County committees shall limit or not limit approved prevented planted acreages of a crop: (1) If the crop is enrolled in an ARP, the prevented planted acreage approved shall not exceed the permitted acreage of the crop, plus available flex acreage from other crops enrolled in an ARP in accordance with §1413.43; (2) If the acreage on a farm is enrolled in an ARP but the crop is not enrolled, the prevented planted acreage approved is unlimited; (3) If the acreage on a farm is not enrolled in an ARP, the prevented planted acreage approved is unlimited; (4) If a cover crop is planted on the acreage that was prevented from being planted, or a cover crop is a small grain that was left standing past the disposition date in accordance with §§1413.64 or 1413.65, the county committee shall not approve form ASCS&hyph;574. If such cover crop and the crop that was prevented from being planted can normally be planted in a double cropping pattern in the area, in accordance with §1413.24(e), the county committee may approve form ASCS&hyph;574.
