FR941102-2-00079 FR941102-2-00061 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Proposed Generic Letter Reconsideration of Nuclear Power Plant Security Requirements for an Internal Threat AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Notice of opportunity of public comment. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is proposing to issue a generic letter to notify all holders of operating licenses or construction permits for nuclear power reactors that NRC is reconsidering its positions about certain security measures to protect against an internal threat at nuclear power plants. NRC expects recipients to review the information for applicability to their facilities and consider actions, as appropriate. However, suggestions contained in this draft generic letter are not NRC requirements; therefore, recipients are not required to take specific action or make a written response to the NRC. NRC is seeking comment from interested parties regarding both the technical and regulatory aspects of the proposed generic letter presented herein. NRC will consider comments received from interested parties in the final evaluation of the proposed generic letter and will review the technical position and, when appropriate, analyze the value/impact on licensees. If NRC issues this generic letter, it will become available for public inspection in the Public Document Rooms. The comment period expires December 2, 1994. Comments submitted after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but assurance of consideration cannot be given except for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments to Chief, Rules Review and Directives Branch, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555&hyph;0001. Written comments may also be delivered to 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, from 7:30 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., Federal workdays. Copies of written comments received may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert F. Skelton, (301) 504&hyph;3208. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: NRC Generic Letter XXXX: Reconsideration of Nuclear Power Plant Requirements Associated With an Internal Threat. Addressees All holders of operating licenses or construction permits for nuclear power reactors. Purpose The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is issuing this generic letter to notify you that it is reconsidering its positions concerning certain security measures to protect against an internal threat at nuclear power plants. It is expected that recipients will review the information for applicability to their facilities and consider actions, as appropriate. However, suggestions contained in this generic letter are not NRC requirements; therefore, no specific action or written response is required. Background The fitness-for-duty rule (10 CFR Part 26) published on June 7, 1989, required power reactor licensees to implement fitness-for-duty programs. The access authorization rule (10 CFR 73.56) published on April 25, 1991, required power reactor licensees to implement access authorization programs. One objective of these regulations was to ensure the reliability and trustworthiness of persons granted unescorted access to protected areas at power reactor facilities. In light of these regulations, the NRC evaluated security requirements for protection against the insider threat at nuclear power plants to verify that they remain appropriate. The staff discussed the initial results of this review in SECY 92&hyph;272, ``Re-examination of Nuclear Power Plant Security Requirements Associated With the Internal Threat,'' of August 4, 1992. The staff then recommended reducing or eliminating certain security requirements that gave marginal protection against the insider threat. The Commission reviewed SECY 92&hyph;292 and asked the staff to re-visit the subject and explore alternatives for allowing reductions in unnecessary or marginally effective security measures. The staff discussed the results of this re-evaluation in SECY 93&hyph;326, ``Reconsideration of Nuclear Power Plant Security Requirements Associated with an Internal Threat,'' December 2, 1993. Description of Circumstances In a staff requirements memorandum of February 18, 1994, the Commission endorsed staff recommendations to (1) issue generic correspondence informing licensees of the opportunity to revise certain commitments in their security plan and (2) proceed with rulemaking regarding specific changes to reduce or eliminate certain security requirements. This generic letter discusses those areas in which licensees may choose to revise their plans. Discussion NRC may accept changes to a licensee security plan in the following four areas:
