FR940222-2-00032 FR940222-2-00024 [FRL&hyph;4840&hyph;1] Access to Confidential Business Information AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: EPA is authorizing Booz-Allen, & Hamilton to conduct reviews of selected recipients' procurement, property, financial, and general administrative management systems. During the review of these systems, the contractor will have access to information which has been submitted to EPA under 40 CFR parts 31 and 35. Some of this information may be claimed or determined to be Confidential Business Information (CBI). DATES: The Contractor (Booz-Allen, & Hamilton, Inc.) will have access to this data five working days from February 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send or deliver written comments to Martha Nicodemus, Grants, Audit & Contracts Branch (8PM&hyph;GAC), 999 18th Street, Suite 500, Denver, Colorado 80202. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Martha Nicodemus, Grants, Audit and Contracts Branch, 999 18th Street, Suite 500, Denver, Colorado 80202. Telephone (303) 293&hyph;1672. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under Contract 68&hyph;W3&hyph;0002, Delivery Order 003, Booz-Allen, & Hamilton, Inc., will be conducting on-site technical assistance reviews of the financial, property, procurement, and administrative systems in the States offices of Colorado Department of Health, Wyoming Department of Environmental Quality, and Utah Department of Environmental Quality to determine whether their systems comply with EPA regulations and policies. These reviews involve conducting transaction testing to evaluate recipient conformance with applicable regulations and acceptable business practices and documenting findings. The contractor will examine transactions for the following: (1) Expenditures. Review expenditure documentation such as expense reports, time sheets, and purchase requests from the point of origination to the point of payment to determine compliance with such requirements as site-specific accounting data, authorizing signature, and reconciliation of time sheets to expense reports; (2) Financial Reports. Review financial drawdowns, Financial Status Reports, and internal status reports to determine if information is consistent between these documents, if recipient is properly using information, and if the reports are submitted when required; (3) Procurement Transactions. Review a sample of bid requests and/or requests for proposals, and the resulting contracts to determine compliance with EPA procurement requirements; (4) Property. Review a sample of property purchased with EPA money (including how the property was used) to determine the degree of compliance with property requirements to acquire, manage, and dispose of the property; and (5) Recordkeeping Procedures. Review a sample of documentation to determine the effectiveness of the recipient procedures to manage and reconcile this documentation. In providing this support, Booz-Allen, & Hamilton, Inc., employees may have access to recipient documents which potentially include financial documents submitted under 40 CFR parts 31 and 35, some of which may contain information claimed or determined to be Confidential Business Information. Pursuant to EPA regulations at 40 CFR part 2, subpart B, EPA has determined that Booz-Allen, & Hamilton, Inc., requires access to Confidential Business Information to provide the support and services required under this Delivery Order. These regulations provide for five working days notice before contractors are given access to CBI. Booz-Allen, & Hamilton, Inc., will be required by contract to protect confidential information. These documents are maintained in recipient office and file space. Dated: February 4, 1994. Kerrigan G. Clough, Assistant Regional Administrator for Policy & Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3899 Filed 2&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
