FR940429-2-00108 FR940429-2-00077 Digests (Current as of March 31, 1994) The digests of the Administrator's final decisions and orders are arranged by order number, and briefly summarize key points of the decision. The following compilation includes all final decisions and orders issued by the Administrator from January 1, 1994, to March 31, 1994. The FAA will publish noncumulative supplements to these digests on a quarterly basis ( i.e., January, April, July, and October of each year). These digests do not constitute legal authority, and should not be cited or relied upon as such. The digests are not intended to serve as a substitute for proper legal research. Parties, attorneys, and other interested persons should always consult the full text of the Administrator's decisions before citing them in any context. In the Matter of Delta Air Lines, Inc., Order No. 94&hyph;1 (2/18/94). Unauthorized Access. The law judge's finding that Respondent did not violate Section V.A.2 of the Air Carrier Standard Security Program is reversed. In the Matter of Mary Woodhouse, Order No. 94&hyph;2 (3/10/94). Duty of Hot Air Balloon Repairman. The law judge's finding that Respondent violated the Federal Aviation Regulations when she certified a hot air balloon as airworthy with unauthorized fuel manifolds is affirmed. Respondent should have questioned the owner, the manufacturer, or the FAA concerning the origin of the fuel manifolds when the aircraft manual, maintenance log, and type certificate data sheet contained no information on fuel manifolds. However, the law judge's finding that Respondent violated the regulations by certifying the balloon as airworthy with unauthorized fuel tanks is reversed because Complainant failed to establish the number of fuel tanks authorized by the balloon's type design. In the Matter of Valley Air Services, Inc., Order No. 94&hyph;3 (3/10/94). Expert Testimony. The law judge erred to the extent he used a simple credibility test to evaluate the expert testimony in this case. Expert testimony is not evaluated on the basis of its credibility but on its logic, depth, and persuasiveness. Failure of Proof. Complainant failed to bear its burden of proving that Respondent violated the regulations when it welded the cracked spinners on its Piper Chieftain aircraft. In the Matter of Northwest Aircraft Rental Inc., Order No. 94&hyph;4 (3/10/94). Impeachment of Witnesses. A written summary of the informal conference was admissible for the limited purpose of impeachment. Financial Hardship. Where Respondent did not raise the issue of financial hardship at the hearing, it failed to preserve the matter for consideration on appeal. Respondent did not show that the evidence of financial hardship that he sought to introduce on appeal was not available during the hearing. In the Matter of Merritt A. Grant, Order No. 94&hyph;5 (3/10/94). Failure to File Timely Answer. The law judge did not err in dismissing Respondent's request for hearing on the ground that Respondent failed to file a timely answer. Sanction. A $1,000 civil penalty is deemed appropriate under the new sanction policy where Respondent attempted to bring an unloaded firearm with accessible ammunition and two hunting knives on an aircraft. In the Matter of Raymond B. Strohl, Order No. 94&hyph;6 (3/10/94). Request for Hearing Construed to Cover Instant Case. Respondent's request for hearing, which technically covered only a separate civil penalty action, is construed as a timely request for hearing in the instant case as well. Respondent did not apparently understand that there were two civil penalty actions brought against him. His confusion was understandable, given that the notices and proposed notices of proposed civil penalty in the two cases were so strikingly similar. Complainant is granted 30 days from the date of service of this order to file a complaint. In the Matter of Eric Hereth, Order No. 94&hyph;7 (3/10/94). Untimely Complaint. Where the request for hearing and the final notice of proposed civil penalty were withdrawn, and a complaint was subsequently filed without the withdrawn documents being reissued, the complaint was not untimely filed. The withdrawn request for hearing and the final notice of proposed civil penalty were necessarily reactivated and refiled with the complaint, or the complaint would have been null. Jurisdictional Bar. An untimely complaint is not a jurisdictional bar to a civil penalty action. An untimely complaint may be excused upon a finding of good cause. In the Matter of Raul Nunez, Order No. 94&hyph;8 (3/10/94). Failure to File Answer. Respondent did not show good cause for his failure to file an answer to the complaint. The law judge's dismissal of Respondent's request for hearing is affirmed. In the Matter of B&G Instruments, Order No. 94&hyph;9 (3/29/94). Withdrawal of Appeal. Complainant withdrew its notice of appeal fom the initial decision. Complainant's appeal is dismissed. In the Matter of John G. Boyle, Order No. 94&hyph;10 (3/29/94). Withdrawal of Appeal. Complainant withdrew its notice of appeal fom the initial decision. Complainant's appeal is dismissed.
