FR940913-1-00038 FR940913-1-00013 Subpart G_Aleutian Trade Act Vessels §28.800 Applicability and General Requirements. (a) This subpart applies to each fish tender vessel engaged in the Aleutian trade that has not undergone a major conversion and: (1) Was operated in the Aleutian trade before September 8, 1990; or (2) Was purchased to be used in the Aleutian trade before September 8, 1990, and entered into service in the Aleutian trade before June 1, 1992. (b) Except as noted otherwise in this subpart, a vessel subject to this subpart must also comply with the requirements of subparts A, B, and C of this part. (c) Each fish tender vessel engaged in the Aleutian trade that undergoes a major conversion after September 15, 1991 must comply with the additional requirements of subpart D of this part. (d) A fish tender vessel engaged in the Aleutian trade is subject to inspection under the provisions of 46 U.S.C. 3301 (1), (6), or (7) unless it: (1) Is not more than 500 gross tons; (2) Has an incline test performed by a marine surveyor; and (3) Has written stability instructions posted on board the vessel. (e) A vessel that does not have a designated engineer as part of its complement must comply with the requirements of subpart D of this part in addition to the requirements of this subpart. §28.805 Launching of survival craft. In addition to the survival craft requirements in subpart B of this part, each vessel must have a gate or other opening in the deck rails, lifelines, or bulwarks adjacent to the stowage location of each survival craft which has a mass of more than 110 pounds (50 KG), so that the survival craft can be manually launched. §28.810 Deck rails, lifelines, storm rails and hand grabs. (a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (d) of this section, deck rails, lifelines, grab rails, or equivalent protection must be installed near the periphery of all weather decks accessible to individuals. Where space limitations make deck rails impractical, hand grabs may be substituted. (b) The height of deck rails, lifelines, or bulwarks must be at least 391/2 inches (1 meter) from the deck, except where this height would interfere with the normal operation of the vessel, a lesser height may be substituted. (c) All deck rails or lifelines must be permanently supported by stanchions at intervals of not more than 7 feet (2.3 meters). Stanchions must be through bolted or welded to the deck. (d) Portable stanchions and lifelines may be installed in locations where permanently installed deck rails would impede normal cargo operations or emergency recovery operations. (e) Deck rails or lifelines must consist of evenly spaced courses. The spacing between courses must not be greater than 15 inches (0.38 meters). The opening below the lowest course must not be more than 9 inches (0.23 meters). Lower courses are not required where all or part of the space below the upper rail is fitted with a bulwark, chain link fencing, wire mesh, or an equivalent. (f) A suitable storm rail or hand grab must be installed where necessary in a passageway, at a deckhouse side, at a ladder, and a hatch where an individual might have access. §28.815 Bilge pumps, bilge piping, and dewatering systems. Instead of §28.255, each vessel to which this subpart applies must meet the following requirements: (a) Each vessel must be equipped with a fixed, self priming, powered, bilge pump connected to a bilge manifold and piping capable of draining any watertight compartment, other than tanks and small buoyancy compartments, under all service conditions. Large spaces, such as engine rooms and cargo holds, must be fitted with more than one suction line. (b) In addition, each vessel must be fitted with a fixed second, or back-up bilge pump having an independent and separate source of power from the pump required in paragraph (a) of this section. One of the bilge pumps may be attached to the propelling engine. (c) A portable bilge pump may substitute for the secondary pump required above, as long as it is: (1) Self priming and provided with a suitable suction hose of adequate length to reach the bilges of each watertight compartment it must serve and is fitted with a built-in check valve and strainer; (2) Fitted with a discharge hose of adequate length to ensure overboard discharge. A portable pump must be capable of dewatering each space it serves at a rate of at least 2 inches (51 millimeters) of water depth per minute; and (3) Capable of being quickly and efficiently attached to the vessel's fixed bilge suction main or discharge piping (such as with ``camlocks'', etc.) for alternate emergency use. (d) Except where an individual pump is provided for a separate space or for a portable pump, each individual bilge suction line must be provided with a stop valve at the manifold and a check valve at some accessible point in the bilge line to prevent unintended flooding of a space. (e) Each bilge suction line and dewatering system must be fitted with a suitable strainer to prevent clogging of the suction line. Strainers must have an open area of not less than three times the open area of the suction line. (f) Except for a fire pump required by 46 CFR 28.820, a bilge pump may be used for other purposes. (g) Each vessel must comply with the oil pollution prevention requirements of 33 CFR parts 151 and 155.
