FR940527-1-00050 FR940527-1-00014 The methodology for determining the wage index values for redesignated hospitals is applied jointly to the hospitals located in those rural counties that were deemed urban under section 1886(d)(8)(B) of the Act and those hospitals that were reclassified as a result of the MGCRB decisions under section 1886(d)(10) of the Act. Section 1886(d)(8)(C) of the Act provides that the application of the wage index to redesignated hospitals is dependent on the hypothetical impact that the wage data from these hospitals would have on the wage index value for the area to which they have been redesignated. Therefore, pursuant to section 1886(d)(8)(c) of the Act, the wage index values were determined by considering the following: •If including the wage data for the redesignated hospitals reduces the MSA wage index value by 1 percentage point or less, the MSA wage index value determined exclusive of the wage data for the redesignated hospitals applies to the redesignated hospitals. •If including the wage data for the redesignated hospitals reduces the wage index value for the area to which the hospitals are redesignated by more than 1 percentage point, the hospitals that are redesignated are subject to the wage index value of the area that results from including the wage data of the redesignated hospitals (the ``combined'' wage index value). However, the wage index value for the redesignated hospitals cannot be reduced below the wage index value for the rural areas of the State in which the hospitals are located. •Rural areas whose wage index values would be reduced by excluding the data for hospitals that have been redesignated to another area continue to have their wage index calculated as if no redesignation had occurred. Those rural areas whose wage index value increases as a result of excluding the wage data for the hospitals that have been redesignated to another area have their wage index calculated exclusive of the redesignated hospitals. •The wage index value for an urban area is calculated exclusive of the wage data for hospitals that have been reclassified to another area. However, geographic reclassification may not reduce the wage index for an urban area below the Statewide rural average, provided the wage index prior to reclassification was greater than the Statewide rural wage index value. •Section 13501(b) of Public Law 103&hyph;66 amended section 1886(d)(8)(C) of the Act to provide that a change in classification of hospitals from one area to another may not result in the reduction in the wage index for any urban area whose wage index is below the rural wage index for the State. This provision also applies to any urban area that encompasses an entire State. We note that, except for those rural areas where redesignation would reduce the rural wage index value, and in the situation described above that was addressed by section 13501(b) of Public Law 103&hyph;66, the wage index value for each area is computed exclusive of the data for hospitals that have been redesignated from the area for purposes of their wage index. As a result, several MSAs listed in Table 4a have no hospitals remaining in the MSA. This is because all the hospitals originally in these MSAs have been reclassified to another area by the MGCRB. For those areas, we have listed the Statewide rural wage index value. The proposed revised wage index values effective for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1994 are shown in Tables 4a, 4b, and 4c of the addendum to this proposed rule. Hospitals that are redesignated should use the wage index values shown in Table 4c. For some areas, more than one wage index value will be shown in Table 4c. This occurs when hospitals from more than one State are included in the group of redesignated hospitals, and one State has a higher Statewide rural wage index value than the wage index value otherwise applicable to the redesignated hospitals. Tables 4d and 4e list the average hourly wage for each labor market area based on the FY 1991 wage data. In addition, we have expanded Table 3c (Hospital Case-Mix Indexes for Discharges) to include the average hourly wage for each hospital based on the FY 1991 data. The average hourly wage published in the final rule will be used by the MGCRB to evaluate if a hospital meets the reclassification criteria. Hospitals that choose to apply before publication of the final rule can use the proposed wage data in applying to the MGCRB for wage index reclassifications that would be effective for FY 1996. We note that in adjudicating these wage reclassification requests during FY 1995, the MGCRB will use the average hourly wages for each hospital and labor market area that are reflected in the final FY 1995 wage index. The proposed FY 1995 wage index values incorporate all reclassification decisions made by the MGCRB for FY 1995. At the time this proposed wage index was constructed, the MGCRB had completed its review. There were 429 hospitals redesignated for purposes of the wage index (including hospitals redesignated under both sections 1886(d)(8)(B) and 1886(d)(10) of the Act). This number does not include MGCRB decisions that are still under review by the Administrator. Any changes to the wage index that result from withdrawals of requests for reclassification, wage index corrections, appeals, and the Administrator's review process will be incorporated into the wage index values published in the final rule. The changes may affect not only the wage index value for specific geographic areas, but also whether redesignated hospitals receive the wage index value for the area to which they are redesignated or a combined wage index that includes the data for both the hospitals already in the area and the redesignated hospitals. Further, the wage index value for the area from which the hospitals are redesignated may be affected. Under §412.273, hospitals that have been reclassified by the MGCRB are permitted to withdraw their applications within 45 days of the publication of this Federal Register document. The request for withdrawal of an application for reclassification that would be effective in FY 1995 must be received by the MGCRB by [OFR: Insert date 45 days after date of publication]. A hospital that requests to withdraw its application may not request that the MGCRB decision be reinstated after publication of the final wage index values.
