FR940805-1-00144 FR940805-1-00014 Subpart D_State Governments: Contents of Consolidated Plan §91.300 Contents and format. The consolidated plan shall be submitted in such format as may be prescribed by HUD, including forms and narratives, or in such other format as jointly agreed upon by HUD and the State. The content shall comply with the requirements of this part, including the requirement of §91.105 to include a summary of public comments. §91.305 Housing and homeless needs assessment. (a) General. The plan must describe the State's estimated housing needs projected for the ensuing five-year period. Housing data included in this portion of the plan shall be based on data available from the U.S. Census, as updated by any properly conducted local study, or any other reliable source that the jurisdiction clearly identifies and should reflect the consultation with social service agencies conducted in accordance with §91.100 and the citizen participation process. (b) Categories of persons affected. The plan must describe the jurisdiction's need for assistance for extremely low income, very low-income, low-income, and moderate income families, for renters and owners, for elderly persons, for large families, and for persons with disabilities. The description of housing needs shall include a discussion of the cost burden and severe cost burden, overcrowding (especially for large families), and substandard housing conditions being experienced by extremely low-income, very low-income, other low-income, and moderate-income renters and owners compared to the jurisdiction as a whole. For any of these categories, to the extent that any racial or ethnic group has disproportionately greater need in comparison to the needs of that category as a whole, assessment of that specific need shall be included. For this purpose, disproportionately greater need exists when the percentage of persons in a category of need who are members of a particular racial or ethnic group is at least 10 percentage points higher than the percentage of persons in the category as a whole. With respect to a jurisdiction seeking assistance under the HOPWA program, the plan must identify the size and characteristics of the population with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, related diseases, and their families within the metropolitan area to be served. (c) Homeless needs. The plan must describe the nature and extent of homelessness, including rural homelessness, within the jurisdiction. The plan must include an estimate of the special needs of various categories of families and individuals who are homeless or threatened with homelessness (such as persons with mental illness or with substance abuse problems), in accordance with a table prescribed by HUD. The plan also should contain a narrative description of the nature and extent of homelessness by racial and ethnic group, to the extent information is available. (d) Lead-based paint hazards. The plan must estimate the number of housing units within the State that are occupied by low-income families or very low-income families that contain lead-based paint hazards, as defined in this part. §91.310 Housing market analysis. (a) General characteristics. Based on data available to the State, the plan must describe the significant characteristics of the State's housing markets (including such aspects as the supply, demand, and condition and cost of housing). (b) Low-income tax credit use. The plan must describe the strategy to coordinate the Low-income Tax Credit with development of housing that is affordable to very low-income and low-income families. (c) Homeless facilities. The plan must include a brief inventory of facilities and services that meet the needs for emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless persons within the State. (d) Barriers to affordable housing. The plan must explain whether the cost of housing or the incentives to develop, maintain, or improve affordable housing in the State are affected by its policies, including tax policies affecting land and other property, land use controls, zoning ordinances, building codes, fees and charges, growth limits, and policies that affect the return on residential investment. (e) Institutional structure. The plan must explain the institutional structure, including private industry, nonprofit organizations, and public institutions, through which the State will carry out its housing and community development plan, assessing the strengths and gaps in that delivery system. (f) Governmental coordination. With respect to the public entities involved, the plan must describe the means of cooperation and coordination among the State and any units of general local government in the development and submission of the State's plan. §91.315 Strategies, priority needs, and objectives. (a) General. The consolidated plan must state for each of the State's priority needs identified in the priority needs table prescribed by HUD and in local consultation: (1) The reasons for the State's choice of priority need, describing its choice in terms of housing need (e.g., income, tenure, and housing problems), and identifying obstacles to addressing underserved needs; (2) The specific objectives. Each objective shall identify the key goals in quantitative terms along with numeric or other measurable indicators of progress and a target date for completion (in subsequent years, the plans may incorporate the objectives from a prior year's plan if they have not changed); and (3) A description of the State's resource allocation geographically within the State (or for the HOPWA program, outside metropolitan areas receiving HOPWA grants) and among different activities.
