FR940516-2-00160 FR940516-2-00097 1. Review field review responses. 2. Provide their own reviews based on the same criteria as the field reviews. 3. Discuss all review comments as a panel. 4. Provide individual panelist scores and suggestions for modifications (i.e., budget, personnel, technical approach, etc.). D. Funding Decision 1. Applications will be ranked by NMFS into two groups: (a) Recommended, and (b) not recommended. As previously stated (section III.A.1., above), collaborative proposals are strongly encouraged, and therefore will be given added weight in the selection process. Numeric ranking will be the major consideration for deciding which of the ``recommended'' proposals will be selected for funding. Because NMFS will seek to balance technical and management priorities of the program, the highest-ranked ``recommended'' proposals may not necessarily receive funding. 2. After projects have been ranked for funding, the Chief of the NOAA/NMFS Chesapeake Bay Office, in consultation with the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA, will ascertain which projects do not substantially duplicate other projects that are currently funded by NOAA or are approved for funding by other Federal offices, determine the projects to be recommended for funding, and determine the amount of funds available for the program. The exact amount of funds awarded to each project will be determined in pre-award negotiations between the applicant, the Grants Office, and the NOAA/NMFS Chesapeake Bay Office staff. A project must not be initiated by a recipient until a signed award is received from the Grants Officer. V. Other Requirements A. Deliverables In addition to quarterly status and budget reports, and at the time of submission of the final report of results of funded projects, recipients must submit a four-to-five page summary of project work and results that will be compiled in a report of oyster disease research program results. Projects that produce non-experimental data must have copies of these data transferred to the NOAA/NMFS Chesapeake Bay Office in both compiled, hard copy format, and as a verified, electronic data file. Full, clearly stated documentation of the contents of such data files must be submitted with these data. B. Periodic Workshops Investigators will be expected to attend periodic workshops with other Oyster Disease Research Program researchers to encourage inter-disciplinary dialogue and forge synthesis of results. C. Administrative Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and DOC policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. The total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award, or 100 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less. Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. In addition, any recipient and/or researcher who is past due for submitting acceptable progress reports on any previous project funded under this program may be ineligible to be considered for new awards until the delinquent reports are received, reviewed and deemed acceptable by NMFS. No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: 1. The delinquent account is paid in full; 2. A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received; or 3. Other arrangements satisfactory to DOC are made. Primary Applicant Certifications_ All primary applicants must submit a completed FORM CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying,'' and the following explanations are hereby provided: 1. Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension_ Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR 26.105) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension,'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; 2. Drug-Free Workplace_ Grantees (as defined at 15 CFR part 26.605) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, subpart F, ``Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants),'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies;
