FR940613-1-00037 FR940613-1-00004 5.B. Demonstration of Maintenance_Projected Inventories In addition to the continued use of lower RVP gasoline (9.0) and fleet turnover to automobiles meeting more stringent emission standards, mobile source emission projections are dependent upon the implementation of the federal reformulated gasoline program. Total VOC and NO X emissions were projected from the 1990 base year out to year 2005. These projected inventories were prepared in accordance with EPA guidance. The projections demonstrate that the ozone standard will be maintained i.e., emissions are not expected to exceed the level of the base year inventory during this time period. EPA believes that the emissions projections demonstrate that the area will continue to maintain the ozone NAAQS because this area achieved attainment through VOC controls and reductions. 5C. Verification of Continued Attainment Continued attainment of the ozone NAAQS in the Charleston, West Virginia area depends, in part, on the State of West Virginia efforts toward tracking indicators of continued attainment during the maintenance period. The State of West Virginia will track the status and effectiveness of the maintenance plan by periodically updating the emissions inventory every three years. The WVOAQ has committed to perform this tracking on an annual basis in order to enable the State of West Virginia to implement the contingency measures of its maintenance plan as expeditiously as possible. The State of West Virginia annual update will indicate new source growth, as indicated by annual emission statements. The State of West Virginia will continue to monitor ambient ozone levels by operating its ambient ozone air quality monitoring network in accordance with 40 CFR part 58. 5D. Contingency Plan The level of VOC and NO X emissions in the Charleston area will largely determine its ability to stay in compliance with the ozone NAAQS in the future. Despite the State of West Virginia's best efforts to demonstrate continued compliance with the NAAQS, the Charleston area may exceed or violate the NAAQS. Therefore, West Virginia has provided contingency measures with a schedule for implementation in the event of future ozone air quality problems. In the event that exceedances of the ozone NAAQS are measured such that nonattainment is indicated in any of the areas or in the event that periodic emission inventory updates or major permitting activity reveals that excessive or unanticipated growth in ozone precursor emissions has occurred or will occur, the West Virginia will accordingly select and adopt measures including the following to assure continued attainment: 1. Extend the applicability of 45CSR21 (VOC/RACT rule) to include source categories previously excluded. 2. Revised new source permitting requirements requiring more stringent emissions control technology and/or emissions offsets. 3. NO X RACT requirements. 4. Stage II Vapor Recovery Regulations. 5. Regulations to establish plant-wide emission caps (potentially with emissions trading provisions). 6. Implementation of basic (or enhanced) programs for motor vehicle inspection and maintenance. One or more of these regulatory revisions would be selected within three (3) months after verification of a monitored ozone standard violation and a draft rule submitted to the WVOAQ. Quality assurance procedures must confirm the monitored violation within 45 days of occurrence. The WVOAQ will be requested to adopt the control measure(s) as emergency rule(s) which will be implemented within six (6) months after adoption. EPA's approval of West Virginia's redesignation request is contingent upon West Virginia promulgating a revision to its contingency plan that includes a schedule for the mandatory implementation of the selected contingency measures. 5E. Subsequent Maintenance Plan Revision In accordance with section 175A(b) of the Act, the State of West Virginia has agreed to submit a revised maintenance SIP eight years after the area is redesignated to attainment. Such revised SIP will provide for maintenance for an additional ten years. EPA has determined that the maintenance plan adopted by the State of West Virginia and submitted to EPA on November 13, 1992, meets the requirements of section 175A of the CAA. Therefore, EPA is proposing to approve the maintenance plan submittal. In addition EPA has determined that upon final approval of the maintenance plan the provisions of section 107(d)(3)(E)(iv) for redesignation will have been met. Proposed Action EPA proposes to approve the ozone maintenance plan for the Charleston, West Virginia area submitted by the State of West Virginia on November 13, 1992 as a revision to the West Virginia SIP because it meets the requirements of section 175A. In addition, EPA is proposing to redesignate the Charleston, West Virginia nonattainment area to attainment, subject to final approval of the maintenance plan, because the Agency has determined that the provisions of section 107(d)(3)(E) of the Act for redesignation of nonattainment areas to attainment have been met.
