FR941102-1-00060 FR941102-1-00016 Effective Date The effective date of the final rule would be 180 days after its publication in the Federal Register . Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures The Office of Management and Budget has determined that it will not review this rulemaking action under Executive Order 12866. It has been determined that the rulemaking action is not significant under Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures. The purpose of the rulemaking action is to update testing procedures. Since it is not anticipated that the final rule will have any significant cost or other impacts, preparation of a full regulatory evaluation is not warranted. National Environmental Policy Act NHTSA has analyzed this rulemaking action for the purposes of the National Environmental Policy Act. It is not anticipated that a final rule based on this proposal would have a significant effect upon the environment. The composition of plastic materials used in optical parts would not change from those presently in production. Regulatory Flexibility Act The agency has also considered the impacts of this rulemaking action in relation to the Regulatory Flexibility Act. I certify that this rulemaking action would not have a significant economic impact upon a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, no regulatory flexibility analysis has been prepared. Manufacturers of motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment, those affected by the rulemaking action, are generally not small businesses within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Further, small organizations and governmental jurisdictions would not be significantly affected because the price of new vehicles and vehicle equipment would not be impacted. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) This rulemaking action has also been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and NHTSA has determined that this rulemaking action does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Civil Justice A final rule based on this proposal would not have any retroactive effect. Under 49 U.S.C. ยง30103, whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a state may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance which is not identical to the Federal standard. 49 U.S.C. ยง30161 sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 571
