FR941017-2-00042 FR941017-2-00026 [DA 94&hyph;1093] Cuban Democracy Act AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Commission has authorized IDB WorldCom Services, Inc. to provide direct packet switched data service between the United States and Cuba in accordance with the provisions of the Cuban Democracy Act. This authorization will allow IDB to help meet the large demand for direct telecommunications services between the United States and Cuba. Under the guidelines established by the Department of State, IDB is required to submit reports indicating the numbers of circuits activated by facility, on or before June 30 and December 31 of each year, and on the one-year anniversary of this notification in the Federal Register . EFFECTIVE DATE: October 17, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kerry E. Murray, Attorney, Common Carrier Bureau, (202) 418&hyph;1494. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the Matter of: IDB WORLDCOM SERVICES, INC._Application for authority to lease and operate facilities for the provision of direct packet switched data service between the United States and Cuba. [File No. I&hyph;T&hyph;C&hyph;94&hyph;440] Order and Authorization Adopted: September 29, 1994. By the Chief, International Facilities Division: 1. The Commission has under consideration the above-captioned application filed by IDB WorldCom Service, Inc. (``IDB'') requesting authority pursuant to Section 214 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, to establish channels of communication between the United States and Cuba for the provision of direct packet switched data service. The application was placed on the Commission's public notice and no comments were received. 2. IDB proposes to provide international packet switched data service between the United States and Cuba via the INTELSAT satellite located at 325 ○ E.L., using appropriately licensed existing earth station facilities. Specifically, IDB requests authority to lease from Comsat and operate one 4 kHz analog SCPC circuit between an authorized earth station located in the United States and the theoretical midpoint of the INTELSAT AOR satellite connecting with matching facilities provided by INTERTEL S.A. (``INTERTEL'') of Cuba. IDB proposes to acquire and operate facilities to connect its operating center in New York, New York, to the U.S. earth station. IDB states that it has already entered into an operating agreement with INTERTEL for the establishment of direct packet data service between the United States and Cuba. Under the terms of its agreement, INTERTEL and IDB have agreed to a 50/50 split of a $5.50 per kilosegment and $5.50 per hour accounting rate for packet data traffic. IDB states this rate is consistent with U.S. policy guidelines. 1 IDB states that it will initiate service within one year. 1 In Sprint Communications, L.P. , I&hyph;T&hyph;C&hyph;94&hyph;238, DA94&hyph;636, 9 FCC Rcd 2827 (1994), it was noted that packet data traffic is measured based on a unit known as a ``kilosegment.'' On a typical dial packet data transmission, two kilosegments are transferred per hour. Likewise, on a typical dedicated packet data transmission, four kilosegments are transferred per hour. Therefore, for a typical dial packet data transmission, the total accounting rate would be approximately $16.50 per hour (27.5¢ per minute), including $5.50 for the hour of time and $11.00 for the two kilosegments of transmitted packet data. For a typical dedicated packet data transmission, the total accounting rate would be approximately $27.50 per hour (46¢ per minute), including $5.50 for the hour of time and $22.00 for the four kilosegments of transmitted packet data. 3. IDB states that the public interest would be served by a grant of its application because it will result in an expanded choice of carriers offering telecommunications service between the United States and Cuba. IDB states such competition will spur innovation and efficiency, lead to lower-priced, higher-quality service, and stimulate customer demand and usage. Further, IDB states that the grant of its application will result in the expansion of direct telecommunications service between the United States and Cuba. 4. In a letter dated July 22, 1993, the U.S. Department of State informed the Commission of the Executive Branch's general policy guidelines for implementation of the telecommunications provisions of the Cuban Democracy Act, which provides that ``telecommunication services between the United States and Cuba shall be permitted.'' 2 Among the policy guidelines are the following requirements: (1) the proposals must have the potential to be operational within a year; (2) settlements must not be more favorable to Cuba than the current 50/50 split of the $1.20 per minute accounting rate; (3) proposals must be limited to equipment and services necessary to deliver a signal to Cuba; (4) proposals must utilize modes of communications already in place between the U.S. and Cuba; and (5) carriers shall report the number of circuits activated by facility on June 30 and December 31 of each year and on the one-year anniversary of the notification by the FCC in the Federal Register . 2 Letter dated July 22, 1993, from Richard C. Beaird, Acting U.S. Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, U.S. Department of State to Acting FCC Chairman James H. Quello. 5. The Commission recently granted the application of Sprint Communications Company, L.P. to provide packet data services between the United States and Cuba pursuant to the same accounting rate as proposed by IDB. 3 In particular, the Commission found that Sprint's application was consistent with the Executive Branch's general guidelines set forth in the Department of State's letter dated July 22, 1993. 3 See Sprint Communications Company, L.P. , 9 FCC Rcd 2827 (1994). 6. Upon consideration of IDB's application, we find that a grant of its application will serve the public interest subject to the conditions set forth below. IDB's application is consistent with the Executive Branch's general guidelines set forth in the Department of State's letter. IDB states that it will initiate service within one year, and expects to initiate service shortly after all requisite regulatory approvals have been obtained. IDB's proposed use of INTELSAT facilities and appropriately licensed existing earth station facilities satisfies the requirements that facilities already be in existence and be limited to equipment and services necessary to deliver a signal to Cuba. 7. With respect to IDB's proposed 50/50 split of a $5.50 per kilosegment and $5.50 per hour accounting rate for packet data traffic between the United States and Cuba, the Department of State indicated in a follow-up letter dated May 23, 1994 that it has no objection to our approval so long as the proposed rate does not exceed the 50/50 split of the $1.20 accounting rate required under the guidelines. 4 We find that the proposed accounting rate is within the Department of State's guidelines because both the approximately 27.5¢ per minute accounting rate for a typical dial packet data transmission, and the approximately 46¢ per minute accounting rate for a typical dedicated packet data transmission 5 is well below the $1.20 per minute accounting rate approved for voice services. 4 Letter dated May 23, 1994, from Richard C. Beaird, Acting U.S. Coordinator and Director, Bureau of International Communications and Information Policy, U.S. Department of State to Acting FCC Chairman James H. Quello. 5 See supra note 1. 8. Accordingly, It is Ordered that application File No. I&hyph;T&hyph;C&hyph;94&hyph;440 Is Granted and IDB WorldCom Services, Inc. is authorized to:
