FR940106-1-00038 FR940106-1-00008 Corrective Action: Install an orifice of such size that subsequent measurements will be within the appropriate beta ratio range. If changing the orifice causes the differential pressure to be recorded in the lower one-third of the chart, then either the meter tube or the differential element shall be changed, sizing the straight pipe sections in a manner that will provide subsequent measurement within the appropriate beta ratio range. Abatement Period: Prior to sales or removal. 2. For meters measuring more than 100 Mcf per day on a monthly basis, the orifice to pipe diameter ratio (d/D), or the beta ratio, with meters using ``pipe taps,'' shall be between 0.20 and 0.67. Violation: Major. Corrective Action: Same as C.1. above. Abatement Period: Prior to sales or removal. 3. To obtain flow conditions as near optimum as possible and minimize the effects of turbulence in gas flow, the minimum length of straight pipe preceding and following an orifice, and the use of straightening vanes, shall conform to the specifications shown in Figures 4 through 9 of AGA Committee Report No. 3. Violation: Major. Corrective Action: Install proper length of pipe where appropriate or install straightening vanes in accordance with appropriate AGA Committee Report No. 3 specifications. Abatement Period: Prior to sales or removal. 4. There shall be no pipe connections between the orifice and the nearest pipe fitting other than the pressure taps and/or thermometer wells as specified in AGA Committee Report No. 3. Violation: Major. Corrective Action: Replace entire length of pipe ahead of the orifice meter with pipe of appropriate length and inside smoothness in accordance with AGA Committee Report No. 3. Abatement Period: Prior to sales or removal. 5. The difference between the internal diameters of the meter tube pipe and the orifice fittings shall be within the tolerance limits set by AGA. Violation: Major. Corrective Action: Install properly sized meter tube. Abatement Period: Prior to sales or removal. 6. For meters measuring more than 100 Mcf per day on a monthly basis, meter tubes shall be inspected at least every 5 years to ensure continuing conformance with the meter tube specifications in AGA Committee Report No. 3. Record results of inspections and take any necessary corrective actions to bring the meter tube into conformance with AGA Committee Report No. 3. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Inspect meter tube for conformance with AGA Committee Report No. 3, record results of inspection, and take necessary corrective actions. Abatement Period: 60 days. 7. Meter tubes using flange taps or pipe taps shall have the pressure tap holes located as specified in AGA Committee Report No. 3. Violation: Major. Corrective Action: Install pressure tap as specified. Abatement Period: Prior to sales or removal. 8. Orifice plates shall be removed from the flange or plate holder, and visually inspected for conformance with AGA standards and specifications, at least semi-annually, during calibration of the secondary element. Violation: Minor. Corrective Action: Remove and visually inspect orifice plate for conformance with AGA standards and specifications. Abatement Period: No later than the next meter calibration.
