FR940613-1-00058 FR940613-1-00006 In analytical terms, prior to final promulgation of today's proposed rule, the rate that lenders charge now when considering making an UST-related loan can be described as: r market ^i=r b +r e where: r market =Prevailing interest rate on UST-related loans i=Risk-free rate of return r b =Risk premium banks charge for loans to small businesses. (This factor includes the financial risk for a business with certain assets that is unable to repay its loan.) r e =Risk premium charged for UST owners. (This factor includes the financial risk that a lender may have to pay for contamination, or uncertainty regarding the true value of collateral, in the event of contamination.) Due to the current uncertainty regarding a holder's obligations to comply with the UST regulatory requirements, the risk premium ``r e '' that banks have to charge in order to be adequately compensated for their risk in an UST-related loan may often be so high that it effectively precludes lenders from making loans at this level. A related barrier to lending is that since all UST owners bear a systematic risk imposed by government regulations, lenders cannot diversify to substantially reduce or eliminate the UST-related risk premium, r e , by holding a portfolio of UST-related loans with different characteristics and risks. Since most UST owners and operators are small businesses that cannot self finance, they will either forego or delay UST facility improvements. While many UST-related loans are expected to be used for financing tank upgrades or replacements, these loans may also be used to provide additional services at the facility (e.g., an expanded area for food items at a convenience store). If lenders are precluded from making UST-related loans, both environmental protection and economic growth may suffer. By providing the exemption for holders from UST regulatory requirements contained in this proposed rule and thus reducing the uncertainty associated with making an UST-related loan, the risk premium is expected to be significantly reduced. The interest rate relationship after final promulgation of today's proposed rule can be described as: r market (post rule)=i+r b +r e (post rule) where: r market (post rule)=Prevailing interest on UST-related loans after final promulgation of today's proposed rule r e (post rule)=Risk premium charged for UST owners after final promulgation of today's proposed rule Although r e (post rule) will still exist, it is expected to be significantly less than r e . The result would be the reduction of the prevailing interest rate on UST-related loans to a level, r market (post rule), that is both adequate to compensate lenders for their perceived risk and at the same time affordable for credit-worthy UST owners. There are social costs associated with owners' and operators' inability to use the least costly financial mechanism to comply with the existing UST regulations. By reducing the risk premium to a level at which lenders are both willing and able to make UST-related loans, this proposed regulation is expected to increase the ability of UST owners and operators to comply with subtitle I regulations, thereby reducing these social costs. To the extent that loans are made for environmental compliance purposes, social costs would also be reduced by decreasing the number and severity of releases from old USTs that might otherwise occur in the absence of upgrading or replacing tanks. The Agency is interested in obtaining comments on how this proposed rule might allow UST owners and operators to use less costly financial mechanisms to comply with UST regulations. Specifically, the Agency requests information from lenders on the current interest rate charged for loans when property with one or more USTs is used as collateral. The Agency also requests information from lenders regarding the extent to which credit might have been extended to UST owners and operators in the past had this proposed rule been in effect. Further information and a more detailed discussion of the costs and benefits associated with today's proposal is contained in the ``Regulatory Background Document'' for this proposed rule, located in the OUST Docket at 401 M Street, SW.; room 2616; Washington, DC 20460. VII. Regulatory Assessment Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51,735 (October 4, 1993)), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to review by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or state, local, or tribal governments or communities;
