FR940819-0-00042 FR940819-0-00016 Consistent with the proposed rule, this final rule provides that no employee located outside the territory of the United States shall be tested for illegal use of drugs under the provisions of appendix I. To ensure proper selection for random testing, an employer must remove from the random testing pool any employee assigned to perform safety-sensitive functions solely outside the territory of the United States, since such an employee is not available for testing. The employee must be returned to the random testing pool as soon as the employee once more begins to perform functions wholly or partially within the territory of the United States. As noted above, the employer has the option of requiring the employee to undergo a pre-employment test prior to returning to the performance of a safety-sensitive function within the territory of the United States (and therefore to the random testing pool). This section also provides that the provisions of appendix I do not apply to employees performing safety-sensitive functions by contract outside the territory of the United States. Although most commenters supported this revision, one commenter expressed concern that employees performing safety-sensitive functions within the territory of the United States may be subject to random testing at a disproportionately high rate if employees outside the territory of the United States are excused from testing and that employees taken out of the random testing pool may pose a safety risk. The FAA is cognizant of concerns about safety and economic parity that are raised by this exclusion. However, the FAA has determined that the burdens associated with extraterritorial testing outweigh the possible safety benefit. The FAA expects that employers will ensure that persons performing safety-sensitive functions wholly or partially within the territory of the United States remain subject to an effective random testing program. Finally, employers concerned about drug use by employees removed from the random testing pool may, as addressed above, subject such employees to pre-employment testing prior to permitting the employees to perform safety-sensitive functions within the territory of the United States. Paperwork Reduction Act Approval The recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the final antidrug rule, issued on November 14, 1988, were previously submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. The OMB approval is under control number 2120&hyph;0535. The recordkeeping and reporting requirements in this amendment to the final rule were submitted to OMB during the NPRM stage and approved under the same OMB # 2120&hyph;0535. There have been no changes to the paperwork or recordkeeping burden since the NPRM approval. Federalism Implications The amendments in this final rule will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, the FAA has determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Regulatory Evaluation Summary The FAA has determined that this final rule is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866. The Agency has prepared a regulatory evaluation that analyzes the costs and benefits of this final rule. The FAA does not expect that this rule will have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the complete regulatory evaluation, regulatory flexibility determination, and international trade assessment has been placed in the docket. A copy may be obtained by contacting the office identified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. International Trade Impact Analysis The FAA finds that this rule will not have an adverse impact on trade opportunities for either U.S. firms doing business overseas or foreign firms doing business in the United States. Significance This rule is not likely to result in an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, although it may result in a small increase in costs for consumers, industry, or Federal, State, or local agencies. The FAA has determined that the rule is not significant under the Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Policies and Procedures of the Department of Transportation (44 FR 11034; February 2, 1979). List of Subjects 14 CFR Part 65 Aircraft, Airmen, Air safety, Air transportation, Aviation safety, Drug abuse, Drugs, Narcotics, Safety, Transportation. 14 CFR Part 121 Air carriers, Aircraft, Aircraft pilots, Airmen, Airplanes, Air transportation, Aviation safety, Drug abuse, Drugs, Narcotics, Pilots, Safety, Transportation. 14 CFR Part 135 Air carriers, Aircraft, Aircraft pilots, Airmen, Airplanes, Air taxi, Air transportation, Aviation safety, Drug abuse, Drugs, Narcotics, Pilots, Safety, Transportation. In consideration of the foregoing, the Federal Aviation Administration is amending 14 CFR parts 65, 121, and 135 as follows: PART 65_CERTIFICATION: AIRMEN OTHER THAN FLIGHT CREWMEMBERS
