FR940323-2-00172 FR940323-2-00124 Wednesday March 23, 1994 Part VIII Department of Education Federal Pell Grant Program; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 56␣/␣Wednesday, March 23, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Federal Pell Grant Program AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice; deadline dates for receipt of applications, reports, and other documents for the 1993&hyph;94 award year. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces the deadline dates for receiving documents from persons applying for financial assistance under, and from institutions participating in, the Federal Pell Grant Program during the 1993&hyph;94 award year. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Pell Grant Program provides grants to students attending eligible institutions of higher education to help them pay for their educational costs. The program supports Goals 2000, the President's strategy for moving the Nation toward the National Education Goals, by enhancing opportunities for postsecondary education. The National Education Goals call for increasing the rate at which students graduate from high school and pursue high quality postsecondary education and for supporting life-long learning. Authority for the Federal Pell Grant Program is contained in section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA), 20 U.S.C. 1070a. Regulations that govern the Federal Pell Grant Program are codified in 34 CFR part 690 and 34 CFR part 668. The Pell Grant Program includes a three-step application process. Under the first step, the student must submit an application to have his or her expected family contribution (EFC) determined. The student may submit a paper application, or, if the institution he or she attends or will attend participates in the Department of Education's Electronic Data Exchange (EDE), the student may submit an electronic application. Under EDE, using software provided by the Department of Education (Department) or a needs analysis servicer, an institution electronically transmits the student's application data to the Department's Federal Student Aid Central Processing System (central processor). The institution may enter the application data, or the institution may have the student enter that data. In the second step, the central processor determines a student's EFC based upon the information provided in a paper or electronic application and forwards the results to the student. The central processor may also forward the results to the student's institution. As a result of submitting a paper application, the student receives a Student Aid Report (SAR), and any institution designated by the student may draw down a student's data in the form of an electronic SAR (ESAR) if the institution participates in EDE. An ESAR or SAR contains the student's EFC and the information on which that EFC was based. If application data was submitted electronically under EDE, the student will not receive an SAR, but the institution may draw down an ESAR. The central processor may also transmit, to the institution that a student indicates he or she is attending or will attend, an institutional student information report (ISIR) that includes the student's EFC and the information on which that EFC was based. An ISIR is a paper document or an institutional paper printout from a computer-generated magnetic or electronic record. Under the third step, a student must submit a valid SAR to the institution or sign a valid ESAR or ISIR. A valid SAR, ESAR, or ISIR is one on which all the information used to calculate the student's EFC is accurate and complete. In addition, a valid ESAR or ISIR must be signed by the student, and if corrections were made, signed by one of the student's parents if the student is a dependent student. If corrections are made to an ESAR or ISIR, the ESAR or ISIR must also be signed by the student's spouse if the student is married. However, a student may receive a Federal Pell Grant by signing a valid ISIR only if the institution he or she attends reports its Federal Pell Grant payment data to the Department by floppy disk, magnetic tape, or electronically under EDE. (Part IV of this notice describes the disbursement reporting requirements.) I. Applications for Determination of Expected Family Contribution_Table I Under the first application step described above, if a student uses a paper application, he or she must submit an approved application to an agency listed in table I of this notice, at the address indicated in table I. That application must be received at that address no later than May 2, 1994. A paper application may not be hand-delivered.
