FR940628-2-00131 FR940628-2-00096 (F) Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements. (G) Prior to award execution, a successful applicant must submit a certification that it will comply with: ( 1 ) Section 3 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1968, Employment Opportunities for Lower Income Persons in Connection with Assisted Projects (12 U.S.C. 1701u), and with implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 135. Section 3 requires, that to the greatest extent feasible, opportunities for training and employment be given to lower income residents of the project area within the unit of local government or metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) and for work in connection with the project to be awarded to eligible businesses located in or owned in substantial part by persons residing in the area; ( 2 ) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d&hyph;2000d&hyph;4) (Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs) and implementing regulations issued at 24 CFR part 1; and ( 3 ) The prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101&hyph;07) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 146, and the prohibitions against discrimination against persons with disabilities individuals under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8. (x) Applicants wishing to make a personal presentation before the selection panel in support of their written application may schedule a presentation by contacting Malcolm E. Main on (202) 708&hyph;1197. All presentations must be scheduled by the application due date. (f) Selective Criteria/Factors for Award. The Department will award the grant to the applicant(s) that best meets all of the factors below. All applications will be evaluated in accordance with the following factors (their weights are indicated in parentheses). Applicants shall provide a statement within their proposals that addresses each of the factors listed below. Applications will be reviewed and rated according to the extent to which they meet the following factors, which total 100 points: (1) Technical Soundness and Understanding of the Application (25 Points Maximum). (i) Technical Soundness of the Application (12 Points Maximum). The technical quality, clarity, creativity, thoroughness, specificity, and feasibility of the application and methodology should be reflected as the application is assessed on the basis of: (A) The level of detail in which the application describes how it will implement each activity required in the project Tasks 1&hyph;4; (B) The extent to which the application provides a technically sound and cost effective means for designing and implementing changes in public housing police departments. (ii) Basic Understanding of Security Issues in Public Housing as Well as Programs Designed to Provide Security to Residents of Public Housing (13 Points Maximum). The application will be assessed based on the extent to which it demonstrates a clear understanding of the security issues in public housing as well as programs designed to provide security to residents of public housing, particularly as the knowledge relates to all Tasks. (2) Organizational Management and Capabilities (25 Points Maximum). Grantees must demonstrate their ability to manage, organize and complete on schedule all of the tasks and responsibilities associated with this project. (i) Project Director (13 Points Maximum). (A) The extent to which the proposed Project Director has: (1 ) Executive experience in managing projects of a similar type and scope, including proven ability to manage the performance of complex multi-site projects within the time and resource limits; ( 2 ) Executive experience in managing projects involving law enforcement in cities with populations of 500,000 or more; ( 3 ) A clear understanding of the methodology and techniques necessary to perform the tasks of this grant; ( 4 ) Executive experience in designing and implementing, for police departments of various sizes, law enforcement systems and community policing policies and procedures that include the following: ( A ) Organization and management. ( B ) Personnel management. ( C ) Patrol operations. ( D ) Criminal investigations. ( E ) Dispatch, records, and property.
