FR941207-2-00045 FR941207-2-00034 B. Subject: Azerbaijan: ban on imports of specimens of Eurasian lynx ( Felis lynx ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Felis lynx specimens from Azerbaijan. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, Azerbaijan has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the government of Azerbaijan must comply with the primary recommendation of the CITES Animals Committee for Felis lynx , which is designated as a significant trade species. Although Azerbaijan is not a CITES Party, the Russian Federation continues to conduct all CITES permit matters for Azerbaijan. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Felis lynx may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from Azerbaijan, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies. C. Subject Peoples Republic of China: ban on imports of specimens of leopard cat ( Felis bengalensis ) and Oriental rat snake ( Ptyas mucosus ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Felis bengalensis and Ptyas mucosus specimens from China. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Based on information received, the People's Republic of China has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the Management Authority of China must advise the CITES Secretariat of the following: improved national legislation for the protection of Felis bengalensis, the scientific basis of the management program for Felis bengalensis and Ptyas mucosus, export quotas for Felis bengalensis , an inventory of stockpiles of skins of Felis bengalensis , and a system to mark all skins of Felis bengalensis that enter trade. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Felis bengalensis and Ptyas mucosus may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from the People's Republic of China, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies. D. Subject India: ban on imports of specimens of Indian bullfrog ( Rana tigerina ) and Asian bullfrog ( Rana hexadactyla ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Rana tigerina and Rana hexadactyla specimens from India. Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, India has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the Management Authority of India should advise the CITES Secretariat of the following: Details of national legislation and management programs for Rana tigerina and Rana hexadactyla , and any progress in the initiation of studies to determine safe harvest levels and the ecological impact of harvesting Rana tigerina and Rana hexadactyla . Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Rana tigerina and Rana hexadactyla may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from India, unless an exemption in CITES Article VII applies. However, CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 818 states that India has declared that the harvesting and export of specimens of the genus Rana are prohibited. Therefore, the Secretariat is satisfied that no further action need be taken by India in order to implement the recommendation of the CITES Animal Committee. The Secretariat further recommends that imports from India of specimens of the genus Rana should still be prohibited in deference to the prohibitions established by India. E. Subject Indonesia: ban on imports of specimens of lesser sulphur-crested cockatoo ( Cacatua sulphurea ) and Oriental rat snake ( Ptyas mucosus ). This is a Schedule III Notice Wildlife subject to this notice is subject to detention, refusal of clearance or seizure, and forfeiture if imported into the United States. Source of Foreign Law Information CITES Secretariat Notification to the Parties No. 800, issued on April 21, 1994, calls on Parties to suspend imports of Cacatua sulphurea and Ptyas mucosus specimens from Indonesia. Furthermore, reference is made to regulatory improprieties by Indonesia as regards trade in specimens of Ptyas mucosus (Doc 6.19, No. C.1), and trade in specimens of Cacutua species (Doc 8.19, No. 66). Action by the Fish and Wildlife Service Based on information received, Indonesia has not satisfactorily implemented the recommendations of the CITES Standing Committee. Specifically, the Management Authority of Indonesia must notify the CITES Secretariat of the following: The establishment of a moratorium on the exports of Cacatua sulphurea pending the outcome of population surveys, and the scientific basis for its harvest quotas of Ptyas mucosus and the introduction of a system to ensure that exports of skins of Ptyas mucosus do not exceed quotas. Therefore, in accordance with the responsibility of the United States under CITES, and effective immediately and until further notice from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, no shipments of specimens of Cacatua sulphurea and Ptyas mucosus may be imported into the United States, directly or indirectly, from Indonesia. In addition, the Wild Bird Conservation Act of 1992 already prohibits the importation of specimens of Cacatua sulphurea . Specimens of Ptyas mucosus are allowed to be imported only in those cases where an exemption in CITES Article VII applies and all other requirements of Federal law are satisified. F. Subject Latvia: ban on imports of specimens of Eurasian lynx ( Felis lynx ).
