FR940720-2-00027 FR940720-2-00018 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Financial Assistance Award; Intent To Award a Grant to National Urban Coalition AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy announces that pursuant to 10 CFR 600.6(a)(5), it is making a discretionary financial assistance award based on the criteria set forth at 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i)(D) to National Urban Coalition, Washington, DC under grant number DE&hyph;FG01&hyph;94MI10319. The DOE intends to make a noncompetitive financial assistance award in establishing the Say Yes to a Youngster's Future Program (Say Yes) in the Oakland, California Public School System. The Say Yes program is an educational and training program for elementary school students, parents, teachers, and school administrators. The period of performance contemplated is for three years. DOE will provide funding in the amount of $120,000 for the first budget period estimated to be August 30, 1994&hyph;August 29, 1995. There will be no cost sharing. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Please write the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Placement and Administration, ATTN: Rosemarie Marshall, HR&hyph;531.11, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The proposed grant will provide funding to National Urban Coalition (NUC), a nonprofit organization of business, civil rights, religious and government leaders founded in 1967 to seek workable answers to urban problems. The Say Yes program was started in 1985 by the NUC because of the growing realization that, in a world where jobs, higher education and everyday life are increasingly dependent on math, science and technology, the children of minority groups_African Americans, Hispanic American and Native Americans, as well as females of all races_are being left further and further behind. The Say Yes program is reaching out with a national network of school districts, teachers, administrators, families, churches, civic organizations and businesses committed to improving mathematics and science education for minority children. The project to be funded is for the Oakland School district, and will include the six most economically disadvantaged school communities. The program is meritorious because the program combines student interest development activities with family involvement and teacher training into a program which prepares students early at the Kindergarten to Sixth Grade educational level to be receptive to further study in the technical fields. The DOE knows of no other entity which is conducting or is planning to conduct such an activity. Based on the evaluation of relevance to the accomplishment of a public purpose, it is determined that the application is highly likely of achieving its objective through the completion of some supporting objectives, including fostering the development of natural student interest in math and science, enhancing family involvement in the students' learning process and providing more comprehensive teacher training which focuses on math and science. A recent study reported that over 78% of responding student program participants indicated that they like math and science better than before. Craig S. Frame, Contracting Officer, Operations Branch A&hyph;1, Office of Placement and Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17652 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
