FR940303-0-00056 FR940303-0-00017 A third public comment requested further definition of the proposal preparation information that will be provided to offerors who are not preceding phase contractors. The NASA interim rule specifies that such information includes the ``previously issued solicitation; the preceding phase contracts; the preceding phase system performance and design requirements; all proposal preparation instructions; and evaluation factors, subfactors and elements''. NASA considers this list to be adequately inclusive for a policy that must address a wide range of programs. Individual programs will have unique information that will be provided to outside offerors, but these requirements cannot be anticipated at this time. No revision to our policy is necessary in this area. The last substantive public comment recommended clarification of the procedure in 1834.005&hyph;1(d)(7) by which subsequent phase offerors other than initial phase contractors are eliminated from the competition if their proposals do not demonstrate a design maturity equivalent to that of the preceding phase contracts. The comment suggested that this process be explicitly linked to the competitive range standard in FAR 15.609(b). Elimination of an offeror is technically a competitive range determination. Accordingly, we believe that explicit linkage of 1834.005&hyph;1(d)(7) and FAR 15.609(b) is unnecessary. Furthermore, NASA source selection procedures in 1815.613&hyph;71(b) already discuss elimination of offerors with more precision than a cross reference to the FAR would provide. Under these procedures, offerors may be eliminated at several points during the selection process, the first of which is through an initial identification of unacceptable proposals. This process occurs during initial review, before the proposal is formally scored or evaluated against the evaluation factors. At this time, if a proposal's deficiencies are clearly of such a magnitude that it warrants discontinuance of the evaluation, NASA eliminates that proposals from further consideration. The procedures of 1834.005&hyph;1(d)(7) cited in the public comment relate to this process. For those proposals still under consideration, NASA performs a full evaluation against the evaluation factors and makes a competitive range determination based on that evaluation. These long-standing procedures provide a clear description of the NASA evaluation process. Adoption of the public comment recommendation would only cloud this description, and no change is made to the interim rule in this area. NASA is adopting as a final rule the text set out in the interim rule with minor changes that have no significant effect on the substance of the interim rule. First, the interim rule did not specify dates for the two clauses added to the NASA FAR Supplement, 1852.234&hyph;70 and 1852.234&hyph;71. These clauses are dated November 1993 in this final rule. Second, the interim rule included a number of references to NASA Management Instruction (NMI) 7102.4, ``Management of Major System Programs and Projects.'' Several of these references should also have cited the NMI's companion NASA Handbook (NHB) 7120.5, ``Management of Major System Programs and Projects Handbook''. These NHB references are included in this final rule. Third, a number of editorial changes are made to correct errata and inconsistencies in the publishes interim rule. Impact NASA certifies that this regulation will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. et seq. ). This rule does not impose any reporting or recordkeeping requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. List of Subjects in 48 CFR Parts 1807, 1834, 1852, and 1870 Government procurement. Deidre A. Lee, Associate Administrator for Procurement.
