FR940505-1-00393 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) Measurement of capture efficiency shall be determined in accordance with the EPA method 34 or by an alternative method approved in writing by EPA. 34 40 CFR 52.741(a)(4)(iii). (i) Fugitive Emissions from Gas Processing Plants, Refineries, Bulk Plants, Bulk Terminals, and Chemical Plants. (1) Applicability. The requirements of paragraphs (i)(1) through (7) of this section shall apply to any owner or operator of a refinery, bulk plant, bulk terminal, chemical plant, or gas processing plant. For the purposes of this section, the affected areas include the Sacramento Metro Area, the Los Angeles-South Coast Air Basin Area, and the Ventura County Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraphs (i)(1) through (7) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Background means a reading expressed as methane on a portable hydrocarbon detection instrument which is taken at least three meters upwind from any component to be inspected and which is not influenced by any specific emission point. Bulk plant means any distributing facility which receives organic liquid; stores it in stationary tanks; and which loads it into tank trucks for delivery to other bulk plants, service stations or other distribution points. Bulk terminal means any primary distributing plant which receives organic liquid; stores it in stationary tanks; loads it into transportable containers, excluding marine vessels, for delivery to bulk plants, service stations, or other distribution points. Chemical plant means any facility engaged in producing organic or inorganic chemicals, and/or manufacturing chemical products by chemical processes. Any facility or operation that has 28 as the first two digits in its four digit Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Code as defined in the SIC Manual is included. Closed-vent system means any system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, connections and, if necessary, flow-inducing devices that transport gases or vapors from a piece or pieces of equipment to a vapor recovery or disposal system. Commercial natural gas means processed natural gas containing less than 10% VOC by weight. Component means any valve, fitting, pump, compressor, pressure relief device, diaphragm, hatch, sight-glass, open-ended line, or meter. Compressor means any device used to compress gases and/or vapors. Control valve means a device that is used to regulate fluid pressure or volume in a process unit that, upon actuation, releases VOC from the process stream. Control valves which are actuated with non-process stream compressed air are excluded from this definition. Critical component means any component that if shut down would require the shutdown of the associated process unit. Fitting means a component used to attach or connect pipes, piping details, and other equipment, such as, vessels, heat exchangers, and condensers. These components include but are not limited to flanges, threaded connections, and other connectors. Gas processing plant means any facility engaged in the separation of liquids from field gas and/or fractionation of the liquids into gaseous products, such as ethane, propane, butane, and natural gasoline. Excluded from the definition are compressor stations, dehydration units, sweetening units, field treatment, underground storage facilities, liquefied natural gas units, and field gas gathering systems unless these facilities are located at a natural gas processing plant. Hatch means any covered opening system that provides access to a tank or container, usually through the top deck. Inaccessible component means any component located over fifteen feet above ground when access is required from the ground; or any component located over six feet away from a platform when access is required from the platform. Leak means a major gas leak, major liquid leak, minor gas leak, or minor liquid leak. Leak minimization means reducing a leak to the lowest achievable level using best modern practices including tightening, adjusting, or adding sealing material and without shutting down the process which the component serves. Leak repair means any corrective action taken for the purposes of reducing a component leak to the lowest achievable level below the applicable standard using best modern practices. Major component means any 4-inch or larger valve, any 5-horse-power (5-hp) or larger pump, any compressor, and any 4-inch or larger pressure relief device. Major gas leak for any component except pressure relief devices means the detection of total gaseous organic compounds in excess of 10,000 ppmv as methane above background as measured according to the test procedures in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section. A major gas leak for a pressure relief device means the detection of total gaseous organic compounds in excess of 200 ppmv as methane above background as measured according to the test procedures in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section. Major liquid leak means a visible mist or cloud or a continuous flow of liquid. Minor component means any component that is not a major component. Minor gas leak for any component means the detection of total gaseous organic compounds in excess of 500 ppmv (for valves and connectors) and 1,000 ppmv (for other components unless otherwise specified) but not more than 10,000 ppmv as methane above background as measured according to the test procedures in paragraph (i)(7)(i) of this section. Minor liquid leak is any liquid leak which is not a major liquid leak and drips at a rate of more than three drops per minute. Owner or operator means any person who owns, operates, leases, controls, or supervises an emissions source or air pollution control equipment. Person means any individual, corporation, copartnership, firm, company, partnership, joint stock company, trust, association, State, municipality, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal representative, agent, or assigns. Pipeline transfer station means a facility that handles the storage or transfer, or both, of petroleum products or crude petroleum in pipelines. Platform means any raised, permanent, horizontal surface that provides access to components. Pressure relief device means a pressure relief valve or a rupture disc. Pressure relief valve (PRV) means any valve that is automatically actuated by upstream static pressure, and used for safety or emergency purposes. Pump means any device used to transport fluids by the addition of mechanical energy. Refinery means a facility that processes petroleum, as defined in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual as Industry Number 2911, Petroleum Refining. Rupture disc means a diaphragm held between flanges for the purpose of isolating a volatile organic compound from the atmosphere or from a downstream pressure relief valve.
