FR940922-0-00005 FR940922-0-00003 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 107 Small Business Investment Companies; Leverage AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule allows Small Business Investment Companies licensed under sections 301 (c) and (d) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (Licensees) having no immediate need for SBA financial assistance (Leverage) to reserve the future availability of such financial assistance by obtaining SBA's conditional commitment to guarantee Debentures or Participating Securities (collectively ``pooled securities''), or to purchase Preferred Securities, that will be offered in the future as the Licensee draws against SBA's commitment. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule is effective September 22, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Saunders Miller, Office of Program Development; Telephone (202) 205&hyph;6510. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 8, 1994, SBA published a proposed rule which contemplated allowing Licensees to apply for a conditional commitment from SBA to reserve Leverage for their future use. See 59 FR 40315. The amount of Leverage that could be reserved by any Licensee was proposed to be not less than $1,000,000, and not more than 50 percent of the Licensee's Regulatory Capital. The public was afforded a 30-day period in which to submit comments on the proposed rule. SBA received six comment letters during that time, all of which strongly supported the underlying concept of an Agency commitment of future financial assistance to Licensees but which also made several suggestions for improving the proposal. One recurring suggestion was that SBA eliminate the restriction on the amount that could be reserved on behalf of any one Licensee. As stated above, the proposed rule would have established a commitment ceiling equal to 50% of a Licensee's Regulatory Capital. Although SBA's rationale for the ceiling was not discussed in the proposed rule, most of the commenters understood that the ceiling was proposed in an attempt to fairly distribute scarce resources and to prevent the hoarding of committed funds by any one Licensee. SBA did realize, as the comment letters pointed out, that even if there were no ceiling in the regulations, the Agency would still have the authority to allocate commitment authority among interested Licensees. Nevertheless, SBA believed that given: (i) A probable timetable for the funding of an average Licensee's investors' commitments of 25% a year for 4 years (thereby converting the Licensee's Regulatory Capital into Leverageable Capital) and (ii) an ideal Leverage ratio during those 4 years of 2:1, the average Licensee's need for committed Leverage funds would be adequately met by an annual limit of 50% of Regulatory Capital. SBA has reconsidered its position and has concluded that the regulation should be broad enough to accommodate, without resort to an Agency waiver, those Licensees with investor-funding schedules that are more compressed than the average. SBA still believes that some ceiling is desirable administratively, but a ceiling set at 50% of Regulatory Capital may be too low, particularly in years when demand for reserved funds does not exceed the supply. Accordingly, in this final rule, SBA has increased the ceiling to 100% of Regulatory Capital. A second suggestion submitted during the comment period addressed the documentation proposed to be required pre- and post-funding of draws under SBA's commitment. Under the proposed rule, every Licensee with an outstanding commitment from SBA would be required to submit a Financial Statement on SBA Form 468 (Short Form) within 30 days of the close of each of its fiscal quarters. A Licensee submitting a draw request within that 30-day period would be required to submit the Short Form Financial Statement, or a statement of no adverse change since its most recent Short Form 468, with the draw request. A few of the comment letters objected to quarterly financial reporting as burdensome and unnecessary. SBA disagrees. The preparation of a quarterly short form financial statement becomes a simple matter if performed on a personal computer, using readily-available bookkeeping software together with reporting software provided by SBA.
