FR940303-2-00018 FR940303-2-00015 Intent To Prepare Environmental Impact Statement for Permit Application for Proposed Activities at Bolsa Chica, Orange County, CA AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Los Angeles District, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is considering an application for section 404 and section 10 permits to conduct dredge and fill activities at Bolsa Chica near the City of Huntington Beach, Orange County, California. The proposed project incorporates components of residential housing and associated infrastructure, habitat restoration of the estuarine marsh, and modifications to the existing East Garden Grove-Wintersburg Flood Control Channel. The primary Federal concern is the dredging and discharging of materials within waters of the United States, including wetlands, and potential significant impacts on the human environment. Therefore, in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Corps is requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) prior to consideration of any permit action. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Comments and questions regarding scoping of the Draft EIS may be addressed to: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Los Angeles District, Regulatory Branch, ATTN: Bruce Henderson, P.O. Box 2711, Los Angeles, California 90053&hyph;2325. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Project Site The Bolsa Chica site consists of approximately 1,973 acres of land located in northwestern coastal Orange in southern California. Of the total acreage, approximately 1,312 acres consists of lowlands situated between two upland mesas (Bolsa Chica Mesa to the north and Huntington Mesa to the south). The site is surrounded by residential neighborhoods to the north, east, and southeast, and by the Pacific Coast Highway (State Route 1) and Bolsa Chica State Beach to the southwest. At present the site is largely undeveloped and is traversed by numerous compacted dirt berm roads associated with ongoing oil production activities. A 300-acre State Ecological Reserve, of which 170 acres have been restored, is also located in the Bolsa Chica lowland adjacent to Pacific Coast Highway. In February 1989, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency determined that 927 acres of waters of the United States, including wetlands, are present at the site. Approximately 916 acres are the subject of the applicant's permit request. Proposed Action The applicant's proposed project is comprised of three primary components: (1) Construction of residential housing and associated infrastructure on approximately 270 acres of the Bolsa Chica Mesa as well as approximately 194 acres of the lowlands (comprised of 119 acres of wetlands and/or waters of the U.S. and 75 non-jurisdictional acres adjacent to existing homes; (2) Consolidation and restoration of degraded wetlands and creation of new wetlands from on site non-jurisdictional areas; (3) Modifications to the existing East Garden Grove-Wintersburg Flood Control Channel. The proposed wetlands restoration work includes the construction of a new non-navigable tidal inlet beneath Pacific Coast Highway and through Bolsa Chica State Beach. The permit application states that completion of the residential construction component in the lowlands will enable the landowner to finance and complete the wetlands restoration component. Issues Potentially significant environmental issues associated with implementation of the applicant's proposed project to be addressed in the EIS include: a. Geological issues including subsidence, seismic concerns and landform alteration. b. Impacts to terrestrial and aquatic biological resources, including Federally listed threatened and endangered species. c. Impacts to surface and ground water quality and hydrology. d. Impacts to prehistoric and historic cultural resources. e. Land use patterns, including recreation and coastal access. f. Impacts to air quality. g. Noise impacts. h. Impacts to public services and utilities. i. Impacts to aesthetic resources. j. Oceanography and fishing impacts. k. Impacts to local traffic circulation. l. Socioeconomic concerns including population, housing and infrastructure costs and benefits. m. Public health and safety concerns. n. Cumulative impacts. Alternatives The EIS will consider an appropriate range of alternatives for the proposed project at Bolsa Chica. For purposes of this analysis, separate alternatives will be analyzed for each of the plan's three primary components, keeping in mind the overall project purpose. Because the applicant proposes to develop the Bolsa Chica Mesa regardless of any action in the lowlands, the following applies primarily to the applicant's permit application for that portion of the project in the lowlands. Accordingly, the following list of alternatives is set for in three categories: (I) Residential housing; (II) wetlands restoration; and (III) flood control modifications.
