FR940831-2-00022 FR940831-2-00016 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Floodplain Statement of Findings for the Replacement of Four Bridges on the Savannah River Site AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Floodplain Statement of Findings. SUMMARY: This Floodplain Statement of Findings is prepared in compliance with 10 CFR Part 1022. It is designed to evaluate the impact to the floodplain of the Savannah River Site (SRS) resulting from work that is needed to replace selected bridges on SRS Roads 8&hyph;1 and 2&hyph;1. The scope of this project is intended to immediately replace three bridges because of deteriorated, decayed, or rotten timber piles. A fourth bridge would be scheduled for a later replacement. The proposed work would involve working in and close to the 100-year floodplain of Upper Three Runs and Tinker Creek. The creeks associated with these projects have average annual flows which are greater than 5 cubic feet per second and a Federal permit pursuant to Section 404 of the Clean Water Act is not expected to be required for the proposed work. These impacted areas would include: Replacement of Bridge 603&hyph;13G at the intersection of the stream Upper Three Runs Creek and SRS Road 8&hyph;1. Replacement of Bridge 603&hyph;14G at the intersection of the stream Tinker Creek and SRS Road 8&hyph;1. Replacement of Bridge 603&hyph;15G at the intersection of the stream Upper Three Runs Creek and SRS Road 2&hyph;1. Replacement of Bridge 603&hyph;39G at the intersection of the stream Tinker Creek and SRS Road 2&hyph;1. DATE: Comments on this Statement of Findings are due on or before September 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Floodplain Comments, Stephen R. Wright, Director, Environmental and Laboratory Programs Division, U.S. Department of Energy, Savannah River Operations Office, P. O. Box A, Aiken, South Carolina 29802. The phone number is (803) 725&hyph;3957. Fax comments to: (803) 725&hyph;7688. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, PLEASE CONTACT: Ms. Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight (EH&hyph;25), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20585, Telephone (202) 586&hyph;4600 or (800) 472&hyph;2756. A location map showing the project sites and further information can be obtained from the Savannah River Operations Office (See ADDRESSES above). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The bridges on SRS Road 8&hyph;1 (603&hyph;13G and 603&hyph;14G) which cross Upper Three Runs Creek and Tinker Creek will be replaced and raised with minimal short-term impact and no long-term impact to floodplains. A storm water and sediment control plan will be required prior to bridge replacement in order to minimize sediments eroding into the adjacent floodplain. The work required to replace these two bridges would be accomplished from the existing road beds using a crane for pile driving, erection, and demolition. This activity should not have any significant impact on the floodplain. The only disturbance to the stream is anticipated to be the installation of pilings to support the center span of the bridge. Prestressed, precast concrete beams shall be used to minimize pile installation in the stream by constructing longer spans. A small amount of sediment would be expected to go into the stream where the work is close to the channel and temporarily increase stream's sediment load level. These increased sediment loads would be less than that encountered after a heavy rain storm. The old bridge supports would be cut off at the stream bed. The bridges are to be replaced in kind at their present locations so that there should be no loss or long term impact to floodplains. The bridge (603&hyph;15G) that spans Upper Three Runs Creek on SRS Road 2&hyph;1 would be replaced with minimal short-term impact and no long-term impact to wetlands or floodplains. The bridge (603&hyph;39G) that spans Tinker Creek on SRS Road 2&hyph;1 would be scheduled for replacement in the future as funding became available. The conditions of the bridges covered in this Statement of Findings do not meet Department of Energy, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, South Carolina Department of Transportation, or Federal Highway Administration standards and guidelines and therefore severely limits the type of traffic that may utilize these bridges on the primary route to the Advanced Tactical Training Area. Fire control equipment and logging trucks use this route so that any delay in replacing these bridges would greatly limit the traffic count and load limits permitted along this route, and would constitute a safety hazard to SRS personnel. Repair was considered as a potential alternative but with the present condition of the bridges, the most cost effective method is replacement. The environmental impact of repairing these bridges was also evaluated and found to be nearly identical in scope to that of replacing the bridges. Bridge rehabilitation strategies were evaluated and concluded replacement of the bridges over rehabilitation for many reasons, but largely because replacement of deteriorated piles and backwalls would fail to improve the load carrying capacity of the bridges for vehicles crossing the structure. Timber pile and backwall replacement will cause the same environmental impacts if not, more, because the bridge deck and piling caps must be completely removed in order to drive new piles and construct concrete abutments at the edge of the stream in order to maintain existing span lengths. Replacement of the entire bridge structure allows the span to be lengthened sufficiently to permit construction of bridge abutments well away from the stream bed, thereby reducing impacts, and reducing construction costs. Several mitigation activities will be implemented to minimize potential impacts to the floodplain. Silt fences and other erosion control structures as needed will be installed to ensure there is no deposition in downslope areas. Long-term construction impacts in the floodplain and wetland areas will be minimized through the removal of any excess excavated sidefill and restoration to the original contours following completion of construction. An erosion control plan will be developed so that the proposed action complies with applicable State and local floodplain protection standards and further, to ensure that no additional impacts will occur due to erosion and sedimentation. Best management practices will be employed during construction and maintenance activities associated with this proposed action. Issued in Washington, D.C., on this 25th day of August, 1994. Donald F. Knuth, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Facility Transition and Technical Support, Defense Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21541 Filed 8&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
