FR940104-1-00045 FR940104-1-00009 18. If NHTSA were to propose its braking standards to improve the lateral stability and control of light vehicles during braking, all light vehicles would have to be equipped with lateral stability and control devices to achieve the new performance requirements. As mentioned above, all-wheel ABSs were installed on 2,700,000 passenger cars and on 470,000 other light vehicles in 1992. While another 3.1 million light vehicles were equipped with rear-wheel-only ABSs, vehicles are increasingly being equipped with all-wheel systems rather than rear-wheel-only systems. How many vehicles would need to be equipped with ABSs to comply with the requirements discussed in this notice? Would it be necessary to equip a vehicle with an all-wheel ABS to comply with the requirements discussed in this notice or would rear-wheel-only systems be adequate? 19. The ECE currently uses three categories to classify antilock systems by their performance capabilities. While the ECE mandates the most sophisticated Category I systems for heavy vehicles, ABS installation remains voluntary for light vehicles. Nevertheless, if a manufacturer decides to equip a light vehicle with ABS, then it must inform the government approving body about the Category of ABS being installed on a given light vehicle. After being reviewed by the government, the manufacturer may market its system to consumers as that category of ABS. NHTSA is considering whether to propose a classification system like the ECE's in which there would be categories of increasingly stringent performance criteria instead of a minimum requirement for all antilock systems. The performance criteria, if proposed, might include the following factors: Category I_ •Braking efficiency of the vehicle equal to or greater than 75 percent on all road surfaces, including split mu. •Meets braking-in-a-curve or split mu test requirements for stability. •Meets low mu to high mu surface transition requirement of achieving 95 percent of the uniform coefficient deceleration within a specified time period. •Meets high mu to low mu surface transition requirements for lockup duration. •Wheels on all axles must be directly controlled by ABS. Category II_ •Braking efficiency of the vehicle equal to or greater than 75 percent on all road surfaces except split mu. •Meets braking-in-a-curve or split mu test requirements for stability. •Meets low mu to high mu surface transition requirements of achieving 95 percent of the uniform coefficient deceleration within a specified time period. •Meets high mu to low mu surface transition requirements for lockup duration. •Wheels on each axle must be directly controlled by ABS. Category III_ •Braking efficiency of each axle having at least one directly controlled wheel equal to or greater than 75 percent, on all road surfaces except split mu. •Meets low mu to high mu surface transition requirements of achieving 95 percent of the uniform coefficient deceleration within a specified time period. •Meets high mu to low mu surface transition requirements for lockup duration. The agency anticipates that most, but not all, of the all-wheel ABSs would satisfy the criteria for Category I systems and that poorer performing all-wheel ABSs and rear-wheel only ABSs would satisfy the less stringent criteria of either Category II and Category III. Specifying categories would permit simpler antilock braking systems to comply with the standard, without lowering the requirements for the higher capability systems. It would also serve to inform consumers that not all ABSs have the same performance capabilities. However, the agency notes that there might be significant drawbacks to specifying categories, since such an approach might result in unnecessary complexity and permit the manufacture and installation of poorer performing systems that do not provide steering control and other significant safety benefits. The agency invites comments about whether the standard should specify categories of ABSs. G. Implementation NHTSA's goal in initiating rulemaking to require light vehicles to be equipped with an ABS is to determine whether significant improvements in braking performance can be achieved at a reasonable cost to manufacturers and consumers. There are a number of different approaches that the agency could take in scheduling the implementation of the potential proposals. One approach would be to apply the requirements to passenger cars first and then to all other light vehicles. A second approach would be for the agency to apply the ABS standards to all light vehicles at the same time.
