FR941005-2-00089 FR941005-2-00058 Finding of No Significant Impact for an Incidental Take Permit for the Proposed Cedar Park Waterline in Travis County, TX AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) has prepared an Environmental Assessment for issuance of a Section 10(a)(1)(B) permit for the incidental take of the Federally endangered golden-cheeked warbler ( Dendroica chrysoparia ) during the construction and operation of a water pipeline in Travis County, Texas. Proposed Action The proposed action is the issuance of a permit under Section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act to authorize the incidental take of the golden-cheeked warbler. The Applicant plans to construct a 20,193-foot long water supply pipeline from Lake Travis eastward to the Williamson County line. The Applicant proposed to preserve documented perch trees for the warbler along the route, limit clearing to 35 feet wide along the route and two 100-feet by 100-feet staging areas in non-habitat; schedule work during the season when the warblers are absent from the area (August 1 through March 1); and the purchase and dedication of 33 acres of occupied warbler habitat to a conservation organization approved by the Service. Details of the mitigation are provided in the Cedar Park Waterline Environmental Assessment/Habitat Conservation Plan. Guarantees for implementation are provided in the Agreement. These conservation plan actions ensure that the criteria established for issuance of an incidental take permit will be fully satisfied. Alternatives Considered 1. No action, 2. Proposed action, 3. Alternate project route, 4. Additional alternate project route, 5. Wait for issuance of a Section 10(a)(1)(B) permit. Determination Based upon information contained in the Environmental Assessment/Habitat Conservation Plan, the Service has determined that this action is not a major Federal action which would significantly affect the quality of the human environment within the meaning of Section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Accordingly, the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement on the proposed action is not warranted. It is my decision to issue the Section 10(a)(1)(B) permit for the construction and operation of the Cedar Park Water System Improvement Pipeline in northwest Travis County, Texas. John G. Rogers, Regional Director, Southwest Region (2), U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Albuquerque, New Mexico. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24667 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
