FR940616-0-00029 FR940616-0-00008 The Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSH Act) vests OSHA with responsibility for promulgating and enforcing workplace safety and health standards. However, in recognition that other Federal agencies possess parallel, industry-specific authority over occupational safety and health, section 4(b)(1) provides that no OSHA rules shall apply to working conditions of employees with respect to which other Federal agencies . . . exercise statutory authority to prescribe or enforce standards or regulations affecting occupational safety or health. 29 U.S.C. §653(b)(1). The exercise of authority contemplated by this provision is one that results in a Federal regulation for on-the-job protection of worker safety or health or a determination that a particular form of regulation is not appropriate. The Federal Railroad Safety Act of 1970 (``FRSA'') grants FRA broad authority to prescribe standards in ``all areas of railroad safety.'' 45 U.S.C. §431(a). Pursuant to that authority, in 1975, FRA published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking indicating its intention to develop its own set of occupational safety and health standards that would, in toto, displace OSHA's regulatory program. 40 FR 10693 (March 7, 1975). After consideration of the record developed, however, FRA reduced the scope of its efforts. In 1976, FRA published in that docket a notice of proposed rulemaking stating its intention to issue specific occupational safety and health standards on only three subjects for railroad employees (egress from structures, general environmental controls, and fire protection) that would displace otherwise applicable OSHA standards. 41 FR 29153 (July 15, 1976). FRA also indicated its intention to incrementally issue a comprehensive code of such standards for railroad employees that would gradually displace OSHA standards. FRA contemplated that these FRA standards would apply on a territorial instead of a hazard-specific basis. In 1978, FRA sharply changed course: it terminated the regulatory proceeding and issued a Policy Statement instead of pursuing a comprehensive code of FRA occupational safety and health standards. 43 FR 10583 (March 14, 1978). In explaining its action, FRA stated: *␣*␣* Written comments in response to [the 1976] proposal were received, and a public hearing was conducted. The FRA has reviewed not only these comments, but also the entire original concept as to the adoption of a comprehensive code of occupational safety and health standards for the railroad industry paralleling the existing OSHA regulations. * * * * * *␣*␣* [G]iven the present staffing level for field investigation and inspection, the FRA has determined that, at this time, it would not be in the best interests of the public and of railroad safety for this agency to become involved extensively in the promulgation and enforcement of a complex regulatory scheme covering in minute detail as do the OSHA standards, working conditions which, although located within the railroad industry, are in fact similar to those of any industrial workplace. Rather, we believe that the proper role for FRA in the area of occupational safety in the immediate future is one that will concentrate our limited resources in addressing hazardous working conditions in those traditional areas of railroad operations in which we have special competence. Id. at 10584&hyph;85. Thus, contrary to its original intent, FRA's determination in 1978 was generally to leave OSHA standards in place in the railroad industry. The Policy Statement defined ``railroad operations'' as the ``movement of equipment over rails'' ( Id. ), and rejected a ``territorial'' approach to delineating those working conditions over which FRA would exercise its jurisdiction from those that would remain under OSHA's control. Id. at 10587. FRA did not want to duplicate capabilities ``already possessed by OSHA'' and stated: FRA recognizes that OSHA is not precluded from exercising jurisdiction with respect to conditions not rooted in railroad operations nor so closely related to railroad operations as to require regulation by FRA in the interest of controlling predominant operational hazards. Id. Therefore, until FRA exercises its statutory authority with respect to given working conditions through promulgation of a standard or through an expression that regulation is unnecessary or would be counterproductive, existing OSHA standards apply in the railroad workplace.
