FR940217-1-00090 FR940217-1-00014 Executive Order 12866 These proposed regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the proposed regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering the Title IV, HEA programs effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements, if any, are identified and explained elsewhere in this preamble under the heading Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 . In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these proposed regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the proposed regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. To assist the Department in complying with the specific requirements of Executive Order 12866, the Secretary invites comment on whether there may be further opportunities to reduce any potential costs or increase potential benefits resulting from these proposed regulations without impeding the effective and efficient administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The small entities that would be affected by these regulations are small institutions of higher education; small organizations that contract with educational institutions to administer aspects of the institutions' participation in the Title IV, HEA programs; and small organizations that contract with lenders or guaranty agencies to administer aspects of the lenders' or agencies' participation in the FFEL programs. However, the regulations would not have a significant economic impact on these small entities because the regulations would not impose excessive regulatory burdens or require unnecessary Federal supervision. The regulations would impose minimal requirements to ensure the proper expenditure of program funds. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Sections 668.13, 668.23, 668.25, 668.90, 668.96, 668.113, 682.414, 682.416, and 682.711 contain information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of these sections to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)) Educational institutions that are public or nonprofit institutions or businesses or other for-profit institutions may participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. State entities, nonprofit institutions, businesses or other for-profit organizations, or individuals may contract with educational institutions to administer aspects of the institutions' participation in the programs and may contract with lenders and guaranty agencies to administer aspects of the lenders' and agencies' participation in the FFEL programs. Individuals may apply for student financial assistance under the programs. The Department of Education needs and uses the information to enable the Secretary to determine whether the States, institutions, organizations, businesses, and individuals comply with the requirements for eligibility and participation in the programs. Annual public reporting and recordkeeping burden contained in the collection of information proposed in these regulations is estimated to be 2,786 hours, including the time for searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, completing and reviewing the collection of information, and submitting materials. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed regulations. All comments submitted in response to these proposed regulations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 4318, Regional Office Building 3, 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays.
