FR940804-0-00069 FR940804-0-00022 One commenter states that under the APA, burdens such as sanctions cannot be imposed without notice-and-comment. The commenter argues that EPA provides no defense of its denial of public comment for findings of incompleteness and cannot defend such denial for findings of nonsubmittal and incompleteness. The commenter further argues the judgment of whether a SIP meets the SIP completeness criteria is often debatable and discretionary. Therefore, the commenter argues, the public should be able to comment. Another commenter believes that EPA's proposal contradicts the spirit and letter of the notice-and-comment provisions in the Act. The commenter argues the proposal is contradictory on when it allows for public comment in some instances but not others. In response to the comments, EPA maintains that notice and comment is not necessary for findings of failure to submit and incompleteness. The 60 days the Act provides EPA to determine whether a State submittal is complete does not provide sufficient time to conduct notice-and-comment rulemaking prior to making findings of failure to submit or findings of incompleteness. The EPA continues to believe that the impossibility of conducting notice-and-comment rulemaking within the 60 days provided for completeness decisions is itself compelling evidence that Congress did not intend such rulemaking. Additionally, EPA does not believe that notice and comment are necessary for findings of incompleteness because section 110(k)(1)(B) does not specifically require it. By enacting section 110(k)(1) on completeness, Congress was codifying an EPA practice created in late 1989 in which EPA did not provide notice-and-comment rulemaking before making incompleteness findings. 33 By codifying that practice and by not specifically requiring anything more than the process EPA already established, Congress appears to have adopted EPA's established process of making completeness determinations by letter. Moreover, EPA does not believe that the completeness determination is highly discretionary, but instead is a straightforward exercise to assure a State's submittal has all the basic elements to warrant further review for overall adequacy. 33 Note that in promulgating the completeness criteria, EPA noted that the purpose of the completeness procedure is to ``keep incomplete packages out of the more extensive review system (i.e., rulemaking for approval), thereby saving both EPA and the State valuable time'' (54 FR 2138, 2139 (January 19, 1989)). Therefore, requiring rulemaking action to determine whether a SIP submittal is complete would defeat the purpose of the completeness criteria, which is to allow for a quick rejection of those submittals that are ``essentially unreviewable'' ( Id ).
