FR941220-2-00036 FR941220-2-00025 The access will continue to be under the observation of security personnel. A numbered picture badge identification system will continue to be used for all individuals who are authorized access to protected areas without escorts. Badges will continue to be displayed by all individuals while inside the protected area. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed change does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed action and concludes that this proposed action would result in no significant radiological environmental impact. The change will not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation explosure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed action does involve features located entirely within the restricted area as defined in 10 CFR Part 20. It does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternatives to the proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed action, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the action would be to deny the request. Such action would have no effect on the environmental impact, would not enhance the protection of the environment, and would result in an unjustified loss of cost savings to the licensee. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statements for the Brunswick, Robinson, and Harris units. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the North and South Carolina State officials regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State officials had no commend. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed action. For further details with respect to the proposed action, see the licensee's letters dated July 29, 1994, as supplemented December 5, 1994, which are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document rooms for Brunswick Steam Electric Plant, Units 1 and 2, at the University of North Carolina at Wilmington, William Madison Randall Library, 601 S. College Road, Wilmington, North Carolina 28403&hyph;3297; for the H.B. Robinson Steam Electric Plant, Unit No. 2, at Hartsville Memorial Library, 147 West College, Hartsville, South Carolina 29550; and for the Shearon Harris Nuclear Power Plant, Unit 1, at the Cameron Village Regional Library, 1930 Clark Avenue, Raleigh, North Carolina. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 14th day of December. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Michael L. Boyle, Acting Director, Project Directorate II&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31197 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
