FR941207-0-00094 FR941207-0-00015 Section 251.46(b) does not prohibit pro se representation in a CARP proceeding. A pro se litigant acts as his own counsel, and is entitled to question witnesses in the same manner as parties represented by counsel. No amendment to §251.46(b) is necessary. c. Witnesses and Counsel. Copyright Owners suggest that there may be some confusion with the drafting of §251.47. Subsection (l) provides: A CARP will encourage individuals or groups with the same or similar interests in a proceeding to select a single representative to conduct their examination and cross-examination for them. However, if there is no agreement on the selection of a representative, each individual or group will be allowed to conduct its own examination and cross examination, but only on issues affecting its particular interests, provided that the questioning is not repetitious or cumulative of the questioning of other parties within the group. 59 FR 23989 (1994). Copyright Owners believe that, as currently drafted, the subsection ``seems to require that all parties with a similar interest accede to a single counsel for examination or cross-examination of all witnesses. It is unlikely that parties would agree to such a broad transfer.'' Copyright Owners, comments at 32. Copyright Owners therefore suggest that the phrase ``of any given witness'' be added each time after the word ``cross-examination'' to clarify that agreements between parties of similar interest to utilize one representative for questioning applies only to individual witnesses, and not across the board for an entire proceeding. Id. We do not perceive the confusion expressed by Copyright Owners and believe that subsection (l), as drafted, permits parties with similar interest to agree to one representative for examining and cross-examining either one witness or as many as the agreement allows. Nevertheless, in the interest of clarity, we are adopting Copyright Owners' suggested amendment. d. Transcript and Record. In our discussion of §251.49 in the Interim Regulations, we solicited comments on whether the hearing sessions should be recorded on video as well as audio tape. We noted that videotaping would add to the cost of the proceeding, but it would also: ``(1) Ensur[e] the accuracy of the official transcript, (2) allow[] the arbitrators to reach a better decision by helping them to review the case more accurately, and (3) afford[] arbitrators who missed any portion of the proceeding, because of illness or because they were appointed after the proceeding had begun, an opportunity to make up for their absences. 59 FR at 23977 (1994). Copyright Owners are opposed to the videotaping of proceedings, arguing that they ``do not believe that any advantage derived from videotaping would be worth the considerable expense and difficulty associated with video recording.'' Copyright Owners, comments at 29. They also note that videotaping ``could, in fact, have the unintended and perverse effect of increasing the number of hearing days missed by an arbitrator who considers seeing a taped performance as equivalent to being present during the live presentation.'' Id. For these reasons, we will not videotape distribution or rate adjustment proceedings, unless the parties to a particular proceeding unanimously ask us to do so. (6) Rate Adjustment Proceedings Settlements. (i) Settlement period. Section 251.63 provides a 30-day period before commencement of a rate adjustment proceeding to allow for consideration of the rate adjustment petition and, more significantly, to give the parties an opportunity to settle their differences. We are amending this section to make it clear that the Librarian shall designate this 30-day period prior to, and separate from, the 45-day period for precontroversy discovery. We are also amending §251.64 to reflect that the arbitration proceedings will commence after both the 30-day period for settling rate differences, and the 45-day period for precontroversy discovery. (ii) Universal Settlements. In the Interim Regulations, we asked two questions related to settlement of rate adjustments: If a settlement is reached, would it be a useful alternative to the convening of a CARP for the Library/Office to propose the agreed-upon rate to the public in a notice-and-comment proceeding? Does the Librarian have the authority to adopt such a procedure, or would the convening of a CARP be required? 59 FR 23978 (1994). RIAA 12 and Copyright Owners believe that in the case of a universal settlement a CARP would have no authority over a proceeding. The Office would therefore be responsible for amending the rules, after a public notice-and-comment period, to reflect the agreed upon rate. RIAA/AARC, comments at 8; Copyright Owners, reply comments at 6. RIAA argues that the CARPs' authority is limited to controversies over royalty rates; if there is no controversy because there has been a settlement, then there is no CARP authority. RIAA/AARC, comments at 8&hyph;9 [(citing our NPRM, 59 FR 2553 (1994)]. Copyright Owners note that convening a CARP after settlement has been reached ``would make no sense'' and ``would subject the owner/user participants to needless expense.'' Copyright Owners, reply comments at 6&hyph;7. A public notice-and-comment period ``should provide the Librarian with an adequate record on which to determine whether to amend the regulations consistent with the terms of the settlement.'' Id. at 8. 12 AARC took no position on this particular issue involving rate adjustment proceedings. NMPA/HFA believes that the rules should provide the parties to a rate adjustment proceeding with the option of either having a CARP convened, or submitting the agreed upon rate to a public notice-and-comment proceeding. NMPA/HFA, comments at 2. NMPA/HFA believes that the statutory authority to provide such procedures ``can be fairly implied from the Reform Act's direction that the Librarian adopt procedures and regulations relating to CARP proceedings and the Reform Act's express grant of authority to the Librarian to make the final determination in rate adjustment proceedings.'' Id. at 3. We agree with Copyright Owners that it would make little sense to go through the time and expense of convening a CARP solely for the purpose of approving a settlement agreement. Without deciding the issue of whether a CARP would have jurisdiction in such cases, we are amending §251.63 by adding a new subsection: (b) In the case where a settlement is reached as to the appropriate royalty rate, the Librarian may, upon the request of the settling parties, submit the agreed upon rate to the public in a notice-and-comment proceeding. The Librarian may adopt the rate embodied in the proposed settlement without convening an arbitration panel, provided that no opposing comment is received by the Librarian from a party with an intent to participate in a CARP proceeding. (7) Part 252_Filing of Claims to Cable Royalties Compliance with statutory dates. Section 252.4 describes the circumstances under which a claim to cable copyright royalties must be filed in order to be considered timely.
