FR940919-2-00190 FR940919-2-00081 Not knowing how to use the Internet will be as grave a deficiency as not knowing how to read. The Internet will become the world's primary means of communication and will soon carry more mail than the entire postal service worldwide. 45 45 Mark Gibbs, Internet ABCs Essential, Investor's Business Daily, Apr. 14, 1994, at 4. If universal service is defined in terms of a network connection, should that connection provide access to the Internet? 32. Another important area of inquiry is the extent to which universal service policy should address customer premises equipment (CPE). Without adequate equipment on the customer's premises, network connection and the many services it affords is meaningless. CPE capable of providing access to advanced services may be expensive at market prices, however, and thus could serve as a barrier to the availability of advanced services. For the same reason, however, subsidizing CPE as part of universal service could be expensive, possibly prohibitively so. Including CPE in the definition of universal service could also reverse the government's existing regulatory approach toward CPE, which is now deregulated and subject only to market forces. 46 Local exchange carriers may provide CPE in conjunction with local telephone service, subject to certain safeguards. In addition, at present, computer manufacturers, set-top box manufacturers, and television manufacturers are competing to develop the product or products that could be used for receiving advanced services. It is thus not clear which equipment the government should specify, if any, and on what basis it should choose. Moreover, government selection of a certain type of CPE for inclusion within the universal service definition carries with it the risk of government picking winners and losers, a questionable strategy. 46 Although CPE was detariffed and generally deregulated in the early 1980s, the FCC still requires registration of this equipment to ensure that its connection does not cause harm to the public switched network. See 47 CFR part 68 (1994). 33. We seek comment on whether CPE should be included in the new definition of universal service, and, if so, whether a category of providers should be obligated to supply it. Should the Government identify specific equipment or merely capabilities if it is included in the definition? What other alternative approaches could be adopted, e.g., such as a voucher system, which would assure that all consumers could purchase the type of CPE they desire from the provider of their choice without government specification?
