FR940325-0-00058 FR940325-0-00013 (3) Region 3 (Midwest): The Midwest Region consists of the following MTAs: Chicago, Cincinnati-Dayton, Cleveland, Columbus, Des Moines-Quad Cities, Detroit, Indianapolis, Milwaukee, Minneapolis-St. Paul, and Omaha. (4) Region 4 (Central): The Central Region consists of the following MTAs: Birmingham, Dallas-Fort Worth, Denver, El Paso-Albuquerque, Houston, Kansas City, Little Rock, Memphis-Jackson, New Orleans-Baton Rouge, Oklahoma City, San Antonio, St. Louis, Tulsa, and Wichita. (5) Region 5 (West): The West Region consists of the following MTAs: Honolulu, Los Angeles-San Diego, Phoenix, Portland, Salt Lake City, San Francisco-Oakland-San Jose, Seattle (including Alaska), and Spokane-Billings; and, American Samoa, Guam, and the Northern Mariana Islands. (c) The MTA service areas are based on the Rand McNally 1992 Commercial Atlas & Marketing Guide, 123rd Edition, at pages 38&hyph;39, with the following exceptions and additions: (1) Alaska is separated from the Seattle MTA and is licensed separately. (2) Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands are licensed as a single MTA-like area. (3) Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands are licensed as a single MTA-like area. (4) American Samoa is licensed as a single MTA-like area. (d) The BTA service areas are based on the Rand McNally 1992 Commercial Atlas & Marketing Guide, 123rd Edition, at pages 38&hyph;39, with the following additions: American Samoa, Guam, Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands are licensed separately as BTA-like areas. 5. Section 99.103 is revised to read as follows: §99.103 Construction requirements. (a) Nationwide narrowband PCS licensees shall construct base stations that provide coverage to a composite area of 750,000 square kilometers or serve 37.5 percent of the U.S. population within five years of initial license grant date; and, shall construct base stations that provide coverage to a composite area of 1,500,000 square kilometers or serve 75 percent of the U.S. population within ten years of initial license grant date. (b) Regional narrowband PCS licensees shall construct base stations that provide coverage to a composite area of 150,000 square kilometers or serve 37.5 percent of the population of the service area within five years of initial license grant date; and, shall construct base stations that provide coverage to a composite area of 300,000 square kilometers or serve 75 percent of the service area population within ten years of initial license grant date. (c) MTA narrowband PCS licensees shall construct base stations that provide coverage to a composite area of 75,000 square kilometers or 25 percent of the geographic area, or serve 37.5 percent of the population of the service area within five years of initial license grant date; and, shall construct base stations that provide coverage to a composite area of 150,000 square kilometers or 50 percent of the geographic area, or serve 75 percent of the population of the service area within ten years of initial license grant date. (d) BTA narrowband PCS licensees shall construct at least one base station and begin providing service in its BTA within one year of initial license grant date. (e) In demonstrating compliance with the above construction requirements, licensees must base their calculations on signal field strengths that ensure reliable service for the technology utilized. (1) For the purpose of this section, the service radius of a base station may be calculated using the following formula: d km = 2.53 × h m 0.34 × p 0.17 where d km is the radial distance in kilometers, h m is the antenna HAAT of the base station in meters, and p is the e.r.p. of the base station in watts. (2) Alternatively, licensees may use any service radius contour formula developed or generally used by industry, provided that such formula is based on the technical characteristics of their system.
