FR941110-1-00074 FR941110-1-00011 EPA is aware that most controlled substances currently produced or imported for intended emissive uses do not subsequently become a feedstock for a transformation process. However, EPA believes that new technologies may appear that can transform controlled substances that were produced or imported for intended emissive uses. As defined in the current regulation, transformation is the process of entirely consuming a controlled substance (except for trace quantities) in the manufacture of other chemicals for commercial purposes. The Agency has learned of independent efforts to develop transformation technologies that would transform controlled substances into commercially useful chemicals. The information EPA has on these technologies suggests that they may be able to transform even controlled substances that are taken from use systems and that are contaminated. Today's proposal anticipates the development of these new technologies and would offer an incentive for the transformation of controlled substances that might otherwise be released into the atmosphere. EPA is proposing to implement the Decision of the Parties to the Protocol to encourage practicable measures to prevent the release of controlled substances to the atmosphere, recognizing that there are many options for creating incentives that also achieve varying degrees of environmental benefits. EPA is therefore seeking comments on today's proposed system for granting credits as an incentive for the destruction or transformation of controlled substances after the phaseout and the options discussed above. 2. Post-Phaseout Requirements for Essential-Use Production EPA discussed the issue of essential uses in its Federal Register notice containing the final accelerated allowance regulations (December 10, 1993, 58 FR 65018). While recognizing the need to include provisions to implement the essential use provisions of the Montreal Protocol, the final rule did not address how this would be incorporated into EPA's allowance program. a. Protocol Decisions Regarding Essential-Use Production. The Montreal Protocol established an essential use provision at the Fourth Meeting of the Parties (Decision IV/25). Production and consumption are only to be permitted past the phaseout date for those applications approved under this Decision. The Decision established both criteria for determining whether a specific use should be approved as essential and a process for the Parties to use in making such a determination. The criteria for an essential use adopted by the Parties is the following: ``(1) that a use of a controlled substance should qualify as `essential' only if: (i) it is necessary for the health, safety or is critical for the functioning of society (encompassing cultural and intellectual aspects); and (ii) there are no available technically and economically feasible alternatives or substitutes that are acceptable from the standpoint of environment and health; (2) that production and consumption, if any, of a controlled substance for an essential use should be permitted only if: (i) all economically feasible steps have been taken to minimize the essential use and any associated emission of the controlled substance; and (ii) the controlled substance is not available in sufficient quantity and quality from existing stocks of banked or recycled controlled substances, also bearing in mind the developing country need for controlled substance.''
