FR940426-2-00015 FR940426-2-00005 Background On May 28, 1992, Commerce issued its final affirmative determination respecting Certain Softwood Lumber Products from Canada. Requests for Panel Review were filed as required by the Article 1904 Panel Rules, and a Binational Panel was convened to review the final determination. On May 6, 1993, the Binational Panel remanded Commerce's final determination on several grounds. The Panel remanded Commerce's specificity determination concerning stumpage on grounds that Commerce is required to articulate an analysis under all four illustrative specificity factors identified in Commerce's proposed regulations. Second, the Panel remanded the B.C. log export ban specificity finding on the grounds that Commerce's de jure specificity analysis was inadequate. It invited commerce to present a de facto analysis of the export ban. Third, as a second basis for remanding the finding that the stumpage programs were countervailable, the Panel directed Commerce to evaluate whether the programs could and did have a distorting effect on the operation of normal competitive markets. Commerce issued its determination on remand on September 17, 1993. Commerce reaffirmed its position that the governing statute did not require it to determine whether a government's provision of a good that otherwise satisfied the statutory definition of a subsidy also distorted the market by causing a price or output effect. Nevertheless, in accordance with the Panel's order, Commerce reviewed the literature, existing studies, and other record evidence and determined that the provision of stumpage at preferential rates by provincial governments affected the price or rates by provincial governments affected the price or output. Specifically, Commerce found that changes in stumpage fees resulted in changes in the output of softwood lumber. On December 17, 1993, the Panel issued its second decision. Two Panelists in dissent stated that they would have affirmed Commerce's specificity and preferentiality findings made on remand. In addition, the two dissenting Panelists indicated that they had reconsidered their earlier decision and reached an opposite conclusion with respect to the issues of specificity (both for stumpage and log export restrictions) and stumpage preferentiality, and would have affirmed commerce's original determination on those issues. The three-person Majority, however, ordered Commerce to find both programs non-specific and to find the stumpage subsidies non-market-distorting. This finding effectively required Commerce to determine that neither program represents a countervailable subsidy. On January 6, 1994, Commerce issued a second remand. Commerce reaffirmed its original position concerning issues contained in the Majority's December 17 decision. However, in compliance with the Panel's decision, Commerce determined that neither provincial stumpage programs nor B.C.'s log export restrictions constituted a countervailable subsidy under U.S. law. Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committtee On April 6, 1994, the United States Trade Representstive filed a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee on behalf of the United States Government in its capacity as a Party to the United States-Canada Free-Trade Agreement, with the United States Secretary of the NAFTA Secretariat. Four specific counts are contained in the Request: (1) That two of the Binational Panelists maintained relationships or engaged in activities creating the appearance of partiality or bias or, in the case of one of the panelists, constituting a serious conflict of interest; (2) The Panel in its May 1993 determination, manifestly exceeded its power, authority, and jurisdiction by failing to apply the appropriate standard of review and general legal principles that a court of the United States would apply when it ruled that Commerce must determine that the preferential treatment in timber pricing led to an increased output of lumber; (3) In its analysis of Commerce's determination that provincial stumpage programs in fact benefit industry or group of industries, the Majority manifestly exceeded its power, authority, or jurisdiction by failing to apply the appropriate standard of review and by seriously misapprehending the U.S. substantive law it was required to apply. Instead of determining whether Commerce's finding was a permissible exercise of its discretion under U.S. law, the Majority systematically substituted its own judgment for that of Commerce as to interpretations of law and fact; and (4) For reasons similar to the case of stumpage, the Majority manifestly exceeded its powers, authority, and jurisdiction in its finding concerning whether B.C.'s log export restrictions were ``specific'' under U.S. countervailing duty law. Commerce's remand determination with regard to specificity of B.C.'s log export restrictions, and the Majority's opinion reviewing the determination, each incorporated much of their respective analyses of specificity concerning stumpage programs. Hence the defects in the Majority's approach in the stumpage context identified above also apply to the context of specificity of log export restrictions. Rule 37 of the ECC Rules requires that Notices of Appearance in this proceeding must be filed with the United States Secretary within ten days after the Request is filed (by April 28, 1994). Under Rule 38 of the ECC Rules, briefs must be filed with the United States Secretary within 21 days of the filing of the Request (by April 27, 1994). Dated: April 19, 1994. James R. Holbein, United States Secretary, NAFTA Secretariat. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10065 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;GT&hyph;M
