FR940524-1-00035 FR940524-1-00010 Subpart I_Gas Masks Section 84.125␣Particulate Tests; Canisters Containing Particulate Filters; Minimum Requirements This section would be redesignated from existing §11.102&hyph;4, without modification except to specify the new requirements that respirators for protection against particulates (dusts, fumes, mists, and smokes) in combination with gases, vapors, or gases and vapors, must meet. With the exception of the airflow resistance test of §84.183, these respirators are required to meet the proposed requirements specified in §§84.170 through 84.186. Subpart K_Particulate Respirators Section 84.170␣Particulate Respirators; Description This section would be derived from existing §11.130. It would be revised to define particulate respirators in a more concise way than previously provided for those designed for protection against dusts, fumes, and mists. Paragraph (a) would describe particulate air-purifying respirators as those designed with filters to provide respiratory protection against atmospheres that: (1) Contain adequate oxygen to support life and (2) are contaminated with particulates not immediately dangerous to life or health. The particulates for which protection would be provided include contaminants such as dusts, fumes, mists and smoke. The respirator could be designed to remove contaminants, either solid or both liquid and solid, from the wearer's breathing air. Paragraph (b) would establish the classification of particulate air-purifying respirators as either powered or non-powered. Powered respirators would include those designs where a motor or other device enhances the air flow of inhalation air through the filter to provide breathing air to the wearer. Non-powered respirators would include respirators that depend solely on the inhalation and exhalation of the wearer to provide an adequate supply of purified-breathing air to the wearer. Either class of respirator, powered or non-powered, could be designed and intended for removal of solid particulates only or for both liquid and solid particulates. A ``liquid only'' category is not included because a filter that can effectively remove liquid particulates from the ambient air will also effectively remove solid particulates. Paragraphs (c) and (d) would establish the classification of filter elements used with non-powered and powered air-purifying respirators, respectively. These classifications are based on the filter's efficiency in removing particulates from the ambient air as demonstrated by the test requirements specified in this subpart. Paragraphs (c)(1) and (d)(1), (c)(2) and (d)(2), and (c)(3) would define the efficiency level for particulate removal needed to be achieved in the performance testing for a filter element to be classified as a Type A, B, or C filter, respectively. A Type A filter would be required to perform at a minimum efficiency of 99.97%, a Type B filter at a minimum efficiency of 99%, and a Type C at a minimum efficiency of 95%. Section 84.171␣Particulate Respirators; Required Components This section would be redesignated from existing §11.131, modified only to incorporate the new terminology of ``particulates'' to describe dusts, fumes and mists. Section 84.177␣Inhalation and Exhalation Valves; Minimum Requirements This section would be redesignated from existing §11.137, modified only to delete reference to the existing silica dust tests for single-use respirators of §11.140&hyph;5. The respirator performance requirements of these existing tests are replaced by the particulate instantaneous filter penetration test contained in this proposal. Section 84.180␣Particulate Respirators; Filter Type Identification This section proposes a new classification system for identification of the efficiency of the filters for particulate respirators. The new proposed terminology of ``particulate respirator'' would replace the existing ``dust, fume, and mist respirator'', as discussed previously. The requirement for the manufacturer to specify the filter-efficiency/particulate-type classification in the certification application would be contained in paragraph (a). This classification would include the type of particulates that the filter is designed to remove, either solid or both liquid and solid, and the expected efficiency of the filter based on the test requirements specified in §84.184. The information to be included on the label of a filter for a certified particulate respirator is specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6). This labeling would define the efficiency level achieved in the performance testing (i.e., Type A, B, or C filter) and whether the filter would perform properly in the removal of solid only (S) or both liquid and solid (L&S) particulates. This information would be necessary to allow the user to make an informed decision on selecting the appropriate respiratory protection. To facilitate this selection process, the Type A, L&S filters are color coded magenta to allow them to be easily distinguished from the other filter types. The filters other than Type A, L&S could be of any color, except magenta. This color coding would be consistent with the present universally-accepted color-code convention which identifies the best performing filters (HEPA's) by their magenta color. Section 84.181␣Isoamyl Acetate Tightness Test; Particulate Respirators With Filters Not Intended To Be Replaced This section would be redesignated from existing §11.140&hyph;1 with the test unchanged. Because the proposal would not classify respirators as designed for protection against fumes from various metals having an air contamination level not less than 0.05 milligram per cubic meter, the test would be redirected to evaluate the performance of particulate respirators with filters not intended to be replaced.
