FR940919-2-00151 FR940919-2-00060 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards Joint Subcommittee Meeting on Individual Plant Examinations and Probabilistic Risk Assessment The ARCS Subcommittees on Individual Plant Examinations and Probabilistic Risk Assessment will hold a joint meeting on September 27, 1994, Room T&hyph;2B3, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance. The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Tuesday, September 27, 1994_8:30 a.m. until the conclusion of business. The Subcommittees will discuss the IPE Insights Program, PRA Policy Statement and Implementation Plan, and diesel generator problems at H.B. Robinson. The purpose of this meeting is to gather information, analyze relevant issues and facts, and to formulate proposed positions and actions, as appropriate, for deliberation by the full Committee. Oral statements may be presented by members of the public with the concurrence of the Subcommittee Chairmen; written statements will be accepted and made available to the Committee. Electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public, and questions may be asked only by members of the Subcommittees, their consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the cognizant ACRS staff engineer named below five days prior to the meeting, if possible, so that appropriate arrangements can be made. During the initial portion of the meeting, the Subcommittees, along with any of their consultants who may be present, may exchange preliminary views regarding matters to be considered during the balance of the meeting. The Subcommittees will then hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff, its consultants, and other interested persons regarding this review. Further information regarding topics to be discussed, whether the meeting has been canceled or rescheduled, the Chairmen's ruling or requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefor can be obtained by contacting the cognizant ACRS staff engineer, Mr. M. Dean Houston (telephone 301/415&hyph;6899) between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. (EST). Persons planning to attend this meeting are urged to contact the above named individual five days before the scheduled meeting to be advised of any potential changes in the proposed agenda, etc., that may have occurred. Dated: September 13, 1994 Paul Boehnert, Acting Chief, Nuclear Reactors Branch. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23137 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
