FR940705-0-00053 FR940705-0-00005 In response to the Commission's query whether use of the generic statement should be made mandatory or discretionary, and whether any distinctions should be made with respect to the type of firm that should be permitted to use the generic statement, commenters urged the Commission not to eliminate the current risk disclosure statement(s) but rather to permit firms to choose which disclosure statement(s) to provide to customers. For example, firms may not wish to redesign and reprint disclosure statements. The Commission, therefore, agrees that all firms (without regard to whether the firms engage in cross-border business) should have the flexibility to determine whether they distribute to customers the new generic disclosure statement or the existing separate risk disclosure statements referred to above. Several commenters stated that the section on electronic execution systems needed clarification. Specifically, as published in the advance notice, paragraph 11 of the generic statement on electronic trading referred to the possibility that losses resulting from systems failure may be subject to limitations on liability. Commenters noted that liability limitations are not unique to electronic trade execution systems and may have the unintended implication that such systems are less safe than floor-based systems. They recommended that this language appear in the section on trading facilities (paragraph 10), which applies to all trading systems (floor and electronic). The Commission agrees that both floor and electronic trading venues are supported by systems for which certain types of features are beyond the control of the exchange and that liability limitations may apply to such features. As a consequence it believes that the foregoing alteration of the text is appropriate and is more satisfactory to the international regulators who are considering adoption of the generic risk disclosure statement, some of which only have electronic systems. 9 The Commission therefore has amended the language accordingly. 9 The international regulators currently prepared to permit the use of the generic risk disclosure statement in their jurisdictions and the products for which the statement may be used are specified in the Addendum to the statement. The Commission intends to update and amend the list periodically, as appropriate, in the Federal Register . In addition, the Commission notes that notwithstanding the adoption of the generic risk disclosure statement by a foreign jurisdiction, other disclosure requirements may continue in effect in such jurisdictions. The advance notice of proposed rulemaking on the generic risk disclosure statement noted that an additional topic addressed in the generic statement was the risks of off-exchange trading. In particular, the informational working group drafting the generic statement concluded that such a provision, if worded appropriately, would not mislead or confuse customers in those jurisdictions which, for example, do not permit retail customers to participate in off-exchange markets. Although the Commission received no comments on this provision, in view of current public discussions related to over-the-counter derivatives, the Commission has decided to add the words ``and attendant risks'' at the end of paragraph 12 to enhance relevant disclosure in this regard. The Commission notes in this regard that the generic risk statement is intended to cause a customer to ask additional questions of its broker. Some commenters raised concerns as to the reference in paragraph 1 of the proposed disclosure statement regarding the time frame for meeting margin calls. They believed the reference could be construed as overriding the terms set forth in a customer account agreement between the firm and its customer. The Commission wishes to clarify that the language of the generic risk disclosure statement is not intended to modify the terms and conditions of a firm's customer account agreement concerning the timing of margin payments (provided that these are consistent with the Commodity Exchange Act (CEA)) but to call to the customer's attention generally that failure to post margin can have significant consequences. One commenter suggested that in order to alleviate the paperwork burden on registrants, the Commission should not require inclusion in the risk disclosure statement that is delivered to customers the Addendum that sets forth the participating jurisdictions which have adopted the generic statement and the products for which the statement may be used. Although the Commission believes that the Addendum is necessary to enable firms to ensure that use of the generic statement for a particular product is in compliance with the applicable risk disclosure requirements of various jurisdictions, the Addendum ordinarily should not be necessary for customers who should receive additional or different disclosure if the generic statement is not accepted by a particular jurisdiction or for a particular product. 10 Otherwise, although the Commission intends to publish, amend and update, as appropriate, the Addendum to the generic risk disclosure statement, the Commission agrees that apart from the limitations on its use in the U.S. to futures, options on futures and options on commodities, the Addendum listing participating jurisdictions need not be made part of the disclosure document itself. Firms may, however, elect to include the Addendum as long as it appears on a separate page after the actual risk disclosure text. 10 It is, however, important in the U.S. that there be no possible confusion as to what disclosure is required for options on equities, which are governed by U.S. securities laws. In order to be used in the U.S., therefore, the Addendum must reflect the products for which use of the generic risk disclosure statement is permitted.
