FR940603-0-00081 FR940603-0-00028 •Allowed the use of boats and snowmachines to take caribou in Unit 26 and the use of rimfire cartridges to take swimming caribou in Unit 26. Harassment of wildlife, such as herding or driving, remains prohibited. •Lengthened the muskox season in Unit 26(C). Conformance With Statutory and Regulatory Authorities National Environmental Policy Act Compliance A Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) that described four alternatives for developing a Federal Subsistence Management Program was distributed for public comment on October 7, 1991. That document described the major issues associated with Federal subsistence management as identified through public meetings, written comments and staff analysis and examined the environmental consequences of the four alternatives. Proposed regulations (Subparts A, B, and C) that would implement the preferred alternative were included in the DEIS as an appendix. The DEIS and the proposed administrative regulations presented a framework for an annual regulatory cycle regarding subsistence hunting and fishing regulations (Subpart D). The Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) was published on February 28, 1992. Based on the public comment received, the analysis contained in the FEIS, and the recommendations of the Federal Subsistence Board and the Department of the Interior's Subsistence Policy Group, the decision made by the Secretary of the Interior, with the concurrence of the Secretary of Agriculture, through the U.S. Department of Agriculture-Forest Service, implemented Alternative IV as identified in the DEIS and FEIS (Record of Decision on Subsistence Management for Federal Public Lands in Alaska (ROD), signed April 6, 1992). The DEIS and the selected alternative in the FEIS defined the administrative framework of an annual regulatory cycle for subsistence hunting and fishing regulations. The final rule for Subsistence Management Regulations for Public Lands in Alaska, Subparts A, B, and C (57 FR 22940&hyph;22964 published May 29, 1992) implements the Federal Subsistence Management Program and includes a framework for an annual cycle for subsistence hunting and fishing regulations. Compliance With Section 810 of ANICLA The intent of all Federal subsistence regulations is to provide opportunities for subsistence uses subject to the limitation of protecting healthy fish and wildlife populations. A Section 810 analysis was completed as part of the FEIS process. The final Section 810 analysis determination appears in the April 6, 1992, ROD which concluded that the Federal Subsistence Management Program, including the annual process for setting hunting and fishing regulations, would have some local impacts on subsistence uses, but would not constitute a significant restriction of subsistence uses under the ``may significantly restrict'' standard. Paperwork Reduction Act These rules contain information collection requirements subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) approval under 44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3520. They apply to the use of public lands in Alaska. The information collection requirements described above are approved by the OMB under 44 U.S.C. 3501 and have been assigned clearance number 1018&hyph;0075. Public reporting burden for this form is estimated to average .1382 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the form. Direct comments on the burden estimate or any other aspect of this form to: Information Collection Officer, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1849 C Street, NW., MS 224 ARLSQ, Washington, DC 20240; and the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (1016&hyph;0075), Washington, DC 20903. Additionally, information collection requirements may be imposed if the Regional Councils and Local Advisory Committees subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act are established under Subpart B. Such requirements will be submitted to OMB for approval prior to their implementation. Economic Effects This rule was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under E.O. 12866. The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) requires preparation of flexibility analyses for rules that will have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities, which include small businesses, organizations or governmental jurisdictions. The Departments of the Interior and Agriculture have determined that this rulemaking will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. This rulemaking will impose no significant costs on small entities; the exact number of businesses and the amount of trade that will result from this Federal land-related activity is unknown. The aggregate effect is an insignificant positive economic effect on a number of small entities. The number of small entities affected is unknown; but, the fact that the positive effects will be seasonal in nature and will, in most cases, merely continue preexisting uses of public lands indicates that they will not be significant. These regulations do not meet the threshold criteria of ``Federalism Effects'' as set forth in Executive Order 12612. Title VIII of ANILCA requires the Secretaries to administer a subsistence preference on public lands. The scope of this program is limited by definition to certain public lands. Likewise, these regulations have no significant takings implication relating to any property rights as outlined by Executive Order 12630. Drafting Information These regulations were drafted under the guidance of Richard S. Pospahala, of the Office of Subsistence Management, Alaska Regional Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Anchorage, Alaska. Additional guidance was provided by Thomas H. Boyd, Alaska State Office, Bureau of Land Management; John Hiscock, Alaska Regional Office, National Park Service; John Borbridge, Alaska Area Office, Bureau of Indian Affairs; and Norman Howse, USDA, Forest Service. List of Subjects 36 CFR Part 242 Administrative practice and procedure, Alaska, Fish, National Forests, Public Lands, Reporting and record keeping requirements, Wildlife. 50 CFR Part 100 Administrative practice and procedure, Alaska, Fish, Public Lands, Reporting and record keeping requirements, Wildlife.
