FR941110-0-00145 FR941110-0-00016 We believe that we have implemented the Congress' mandate to abandon our pre-OBRA hierarchical requirements and to develop a system capable of detecting and responding to deficiencies in any participation requirement. The enforcement scheme provided in this final rule is built on the assumption that all requirements must be met and enforced and that requirements take on greater or lesser significance depending on the circumstances and resident outcomes in a particular facility. In addition, we wish to emphasize that measuring the seriousness of deficiencies is only for the purpose of determining the enforcement response most appropriate for specific degrees of noncompliance. In order to grant the statutory flexibility given to HCFA and the States to design their own enforcement approaches (with guidance from the Secretary), we are providing a modified enforcement scheme to be used to assess the seriousness of deficiencies and then used to select an enforcement response. The scheme requires that specified factors be considered by HCFA or the State to assess the seriousness of a facility's deficiencies, and it correlates seriousness to specific enforcement responses. However, with the exception of the immediate jeopardy level, the enforcing agencies may exercise the flexibility to design their own methods of interpreting and applying the assessment factors to the identified deficiencies. Historically, determinations of immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety have been made by HCFA and the States in accordance with guidance provided in Appendix Q of the State Operations Manual. We conclude that there is no compelling reason for States to redefine this level of noncompliance. The enforcing agencies may also exercise their statutory authority to determine whether an alternative remedy is or is not preferable to termination. In determining the seriousness of Life Safety Code (LSC) deficiencies, States are encouraged to apply the Fire Safety Evaluation System (FSES), which is Appendix C of the 1985 edition of the LSC. Since the FSES is an equivalency system based on point values, it is possible to utilize the system to document the seriousness of deficiencies on a quantitative basis in accordance with the revised enforcement matrix. Once the seriousness of the deficiencies is determined and the decision to impose alternative remedies instead of, or in addition to, termination, HCFA or the State must make its remedy selection from the remedy category associated with the specific level of noncompliance. This correlation is provided in §488.408 of this final rule. This approach has the added benefit of promoting national consistency because all systems will be considering the same initial assessment factors, and the remedy choice will then be based on the nature of the noncompliance and the corrective action most likely to achieve correction and continued compliance. In other words, we developed, for use by the States and by HCFA, an organized and consistent method by which to first, determine how serious a facility's deficiencies are, and second, to select an enforcement response from a specified remedy category linked to that degree of noncompliance. We believe that the enforcement scheme we are providing in this final rule for HCFA and the States to use in rating deficiencies and selecting remedies satisfies a variety of concerns posed by the former scope and severity scale and the proposed rule in general. Under the proposed rule, we set out two scales, one for scope and one for severity, that HCFA and the States were to apply in determining which remedy to apply once deficiencies were identified. While the rule provided some definition for each of the levels of scope and severity, HCFA and the States were essentially free to determine what constituted a ``sufficient'' number of ``repeated observations'' in concluding whether or not a ``pattern'' of deficiencies could be said to exist. In the final rule, we have removed the scope and severity scales, as such, and have replaced them with a set of criteria that must be used (should a decision be made to impose alternative remedies at all) to select an enforcement remedy. Specifically, while the enforcement scheme in this final rule is conceptually the same as the former scope and severity scales, it differs from that approach in numerous significant ways: •It leaves to the judgment of both HCFA and the States whether to impose alternative remedies at all, regardless of the seriousness of a facility's deficiencies. •It incorporates the concept of substantial compliance, whereby deficiencies found which constitute no more than a potential for minimal harm are not sanctioned. •With the exception of immediate jeopardy, a State may use its own method for interpreting terms that describe the relative frequency or seriousness of deficiencies as long as it is consistent with the guidance presented in the regulation.
