FR940616-0-00006 FR940616-0-00002 For most tenants, the amount of the utility allowance is less than the amount they are required to pay toward their rent including utilities. In most cases, the utility allowance involves no direct payment to the household, but is merely a credit reducing the household's contribution to the landlord. If the utility allowance exceeds the rent that can be charged for a dwelling, the excess is paid in the form of a ``utility reimbursement'' or rebate to the household. Similar reimbursements are made to some rural low-income households by the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) of the Department of Agriculture as part of its Rental Assistance Program which provides, pursuant to 7 CFR pt. 1930, subpt. C; pt. 1944, subpt. E, loans for housing in rural areas. Under the FmHA Program, the borrower (the owner of the property) may apply for Rental Assistance for each tenant in the project who meets the eligibility criteria. The Rental Assistance payment equals the difference between 30 percent of the household's income and the sum of the rent plus the utility allowance for the project. If the tenant pays the utilities, the total Rental Assistance payment from FmHA is made to the owner, who is obligated to pass on to the tenant the portion allocated to utilities. When FmHA's utility allowance is more than 30 percent of the household's adjusted income, the landlord is obligated to forward the difference to the tenant as a utility reimbursement. Under section 5(d) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2014(d)), any income received by the household directly or indirectly must be counted in determining the household's eligibility and benefits, except for the exclusions listed in the Act. Neither the Food Stamp Act nor current regulations specifically address the treatment of HUD and FmHA utility reimbursements. It is clear that Federal energy assistance payments are excluded by section 5(d)(11) of the Food Stamp Act. However, the HUD and FmHA reimbursements are not provided specifically for energy assistance alone. Current policy requires counting these HUD utility reimbursements as income. This policy is applicable nationwide except in jurisdictions in which the reimbursements are excluded by judicial decision. In the past, it was our policy that utility reimbursements did not qualify as energy assistance. In response to questions concerning the payments, we issued Policy Memo 90&hyph;6 addressing HUD payments and Policy Memo 3&hyph;91&hyph;04 regarding FmHA payments. Policy Memo 90&hyph;6 provides that any amount paid by HUD directly to the household as a utility reimbursement or indirectly to the utility provider must be counted as income to the household. Under Policy Memo 3&hyph;91&hyph;04, the utility reimbursement paid by the landlord to the tenant is counted as income to the household. This policy has been maintained over several years and has been successfully defended in court on a number of occasions. While we believe the current policy is a permissible interpretation of the statute, we believe it is not in the best interest of the Program to continue to litigate this issue. In reexamining the policy, we have determined that there are several compelling reasons to change the policy so as to exclude the utility reimbursements in the future. First, although the HUD and FmHA utility reimbursements are not provided specifically for energy assistance, a substantial portion of a household's utility expense is for heating and cooling. A change in policy to exclude the utility reimbursements is not inconsistent with the specific exclusion in section 5(d)(11) of the Food Stamp Act and 7 CFR 273.9(c)(11) for Federal energy assistance. Excluding the utility reimbursements under the existing regulatory provision would achieve consistency in the treatment of Federal energy assistance. Second, the current policy is inconsistent with the policy of the Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) Program in most States. Increasing consistency between the Food Stamp and AFDC Programs is a Department priority because it makes the Programs simpler to administer and more understandable to households. Maintaining the current policy also causes inconsistent treatment of households in subsidized housing between those in traditional housing whose utilities are included in their rent and households who are responsible for paying their own utility expenses. Excluding the utility reimbursements would provide greater consistency in treatment of various forms of housing assistance. Finally, a change in policy eliminates the need to maintain at least two distinct and conflicting policies for the foreseeable future because courts in some jurisdictions have affirmed the current policy and others have found it insupportable. Therefore, this rule amends 7 CFR 273.9(c)(11) to provide that payments or allowances made for the purpose of providing energy assistance under any Federal law, including HUD and FmHA reimbursements, are excluded from income. We are making a conforming amendment to 7 CFR 273.10(d)(1)(i) to provide that a utility expense which is reimbursed or paid by an excluded payment, including HUD or FmHA utility payments, shall not be deductible. In accordance with Section 5(e) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 2014(e), households that receive these payments will be entitled to use a standard utility allowance that includes a heating or cooling component only if they incur heating or cooling costs that exceed the amount of the excluded payment. Implementation
