FR940826-1-00041 FR940826-1-00008 Section 413.180␣Procedures for Requesting Exceptions to Payment Rates We would redesignate the content of §413.170(f), Procedures for requesting exceptions to payment rates, as new §413.180. In §413.180(d), we propose to expand this item to provide that a facility must request an exception to its payment rate within 180 days of: •The effective date of its new prospective payment rate(s); •The effective date that HCFA opens the exceptions process; or •An extraordinary cost-increasing event, as described in §413.188. In determining the 180-day period in which HCFA issues new prospective payment rates or opens the exceptions process, HCFA counts the effective date as the first day of the 180-day period because payment for ESRD services under the new composite rates or an approved exception begins that day. An exception request with all required documentation must be filed with the intermediary by the 180th day. Delivery of the request must be accomplished through a method that documents the date of receipt during the intermediary's regular business hours. A postmark or other similar mark does not serve as documentation of the date of receipt. Initially, when the ESRD prospective payment rate regulations were promulgated, HCFA intended to annually review composite rates. However, when HCFA determined that updated rates could not be issued in the near future, it opened the exceptions process without issuing new rates. This allowed ESRD facilities additional opportunities (other than when new rates are issued) to file for exceptions to their payment rates. HCFA has opened the exceptions process twice, permitting facilities that had received partial approvals, new facilities or facilities that had been previously denied exceptions the chance to file for an exception. In §413.180(f), we propose to require that the facility applying for an exception request compare its most recently completed cost report with those of prior years. Such comparisons may reveal significant changes that may indicate errors or problems with the cost or statistical data and, thus, the need for HCFA to more intensively review the applicable area. Any changes to cost or statistical data (for example, treatments) must be explained and the explanation included with the documentation supporting the exception request. In §§413.180(f)(3) and 413.182, we would require that ESRD facilities provide documentation showing that their excessive costs are specifically or directly attributable to one or more of the exception criteria. As an example, for an atypical service intensity request, the facility should be able to document the excessive costs of furnishing care to sicker patients. After submitting evidence that it treats sicker patients, to document higher labor costs, the facility should submit records to show that either a more experienced and better trained nursing staff is required to treat these patients, or additional nursing staff time is needed, or both. An example of the type of records that a provider should submit to document its higher nursing costs could consist of staffing schedules, indicating staff and patients per shift. The facility could indicate (on the schedules) the sicker patients treated and the more experienced or additional staff needed to treat them. The monthly staffing schedules should represent 12 months and coincide with the actual cost reporting period of the cost report submitted with the exception request. For a hospital facility, if the direct cost of nursing staff in the dialysis department increased, the administrative and general (A & G) costs allocated to that department would automatically increase. This is the result of hospital cost reporting accounting protocol, which requires A & G costs to be allocated on the basis of the accumulated costs of the other departments. The accounting protocol used for cost reporting is separate and distinct from identifying the actual A & G costs that are directly attributable to the additional nursing staff costs. Since the total A & G costs represent costs allocated to the dialysis department, they do not accurately reflect the actual A & G costs incurred as a result of the additional nursing staff costs. The facility must separately identify the A & G costs directly attributable to the additional nursing staff costs.
