FR940217-1-00100 FR940217-1-00014 (A) Discontinue the affiliation; or (B) Remove the principal from responsibility for any aspect of the administration of an institution's or servicer's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. (2) A violation for a reason contained in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is grounds for terminating_ (i) The institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program; and (ii) The servicer's eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. The violation is also grounds for terminating, under this subpart, the participation in any Title IV, HEA program of any institution under whose contract the servicer committed the violation, if that institution knew or should have known of the violation. (f)(1) The debarment of a participating institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, under E.O. 12549 or the FAR, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, by the Department of Education or another Federal agency from participation in Federal programs, under procedures that comply with 5 U.S.C. 554&hyph;557 (formal adjudication requirements under the Administrative Procedure Act), terminates, for the duration of the debarment_ (i) The institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program; and (ii) The servicer's eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. (2)(i) The suspension of a participating institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, under E.O. 12549 or the FAR, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, by the Department of Education or another Federal agency from participation in Federal programs, under procedures that comply with 5 U.S.C. 554&hyph;557, suspends_ (A) The institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program; and (B) The servicer's eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. (ii) A suspension under this paragraph lasts for a period of 60 days, beginning on the date of the suspending official's decision, except that the suspension may last longer if_ (A) The institution or servicer, as applicable, and the Secretary, agree to an extension of the suspension; or (B) The Secretary begins a limitation or termination proceeding against the institution or servicer, as applicable, under this subpart before the 60th day of the suspension. (Authority: E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 189), 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235); 20 U.S.C. 1070, et seq., 1082(a)(1) and (h)(1), 1094(c)(1) (D) and (H), and 3474) 12. Section 668.83 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.83 Emergency action. (a) Under an emergency action, the Secretary may_ (1) Withhold Title IV, HEA program funds from a participating institution or its students, or from a third-party servicer, as applicable; (2)(i) Withdraw the authority of the institution or servicer, as applicable, to commit, disburse, deliver, or cause the commitment, disbursement, or delivery of Title IV, HEA program funds; or (ii) Withdraw the authority of the institution or servicer, as applicable, to commit, disburse, deliver, or cause the commitment, disbursement, or delivery of Title IV, HEA program funds except in accordance with a particular procedure; and (3)(i) Withdraw the authority of the servicer to administer any aspect of any institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program; or (ii) Withdraw the authority of the servicer to administer any aspect of any institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program except in accordance with a particular procedure. (b)(1) An initiating official begins an emergency action against an institution or third-party servicer by sending the institution or servicer a notice by registered mail, return receipt requested. In an emergency action against a third-party servicer, the official also sends the notice to each institution that contracts with the servicer. The official also may transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means if practical.
