FR940104-0-00079 FR940104-0-00016 (ii) For purposes of paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section, an adverse credit history means that as of the date of the credit report, the applicant_ (A) Is 90 or more days delinquent on any debt; (B) Has been the subject of a default determination on any debt; or (C) Has been the subject of a bankruptcy discharge, foreclosure, repossession, tax lien, wage garnishment or write-off of a Title IV debt during the five years preceding the date of the credit report. (c) Use of loan proceeds to replace expected family contribution. A borrower may use the amount of a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Loan, Federal Direct PLUS loan, State-sponsored loan or other non-Federal loan obtained for a loan period to replace the expected family contribution for that loan period. (d) Defaulted FFEL Program borrower. In the case of a student, or parent, borrower who is currently in default on an FFEL Program loan, the borrower must make satisfactory repayment arrangements on the defaulted loan. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) ยง685.201 Obtaining a loan. (a) Application for a Federal Direct Stafford loan. To obtain a Federal Direct Stafford loan, a student shall complete and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid. If the student is eligible for a Federal Direct Stafford loan, the school shall obtain a completed promissory note from the student and complete the origination of the loan. If the student is attending a school that uses an alternative originator, the school must transmit the student's loan origination record to the alternative originator, which will complete the origination of the loan. (b) Application for a Federal Direct Unsubsidized loan. To obtain a Federal Direct Unsubsidized loan, a student shall complete and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid. If the student is eligible for a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford loan, the school shall obtain a completed promissory note from the student and complete the origination of the loan. If the student is attending a school that uses an alternative originator, the school must transmit a student's loan origination record to the alternative originator, which will complete the origination of the loan. (c) Application for a Federal Direct PLUS loan. To obtain a Federal Direct PLUS loan, the parent shall complete an application/promissory note and submit it to the school. After the school completes its portion of the application/promissory note, the school submits it to the Secretary. If the parent does not have an adverse credit history an originating school shall complete the origination of the loan. If the student for whom the loan is intended is attending a school that uses an alternative originator, the alternative originator will complete the origination of the loan. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. , 1091a) ยง685.202 Charges for which Direct Loan Program borrowers are responsible. (a) Interest_ (1) Interest rate under the Federal Direct Stafford Loan Program and the Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program. For Federal Direct Stafford Loans and Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loans, the interest rate, during any twelve month period beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30, is determined on the preceding June 1 and is equal to the bond equivalent rate of 91-day Treasury bills auctioned at the final auction held prior to that June 1; plus 3.1 percent, but does not exceed 8.25 percent. (2) Interest rate under the Federal Direct PLUS Program. The interest rate on a Federal Direct PLUS loan, during any 12-month period beginning on July 1 and ending on June 30, is determined on the preceding June 1 and is equal to the bond equivalent rate of 52-week Treasury bills auctioned at the final auction held prior to that June 1; plus 3.1 percent, but does not exceed nine percent. (b) Capitalization. (1) The Secretary may add accrued interest to the borrower's unpaid principal balance. This increase in the principal balance of a loan is called ``capitalization.'' (2) The Secretary may capitalize interest payable by the borrower that has accrued_ (i) During the period from the date the first disbursement was made to the date the repayment period begins;
