FR940720-1-00031 FR940720-1-00009 Publishers have also complained about the subjective nature of the current standards concerning what material may not be included as a loose supplement at second-class rates. For example, current rules state that an independent publication may not be sent at second-class rates. Those rules then require the reviewer to determine the independence of material by making a subjective judgment based on a number of factors. Although the specified items (such as independent publications) remain ineligible for mailing at second-class rates (even if bound into publications), the Postal Service has undertaken to respond to publishers' concerns by explaining these restrictions more clearly. For this reason, proposed C200.2.1 sets forth a general standard that all the impermissible components in 2.2 to 2.5 are prohibited from being mailed at second-class rates whether they take the form of a run-of-press page, supplement, bound-in advertisement, or other component of the publication. Proposed C200.2.2 would base the decision on what constitutes impermissible matter on a review of the questionable material against a list of objective criteria, any one of which will automatically make that material ineligible for mailing at second-class rates. These criteria are a separate price or subscription instructions; the word ``catalog''; a First-, third-, or fourth-class permit imprint; an International Standard Book Number (ISBN); or an International Standard Serial Number (ISSN). The Postal Service believes that this change will simplify the determination of what constitutes impermissible second-class matter. This change is expected to benefit publishers by reducing the uncertainty and confusion they have experienced with regard to the current and more subjective standards. Current standards restrict the inclusion of products and product samples (see C200.1.8) in items mailed at the second-class rates. Proposed C200.2.3 would continue to exclude products, such as stationery, cassettes, and floppy disks, that are not printed sheets, but the proposed section would no longer prohibit product samples that are otherwise formed of printed sheets. The Postal Service believes that applying the general requirement that all second-class matter must be formed of printed sheets is a sufficient standard to limit the inappropriate mailing of products and product samples at second-class rates. Additionally, this section would relax current interpretations on what constitutes a product or merchandise when the item is a printed sheet. For example, under specific conditions, a 12-month calendar or a poster will now be eligible to be mailed at second-class rates if it is not separately distributed or offered for sale. Including the name of the host publication, issue or issue date, and relating such a piece to advertising or nonadvertising within the content of the host publication would provide further proof that the piece is properly prepared as a page of the publication. To ensure that second-class mail is transported and delivered intact, proposed C200.3.3 specifies what may be included loose within a second-class publication without requiring wrapping. For consistency, proposed C200.3.4 has been added to provide guidance on when wrappers are required. Proposed C200.3.5 includes all the standards governing protective covers in current C200.4.1. In recognition of the practicalities of publication production, the requirement that a protective cover cover completely a publication is changed to allow the cover to be smaller than the publication if it extends to within 3/4 inch of the edge of the publication opposite the fold or binding. No similar allowance has been proposed for the top and bottom edges of a protective cover because the Postal Service has had no indication from publishers that there is any problem with covers matching a publication's top and bottom edges. The proposed advertising standard in C200.4.3 blends the contents of current C200.6.1 and 6.4 and explains that all advertisements must be prepared as an integral part of the publication and that, except for advertisements prepared as supplements and advertisements on printed matter included as part of a receipt or order for subscriptions (or requests), all advertisements in a bound publication must be permanently attached. The provision in current C200.6.3 concerning the types of material that can comprise printed sheets has been moved to E211.3.0, the eligibility section that includes the printed sheet standard. Additionally, several new proposed sections have been added to provide clarifying definitions, such as C200.1.6 (covers), 1.7 (mailing wrappers), and 3.1 (bound/unbound). Other sections have been proposed to clarify further what is allowable and what is excluded at second-class rates, e.g., the proscription against combining fourth-class mail with second-class mail. The proposed rule also contains an expanded definition of public service announcements in E211.11.2, to clarify those announcements that do not have to be treated as advertising matter. An expanded standard explaining procedures to be followed when measuring advertising in second-class publications is proposed in new P070.1.7. This provision, which is based on Postal Service rulings, is designed to ensure uniform treatment of blank space in publications. Section E211.7.3 has been revised to clarify that materials such as annual reports, directories, and lists may be included as supplements to second-class publications. Minor nonsubstantive changes have also been proposed to DMM modules A, E, and P. Although exempt from the notice and comment provisions of the Administrative Procedures Act (5 U.S.C. 553(b) and (c)) regarding proposed rulemaking by 39 U.S.C. 410(a), the Postal Service invites public comments on the following proposed amendments of the Domestic Mail Manual, which is incorporated by reference in the Code of Federal Regulations. See 39 CFR part 111.1. List of Subjects in 39 CFR Part 111 Postal Service. PART 111_[AMENDED]
