FR940325-1-00039 FR940325-1-00007 (c) The operator shall provide for each contractor, vendor, and other visitor authorized access to a restricted area a temporary identification card that_ (1) Contains a unique number; (2) Is issued upon cardholder's arriving at the terminal and retrieved upon cardholder's leaving the terminal; and (3) Is signed for by the cardholder or, for children, a responsible adult, indicating their reason for entering the restricted area; and (4) Is strictly accounted for, by number. (d) Each operator of a passenger terminal shall establish a procedure for identifying each passenger each time the passenger enters the boarding area. The procedure must require an identification document containing a photograph of the holder to identify each passenger over the age of 10 and shall compare the name of the person so identified against the official passenger list of the vessel. The identification document may be one provided by the passenger such as a driver's license, passport, or armed forces identification card, or one provided by the operator of the passenger vessel. Passengers presenting an identification document containing a photograph of the holder issued by the operator of the passenger vessel that is unique to the voyage need not be verified against the official passenger list of the vessel. ยง128.360 Screening. (a) Each personal article and each piece of baggage brought into the boarding area for passenger vessels subject to Part 120 of this chapter must undergo a thorough check. The check may take the form of manual search, electronic screening, or equivalent means acceptable to the COTP. (b) Each person entering the boarding area shall undergo a metal detector check. (c) The checks required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply to each entry of the boarding area. (d) One or more guards shall watch each screening point, whenever it is accessible and passengers or baggage are being assembled, processed, embarked, or disembarked at the terminal. (e) A written notice, legible in the area shoreside of the screening station, must be posted to advise persons entering the boarding area that security checks are being conducted. The notice must be written in English except that, where a language other than English is widespread, it must be written in both English and the other language. (f) No person refusing to submit to a security check at a point of access may enter the boarding area. Each person denied entry for refusing to submit to a security check shall, if possible, be identified and reported to appropriate authorities. (g) Before being placed aboard a passenger vessel subject to Part 120 of this chapter_ (1) All cargo and stores, and all baggage destined for a restricted area, must undergo a brief inspection; and (2) A percentage of such cargo, stores, and baggage, specified by the Commandant, shall be selected at random and thoroughly checked by manual search, electronic screening, or equivalent means acceptable to the COTP. (h) Each piece of baggage must be marked, labeled, tagged, or otherwise identified as belonging to a particular passenger and must be compared against the official passenger list of the vessel. No unidentified baggage may enter the boarding area. (i) Baggage destined for a restricted area, cargo, and stores must undergo inspection or thorough check immediately before delivery to the vessel, unless they are stowed in a restricted area immediately after a prior inspection or check and held there until delivery. (j) Baggage, cargo, and stores must be delivered directly to the vessel from a restricted area or inspection area. (k) Suppliers of stores shall make deliveries to an area physically separated from the boarding area. Each delivery must be compared against a list of expected deliveries provided by the vessel and must be accompanied by a clearly itemized manifest that accurately sets forth the kinds and amount of stores delivered. ยง128.370 Communications. (a) The operator of each passenger terminal shall ensure that security personnel of the terminal have a means of continuous communications, such as radio, telephone, or intercom, that enables them to communicate with the terminal security officer, the communications center, or security personnel of the passenger vessel from their duty stations.
