FR941230-1-00045 FR941230-1-00004 (A) Mandatory tax or assessment. The loan must arise from the imposition of a mandatory tax or other assessment of general application. (B) Essential governmental function. The mandatory tax or assessment (collectively, assessments ) must be imposed for one or more specific, essential governmental functions (as opposed to installment payments of property taxes or other taxes); (C) Equal basis requirement. If the property that is subject to the tax or assessment is used by a nongovernmental person, owners of both business and nonbusiness property benefiting from the financed improvements are eligible or required to make deferred payments of the assessment on an equal basis (the equal basis requirement ). (ii) [Reserved] (3) Mandatory tax or other assessment. An assessment is an enforced contribution that is imposed and collected for the purpose of raising revenue to be used for a specific purpose (that is, to defray the capital cost of an improvement). Assessments must be levied on a property frontage basis, an ad valorem basis, or any other comparable method that results in equivalent mandatory assessment to all residents benefiting from the improvements in an amount proportionate to the benefit to the assessed property. Assessments do not include fees for services. (4) Specific essential governmental function. For this purpose, in general, the term essential governmental function has the same meaning as under section 7871. An essential governmental function does not include any function to the extent that it is not customarily performed (and financed with governmental bonds) by governments with general taxing powers. In determining whether an activity is customarily performed by a governmental unit, isolated instances of bond financing are disregarded. Examples of specific essential governmental functions for purposes of this section include street paving and street-light installation, sewage treatment and disposal, and municipal water facilities, but not commercial or industrial ventures. A specific essential governmental function does not include permitting installment payments of property taxes or other taxes or any improvement to property owned by a nongovernmental person. (5) Equal basis requirement _(i) In general. An assessment does not satisfy the equal basis requirement if the terms for payment of the assessment are not the same for all assessed persons (for example, if certain residents are permitted to pay the assessment over a period of years while others must pay the entire assessment immediately or if the assessment is required to be prepaid when the property is sold). In addition, the amounts payable and the rates used to determine those amounts must be determined on the basis of non-discriminatory criteria. Thus, for example, an assessment does not satisfy the equal basis requirement if imposed on a different basis for business and non-business beneficiaries. The equal basis requirement is not, however, violated solely because an assessment varies on the basis of the relative benefit conferred.
