FR940719-2-00084 FR940719-2-00052 E. Financing of Services and Supports Over the past 20 years there have been significant changes in the breadth and scope of public financing for services to children with disabilities and their families. Although to a lesser extent, a private sector health insurance role has also evolved. Insufficient attention has been focused on the impact of these changes, either from the perspective of their impact on the lives of children with disabilities and their families, or with respect to the development of a comprehensive and coordinated policy regarding disabled children. For example: Private Health Insurance What services are covered by private insurance plans? What are the limitations of private insurance coverage for special services such as physical, occupational, speech/language/hearing, and respiratory therapies, psychotherapies, other services, and durable or disposable goods? What are identifiable trends in private and public coverage and expenditures for rehabilitative services? How do insurers apply the criterion of ``medical necessity'' to the use of rehabilitative and therapy services by children with disabilities? What are alternative criteria? What approaches are used for risk adjustment for children with disabilities? How effective are they? Medicaid/Title V What services are covered under which service authorities? Exactly what services are provided and billed under EPSDT; what are trends in EPSDT expenditures? What has been the impact of the TEFRA&hyph;134 (``Katie Beckett'') state plan eligibility option in states that have elected to use it; how do states control utilization and costs? What children receive special services through 1915(c) waivers; how do coverage and costs vary across states? What services do Title V agencies fund; what are inter-state variations in coverage and cost? Educational Services What special services do school systems currently provide for children with disabilities (including services for the transition from school to work), where are these services provided, and how do services vary by age and type of disability? What are trends in total expenditures? What are trends in children receiving education services who are also eligible for SSI or Medicaid? How and to what extent are school systems billing Medicaid for IDEA services to children with disabilities, and under which authorities? What is the relationship between special education services, including parts B and H, and Medicaid? What trends can be anticipated in this relationship? Program Interactions How do these programs/coverages interact, co-exist, or affect each other? What other public (state or substate) programs assist children with disabilities and their families including cash or voucher benefits? Cash Assistance Versus Service Benefits Children with disabilities and their families receive assistance in very different ways: Through cash assistance like AFDC and SSI and service benefits like Medicaid and IDEA. How do these methods differentially affect families? What are the trade-offs of providing cash in lieu of services or vice versa? F. System Organization Multiple funding sources and types of services create problems with accessing services as well as with managing their delivery and cost. Little is known about how families with children who are disabled deal with service systems and how states and localities have attempted to organize, integrate, and manage disparate services. How do children with disabilities and their families access services? How does entry via one system (e.g. school, Medicaid, acute medical care) predict access to services in other systems? How cost-effective are various approaches to case management used by children with disabilities (or subgroups) and their families, including families doing their own case management?
