FR940505-1-00473 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) For engines operated in the Sacramento Metropolitan ozone nonattainment areas as defined in 40 CFR 81.305: 2.5 grams per brake horsepower-hour, as measured under steady-state operating conditions. (d) Evaporative emission requirements. Manufacturers' applications for certification shall include test results or an engineering evaluation demonstrating compliance with the inherently low evaporative emission requirements of §88.311&hyph;93 (a)(1)(ii) and (a)(2) of this chapter. Diurnal emission levels shall be adjusted to reflect corresponding results for a nominal 20 gallon fuel tank volume. This demonstration may be based on a diurnal temperature excursion of 65 ○F to 105 ○F and California certification fuel rather than the EPA conditions and test fuel. (e) Test procedures. The exhaust standards set forth in paragraph (c) of this section refer to the exhaust emitted over the operating schedule set forth in the Federal nonroad regulations, and measured and calculated in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Federal nonroad regulations. Assembly line testing procedures are those set forth in 40 CFR part 86, subpart K, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. (f) Test fuels. All certification, assembly line, and recall testing performed as described in paragraph (e) of this section shall use the fuels provided for by California as found in the California nonroad regulations. Testing performed to demonstrate compliance with the inherently low evaporative emission requirements of paragraph (d) of this section may, as an alternative, be conducted with fuels meeting the federal specifications of 40 CFR part 86. Assembly line and recall testing shall use the same type of fuel as used in certification testing. (g) Recall program. (1) Engines certified to the standards set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section shall be subject to the recall provisions of part 89, subpart H of this chapter and the associated established practices of EPA, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g) of this section. (2) For purposes of the recall testing under this section, the term ``engine'' includes all emissions control systems. (3) The recall provisions for light-duty vehicles contained in paragraphs (e) (3), (4), and (5) of this section shall apply to engines subject to the provisions of paragraph (g) of this section as well, with appropriate references to applicable standards and test procedures, except that: (i) Engines shall be selected by EPA for the purposes of recall testing from the equipment population of the South Coast, Ventura, and Sacramento nonattainment areas; and (ii) The prohibitions on registering vehicles contained in paragraph (e)(5)(i) of this section shall apply to equipment used in the South Coast, Ventura, and Sacramento nonattainment areas; (h) Fleet averaging program. (1) General Applicability. The requirements of this program apply to owners of equipment equipped with a nonroad engine that is operated in the South Coast Air Basin, in Ventura County, or in the Sacramento Metropolitan ozone nonattainment areas as defined in 40 CFR 81.305, except those pieces of equipment and associated engines exempted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (2) Effective January 1, 1999, any person who owns one or more pieces of equipment described in paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall submit the following information on each such piece of equipment to EPA by January 31st of every calendar year. The submittal shall reflect the owner's affected fleet as it existed on January 1st of the same calendar year. Owners in the South Coast Air Basin and Ventura County may combine their affected equipment with that of other equipment owners in the South Coast Air Basin and Ventura County for the purposes of this program. 44 Required information per affected piece of equipment: 44 Owners in the Sacramento ozone nonattainment area may combine their affected equipment with that of other equipment owners in the Sacramento ozone nonattainment area for the purposes of this program. (i) Type of equipment and equipment class as specified in Table 2975&hyph;1; (ii) Engine model year; (iii) Engine serial number; (iv) The NO X certification level (for 1999 and later model year engines only); (v) The useful life renewal certificate as described in §52.2965(d) (for 1999 and later model year engines beyond their original useful life period only); and (vi) Proof that remedial actions have been performed by an authorized party for any engine subject to a recall action as described in paragraph (g) of this section.
