FR941202-0-00057 FR941202-0-00007 (e) Offset Agreement _Any offset as defined above that the U.S. firm agrees to in order to conclude a military export sales contract. This includes all offsets, whether they are ``best effort'' agreements or are subject to penalty clauses. (f) Offset Transaction _Any activity for which the U.S. firm claims credit for full or partial fulfillment of the offset agreement. Activities to implement offset agreements may include, but are not limited to, coproduction, licensed production, subcontractor production, overseas investment, technology transfer countertrade, barter, counterpurchase, and buy back. (g) Direct Offset _Contractual arrangements that involve defense articles and services referenced in the sales agreement for military exports. (h) Indirect Offset _Contractual arrangements that involve defense goods and services unrelated to the exports referenced in the sales agreement. ยง701.3 Applicability and scope. (a) This rule applies to U.S. firms entering contracts for the sale of defense articles or defense services (as defined in the Arms Export Control Act and International Traffic in Arms Regulations) to a foreign country or foreign firm for which the contract is subject to an offset agreement exceeding $5,000,000 in value. (b) This rule applies to all offset transactions completed in performance of existing offset commitments since January 1, 1993 for which offset credit of $250,000 or more has been claimed from the foreign representative, and new offset agreements entered into since that time. ยง701.4 Procedures. (a) To avoid double counting, firms should report only offset transactions for which they are directly responsible for reporting to the foreign customer (i.e., prime contractors should report for their subcontractors if the subcontractors are not a direct party to the offset agreement). (b) Reports should be delivered to the Offsets Program Manager, U.S. Department of Commerce, Office of Strategic Industries and Economic Security, Bureau of Export Administration, Room 3878, 14th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington DC 20230. The first industry reports should be submitted to the Bureau of Export Administration not later than March 15, 1995 and should cover offset transactions completed during the calendar year 1993, as well as information regarding unfulfilled offset agreements. After this initial submission, companies should provide information once yearly not later than June 15 covering the preceding calendar year. All submissions should include a point of contact (name and telephone number) and should be by a company official authorized to provide such information. (c) Companies may submit this information in computerized spreadsheet/database format (e.g., Lotus 1&hyph;2&hyph;3, Quattro Pro, dbase IV) using a 3.5 inch 1.44 megabyte diskette, accompanied by a printed copy. (d) Offset Transaction Reporting. (1) Reports should include an itemized list of offset transactions completed during the reporting period, including the following data elements (Estimates are acceptable when actual figures are unavailable; estimated figures should be followed by the letter ``E''): (i) Name of Country _Country of entity purchasing the weapon system, defense item or service subject to offset. (ii) Name or Description of Weapon system, Defense Item, or Service Subject to Offset. (iii) Name of Offset Fulfilling Entity_Entity fulfilling offset transaction (including first tier subcontractors). (iv) Name of Offset Receiving Entity_Entity receiving benefits from offset transaction. (v) Offset Credit Value_Dollar value credits claimed by fulfilling entity including any intangible factors/multipliers.
