FR941012-0-00075 FR941012-0-00011 The other protective device that I see that's had substantial improvement is the throttle lock mechanism where it has to be held down with your palm in order for the trigger to operate. For years it was common that the first thing a logger did was he got a roll of black tape and he would tape that down so you didn't have to operate that. Through our progressive Montana Sawyer Safety Program and other efforts I brag to people that we now have developed a genetically superior timber faller in Montana that can now squeeze with his palm and pull with his trigger finger at the same time. These two chain saw protective devices combined with leg protection have had a significant impact on the reduction of accidents in Montana relative to timber falling. In fact, it's been so significant that I don't even consider the other options of even any application to logging when we talk about the low kickback bar, the low kick-back chains and even the bar tipped guards. They may have individual special application but I'm thoroughly convinced with the chain brake, the throttle lock and the leg protection we've so significantly reduced chain saw injuries that any further attention is maybe some wasted effort and just further develops additional conflict (Tr. OR 536). Mr. David Kludt, Logging Safety Program Supervisor for the State of Idaho, testified that 10 percent of all logging accidents each month are the result of chain-saw kickback and that these accidents could be drastically reduced by the use of chain brakes (Ex. 9&hyph;4). In addition, Maine BLS says that chain brakes have played a significant role in lessening the effects of chain-saw injuries in that State (Ex. 5&hyph;174). They reported that only 13 percent of chain-saw accidents where chain brakes were present resulted in hospitalization, while nearly half of all other accidents required hospitalization. Some commenters, however, disputed the effectiveness of chain brakes for preventing kickback (Ex. 5&hyph;39, 5&hyph;59, 5&hyph;66). One of these commenters said chain brakes were not reliable and required frequent maintenance, however, no evidence or data were presented to support the contention (ex. 5&hyph;59). Another commenter said that a study showed that while chain brakes reduced kickback by 80 percent, non-kickback accidents showed a 400 percent increase (Ex. 5&hyph;66). However, the commenter also admitted that the study was from 1972 and that chain brakes had undergone significant improvement since that time. Another commenter said chain brakes, depending on their design, could become entangled in the brush the saw is clearing and create a safety hazard (Ex. 5&hyph;39). The WIR survey, however, does not support the commenter's argument. None of the chain-saw operators reporting injuries said their chain brake had become caught (Ex. 2&hyph;1). b. OSHA regulatory action. Many commenters said that the final rule should include requirements for chain-saw protective devices (Ex. 5&hyph;17, 5&hyph;19, 5&hyph;21, 5&hyph;27, 5&hyph;34, 5&hyph;42, 5&hyph;46, 9&hyph;3, 9&hyph;4, 9&hyph;13, 9&hyph;15, 9&hyph;18, 9&hyph;20; Tr. OR 536&hyph;37). However, some commenters, including chain-saw and chain-saw accessory manufacturers, said OSHA should include performance requirements for chain saws in the final standard rather than specification requirements (Ex. 5&hyph;4, 5&hyph;8, 5&hyph;13, 5&hyph;15, 5&hyph;26, 5&hyph;37, 5&hyph;59). Many of these commenters supported incorporating by reference the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) B175.1&hyph;1985 standard on ``Safety Requirements for Gasoline Powered Chain Saws'' (Ex. 5&hyph;4, 5&hyph;8, 5&hyph;13, 5&hyph;15, 5&hyph;26, 5&hyph;37, 5&hyph;59). The ANSI standard specifies a performance criteria for manufacture and testing of chain saw safety features, such as protection from chain-saw kickback. One commenter summed up their rationale: [T]he Status Report on Chain Saw Related Hazards since the 1985 Revision to The Voluntary Standard ANSI B175.1, which was prepared for the Consumer Product Safety Commission in March of this year, is a testimonial to the fact that the reduction in chain saw injuries is the result of adherence by manufacturers to the voluntary standard. There truly is little to be said in defense of OSHA when it chooses to knowingly ignore the demonstrated success of the chain saw voluntary standard, which equates compliance with the use of a combination of devices, in favor of an arbitrary and inexpert agency decision to the effect that one specific device, in and of itself, is superior to any other device or combination of devices permitted by the standard (Ex. 5&hyph;4). These commenters stated that OSHA would create ``confusion in the marketplace'' if OSHA adopted requirements that were significantly different from the ANSI chain-saw standard that all manufacturers have been voluntarily following (Ex. 5&hyph;4). Other commenters, however, opposed incorporating the ANSI standard in the final rule (Ex. 5&hyph;27, 5&hyph;48; Tr. OR 118). These commenters said the ANSI standard was developed to protect consumer chain-saw users, not professional loggers: The ANSI B175.1 Standard was developed from an injury data base that was consumer based and therefore its direct application to pro-logging may not be justified (Ex. 5&hyph;27).
