FR940127-1-00071 FR940127-1-00018 II. The Problem_Confidentiality of Reporters' Identities FDA believes that its success in encouraging health professionals to participate in the voluntary adverse event reporting system depends substantially on the guarantee of confidentiality given the identity of the reporter under FDA regulations (§§20.111(c)(3), 314.430(e)(4), 601.51(e)(3), and 803.9(b)). When FDA receives a request from the public for adverse reaction reports submitted voluntarily by health care professionals, consumers, patients, or manufacturers, FDA regulations require public disclosure of those reports only after deletion of the following: (1) The names and any information that would identify the person using the product, and (2) the names and any information that would identify any third party involved with the report, such as a physician, hospital, or other institution (§20.111). The rationale for this policy was first articulated in the Federal Register of December 24, 1974, in the preamble to FDA's public information regulations. At that time, FDA determined that without a guarantee of confidentiality, ``the possibility of persuading health professionals voluntarily to submit adverse reaction information is substantially diminished, and indeed perhaps wholly destroyed'' (39 FR 44602 at 44616). In the SMDA amendments, Congress provided some additional protection from involvement in private civil lawsuits to physicians who submit voluntary reports concerning adverse device events. Section 519(b)(3) of the act (21 U.S.C. 360i(b)(3)), added by the SMDA, provides that: [n]o report made under [the device user facility requirements] by a physician who is not required to make such a report, shall be admissible into evidence or otherwise used in any action involving private parties unless the facility, individual, or physician who made the report had knowledge of the falsity of the information contained in the report. Congress enacted this provision to encourage private physicians to notify FDA or the manufacturer of device problems (H. Rept. 808, 101st Cong., 2d sess. 21 (1990)). This provision, however, may not be sufficient to prevent manufacturers from being compelled to release the reporters' or patients' identities pursuant to a discovery order. The policy and program considerations underlying the need to protect patient and reporter confidentiality have become even more compelling in recent years. The increase in product liability and medical malpractice litigation has heightened the reluctance of health professionals to report events observed by them if they are not given meaningful promises of confidentiality. In addition, the potential for discrimination connected with a diagnosis of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive status or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) has strengthened the commitment of health care professionals to protect patient privacy. As a direct reflection of FDA's longstanding regulations and commitment to this policy, the agency's MEDWATCH form (and its predecessors) expressly states that the information identifying the patient and reporter is held in confidence (see 58 FR 31611 through 31612, June 3, 1993). However, in connection with FDA's current efforts to promote the MEDWATCH program and to increase reporting of serious adverse events, the health care community has voiced concerns about the agency's ability to safeguard confidentiality and protect the identities of the reporter and patient identified in the report, especially in situations where the report is in the possession of an individual manufacturer. Despite FDA's longstanding policy of keeping these identities confidential, the current concerns threaten to undermine the success of the voluntary reporting program. FDA published its draft uniform MEDWATCH form for reporting suspect adverse events and product problems on February 26, 1993 (58 FR 11768). Subsequently, the agency received several comments about FDA's ability to maintain the confidentiality of patient and reporter identities: (1) When the report of an adverse event is made directly to the manufacturer or (2) when the manufacturer receives the information from FDA after a report is made to the agency. The MEDWATCH form permits individuals reporting directly to the agency to indicate that they do not want their identity disclosed to the manufacturer. However, the agency encourages reporters to allow the agency to share the reporter's identity with the manufacturer in order to help FDA and the manufacturer conduct necessary followup. Currently, State and local laws govern disclosure of information from adverse event report forms that are in the possession of manufacturers, whether the reports come directly to the manufacturer from reporters or are relayed to manufacturers by FDA. Some State and local laws allow or require disclosure of identities of reporters and patients in adverse event reports.
