FR941206-0-00191 FR941206-0-00019 Volatile organic concentration or VO concentration means the fraction by weight of organic compounds in a hazardous waste expressed in terms of parts per million (ppmw) as determined by direct measurement using Method 25D or by knowledge of the waste in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084 of this subpart. Waste determination means performing all applicable procedures in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084 of this subpart to determine whether a hazardous waste meets standards specified in this subpart. Examples of a waste determination include performing the procedures in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084 of this subpart to determine the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste origination; the average VO concentration of a hazardous waste at the point of waste treatment and comparing the results to the exit concentration limit specified for the process used to treat the hazardous waste; determining the organic reduction efficiency and the organic biodegradation efficiency for a biological process used to treat a hazardous waste and comparing the results to the applicable standards; or the maximum volatile organic vapor pressure for a hazardous waste in a tank and comparing the results to the applicable standards. Waste stabilization process means any physical or chemical process used to either reduce the mobility of hazardous constituents in a hazardous waste or eliminate free liquids as determined by Test Method 9095 (Paint Filter Liquids Test) in ``Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods,'' EPA Publication No. SW&hyph;846, Third Edition, September 1986, as amended by Update I, November 15, 1992 (incorporated by reference_refer to §260.11 of this chapter). A waste stabilization process includes mixing the hazardous waste with binders or other materials, and curing the resulting hazardous waste and binder mixture. Other synonymous terms used to refer to this process are ``waste fixation'' or ``waste solidification.'' §265.1082 Schedule for implementation of air emission standards. (a) Owners or operators of facilities existing on June 5, 1995, and subject to subparts I, J, and K of this part shall meet the following requirements: (1) Install and begin operation of all control equipment required by this subpart by June 5, 1995, except as provided for in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (2) When control equipment required by this subpart cannot be installed and in operation by June 5, 1995, the owner or operator shall: (i) Install and begin operation of the control equipment as soon as possible but no later than December 8, 1997. (ii) Prepare an implementation schedule that includes the following information: specific calendar dates for award of contracts or issuance of purchase orders for the control equipment, initiation of on-site installation of the control equipment, completion of the control equipment installation, and performance of any testing to demonstrate that the installed equipment meets the applicable standards of this subpart. (iii) For facilities subject to the recordkeeping requirements of §265.73 of this part, the owner or operator shall enter the implementation schedule specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section in the operating record no later than June 5, 1995. (iv) For facilities not subject to §265.73 of this part, the owner or operator shall enter the implementation schedule specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section in a permanent, readily available file located at the facility no later than June 5, 1995. (b) Owners or operators of facilities in existence on the effective date of statutory or regulatory amendments under the Act that render the facility subject to subparts I, J, or K of this part shall meet the following requirements: (1) Install and begin operation of all control equipment required by this subpart by the effective date of the amendment except as provided for in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. (2) When control equipment required by this subpart cannot be installed and begin operation by the effective date of the amendment, the owner or operator shall: (i) Install and operate the control equipment as soon as possible but no later than 30 months after the effective date of the amendment. (ii) For facilities subject to the recordkeeping requirements of §265.73, enter and maintain the implementation schedule specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section in the operating record no later than the effective date of the amendment, or (iii) For facilities not subject to §265.73, the owner or operator shall enter and maintain the implementation schedule specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section in a permanent, readily available file located at the facility site no later than the effective date of the amendment. (c) The Regional Administrator may elect to extend the implementation date for control equipment at a facility, on a case by case basis, to a date later than December 8, 1997, when special circumstances that are beyond the facility owner's or operator's control delay installation or operation of control equipment and the owner or operator has made all reasonable and prudent attempts to comply with the requirements of this subpart. §265.1083 Standards: General. (a) This section applies to the management of hazardous waste in tanks, surface impoundments, and containers subject to this subpart. (b) The owner or operator shall control air emissions from each waste management unit in accordance with standards specified in §265.1085 through §265.1088 of this subpart, as applicable to the waste management unit, except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section. (c) A waste management unit is exempted from standards specified in §265.1085 through §265.1088 of this subpart provided that all hazardous waste placed in the waste management unit is determined by the owner or operator to meet either of the following conditions: (1) The average VO concentration of the hazardous waste at the point of waste origination is less than 100 parts per million by weight (ppmw). The average VO concentration shall be determined by the procedures specified in §265.1084(a) of this subpart. (2) The organic content of the hazardous waste has been reduced by an organic destruction or removal process that achieves any one of the following conditions:
