FR940124-1-00061 FR940124-1-00008 Subpart A_General Provisions ยง602.1 Purpose. (a)(1) This part establishes procedures and criteria for the Secretary's recognition of accrediting agencies. The purpose of the Secretary's recognition of agencies is to assure that these agencies are, for the purposes of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA), or for other Federal purposes, reliable authorities as to the quality of education or training offered by the institutions of higher education or the higher education programs they accredit. (2) The Secretary's recognition of an accrediting agency is based on the Secretary's determination that the agency satisfies the requirements of this part. (b) The Secretary grants recognition only to those agencies that_ (1) Accredit institutions of higher education for the purpose of enabling them to establish eligibility to participate in HEA programs; or (2) Accredit institutions of higher education or higher education programs for the purpose of enabling them to establish eligibility to participate in other programs administered by the Department or by other Federal agencies. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.2 Definitions. The following definitions apply to terms used in this part: Accreditation means the status of public recognition that an accrediting agency grants to an educational institution or program that meets the agency's established qualifications and standards. Accrediting agency or agency means a legal entity, or that part of a legal entity, that conducts accrediting activities through voluntary, non-Federal peer evaluations and makes decisions concerning the accreditation or preaccreditation status of institutions, programs, or both. Act means the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended. Adverse accrediting action means the denial, withdrawal, suspension, or termination of accreditation or preaccreditation, or any comparable accrediting action an agency may take against an institution or program, except that placing an institution or program on probation or issuing a show cause order against an institution or program is not an adverse accrediting action unless it is so defined by the accrediting agency. Advisory Committee means the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity. Branch campus means a location of an institution of higher education that is geographically apart from and independent of the main campus of the institution. The Secretary considers a location of an institution to be independent of the main campus if the location (1) is permanent in nature; (2) offers courses in educational programs leading to a degree, certificate, or other recognized educational credential; (3) has its own faculty and administrative or supervisory organization; and (4) has its own budgetary and hiring authority. Designated Department official means the official in the Department of Education to whom the Secretary has delegated the responsibilities indicated in this part. Institution of higher education or institution means an educational institution that qualifies or may qualify as an eligible institution under 34 CFR part 600. Institutional accrediting agency means an agency that accredits institutions of higher education. Nationally recognized accrediting agency, nationally recognized agency, or recognized agency means an accrediting agency that is recognized by the Secretary under this part. Part means part 602 of title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations governing the Secretary's procedures and criteria for the recognition of accrediting agencies. Preaccreditation means the status of public recognition that an accrediting agency grants to an institution or program for a limited period of time that signifies that the agency has determined that the institution or program is progressing towards accreditation and is likely to attain accreditation within a reasonable period of time. Prebaccalaureate vocational education means vocational education that leads to a certificate, degree, or other credential that is less than a bachelor's degree. Program means a postsecondary educational program offered by an institution that leads to an academic or professional degree, vocational certificate, or other recognized educational credential.
