FR941116-0-00123 FR941116-0-00022 (1) Requests an extension in writing by the crop disposition date; and (2) Pays a fee to cover the cost of a farm visit by an authorized ASCS employee to verify that: (i) The small grain acreage was cut for hay before reaching hard dough stage; and (ii) None of the small grain acreage was harvested as grain. (d) Acreage reports are not required to obtain burley tobacco benefits, including types: (1) 32; Maryland tobacco produced in a quota area on a farm that had a Maryland quota in effect when quotas on Maryland tobacco were in effect. (2) 41; Cigar-filler tobacco produced in Pennsylvania. (3) 61; Cigar-wrapper tobacco produced in Connecticut or Massachusetts. (4) 65; Cigar-wrapper tobacco produced in Georgia or Florida. (e) Peanut producers shall provide the county office evidence of disposition of any peanuts that are kept on the farm, including: (1) Type and quantity for use for seed on any farm in which the producer has an interest. (2) Type, quantity, names, and addresses of purchases for peanuts sold or given to others. (f) Peanut producers shall provide the county office information for acquisition of seed peanuts from other sources, including: (1) Name and address of person who sold or gave producer the peanuts. (2) Type, farmer's stock or shelled basis, and quantity. (3) Acquisition date. (g) Acreage and land use reports shall be: (1) Used to determine program eligibility and benefits. (2) On form ASCS&hyph;578, Report of Acreage. 10. Section 718.24 is amended by revising the introductory text and adding paragraphs (d), (e), (f), and (g) to read as follows: ยง718.24 Revised reports. The farm operator may revise a report of acreage to change the acreage reported if the county committee determines that the revision does not have an adverse impact on the program. Revised reports shall be filed and accepted: * * * * * (d) For a farm enrolled in the ARP, if the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section have been met as well as the following: (1) The producer was in compliance with all other program requirements by the earlier of the final disposition date or the established reporting date for the crop, (2) The producer met all ACR and CU for payment requirements for the crop as provided in part 1413 of this title.
