FR940825-0-00033 FR940825-0-00008 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;SW&hyph;11&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9013; AD 94&hyph;17&hyph;18] Airworthiness Directives; Robinson Helicopter Company Model R44 Series Helicopters AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to Robinson Helicopter Company (RHC) Model R44 series helicopters. This action requires removal and replacement of specific components of the cyclic control system. This amendment is prompted by an accident involving an R44 in which the probable cause was determined to be fatigue failure of the cyclic stick assembly. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent failure of the cyclic stick assembly and loss of control of the helicopter. DATES: Effective September 9, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before October 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;SW&hyph;11&hyph;AD, 2601 Meacham Blvd., Room 663, Fort Worth, Texas 76137. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Lirio Liu, Aerospace Engineer, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, ANM&hyph;123L, 3229 E. Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425, telephone (310) 988&hyph;5229, fax (310) 988&hyph;5210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to RHC Model R44 series helicopters. On July 31, 1993, a RHC Model R44 crashed shortly after takeoff. The helicopter had accumulated 174 hours time-in-service at the time of the accident. The National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) determined the probable cause for the accident as fatigue failure of the cyclic stick assembly. After reviewing the NTSB report, the FAA finds it necessary to take action to remove the cyclic control system involved in this accident from eligibility for further flight. Of the six Model R44 series helicopters in the field, five have been modified to incorporate a revised FAA-approved cyclic control system design. The sixth helicopter, serial number (S/N) 0011, has not been modified. The cyclic control system controls the attitude of the helicopter. If it fails, the operator loses the ability to control inputs to the rotor. This condition, if not corrected, could result in failure of the cyclic stick assembly and loss of control of the helicopter. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other RHC Model R44 series helicopters of the same type design, this AD is being issued to prevent failure of the cyclic stick assembly and loss of control of the helicopter. The FAA has found that the original cyclic control system design fully meets existing FAA design standards, but has limited damage tolerance characteristics and does not display slow crack growth properties. When initial damage or a flaw is introduced, the cyclic stick assembly can fail due to fatigue prior to its retirement time of 4,000 hours time-in-service. This AD requires immediate removal and replacement of specific components of the cyclic control system in accordance with the applicable maintenance manual. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES . All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this rule must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 94&hyph;SW&hyph;11&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
