FR940428-2-00138 FR940428-2-00064 Among the companies whose shares compose the Restructuring Companies Portfolio are companies at various stages of the restructuring process; some have completed their intended restructuring, others are currently in the process of restructuring, and others are perceived to be beginning such a process. The term ``restructuring'' does not refer to any particular legal definition. The companies in the Restructuring Companies Portfolio are not specific to any industry segment and include a wide array of industry sectors such as retailing, computer manufacturing, transportation, the manufacture of consumer goods, and financial services. The common stock of the 17 companies initially will be equally weighted within the portfolio on the pricing date. The public float ( i.e. , the market price multiplied by the number of shares outstanding) of the 17 companies differ significantly (from a high of $44 billion (General Motors Corp.) to a low of $328 million (Arkla, Inc.)), as do the market prices of their common stock (from a high $128.375 (UAL Corporation) to a low of $7.625 (Arkla, Inc.)). 8 8 Prices specified in this paragraph, and prices and exchange rates used to calculate public float specified in this paragraph, are as of March 7, 1994. The common stock of 16 and 17 component companies is listed on the Exchange. The common stock of the other component company is traded through NASDAQ. At the outset, the common stock of each of the companies represented in the Restructuring Companies Portfolio will have equal representation. That is, the common stock of each company included in the portfolio shall be assigned a multiplier on the pricing date such that all component companies represent an equal percentage of the value of the entire portfolio on such date. The multiplier indicates the number of shares of common stock (or fraction of one share) included in the calculation of the portfolio. Thus, each of the 17 companies represented shall represent 5.88% of the total portfolio on the pricing date. The multiplier assigned to the component companies will be adjusted for certain events such as stock splits, reverse stock splits, or stock dividends, and the value of the component securities will also be adjusted for certain events including a liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency, merger, or consolidation involving the issuer of the underlying shares. For example, if the issuer of the shares underlying a component company has been subject to a merger or a consolidation and is not the surviving entity, then a value for such common stock will be determined at the time issuer is merged or consolidated and will equal the last available market price for such common stock and that value will be constant for the remaining term of the Restructuring Companies Portfolio MITTS. 9 9 Merrill Lynch will not attempt to find a replacement stock or to compensate for the extinction of a security due to bankruptcy or a similar event.
