FR940919-0-00108 FR940919-0-00016 2. Current Management Practices Waste generators and TSDFs report that most of the soils contaminated with D018&hyph;D043 newly identified organic TC wastes are currently landfilled without prior treatment. Incineration is the commercial off-site treatment technology reportedly available for these wastes. Other than incineration for treating organic TC-contaminated soil, EPA has no information on the commercial off-site availability of other treatment technologies (e.g., low temperature thermal desorption, bioremediation, solvent extraction). Although several commenters to the ANPRM mentioned bioremediation as an alternative to incineration for the treatment of TC-contaminated soils, no commenter provided facility specific information on commercially available off-site treatment capacity for this technology. The lack of off-site commercial capacity for technologies other than incineration was confirmed by responses to EPA's request for voluntary information from vendors of innovative technologies provided in the Vendor Information System for Innovative Treatment Technologies (VISITT). At the time of the proposed rule, EPA had received no information that special-handling problems may limit the quantity of hazardous soil that currently can be treated by incineration, and EPA requested information on special-handling concerns with managing these wastes. No comments were received on this issue. Thus, EPA has concluded that the quantity of hazardous soil that can be treated by incineration will not be limited by special-handling problems. 3. Available Capacity and Capacity Implications a. Hazardous Soil EPA is requiring that hazardous soil be treated prior to land disposal. EPA has determined that available destruction (e.g., incineration) and immobilization (e.g., stabilization) capacity exists. Some additional capacity also exists from many of the technologies in the extraction family (e.g., soil washing, chemical extraction). However, some of the capacity of extraction technologies currently used to decontaminate soils, such as soil washing, may not have received requisite permits by the effective date of this rule, although EPA is exploring the various opportunities for these technologies to become operational in an expedited manner. (Please contact the appropriate EPA regional office or the state hazardous waste program.) Thus, EPA anticipates that the off-site commercial capacity available to treat hazardous soils at the time this rule becomes effective will be limited to incineration and stabilization. EPA recognizes that innovative technologies are also available to treat hazardous soil. Performance of these technologies also may be the basis for treatability variances pursuant to ยง268.44(h). EPA requested comments on the practicality and current availability of these technologies. EPA received comments that the proposed soil standards cannot be met by bioremediation, but may be met by innovative technologies such as thermal desorption and soil vapor extraction. However, EPA did not receive any comments on the current availability of these technologies. Thus, EPA has concluded that the off-site treatment capacity for hazardous soils will initially be limited to incineration and stabilization. The Agency also solicited comments on the need for a capacity variance and on estimates of available treatment capacity. One commenter opposed the proposed capacity variance for soils and said that EPA should_at the very least_require treatment of ``hot spots.'' Several commenters supported the two-year national capacity variance. However, EPA has determined that a national capacity variance is unnecessary for hazardous soils. b. Hazardous Debris EPA estimates that approximately 34,000 tons of debris contaminated with newly identified organic TC wastes are currently land disposed and require off-site commercial treatment capacity. The capacity analysis conducted for debris contaminated with Phase II wastes indicates that sufficient capacity exists to treat debris contaminated with organics. Therefore, EPA is not granting a national capacity variance for hazardous debris contaminated with organic TC wastes and other listed organic wastes covered in this rule. XV. State Authority A. Applicability of Rules in Authorized States Under section 3006 of RCRA, EPA may authorize qualified States to administer and enforce the RCRA program within the State. Following authorization, EPA retains enforcement authority under sections 3008, 3013, and 7003 of RCRA, although authorized States have primary enforcement responsibility. The standards and requirements for authorization are found in 40 CFR part 271. Prior to the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 (HSWA), a State with final authorization administered its hazardous waste program in lieu of EPA administering the Federal program in that State. The Federal requirements no longer applied in the authorized State, and EPA could not issue permits for any facilities that the State was authorized to permit. When new, more stringent Federal requirements were promulgated or enacted, the State was obliged to enact equivalent authority within specified time frames. New Federal requirements did not take effect in an authorized State until the State adopted the requirements as State law. In contrast, under RCRA section 3006(g) (42 U.S.C. 6926(g)), new requirements and prohibitions imposed by HSWA take effect in authorized States at the same time that they take effect in nonauthorized States. EPA is directed to carry out these requirements and prohibitions in authorized States, including the issuance of permits, until the State is granted authorization to do so. While States must still adopt HSWA-related provisions as State law to retain final authorization, HSWA is implemented Federally in authorized States in the interim.
