FR940224-2-00158 FR940224-2-00094 Review Criteria USIA will consider proposals based on the following criteria: 1. Quality of Program Idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, rigor, and relevance to the Agency mission. They should demonstrate the matching of U.S. resources to a clearly defined need. 2. Institutional Reputation and Ability: Applicant institutions should demonstrate their potential for excellence in program design and implementation and/or provide documentation of successful programs. If an applicant is a previous USIA grant recipient, responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts (M/KG) will be considered. Relevant substantive evaluations of previous projects may also be considered in this assessment. 3. Project Personnel. The thematic and logistical expertise of project personnel should be relevant to the proposed program. Resumes or C.V.s should be relevant to the specific proposal and no longer than two pages each. 4. Program Planning: A detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive rigor and logistical capacity. 5. Thematic Expertise: Proposal should demonstrate the organization's expertise in the subject area which promises an effective sharing of information. 6. Cross-Cultural Sensitivity and Area Expertise: Evidence should be provided of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, religious, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as relevant knowledge of the target geographic area/country. 7. Ability to Achieve Program Objectives: Objectives should be realistic and feasible. The proposal should clearly demonstrate how the grantee institution will meet program objectives. 8. Multiplier Effect: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding and contribute to maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual ties. 9. Cost-Effectiveness: Cost to USIA per exchange participant (American and foreign) should be kept to a minimum, and all items proposed for USIA funding should be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objectives. 10. Cost-Sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as direct funding contributions and/or in-kind support from the prospective grantee institution and its partners. 11. Follow-on Activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued exchange activity (without USIA support) which ensures that USIA-supported programs are not isolated events. 12. Project Evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the activity's success. USIA recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique plus description of a methodology to use to link outcomes to original project objectives. Grantees will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is considered or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency which contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the U.S. Government. Awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress and allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about August 1, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: February 10, 1994. Barry Fulton, Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4202 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
