FR940317-1-00088 FR940317-1-00013 (i) Members on full-time active duty in a pay status, including members_ (A) Assigned to units performing active service. (B) Serving as ROTC instructors. (Excludes Junior ROTC instructor unless on active duty.) (C) Serving as NG instructors or advisors. (D) On duty or training with other Federal agencies, for example, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, DOD, State, Navy, or Air Force. (E) Assigned as students or ordered into training at a non-Federal civilian educational institution, hospital, factory, or other industry. (This does not include members on excess leave.) (F) On full-time duty at nonappropriated fund activities. (G) Of the USAR and ARNG on active duty under Title 10. (ii) Members of Reserve Units (other than members of the ARNG under subpart F) during periods of inactive duty training and active duty training, including ROTC cadets who are reservists while they are at summer camp. (iii) Members of the ARNG while engaged in training or duty under Title 32 U.S.C. sections 316, 502, 503, 504, or 505 for claims arising on or after 29 December 1981. (2) Civilian officials and employees of both the DOD and DA (there is no practical significance to the distinction between the terms ``official'' and ``employee'') including but not limited to_ (i) Civil Service and other full-time employees of both the DOD and DA paid from appropriated funds. (ii) Contract surgeons (10 U.S.C. 1091 4022; AR 40&hyph;1, paragraph 4&hyph;2) and consultants (10 U.S.C. 1091; AR 40&hyph;1, paragraph 4&hyph;3; CPR A&hyph;9; FPM chapter 304) where ``control'' is exercised over physician's day to day practice. (iii) Employees of nonappropriated funds if the particular fund is an instrumentality of the United States and thus a Federal agency. In determining whether or not a particular fund is a ``Federal agency,'' consider whether the fund is an integral part of the Army charged with an essential DA operational function and the degree of control and supervision exercised by DA personnel. Members or users, as distinguished from employees of nonappropriated funds, are not considered Government employees; the same is true of family child care providers. However, claims arising out of the use of certain nonappropriated fund property, or the acts or omissions of family child care providers, may be payable from such funds under subpart L as a matter of policy, even when the user is not within the scope of employment and the claim is not otherwise cognizable under any of the other authorizations in this regulation. (iv) Prisoners of war and interned enemy aliens. (v) Civilian employees of the District of Columbia National Guard, including those paid under ``service contracts'' from District of Columbia funds. (vi) Civilians serving as ROTC instructors paid from Federal funds. (viii) National Guard technicians employed under 32 U.S.C. 709(a) for claims accruing on or after 1 January 1969 (Public Law 90&hyph;486, 13 Aug. 1968; 82 Stat. 755). (3) Persons acting in an official capacity for the DOD or DA whether temporarily or permanently in the service of the United States with or without compensation including but not limited to_ (i) ``Dollar a year'' personnel. (ii) Members of advisory committees, commissions, boards, or the like. (iii) Volunteer workers in an official capacity acting in furtherance of the business of the United States. The general rule with respect to volunteers is set forth in 31 U.S.C. 665(b), which provides that, ``No officer or employee of the United States shall accept voluntary service for the United States or employ personal service in excess of that authorized by law, except in cases of emergency involving the safety of human life or the protection of property.'' Title 5, United States Code, section 3111(c) specifically provides that student volunteers employed thereunder will be considered Federal employees for purposes of the FTCA. The same classification is applied by 10 U.S.C. 1588 to museum and family support program volunteers. The Army is permitted to accept and use certain volunteer services in Army family support programs as authorized by Public Law 98&hyph;94, September 24, 1983. Red Cross volunteers meeting the criteria set forth in AR 40&hyph;3, paragraph 2&hyph;42, are also considered to be employees of the United States for claims purposes. (iv) Loaned servants. Employees who are permitted to serve another employer may be considered ``loaned servants,'' provided the borrowing employer has the power to discharge the employee, control and direct the employee, and decide how he or she will perform the tasks. Whoever has retained those powers is liable for the employee's torts under the principle of respondent superior. Where those elements of direction and control have been found, the United States has been liable; for example, for the torts of Government employees loaned for medical training and emergency assistance and county and state employees discharging Federal programs. (c) Scope of employment means acting in ``line of [military] duty'' (28 U.S.C. 2671) and is determined in accordance with principles of respondent superior under the law of the jurisdiction in which that act or omission occurred. Determination as to whether a person is within a category listed in (b)(3) of this section will usually be made together with the scope determination. Local law should always be researched, but the novel aspects of the military relationship should be kept in mind in making a scope determination.
