FR940506-1-00045 FR940506-1-00012 Processor means any facility or vessel that processes fish for commercial use or consumption, any person who receives fish from fishermen for commercial purposes, and fishermen who sell fish directly to another individual for use as bait or personal consumption. Regional Director means the Director, Alaska Region, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802. Research Plan means the North Pacific Fisheries Research Plan developed by the North Pacific Fishery Management Council under the Magnuson Act. Research Plan fisheries means the following fisheries: Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area groundfish, Gulf of Alaska groundfish, Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area king and Tanner crab; and halibut from convention waters off Alaska. Retained catch means the catch retained by either at-sea or shoreside processors, in round weight or round-weight equivalents, from Research Plan fisheries. Round weight or round-weight equivalents means: (1) For groundfish processed by shoreside processors _scale weights of retained catches; for other than whole fish delivered to shoreside processors, fish product weight, as defined at §672.2 of this chapter, divided by NMFS standard product recovery rates. (2) For groundfish processed by at-sea processors _fish product weight, as defined at §672.2 of this chapter, of each product divided by NMFS standard product recovery rates. (3) For Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area crab processed by catcher/processors _scale weight of a subsample multiplied by the number of subsamples comprising the retained catch. (4) For Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area crab processed by mothership processor vessels _scale weights of retained catches. Shoreside processor or shoreside processing facility means processor as defined in this section. Standard exvessel price means the exvessel price for species harvested in Research Plan fisheries, calculated annually by NMFS for each species or species group, from exvessel price information for all product forms, used in determining fee assessments. Standard observer day means all or part of a 24-hour period that begins at 0001 hours Alaska local time (A.l.t.) and ends at 2400 A.l.t., during which an observer is stationed on a vessel or at a shoreside facility for purposes of complying with observer coverage requirements at §677.10(a). A standard observer day cannot be attributed to more than one vessel or shoreside facility. Standardized cost of an observer day means the cost per observer day used to calculate both the annual total cost of the Research Plan and the fee percentage specified under the annual Research Plan specification process at §677.11. Tanner crab means Chionoecetes species or hybrids of these species. §677.3 Relation to other laws. (a) The relation of this part to other laws is set forth in §620.3 of this chapter and paragraphs (b) through (c) of this section. (b) Domestic fishing for groundfish. Regulations governing the conservation and management of groundfish in the Gulf of Alaska and the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area are set forth at 50 CFR parts 672 and 675, respectively. The conservation and management of groundfish in waters of the territorial sea and internal waters of the State of Alaska are governed by Alaska State regulation at 5 AAC 28 and Alaska Statute at A.S. 16. (c) King and Tanner crab fishing. Regulations governing the conservation and management of king crab and Tanner crab in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area are governed by Alaska Statutes at A.S. 16 and Alaska State regulations at 5 AAC 34, 35, and 39; and at part 671 of this chapter. §677.4 Permits. (a) General. In addition to the permit and licensing requirements at §§301.3, 672.4, 675.4, and 676.13 of this chapter, all processors of fish from Research Plan fisheries must have a Federal Processing Permit issued by the Regional Director under this section. Such permits shall be issued without charge. (b) Application. The permit required under paragraph (a) of this section may be obtained by submitting to the Regional Director a completed Federal Processing Permit Application (Form FPP&hyph;1; see figure 1) containing the following information: (1) The semi-annual period for which the permit is requested. (2) The Research Plan fishery or fisheries for which the permit is requested. (3) If the application is for an amended permit, the current Federal Processing Permit number and an indication of the information that is being amended. (4) The processor owner's name or names; mailing address; person responsible, if the owner is a company; managing company, if any; telephone number; FAX number; and telex number. (5) If the processing facility is a shoreside processor, the plant's name, address, ADF&G Processor Code, telephone number, FAX number, and telex number. (6) If the processing facility is a vessel, the vessel's name, home port, net tonnage, length overall, U.S. Coast Guard number, telephone number, FAX number, telex number, INMARSAT (satellite communications) number, and ADF&G number. (7) The owner's name, signature, and date. (c) Issuance. (1) Permits required under this section will be issued by the Regional Director semi-annually.
