FR940223-1-00072 FR940223-1-00016 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 625 [Docket No. 940241&hyph;4041; I.D. 013194A] RIN 0648&hyph;AG00 Summer Flounder Fishery AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this proposed rule to implement Amendment 6 to the Fishery Management Plan for the Summer Flounder Fishery (FMP). This amendment would allow vessels with moratorium permits to carry on board nets other than the minimum mesh size once the seasonal thresholds for summer flounder are retained, modify the schedule for establishing the annual management measures, provide for an experimental fishery to gather data, prohibit the use of twisted mesh, prohibit interference with any observers, and modify the dimensions of the fish box or tote. The intended effect of this rule is to relieve the industry of a regulatory restriction, use the best available data to assess the fishery, establish conformity with other regulations in the same fishing area, and protect observers. DATES: Comments on the proposed rule must be received on or before April 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on the proposed rule, Amendment 6, or supporting documents should be sent to the Director, National Marine Fisheries Service, Northeast Regional Office, 1 Blackburn Drive, Gloucester, MA 01930&hyph;2298. Mark the outside of the envelope ``Comments on Summer Flounder Plan.'' Copies of Amendment 6, the environmental assessment, and the regulatory impact review are available from David R. Keifer, Executive Director, Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council, room 2115 Federal Building, 300 S. New Street, Dover, DE 19901&hyph;6790. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Myles Raizin, Resource Policy Analyst, 508&hyph;281&hyph;9104. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Amendment 6 was prepared by the Mid-Atlantic Fishery Management Council (Council) in consultation with the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission and the New England and South Atlantic Fishery Management Councils. A notice of availability for the proposed amendment was published in the Federal Register on February 4, 1994 (59 FR 5384). Copies of the amendment are available from the Council upon request [see ADDRESSES ]. The amendment revises management of the summer flounder ( Paralichthys dentatus ) fishery pursuant to the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended (Magnuson Act). The management unit continues to be summer flounder in U.S. waters in the western Atlantic Ocean from North Carolina northward. The objectives of the FMP as it would be amended continue to be: (1) Reduce fishing mortality in the summer flounder fishery to assure that overfishing does not occur; (2) reduce fishing mortality on immature summer flounder to increase spawning stock biomass; (3) improve the yield from the fishery; (4) promote compatible management regulations between state and Federal jurisdictions; (5) promote uniform and effective enforcement of regulations; and (6) minimize regulations to achieve the management objectives stated above. Amendment 1 to the FMP added a definition of overfishing. Amendment 2, which contained the large majority of the management measures implemented by the current regulations, is discussed below. Amendment 3 revised the boundary of the exemption area in the Northeast and increased the minimum mesh threshold to 200 pounds during the winter fishery from November 1 to April 30. Amendment 4 modified the state-specific percentage shares that allocate the coastwide annual commercial quota to the States. Amendment 5 empowered States to combine and transfer commercial quota with the approval of the Director, Northeast Region, NMFS (Regional Director).
