FR940525-1-00043 FR940525-1-00007 Authority and Issuance For the reasons set out in the preamble, part 567 of chapter V of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: SUBCHAPTER D_REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SAVINGS ASSOCIATIONS PART 567_CAPITAL 1. The authority citation for part 567 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1462, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1476a, 1828(note). 2. Section 567.1 is amended by revising paragraphs (f) and (kk) and by adding new paragraphs (mm), (nn), (oo) and (pp) to read as follows: §567.1 Definitions. * * * * * (f) Direct credit substitute. The term direct credit substitute means the assumption, in form or substance (other than recourse obligations as defined in §567.1(kk)), of any risk of loss directly or indirectly associated with an asset or other claim, that exceeds the savings association's pro rata share of the asset or claim. If a savings association has no claim on an asset, the assumption of any risk of loss is a direct credit substitute. Direct credit substitutes include, but are not limited to: (1) Financial guarantee-type standby letters of credit that support financial claims on the account party; (2) Guarantees and guarantee-type instruments backing financial claims; (3) Purchased subordinated interests or securities that absorb more than their pro rata share of losses from the underlying assets; and (4) Purchased loan servicing rights if the servicer is responsible for losses associated with the loans being serviced (other than servicer cash advances as defined in §567.1(nn)), or if the servicer makes or assumes representations or warranties about the loans (other than standard representations and warranties as defined in §567.1(oo)). * * * * * (kk) Recourse. The term recourse means the retention, in form or substance, of any risk of loss directly or indirectly associated with a transferred asset, that exceeds a pro rata share of the savings association's claim on the asset. If the savings association has no claim on a transferred asset, the retention of any risk of loss is recourse. A recourse obligation typically arises when an institution transfers assets and retains an obligation to repurchase the assets, or to absorb losses due to: a default of principal or interest; or any other deficiency in the performance of the underlying obligor or some other party. Recourse arrangements include, but are not limited to: (1) Representations or warranties about the transferred assets other than standard representations and warranties as defined in §567.1(oo); (2) Retained loan servicing rights if the servicer is responsible for losses associated with the loans serviced (other than servicer cash advances as defined in §567.1(nn)); (3) Retained subordinated interests or securities that absorb more than a pro rata share of losses from the underlying assets; (4) Assets sold under an agreement to repurchase; and (5) Loan strips sold without direct recourse where the maturity of the participation is shorter than the maturity of the underlying loan. * * * * * (mm) Public-sector entities. The term public-sector entities includes states, local authorities and governmental subdivisions below the central government level in an OECD-based country. In the United States, this definition encompasses a state, county, city, town or other municipal corporation, a public authority, and generally any publicly-owned entity that is an instrumentality of a state or municipal corporation. This definition does not include commercial companies owned by the public sector. (nn) Servicer cash advances. The term servicer cash advances means funds that a loan servicer advances to ensure an uninterrupted flow of payments or the timely collection of loans, including disbursements made to cover foreclosure costs or other expenses arising from a loan to facilitate its timely collection. A servicer cash advance is not a recourse arrangement (as defined in §567.1(kk)) or a direct credit substitute (as defined in §567.1(ff)), if: (1) The servicer is entitled to full reimbursement; or (2) For any one loan, nonreimbursed advances are contractually limited to an insignificant amount of the outstanding principal on that loan. (oo) Standard representations and warranties. The term standard representations and warranties means contractual provisions that a savings association extends when it transfers assets (including loan servicing rights) or assumes when it purchases loan servicing rights, that refer to existing facts at the time the assets are transferred or the servicing rights are acquired, and that have been verified with reasonable due diligence by the transferor or servicer. Standard representations and warranties also include contractual provisions for the return of assets in the event of fraud or documentation deficiencies. Standard representations and warranties are not recourse obligations as defined in §567.1(kk) or direct credit substitutes as defined in §567.1(ff). (pp) Standby letters of credit. (1) A financial guarantee-type standby letter of credit is any letter of credit, or similar arrangement, however named or described, which represents an irrevocable obligation to the beneficiary on the part of the issuer: (i) To repay money borrowed by or advanced to or for the account of the account party; or (ii) To make payment on account of any indebtedness undertaken by the account party, in the event that the account party fails to fulfill its obligation to the beneficiary. (2) A performance-based standby letter of credit is any letter of credit, or similar arrangement, however named or described, which represents an irrevocable obligation to the beneficiary on the part of the issuer to make payment on account of any default by the account party in the performance of a nonfinancial or commercial obligation. 3. In §567.6, the first sentence of paragraph (a)(2) introductory text is revised, the fifth sentence of paragraph (a)(2) introductory text is removed, paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) and (C) are removed and reserved, paragraph (a)(2)(i)(B) is revised, and a new paragraph (a)(3) is added to read as follows: §567.6 Risk-based capital credit risk weight categories. (a)␣*␣*␣* (2) Off-balance sheet activities. Except for recourse obligations and direct credit substitutes which are specifically discussed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, risk weights for off-balance sheet items are determined by the following two-step process. *␣*␣* (i)␣*␣*␣* (A) [Reserved] (B) Risk participations purchased in bankers acceptances; (C) [Reserved] * * * * * (3) Recourse arrangements and direct credit substitutes _(i) Risk-weighted asset amounts. To calculate the risk-weighted asset amount for a recourse arrangement or for a direct credit substitute, multiply the on-balance sheet credit equivalent amount by the appropriate risk weight using the criteria regarding obligors, guarantors, and collateral listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (ii) On-balance sheet credit equivalent amount. Except as otherwise provided by this paragraph (a)(3), the on-balance sheet credit equivalent amount for a recourse arrangement or direct credit substitute is the amount of assets from which risk of loss is directly or indirectly retained or assumed. For the purposes of this paragraph (a)(3), the amount of assets from which risk of loss is directly or indirectly assumed or retained means: (A) For a financial guarantee-type standby letter of credit, guarantee, or other guarantee-type arrangement, the assets that the direct credit substitute fully or partially supports; (B) For a subordinated interest or security, the amount of the subordinated interest or security plus all more senior interests or securities;
