FR940826-0-00141 FR940826-0-00020 130. Discussion. In the Second Report and Order, we stated that publicly traded minority and women-owned companies would not be eligible for provisions applicable to these designated entities. In the Fifth Report and Order, however, we deviated from this restriction to allow publicly traded minority and women-owned companies to qualify to bid in the entrepreneurs' block, and under certain circumstances to qualify for bidding credits. 178 We will continue to consider exceptions to our restriction on publicly traded company eligibility for minority and women-owned businesses on a service-specific basis, in each case considering the capital requirements and the expected build-out cost of the service. We agree with BET that in services with high entry costs, precluding publicly traded companies from receiving measures intended for minority and women-owned businesses may undermine our objective of ensuring the opportunity for these designated entities to participate in the provision of spectrum-based services. 178 See Fifth Report and Order at ¶¶163&hyph;164. 131. As requested by BET, we clarify that the provisions for businesses owned by women and minorities are separate and distinct from the provisions for small businesses. Thus, women and minority-owned businesses may qualify for measures adopted for these entities irrespective of their size, and small businesses may qualify for small business provisions regardless of their ownership by minorities and women. And small businesses that are owned by members of minorities and/or women may qualify for provisions applicable to both groups. 132. Finally, in the general auction rules, we indicated that in determining designated entity eligibility we would consider all rights, warrants and options on a fully diluted basis, i.e. , they will be treated as if already exercised. 179 We intend to maintain the existing rule of calculating these ownership interests on a fully diluted basis, since we expect that such ownership interests will almost always have the potential either to impact the ability of a designated entity to control a company or to diminish a designated entity's financial stake in the venture. However, in the rare circumstance where such ownership interests have no effect on a designated entity's ability to control a firm or to diminish the designated entity's financial stake, we will consider requests for waivers. 180 We note, however, that we expect such instances to be rare, and petitioners will be required to make an affirmative showing sufficient to overcome the presumption that such ownership interests should be calculated as if exercised for purposes of determining eligibility issues. 179 47 CFR 1.2110(b)(2). 180 See 47 CFR 1.2110. 133. Petitions. AIDE and Cook Inlet propose stricter eligibility and anti-sham measures to avoid designated entity shams. Specifically, Cook Inlet proposes requiring that a designated entity maintain clear structural control of an entity in order to be eligible for designated entity provisions. In this regard, Cook Inlet argues that in limited partnerships, the general partner should be required to be a designated entity and restrictions should be imposed on the ability of other general partners to exercise management control. Cook Inlet also proposes that the Commission require designated entities to document their eligibility by attaching documentation to their long form application. 134. We agree with AIDE that in some instances stricter eligibility requirements are appropriate to ensure that only legitimate designated entities are the beneficiaries of the special provisions established under our rules. In particular, we clarify that, when an applicant or a licensee is a partnership, because each general partner generally has the ability to act on behalf of the partnership, all general partners in the license applicant must be designated entities in order to qualify for designated entity status. We believe that this clarification is consistent with the Commission's long-standing practice of attributing control in the context of partnerships to the general partners. This clarification will ensure that designated entities in partnerships retain de facto as well as de jure control. 135. In addition, we agree with AIDE that documentation of designated entity status should be submitted along with the applicants' long-form applications in order to enable the Commission to verify designated entity eligibility. Accordingly, we will require designated entities to substantiate their eligibility by describing on their long-form application how they satisfy the requirements for eligibility. We will also require designated entity applicants to list on their long-form application all agreements that effect designated entity status, such as all partnership agreements, shareholder agreements, management agreements and other agreements, including oral agreements, which establish that the designated entity will have both de facto and de jure control of the entity. In addition, we will require that such information be maintained at the licensee's facilities, or by its designated agent, for the term of the license, and that the information be made available to Commission staff upon request in order to enable the Commission to audit designated entity eligibility on an ongoing basis. 136. In addition, if an applicant for designated entity status proves unqualified, and the Commission determines that the application for designated entity status involved willful misrepresentation or other serious misconduct, the Commission will impose severe penalties. These may include monetary forfeitures, revocation of licenses, and prohibition of participation in future auctions. 137. With respect to AIDE's proposal that clear structural control should be required to establish designated entity eligibility, we believe that as a general rule, our strict requirement that women and minority principals control the applicant and maintain a 50.1 percent voting interest (in a corporate applicant) and a 50.1 percent equity stake in the entity is sufficient to prevent ``fronts'' and to ensure that our provisions are only made available to legitimate qualified designated entities. However, we reserve the flexibility on a service-specific basis, taking into account the nature of the specific provisions applicable in that service, to adopt additional or different requirements for designated entity eligibility. 181 181 For example, in the Fifth Report and Order we allowed minority or women-owned broadband PCS applicants to sell up to 75 percent of the company's equity to passive investors so long as the control groups retained control and 25 percent of the equity and each other investor owned less than 25 percent of the passive equity. We also established control group tests for small businesses and entities that wished to bid in certain blocks. 138. While we conclude that our requirement that control and substantial equity rest with minorities and/or women will generally be adequate to ensure that parties do not attempt to evade the statutory requirement to provide economic opportunities and ensure participation by businesses owned by these groups, we also reaffirm our commitment to investigate all allegations of fronts, shams or other methods used to try to evade our eligibility rules. In this regard, we remind parties that we will conduct random pre and post-auction audits to ensure that applicants receiving designated entity benefits are bona fide designated entities. L. Small Businesses
