FR940106-2-00016 FR940106-2-00007 Currency Conversion No certified rates of exchange, as furnished by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, were available for the POI. In place of the official certified rates, we used the daily official exchange rates for the Brazilian currency published by the Central Bank of Brazil. In the instances when a post-POI exchange rate was required, we used a monthly average exchange rate from International Monetary Fund's International Financial Statistics. In hyperinflationary economies, the Department normally converts movement charges for the U.S. sales on the date these charges become payable. Where we did not have the exact payment date for a charge, we converted charges for U.S. sales on the date of shipment, the closest approximation to the date the charges became payable. For two of CBCC's U.S. sales, it was necessary to convert the bulk packing charges on the date of sale as we did not have a bulk packing rate in the month of shipment for those U.S. sales. Thus, for these two sales we converted the packing charges in the same month in which the U.S. sales occurred. Interested Party Comments Comment 1: Petitioners argue that, based on the facts now available to the Department, the dumping margins established in the preliminary determination are inadequate to offset the actual dumping margin of Brazilian FeSi producers. In addition, petitioners believe that at verification the Department confirmed the existence of major, continuing deficiencies in respondents' information. Accordingly, petitioners contend that the Department should assign the highest, most adverse margin based on noncooperative BIA to both CBCC and Minasligas. DOC Position: We disagree with petitioners. CBCC and Minasligas' mistakes, found during the course of this investigation, when taken as a whole, do not represent a verification failure and do not support a claim of respondents' noncooperation. The minor errors in calculation or discrepancies with regard to adoption of certain methodological premises do not merit the use of BIA. Therefore, we have followed our practice of correcting errors found at verification as long as those errors are minor and do not exhibit a pattern of systemic misstatement of fact. Thus, we are able to use the data submitted by CBCC and Minasligas, corrected for errors noted at verification, in our calculations. Comment 2: Petitioners argue that the Department should use the highest, most adverse noncooperative BIA rate for CBCC and Minasligas since they both repeatedly failed to provide the Department with the accurate sieve size and silicon content of the FeSi they sold. Petitioners maintain that CBCC's August 17, 1993, letter contained information about silicon content and sieve size known to be inaccurate. Petitioners contend that accurate information was clearly available to CBCC and the fact that it was not provided prevented the Department from making such or similar comparisons in the final determination, as required by the Act. Similarly, petitioners note that Minasligas, in its August 25, 1993, revised product concordance, failed to provide the exact silicon content and sieve size of its home market sales. CBCC believes that the Department incorrectly based its preliminary determination on BIA because of the alleged failure by CBCC to provide a proper product concordance. CBCC states that it cannot fabricate a product concordance to the level of sieve size, which was requested by the Department, because there is no difference in product between sieve sizes. CBCC argues that the Department verified that sieve size is irrelevant in terms of the cost and the price and, thus, any DIFMER would be zero. CBCC maintains that based on the information submitted and the production processes observed at verification, the Department should use CBCC's information as the basis for the final determination. Similarly, Minasligas maintains that sieve size does not impact cost or price of FeSi and should not be considered a factor for product comparison purposes. With respect to providing information on exact silicon content, Minasligas contends that the ASTM standard specifications for FeSi 75 percent under grade C provide for a product containing between 74 percent and 79 percent of silicon. Minasligas argues that since all of its FeSi sales are of FeSi 75 percent the exact silicon content of the product within this range is irrelevant.
