FR940804-0-00002 FR940804-0-00001 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Part 225 [Regulation Y; Docket No. R&hyph;0832] Revisions Regarding Tying Restrictions AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Board is adopting a final rule amending the anti-tying provision of Regulation Y to permit a bank or a bank holding company to offer a discount on a loan, discount, deposit, or trust service (a ``traditional bank product''), or on securities brokerage services, on condition that the customer obtain a traditional bank product from an affiliate. The Board believes that this will increase the efficiency with which organizations can deliver banking services. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 2, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert deV. Frierson, Assistant General Counsel (202/452&hyph;3711); Gregory A. Baer, Managing Senior Counsel (202/452&hyph;3236), or David S. Simon, Attorney (202/452&hyph;3611), Legal Division; or Anthony Cyrnak, Economist, (202/452&hyph;2917), Division of Research and Statistics, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. For the hearing impaired only, Telecommunication Device for the Deaf (TDD), Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 106(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1972) generally prohibits a bank from tying a product or service to another product or service offered by the bank or by any of its affiliates. A prohibited tie occurs if a bank: (1) varies the consideration for a product or service (the ``tying product'') on the condition that the customer obtain some additional product or service (the ``tied product'') from the bank or from any of its affiliates; or (2) as a condition for providing a customer a product or service, requires the customer to purchase another product or service from the bank or from any of its affiliates. In 1971, the Board applied these tying restrictions to bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries as if they were banks. 12 CFR 225.4(d)(1). Section 106 contains an exception (the ``traditional bank product exception'') permitting a bank to tie a product to a traditional bank product offered by that bank, but not by any affiliated bank or nonbank. 1 Thus, for example, the statutory exception permits a bank to offer a discount on a loan on the condition that a customer maintain a deposit account at that bank; however, the bank may not offer a discount on a loan on the condition that a customer maintain a deposit account at an affiliated bank. 1 Similarly, under the Board's extension of section 106 to nonbanks in Regulation Y, a nonbank may tie a product to a traditional bank product offered by itself, but not by an affiliate. On March 11, 1994, the Board requested public comment on two proposed exceptions to section 106. 59 FR 12,202 (March 16, 1994). The first exception would extend the statutory traditional bank product exception described above to permit a bank or bank holding company to offer a discount on a traditional bank product to a customer who obtains another traditional bank product from an affiliate. The second proposed exception would permit a bank or bank holding company to offer a discount on securities brokerage services to a customer who obtains a traditional bank product from an affiliate. Section 106 authorizes the Board to permit, by regulation or order, exceptions from its anti-tying provisions where the Board determines that an exception will not be contrary to the purposes of the section. General Summary of Comments The Board received 68 comments on its proposal. These commenters included 31 bank holding companies, 17 banks, two law firms, five Reserve Banks and seven trade associations. Overall, the comments supported both parts of the proposed rule. One commenter generally opposed the proposed amendments because it believed that exceptions to section 106 should be provided on a case-by-case basis and not as a general matter through rulemaking, and that by acting on individual requests, the Board would be able to prevent potential anticompetitive effects, especially in small towns. The Board has concluded, however, that the benefits and costs of the proposal may be assessed in the aggregate and that rulemaking is appropriate. Traditional Bank Products The Board is adopting substantially as proposed the extension of the traditional bank product exception in section 106 to cover discount arrangements involving an affiliate. In particular, the final rule permits a bank or nonbank to vary the consideration charged for a traditional bank product on the condition that a customer obtain another traditional bank product from an affiliate, provided that each product in the arrangement is separately available for purchase by the customer. The Board believes that the exception is fully consistent with the purposes of section 106, will increase the efficiency with which banking organizations can deliver banking services, and will allow those organizations to provide their customers discounts on packages of banking products that include products offered by affiliates.
