FR940428-2-00006 FR940428-2-00004 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration [Docket No. 930532&hyph;3329] RIN 0648&hyph;AF59 Guidelines for Nondiscretionary Financial Assistance AGENCY: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is issuing guidelines to ensure that applications for financial assistance under nondiscretionary assistance programs will be processed and approved or disapproved within 75 days after submission of the application; and that applicants will be notified within 14 days after receipt of an application whether or not the application is complete. DATES: The provisions of this notice become effective April 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Litton, Chief, Policy & Planning Branch, Grants Management Division, room 5440, 1325 East-West highway, Silver Spring MD, 20910; telephone (301) 713&hyph;0942. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The authority for these guidelines is the NOAA Authorization Act of 1992, Public Law No. 102&hyph;567, ยง404, 15 U.S.C. 1539 (Supp. IV 1992), which directed that the Secretary develop, and after notice and after notice and opportunity for comment, promulgate guidelines for processing nondiscretionary assistance awards within 75 days after submission of the application to the responsible program office of NOAA. In the case of a program for which the recipient of a grant, contract, or other financial assistance is specified by statute to be, or has customarily been, a State or an interstate fishery commission, such financial assistance may be provided by the Secretary to that recipient on a sole-source basis, notwithstanding any other provision of law. These final guidelines include revisions based on comments received on draft guidelines published in the Federal Register on August 30, 1993 (58 FR 45487). Comments and Changes to the Proposed Guidelines Following is a summary of the major comments, and a response to each comment. Concurrent Review Comment: Concurrent review of applications to the National Marine Fisheries Service, as proposed in the draft guidelines, would not be practical, because proposals are frequently modified by the program office prior to approval for funding. Response: Since the program office frequently modifies proposals, concurrent review by the program office and the Grants Management Divisions will not be provided. Instead, when a application is determined by the program office to be complete and acceptable, the original application will be forwarded to the Grants Management Division as soon as the applicant is notified (within 14 days after receipt), to permit prompt administrative review and issuance of an award within 75 days after submission. Since applications will not receive concurrent review, applications should be submitted only to the appropriate program office. Clarifications Comment: The guidelines should define ``Complete application''. Response: ``Complete application'' has been defined in the guidelines. Comment: Will applications be processed in 75 calendar days or work days? Response: The intent is to process award within 75 calendar days. Applicability Comment: The guidelines should apply to Fishery Management Councils and other applicants. Response: The guidelines implement a law which defined the categories of applications to which it applies. This would not include Fishery Management Councils or other applicants unless they fall within the definition established by section 404. Budget Detail Comment: Less budget detail should be required for applications from States, Commissions, and Councils because they must comply with Federally mandated accounting and fiscal procedures. Response: Our position is that we require only sufficient detail to carry out our responsibility to determine the adequacy and reasonableness of proposed costs. Role of Grants Office Comment: Is there duplication of functions between the program office and the grants office in reviewing grant applications? Response: We do not believe there is duplication between program and grants office functions. The program office assures that proposed project activities are technically sound and allowable under program regulations and that proposed costs are adequate. The Grants Management Division assures that financial and administrative requirements are met, and that costs are reasonable, allocable, and necessary. Avilability of Funds Comment: The National Marine Fisheries Service should notify applicants of the amount of funding available prior to submission of applications. Another comment requested a specific time frame after funding authorizations become available, within which applicants would be notified of the amount of funding available. Response: The National Marine Fisheries Service notifies applications as soon as possible after it determines how much will be available for nondiscretionary awards. Paperwork Reduction Comment: Applicants with more than one award should be required to submit certain documents, such as audit and indirect cost information, only once a year, instead of once per application. Response: To expedite processing, the Grants Management Division currently requires a copy of each document for each grant file. We will keep this comment in mind for possible future implementation.
