FR940216-1-00026 FR940216-1-00008 (d) Causing public inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm by making unreasonably loud noise. (e) Being under the influence of any controlled substance or alcoholic beverage in violation of State or Federal law. (f) Damaging, removing, transporting, or possessing any thing of value belonging to any person without permission. (g) Intimidating, endangering, assaulting, injuring, or interfering with any person. 9. In §261.5, the introductory text is republished and paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: §261.5 Fire. The following are prohibited: (a)␣*␣*␣* (b) Firing or possessing any tracer bullet or incendiary ammunition. * * * * * 10. In §261.6, the introductory text is republished; paragraphs (a), (c), (d), (e), and (h) are revised and a new paragraph (i) is added to read as follows: §261.6 Timber and other forest products. The following are prohibited: (a) Cutting or otherwise damaging any tree, or other forest product, except as authorized by a special use authorization, timber sale contract, permit, approved plan of operations, or Federal law or regulation. (b)␣*␣*␣* (c) Failing, when required by the timber sale contract or permit, to bring timber or other forest products cut under a contract or permit to a place designated for scaling or other means of recording by a forest officer, or removing timber or other forest product from such designated place prior to scaling or other means of recording. (d) Stamping, marking with paint, or otherwise identifying any tree or other forest product in a manner similar to that employed by Forest officers to mark or designate a tree or any other forest product for cutting, removing, or leaving uncut. (e) Loading, removing, transporting, or possessing timber or any other forest products acquired under any permit or timber sale contract, unless such product is identified as required by the permit or contract. * * * * * (h) Removing any timber, tree, or other forest product, except as authorized by special use authorization, timber sale contract, permit, approved plan of operations, or Federal law or regulation.(i) Altering, adding, moving, or removing any stamp, brand, paint, Forest Service timber sale boundary marker or tag, or other identification on any tree, or other forest product previously marked or surveyed by a Forest officer, except as authorized by a Forest officer, special use authorization, timber sale contract, permit, approved plan of operations, or Federal law or regulation. 11. In §261.7, the introductory text is republished and paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §261.7 Livestock. The following are prohibited: (a) Unauthorized livestock within the National Forest System or on other lands under Forest Service administrative control. * * * * * 12. In §261.8, the introductory text is republished and paragraph (a) is revised to read as follows: §261.8 Fish and wildlife. The following are prohibited to the extent that Federal or State law is violated: (a) Hunting, trapping, fishing, catching, molesting, killing, possessing, transporting, buying, selling, bartering, or offering to buy, sell, or barter any kind of wild animal, bird, fish, shellfish, or parts thereof, or taking the eggs of any bird or fish. * * * * * 13. Revise §261.9 to read as follows: §261.9 Property administered by the Forest Service. Except as provided by special use authorization, contract, approved plan of operations, or Federal law or regulation, the following are prohibited: (a) Disturbing, damaging, excavating, digging, removing, transporting, possessing, buying, selling, bartering, or offering to buy, sell, or barter, any natural feature or other property of the United States. (b) Disturbing, damaging, removing, transporting, possessing, buying, selling, bartering, or offering to buy, sell, or barter, any plant that is classified as a threatened, endangered, or sensitive species. (c) Disturbing, damaging, excavating, digging, removing, transporting, possessing, buying, selling, bartering, or offering to buy, sell, or barter, any fossil or other paleontological resource; or prehistoric, historic, or archaeological resource, structure, site, artifact, or property.
