FR940613-0-00132 FR940613-0-00017 (3) PHAs that lend a staff person to an assessment team should be reimbursed for the staff person's salary and benefits during that assignment. (PHADA) Response: The Department agrees that the statutory provision allowing program funds to be used for travel and administrative expenses of assessment teams, extends to PHA staff. Therefore, PHAs will be reimbursed for the salary and benefits for any staff person that serves on an assessment team. However, this does not apply to staff members of the PHA that is being assessed. (4) Because the need for these funds is great, the Department should speed up the scheduling of assessments. (MCHA, PHADA) Response: The Department has assessed all known eligible PHAs. Funding of Vacancy Reduction Activities (1) HUD needs to clarify its position regarding the use of program funds for security improvements. (CLPHA) Response: Where units are vacant because of security problems, HUD will provide funding for physical security improvements, such as improved locks, security screens, additional lighting, and site improvement. As part of management improvements, HUD also will provide funding for security activities over a limited duration, if HUD determines that such funding is likely to result in the reoccupancy and continued occupancy of vacant units. Examples of security activities that could be funded as part of management improvements include: •Hiring of additional staff to coordinate the provision, by local government or other public and private entities, of appropriate social services, such as drug education and treatment referral programs; •Hiring of security guards, through individual employment contracts, or guard services, using competitive proposal or small purchase procurement procedures, or contracting with a local police force for security that is in addition to that required under the Cooperation Agreement. As a condition of employment, these security personnel shall be required to meet all relevant State insurance, training, licensing, and other similar requirements; •Development and implementation of improved screening procedures for prospective residents; •Development of more timely and effective management techniques for dealing with disruptive residents and drug-related crime; •Organization and training of unarmed voluntary resident patrols to work cooperatively with the local law enforcement agencies; •Development and implementation of improved communication and coordination with local law enforcement agencies; and •Hiring of investigators to investigate drug-related crime in and around the developments or to provide evidence relating to any such crime in any administrative or judicial proceedings. (2) The minimum housing standards that should be imposed for capital improvements funded under this program are the modernization standards, not the Housing Quality Standards (HQS). Units renovated to the HQS often still need modernization. (CLPHA) In addition, the minimum housing standards should be applied only to the inside of units improved under the program, rather than to common areas and major structural items. (CHA) Response: Each work item funded under this program must be performed in compliance with modernization standards. However, the vacancy reduction program is an occupancy program, and HQS is a minimum occupancy standard. The goal of the individual work items (performed to modernization standards) is to bring the vacant units into an occupiable condition. Section 968.435 of this rule requires certification that affected vacant units will be brought into compliance with the HQS. As applied in Section I.F(1)(b) of today's NOFA, only aspects of the HQS that pertain to the vacant unit directly are required. (3) The decision on how to target the initial funding available under this program should be based on the survey responses only and not on any existing data mentioned in the preamble of the proposed rule. (PHADA)
