FR941110-0-00138 FR941110-0-00016 The statutory authority for §488.402(c) is found at sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act. We have discussed this statutory authority in both the proposed rule and elsewhere in the preamble of this final rule. The matter of a potentially large number of follow-up visits is a possibility. If it materializes, State survey agencies and possibly HCFA's regional offices may require additional resources. We will be closely monitoring implementation of these regulations to determine the resources needed for this task. However, not every deficiency will require or even merit a separate revisit for certification of substantial compliance. As stated above, sometimes several deficiencies will lead to the imposition of only one remedy. Moreover, even if different remedies can be traced to different deficiencies, the survey agency is under no obligation to make multiple revisits. The noncompliance which led to the imposition of remedies is due entirely to facility performance. The survey agency is not responsible for the noncompliance and is under no obligation to spend valuable resources on multiple revisits. Furthermore, remedies are imposed for noncompliance in a facility, rather than for deficiency ``a'' or ``b'' or ``c,'' etc. The survey agency is generally obligated to revisit only when the facility makes a credible allegation of compliance with all requirements and, in some cases, no revisit is required even then. Finally, we are not adding the phrase, ``Subject to the provisions of this subpart,'' at the beginning of paragraph (c) because we believe it to be unnecessary. Since we are revising this final rule to allow HCFA or the State to impose one or more remedies for all deficiencies constituting noncompliance whether they are interrelated or not, there is no need to define ``interrelated deficiencies.'' For the reasons given directly above, we are revising §488.402(c) to provide that HCFA or the State may apply one or more remedies for each deficiency constituting noncompliance, or single or multiple remedies for all deficiencies constituting noncompliance. Comment: A number of commenters said that they opposed our proposed exemption of deficiencies with scope and severity levels of 1 from the requirement for a plan of correction. The consensus of these commenters was that all deficiencies should require a plan of correction. As one commenter remarked: While we understand that it is inappropriate to punish or sanction a facility for an isolated, minor deficiency, the government should ask facilities to correct such problems and there should be a public record of the facility's plan to do so. Since the regulations and the reform law require compliance with all requirements, there cannot be any exclusions from completing plans of correction. Plans of correction are a management tool for both the facility and the regulators, not a penalty or punishment. Two commenters said the exception should be retained, but only if HCFA applies a ``substantiality factor'' to the determination of what constitutes a deficiency. By ``substantiality'' they meant that nothing would be cited as a deficiency unless it is not an isolated or occasional occurrence or unless it has a significant impact on resident rights or quality of life. If this were the case, they said, then all deficiencies should require a plan of correction. One commenter asked, ``Why cite a deficiency at scope and severity level 1?'' Regarding the issue of approval of the plans of correction, one commenter suggested that HCFA approve all plans of correction. Another suggested we add the following specific language: HCFA will or the survey agency must approve the plan of correction if it is reasonably calculated to result in substantial correction of the deficiency within a reasonable time. Neither HCFA nor the survey agency may disapprove a plan of correction because the facility denies the existence of the deficiency, if the plan otherwise meets the criteria specified by this paragraph. The facility may submit an amended plan of correction at any time, and HCFA will or the survey agency must approve the amended plan if it meets the criteria specified in this paragraph. A facility's submission of a plan of correction does not constitute an admission that the deficiency exists. Finally, one commenter said that there is a need for clearer plans of correction, and another said that the plans need to be more specific and focus on care issues. Response: We agree that all deficiencies should require either a plan of correction or an agreement to correct, and are revising this final regulation at §488.408 (``Selection of remedies.'') accordingly. One commenter expressed the rationale for this succinctly: ``*␣*␣* the government should ask facilities to correct [deficiencies] and there should be a public record of the facilities' plan to do so.'' We do not accept the suggestion that the regulations specify that HCFA will or the survey agency must approve the plan of correction if it is reasonably calculated to result in substantial correction of the deficiency within a reasonable time. We have discussed the meaning of substantial compliance elsewhere in this preamble. As for the terms ``reasonably calculated'' and ``reasonable time,'' it has been our experience that putting general language such as this in regulations is not useful. Plans of correction are considered on a case-by-case basis by both the States and by HCFA because circumstances vary greatly from facility to facility. To state in the regulations that HCFA and the States have a moral and legal responsibility to be reasonable in their dealings with providers would be to belabor the obvious; there is no need for such a pronouncement. One of the commenters who proposed that plans of correction be required for all deficiencies made the observation that some plans of correction do nothing more than complain about the law, the surveyor, or the circumstances, without ever describing how the violation will be corrected. We agree and would only add that it is highly probable that facilities submitting these plans considered them to be ``reasonable,'' and extremely improbable that these plans would be acceptable to HCFA or the State. Finally, we agree that plans of correction must be clear and specific, but believe that there is no need to state this in regulations.
