FR940628-0-00039 FR940628-0-00017 Section 682.414␣Records, Reports, and Inspection Requirements for Guaranty Agency Programs Comments: A commenter recommended that §682.414(a)(3)(ii)(K) be revised to explicitly require lenders to retain copies of audit reports for not less than five years after the report is issued. While §682.414(a)(3)(ii)(K) implies that audits are covered under this section because they are reports, the commenter suggested that the section be revised explicitly to require that the audit reports be kept on file. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter that the regulations should explicitly require a lender to retain a copy of its annual audit report for not less than five years after the report is issued. Changes: Section 682.414(a)(3) has been revised to incorporate the commenter's recommendation. Section 682.511␣Due Diligence in Collecting a Loan Comments: A few commenters suggested that the regulations be revised to reflect that joint borrowers may cancel a loan even if they do not simultaneously satisfy the same cancellation criterion but the loan would otherwise be ``cancellable''. The commenters cited the example of a loan with joint borrowers where one borrower becomes totally, permanently disabled and the other files for bankruptcy (with the loan subject to discharge), both conditions under which a borrower would normally be able to cancel a loan. Discussion: The Secretary clarifies that a lender may file a claim for reimbursement based on the fact that, at the time of the request for discharge, joint borrowers both have a condition under which a borrower would qualify to cancel a loan. Changes: The regulations have been revised to reflect that a claim may be filed based on each borrower satisfying the criteria. Section 682.603␣Certification by a Participating School in Connection With a Loan Application Section 682.603(h) Comments: Several commenters suggested that the wording of §682.603(h) could be made clearer by substituting ``earlier than the 24th day of the student's period of enrollment'' for ``earlier than 7 days prior to the 31st day of the student's period of enrollment.'' Discussion: Paragraph (h) of §682.603 is meant to achieve, in the case of new borrowers subject to delayed delivery of loan proceeds, the appropriate interest limitation Congress intended in §682.300 using a schedule based on the date of disbursement by the lender. The Secretary agrees that the suggested rewording would more clearly state that requirement. Changes: A change has been made to reflect that a school may not request the disbursement of loan proceeds for a first time borrower who has not previously borrowed a Stafford or SLS loan earlier than the 24th day of the student's period of enrollment. Section 682.604␣Processing the Borrower's Loan Proceeds and Counseling Borrowers Section 682.604(c)(3) Comments: Some commenters suggested that the Secretary revise the language to codify the Department's earlier guidance that eliminates the separate borrower authorization statement for those students who provide the authorization for electronic fund transfer disbursement on the common loan application. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that this provision does not apply in those instances where the borrower has provided a separate authorization for electronic fund transfer via the common loan application. Changes: The regulations have been revised to provide that the school fulfills this requirement if the borrower has authorized the electronic fund transfer on the common loan application. Section 682.604(g)(2)(vi) Comments: A commenter recommended that the language be revised to reflect that when a borrower has obtained loans from multiple guarantors, that the institution provide the required updated information to all guarantors listed in the borrower's file. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that updated information should be provided to the guaranty agency or agencies within the specified time. Changes: The regulations have been revised to incorporate the commenter's recommendation. Section 682.604(h) Comments: A few commenters suggested that the overaward tolerance for the FFEL program be consistent with the $200 overaward allowed in the campus-based programs. Some commenters suggested that the statutory silence on the issue of tolerance does not constitute a prohibition. Discussion: There is no statutory basis for providing a $200 tolerance in the treatment of an FFEL program overaward. Congress has provided specific statutory tolerances in the campus-based overaward provisions and for limited purposes in the FFEL program in section 428G(d) of the HEA. Given these precedents, if Congress had intended to provide for a general tolerance it would have included it in the statute. Changes: None. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements were identified and explained in the NPRM. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of these regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions.
