FR940429-0-00035 FR940429-0-00009 (ii) Requires a higher level of care than that which can be provided under CHSP; or (iii) Refuses or fails to pay service fees. § XXX .230 Eligibility. (a) Participants. (1) Any eligible resident as defined in § XXX .105 of an eligible housing project (or any person who, with deinstitutionalization and appropriate supportive services under this section, could become a resident of eligible federally assisted housing) shall be eligible for services under the CHSP. (2) In providing services under a Congregate Housing Services Program, the program shall give priority to very low income individuals, and shall consider their service needs in selecting program participants. (b) Other residents. Elderly persons, persons with disabilities and temporarily disabled individuals who reside in an eligible housing project other than eligible project residents under paragraph (a)(1) of this section may receive services from a congregate services program if the housing managers, congregate service coordinators, and the professional assessment committee jointly determine that the participation of these individuals will not negatively affect the provision of services to eligible project residents. Residents eligible for services under this paragraph shall pay fees as provided under § XXX .240. (c) Nonresidents. Elderly persons, persons with disabilities, and temporarily disabled persons who are not residents of the project may participate in the Congregate Housing Services Program at the option of program management in consultation with project residents, if the participation of these persons will not adversely affect the cost effectiveness or operation of the program, or add significantly to the need for assistance. Nonresidents who receive services under the congregate services program shall pay a fee as established under § XXX .240(f). § XXX .235 Cost distribution. (a) General. Each state, Indian tribe, unit of general government, or local nonprofit housing sponsor that receives amounts under a contract under § XXX .205(a) shall supplement any such amount with amounts sufficient to provide at least 50 percent of the cost of providing the congregate services program. In instances where the state is the applicant, the local government's contribution shall not exceed 10 percent of the amount required of the state. The Secretary concerned shall authorize owners to use excess residual receipts (if authorized) to the extent available to supplement funds received from CHSP. (1) The CHSP shall provide no more than 40 percent of the cost of the program, under a grant agreement in accordance with § XXX .205(a). (2) Fees paid by the participants under § XXX .240 shall provide at least 10% of the cost of the program up to a maximum of 20% of each participant's adjusted income. The Secretary concerned shall provide for the waiver of fees for individuals who are without income. (b) Maintenance of existing supportive services. In the application, the applicant (and or Project, if different) shall certify that it shall maintain the existing supportive services that frail elderly and nonelderly disabled residents are already receiving, including those which a PAC may determine are necessary to maintain independence for potential CHSP participants. These services will be maintained either for the time the individual remains in the CHSP, or for the duration of the CHSP grant. These services do not qualify as matching funds. (c) Prohibition on substitution of funds. The grantee shall ensure that the activities provided to the project under a grant in support of activities eligible for assistance under this part will be in addition to, and not in substitution for, annual funds the grantee was providing to the project in support of activities eligible for assistance under this part before the date of the submission of the application for CHSP assistance. The grantee shall certify to the Secretary concerned that CHSP funds will not be substituted for funds that the grantee was providing before the date of application for assistance under CHSP. (d) Eligible supplemental contributions (Matching Funds). (1) All sources of matching funds must be directly related to the types of supportive services prescribed by the PAC or CHSP administration. (2) Matching funds may include: (i) Cash (which may include funds from federal, state and local governments, third party contributions, available payments authorized under Medicaid for specific individuals in the Congregate Housing Services Program, Community Development Block Grants or Community Services Block Grants, Older Americans Act programs or excess residual funds with the approval of the Secretary concerned). (ii) The imputed dollar value of other agency or third party-provided direct services or staff who will work with or provide services to program participants; these services must be justified in the application to assure that they are the new or expanded services of the CHSP necessary to keep the program participants independent without creating dependence. If services are provided by the state, Indian tribe, unit of general local government, or local nonprofit housing sponsor, IHA, PHA, for profit or not for profit owner, any salary paid to staff from governmental sources to carry out the program of the grantee and any salary paid to residents employed by the program (other than from amounts under a contract under § XXX .205) is allowable match. (iii) In-kind items (these are limited to 10 percent of the 50 percent matching amount), such as the current market value of donated common or office space, utility costs, furniture, material, supplies, equipment and food used in direct provision of services. The applicant must provide an explanation for the estimated donated value of any item listed. (iv) The value of services performed by volunteers to the program, at the rate of $5.00 an hour. (e) Limitation. (1) The following are not eligible for use as cash match funds: (i) Funds from a PHA's operating funds; (ii) PHA's section 8 administrative fee; (iii) CHSP funds; (iv) Section 8 funds other than excess residual receipts; (v) CIAP funds unless used for service coordination or case management; (vi) Comprehensive grant funds unless used for service coordination or case management. (2) For purposes of complying with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, if the state is the applicant, the Secretary concerned may not consider any amounts contributed or provided by any local government to any state receiving assistance under this section that exceeds 10 percent of the amount required of the state. (f) Annual review of match. The Secretary concerned will review the infusion of matching funds annually, as part of the program/budget review. If there are insufficient matching funds available to meet program requirements at any point after grant start-up, or at any time during the term of the grant (i.e., if matching funds from sources other than program participant fees drop below 50 percent of total supportive services cost), the Secretary concerned may decrease the federal grant share of supportive services funds accordingly.
