FR940817-2-00171 FR940817-2-00081 Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person is not an insurer solely because it holds securities representing an interest in a trust which are of a class subordinated to certificates representing an interest in the same trust. J. ``Obligor'' means any person, other than the insurer, that is obligated to make payments with respect to any obligation or receivable included in the trust. Where a trust contains qualified motor vehicle leases or qualified equipment notes secured by leases, ``obligor'' shall also include any owner of property subject to any lease included in the trust, or subject to any lease securing an obligation included in the trust. K. ``Excluded Plan'' means any plan with respect to which any member of the Restricted Group is a ``plan sponsor'' within the meaning of section 3(16)(B) of the Act. L. ``Restricted Group'' with respect to a class of certificates means: (1) each underwriter; (2) each insurer; (3) the sponsor; (4) the trustee; (5) each servicer; (6) any obligor with respect to obligations or receivables included in the trust constituting more than 5 percent of the aggregate unamortized principal balance of the assets in the trust, determined on the date of the initial issuance of certificates by the trust; or (7) any affiliate of a person described in (1)&hyph;(6) above. M. ``Affiliate'' of another person includes: (1) Any person directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such other person; (2) Any officer, director, partner, employee, relative (as defined in section 3(15) of the Act), a brother, a sister, or a spouse of a brother or sister of such other person; and (3) Any corporation or partnership of which such other person is an officer, director or partner. N. ``Control'' means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual. O. A person will be ``independent'' of another person only if: (1) such person is not an affiliate of that other person; and
