FR940802-2-00084 FR940802-2-00048 D. Water Resource Impacts 1. Possible water quality impacts from erosion and sedimentation that would be associated with bridge building, other construction activities, and rail operations. 2. Analysis of the disturbance of soil and vegetation in water bodies, floodplains, and/or wetlands that could result during bridge building, other construction activities, and rail operations. 3. Possible water quality degradation that could result from industrial development. 4. Water quality degradation that could result from accidental releases of hazardous materials in rail transportation. 5. Water quality degradation that could result if herbicides used to control vegetation wash into the Elk River. 6. Impacts from contaminated soil resulting from leaks, derailments, and fueling that may occur along the right-of-way. E. Impacts on Biological Resources 1. Assessment of the impact of construction and operation activities on any threatened and endangered species in the vicinity of the right-of-way. 2. Assessment of the impact of construction and operation activities on wildlife from conversion of habitat within the right-of-way to rail use. 3. Discussion of concerns regarding disturbance of vegetation in adjacent wetlands and floodplains during bridge building, other construction activities, and rail operations. 4. Evaluation of the impact of erosion and sedimentation during bridge building, other construction activities, and rail operations on aquatic wildlife and habitat. F. Air Quality Impacts 1. Emissions from construction a. fugitive dust from wind erosion of surfaces stripped of vegetation calculated under EPA's PM&hyph;10 regulations. b. dust from scraper and dozer operations calculated under EPA's PM&hyph;10 regulations. c. emissions from combustion of diesel fuel by heavy equipment. 2. Air pollutants during operation a. combustion of diesel fuel by trains. b. coal dust from trains. c. calculation of emission rates for significant pollutants. G. Noise Impacts 1. Construction-related noise due to use of heavy machinery. 2. Long-term noise impacts associated with operation of rail line a. calculation of Leq measurements of Ldn contours for rural communities and areas along the line. b. assessment of impact to sensitive receptors (e.g. schools, churches). H. Impacts on Socioeconomics 1. Evaluation of social and economic impacts resulting from changes in the physical environment due to construction and operation of the proposed line. I. Impacts on Historic and Cultural Resources 1. Impacts to structures (buildings and bridges) that may be eligible for listing on the National Register of Historic Places. 2. Impacts to archaeological resources. J. Impacts on Recreational Resources 1. Effects of construction and operation on wildlife and other recreational resources, including the Elk River. 2. Effects of construction and operation on opportunities for hunting, fishing, and bird watching. Proposed Mitigation 1. Necessary and appropriate mitigation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18768 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
