FR941021-1-00066 FR941021-1-00009 (2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges. §67.209 Neurologic. Neurologic standards for a second-class airman medical certificate include, but is not limited to: (a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following: (1) Epilepsy; (2) A single seizure; (3) A disturbance of consciousness without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause; or (4) A transient loss of control of nervous system function(s) without satisfactory medical explanation of the cause; (b) No other seizure disorder, disturbance of consciousness, or neurologic condition that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds_ (1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held or (2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges. §67.211 Cardiovascular. Cardiovascular standards for a second-class medical certificate include, but are not limited to: (a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of any of the following: (1) Myocardial infarction; (2) Angina pectoris; (3) Coronary heart disease that has required treatment or, if untreated, that has been symptomatic or clinically significant; (4) Cardiac valve replacement; (5) Permanent cardiac pacemaker implantation; or (6) Heart replacement; (b) The person's average systolic blood pressure while sitting must not exceed 150 millimeters of mercury, and the person's average diastolic blood pressure while sitting must not exceed 95 millimeters of mercury. If antihypertensive medication is used or is needed to meet the requirement of this section, a person may be issued a certificate only after a current (within the preceding 6 months) satisfactory medical assessment, prescribed by the Federal Air Surgeon, of blood pressure control; of the medication used; of the presence or absence of cardiovascular risk factors other than hypertension; of other vascular disease; and of the presence or absence of disease of ``target'' organs (e.g., heart, brain, kidneys, or eyes). (c) The person must not use anticoagulant medication. (d) A person applying for second-class medical certification must demonstrate an absence of myocardial infarction and other clinically significant abnormality on electrocardiographic examination: (1) At the first application after reaching the 35th birthday, unless the person has satisfied §67.111(d)(1) and (2) On a biennial basis after reaching the 40th birthday, unless within the preceding 15 months an electrocardiogram (ECG) has been provided as part of an application for medical certification. (e) An ECG will satisfy a requirement of paragraph (d) of this section if it is dated no earlier than 60 days before the date of the application it is to accompany, and was performed and transmitted according to acceptable standards and techniques. §67.213 General medical condition. The general medical standards for a second-class airman medical certificate are: (a) No established medical history or clinical diagnosis of diabetes mellitus that requires insulin or any other hypoglycemic drug for control. (b) No other organic, functional, or structural disease, defect, or limitation that the Federal Air Surgeon, based on the case history and appropriate, qualified medical judgment relating to the condition involved, finds_ (1) Makes the person unable to safely perform the duties or exercise the privileges of the airman certificate applied for or held or (2) May reasonably be expected, for the maximum duration of the airman medical certificate applied for or held, to make the person unable to perform those duties or exercise those privileges. §67.215 Discretionary issuance. A person who does not meet the provisions of §§67.203 through 67.213 of this subpart may apply for the discretionary issuance of a certificate under §67.401. Subpart D_Third-Class Airman Medical Certificate §67.301 Eligibility. To be eligible for a third-class airman medical certificate, or to remain eligible for a third-class airman medical certificate, a person must meet the requirements of this subpart. §67.303 Eye. Eye standards for a third-class airman medical certificate include, but are not limited to:
