FR940106-1-00120 FR940106-1-00013 E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence Splittail are vulnerable to extinction from stochastic events because of the consistent decline in population indices and severely constricted ranges and distribution. Poor water quality also may adversely affect splittail, either through direct exposure to toxins or depletion of zooplankton or invertebrate food sources. All major rivers that are tributary to the Estuary are exposed to large volumes of agricultural and industrial chemicals that are applied in the Central Valley watershed (Nichols et al. 1986). Agricultural chemicals and their residues, as well as chemicals originating in urban runoff, find their way into the rivers and Estuary. Approximately 10 percent of the total pesticide use in the United States occurs in the Sacramento and San Joaquin River watersheds, primarily on orchards, alfalfa, and rice during the months of January to June of each year (Jewel Bennett, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, in litt ., 1993). Recently, high concentrations of organophosphate and carbamate pesticides from agricultural uses have been documented entering the Estuary. These pesticides are acutely toxic to zooplankton and fishes as far west as Martinez in Suisun Bay and as far south as Vernalis on the San Joaquin River (Bennett, in litt ., 1993). The periods of pesticide use coincide with the timing of migration, spawning, and early development of splittail. During rainfall runoff events, acutely toxic pulses of pesticides move down the rivers and through the Estuary with remarkable persistence and relatively little dilution. Toxicology studies of rice field irrigation drain water of the Colusa Basin Drainage Canal have documented significant toxicity of drain water to striped bass embryos and larvae, Oryzias latipes larvae (in the Cyprinodontidae family), and the opossum shrimp, which is the major food organism of striped bass larvae and juveniles (Bailey et al. 1991). This drainage canal flows into the Sacramento River just north of the City of Sacramento. The majority of drain water samples collected during April and May 1990 were acutely toxic to striped bass larvae (96 hour exposures); this was the third consecutive year that the Colusa Basin rice irrigation drain water was acutely toxic (Bailey et al. 1991). Splittail may be similarly affected by agricultural and industrial chemical run-off. Some heavy metal contaminants have been released into the Estuary from industrial and mining enterprises. While the effects of these contaminating compounds on splittail larvae and their zooplankton food resources are not well known, the compounds could adversely affect survival. In addition, increases in urban development in the Sacramento Valley will continue to result in concurrent increases in urban runoff. Selenium has been found in aquatic organisms (Saiki and Lowe 1987) and fish species in the San Joaquin River watershed (Nakamoto and Hassler 1992). Selenium has been shown to cause developmental defects in and mortality of fish species (Hermanutz 1992). In recent years, untreated discharges of ship ballast water has introduced exotic aquatic species to the Estuary ecosystem (Carlton et al. 1990). Several exotic species may adversely affect the splittail. An asian clam ( Potamocorbula amurensis), introduced as veliger larvae in 1986, was first discovered in Suisun Bay during October 1986. By June 1987, the Asian clam was widespread in Suisun, San Pablo, and San Francisco Bays irrespective of salinity, water depth, and sediment type at densities greater than 10,000 individuals per square meter. Asian clam densities declined to 4,000 individuals per square meter as the population aged during the year (Carlton et al. 1990). Persistently low river outflow and concomitant elevated salinity levels may have contributed to this species' population explosion (Carlton et al. 1990). The Asian clam could potentially play an important role in affecting the phytoplankton dynamics in the Estuary. The clam may have an effect on higher trophic levels by decreasing phytoplankton biomass. Historically, Eurytemora affinis, the native euryhaline copepod, has been the most important food for larval fishes in the Estuary. Three non-native species of euryhaline copepods ( Sinocalanus doerrii, Pseudodiaptomus forbesi, and Pseudodiaptomus marinus) became established in the Delta between 1978 and 1987 (Carlton et al. 1990), while E. affinis populations have declined since 1980. It is not known if the exotic species have displaced E. affinis or whether changes in the estuarine ecosystem now favor S. doerrii and the two Pseudodiaptomus species (Moyle et al. 1989). S. doerrii is difficult for larval fishes to catch because of its fast swimming and effective escape response (Meng and Orsi 1991). Reduced feeding efficiency and ingestion rates weaken and slow the growth of splittail young and make them more vulnerable to starvation or predation.
