FR940506-1-00067 FR940506-1-00014 (iv) Interest penalties are not required on payment delays due to disagreement between the Government and Contractor over the payment amount or other issues involving contract compliance or on amounts temporarily withheld or retained in accordance with the terms of the contract. Claims involving disputes, and any interest that may be payable, will be resolved in accordance with the clause at 52.233&hyph;1, Disputes. (6) Prompt payment discounts. An interest penalty shall also be paid automatically by the designated payment office, without request from the Contractor, if a discount for prompt payment is taken improperly. The interest penalty will be calculated as described in subparagraph (a)(5) of this clause on the amount of discount taken for the period beginning with the first day after the end of the discount period through the date when the Contractor is paid. (7) Additional interest penalty. (i) If this contract was awarded on or after October 1, 1989, a penalty amount, calculated in accordance with (a)(7)(iii) of this clause shall be paid in addition to the interest penalty amount if the Contractor_ (A) Is owed an interest penalty; (B) Is not paid the interest penalty within 10 days after the date the invoice amount is paid; and (C) Makes a written demand to the designated payment office for additional penalty payment, in accordance with (a)(7)(ii) of this clause, postmarked not later than 40 days after the invoice amount is paid. (ii)(A) Contractors shall support written demands for additional penalty payments with the following data. No additional data shall be required. Contractors shall_ ( 1 ) Specifically assert that late payment interest is due under a specific invoice and request payment of all overdue late payment interest penalty and such additional penalty as may be required; ( 2 ) Attach a copy of the invoice on which the unpaid late payment interest was due; and ( 3 ) State that payment of the principal has been received, including the date of receipt. (B) Demands must be postmarked on or before the 40th day after payment was made, except that_ ( 1 ) If the postmark is illegible or nonexistent, the demand must have been received and annotated with the date of receipt by the designated payment office on or before the 40th day after payment was made, or ( 2 ) If the postmark is illegible or nonexistent and the designated payment office fails to make the required annotation, the demand's validity will be determined by the date the Contractor has placed on the demand; provided, such date is no later than the 40th day after payment was made. (iii)(A) The additional penalty shall be equal to 100 percent of any original late payment interest penalty that is due on or after January 22, 1990, except_ ( 1 ) For additional penalties due on or before January 22, 1992, such penalties shall not exceed $2,500; ( 2 ) After January 22, 1992, the additional penalty shall not exceed $5,000; ( 3 ) The additional penalty shall never be less than $25. (B) If the interest penalty ceases to accrue in accordance with the limits stated in subdivision (a)(5)(iii) of this clause, the amount of the additional penalty shall be calculated on the amount of interest penalty that would have accrued in the absence of these limits, subject to the overall limits on the additional penalty specified above. (C) For determining the maximum and minimum additional penalties, the test shall be the interest penalty due on each separate payment made for each separate contract. The maximum and minimum additional penalty shall not be based upon individual invoices unless the invoices are paid separately. Where payments are consolidated for disbursing purposes, the maximum and minimum additional penalty determination shall be made separately for each contract therein. (D) The additional penalty does not apply to payments regulated by other Government regulations (for example, payments under utility contracts subject to tariffs and regulation). (b) Contract financing payments _(1) Due dates for progress payments. For contracts that provide for contract financing, requests for payment shall be submitted to the designated billing office as specified in this contract or as directed by the Contracting Officer. Contract financing payments shall be made on the ( insert day as prescribed by agency head; if not prescribed, insert 30th day ) day after receipt of a proper contract financing request by the designated billing office. In the event that an audit or other review of a specific financing request is required to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract, the designated payment office is not compelled to make payment by the due date specified. (2) Due dates for other contract financing. For advance payments, loans, or other arrangements that do not involve recurrent submissions of contract financing requests, payment shall be made in accordance with the corresponding contract terms or as directed by the Contracting Officer. (3) Interest penalty not applicable. Contract financing payments shall not be assessed an interest penalty for payment delays. (c) Fast payment procedure due dates. If this contract contains the clause at 52.213&hyph;1, Fast Payment Procedure, payments will be made within 15 days after the date of receipt of the invoice. (End of clause)
