FR940922-2-00092 FR940922-2-00061 Certificate of Service I hereby certify that on this date I have caused to be served by first class mail, postage prepaid, or by hand, if so indicated, a copy of the foregoing Response to Public Comment upon the following persons, counsel for defendants in the matter of United States of America v. MCI Communications Corporation : Michael H. Salsbury, Esquire, Jenner & Block, 601 13th Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20005 Counsel for Defendant, MCI␣BY HAND Janet L. McDavid, Esquire, Hogan & Hartson, 555 13th Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20004 Counsel for Defendant, BT Forty-Eight Company␣BY HAND Dated: September 8, 1994. Carl Willner, Attorney, Communications & Finance Section, Antitrust Division. Exhibit A Richard L. Rosen, Esq., Chief, Communication and Finance Section, Antitrust Division, Room 8104, 555 Fourth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001 Re: United States v. MCI Comm. Corp. and BT Forty-Eight Co., Civil Action No. 94 1317 (TFH) (D.D.C.)_Comments of ACC Global Corp. August 26, 1994. Dear Mr. Rosen: On behalf of ACC Global Corp. (``ACC''), we respectfully submit these comments on the Proposed Final Judgment in the above captioned case. ACC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of ACC Corp., headquartered in Rochester, New York, is an international resale interexchange carrier that is an applicant for authority to provide international private line resale service between the United States and the United Kingdom. Another ACC Corp. subsidiary, ACC Long Distance UK Limited, received the first U.K. license to provide international simple resale service. ACC is one of only seven entities which the parties have stipulated are ``qualified United States international telecommunications providers'' (``Competitors''), as defined in Section II.E. of the proposed Final Judgment. As such, ACC competes with BT Forty-Eight Co. and its parent firms, MCI Communications Corp. (``MCI'') and British Telecommunications plc (``BT'') (collectively ``Defendants''). ACC does not oppose prompt resolution of this matter through entry of a consent decree. ACC strongly recommends, however, that ``the transparency'' requirements of the proposed Final Judgment be clarified and modified so as to ensure that they achieve the intended effect of minimizing the potential anticompetitive effects of the Defendants' concerted activities. Specifically, ACC's comments address two respects in which ACC believes that the ``transparency'' provisions of the proposed Final Judgment are deficient or unclear. First, ACC believes that the proposed decree should be clarified to ensure that the Competitors as well as the Department of Justice (``DOJ'') receive copies of the information required to be furnished under the transparency requirements. Second, ACC is seriously concerned about the adverse impact of the provision permitting the DOJ to waive the transparency requirements of the decree without notice or comment by the beneficiaries of those requirements and without Court approval. I. Importance of Transparency Requirements ACC considers the transparency requirements of the Proposed Final Judgment (Section II.A) to be of vital importance in ameliorating the potential anticompetitive impact of the agreements that gave rise to the complaint by the DOJ in this matter. As the DOJ alleges in its Complaints, the challenged agreements between BT and MCI will provide BT with an ``increased incentive'' as well as the ``ability'' to use its market power in the provision of local and domestic and international long distance telecommunications services in the UK to discriminate in favor of MCI and NewCo against other US international telecommunications and enhanced telecommunications providers. 1 1 Complaint, ¶30(a). and favor MCI over its competitors in the allocation of international telecommunications traffic from the UK, substantially lessening competition in the US. 2 2 Complaint, ¶30(c). ACC is, of course, one of the potentially disfavored Competitors. The proposed Final Judgment provides ACC and others subject to this discrimination with important protection against such discrimination in the Section II.A. transparency requirements. Under Section II.A., NewCo and MCI would be required to ``disclose'' a broad array of information regarding their dealings with BT. Under Section IV.E., such ``disclosure'' would be made to the DOJ which may, in turn, disclose such information to any U.S. corporation that holds or has applied for a license to provide international telecommunication services between the U.S. and the U.K. (This would include ACC.)
