FR940505-1-00332 FR940505-1-00012 Charcoal lighter material means any combustible material designed to be applied on, incorporated in, added to, or used with charcoal to enhance ignition. Charcoal Lighter Material does not include any of the following: electrical starters and probes; metallic cylinders using paper tinder; natural gas; and propane. Colorant means any pigment or coloring material used in a consumer product for an aesthetic effect, or to dramatize an ingredient. Construction and panel adhesive means any one-component household adhesive having gap filling capabilities, and which distributes stress uniformily throughout the bonded area resulting in a reduction or elimination of mechanical fasteners. These materials are applied from 1/10 gallon or 11 fluid ounce caulking cartridges. Consumer means any person who seeks, purchases, or acquires any consumer product for personal, family, household, or institutional use. Persons acquiring a consumer product for resale are not consumers for that product. Consumer product means a chemically formulated product used by household and institutional consumers including, but not limited to, detergents; cleaning compounds; polishes; floor finishes; cosmetics; personal care products; home, lawn, and garden products; disinfectants; sanitizers; and automotive specialty products but do not include paint, furniture coatings, or architectural coatings. Contact adhesive means any household adhesive that: is nitrile-based, or contains polychlorobutadiene (neoprene, chloroprene, bayprene), or latex; when applied to two substrates forms an instantaneous, non-repositionable bond; when dried to touch, exhibits a minimum 30 minute bonding range; and bonds only to itself without the need for reactivation by solvents or heat. Container/packaging means the part or parts of the consumer or institutional product which serve only to contain, enclose, incorporate, deliver, dispense, wrap or store the chemically formulated substance or mixture of substances which is solely responsible for accomplishing the purposes for which the product was designed or intended. Container/Packaging includes any article onto or into which the principal display panel and other accompanying literature or graphics are incorporated, etched, printed or attached. Crawling bug insecticide means any insecticide product that is designed for use against ants, cockroaches, or other household crawling arthropods, including, but not limited to, mites, silverfish or spiders. Crawling Bug Insecticide does not include products designed to be used exclusively on humans or animals. Device means any instrument or contrivance (other than a firearm) which is designed for trapping, destroying, repelling, or mitigating any pest or any other form of plant or animal life (other than man and other than bacteria, virus, or other microorganism on or in living man or other living animals); but not including equipment used for the application of pesticides when sold separately therefrom. Disinfectant means any product intended to destroy or irreversibly inactivate infectious or other undesirable bacteria, pathogenic fungi, or viruses on surfaces or inanimate objects and whose label is registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA) 7 U.S.C. 136 et seq. Disinfectant does not include any of the following: products designed solely for use on human or animals; products designed for agricultural use; products designed solely for use in swimming pools, therapeutic tubs, or hot tubs; products which, as indicated on the principal display panel or label, are designed primarily for use as bathroom and tile cleaners, glass cleaners, general purpose cleaners, toilet bowl cleaners, or metal polishes. Distributor means any person to whom a consumer product is sold or supplied for the purposes of resale or distribution in commerce, except that manufacturers, retailers, and consumers are not distributors. Double phase aerosol air freshener means an aerosol air freshener with the liquid contents in two or more distinct phases that requires the product container be shaken before use to mix the phases, producing an emulsion. Dual purpose air freshener/disinfectant means an aerosol product that is represented on the product container for use as both a disinfectant and an air freshener, or is so represented on any sticker, label, packaging, or literature attached to the product container. Dusting aid means a product designed to assist in removing dust and other soils from floors and other surfaces without leaving a wax or silicone based coating. Dusting Aid does not include products which consist entirely of compressed gases for use in electronic or other specialty areas. Engine degreaser means a cleaning product designed to remove grease, grime, oil and other contaminants from the external surfaces of engines and other mechanical parts.
