FR941117-1-00025 FR941117-1-00004 The facility would be required to maintain clinical records on each resident and retain the records for at least 5 years or any period of time required by State law. The material in the records would remain confidential except under specified circumstances (§483.212(d)). We would also require that facilities disclose ownership and control in accordance with §455.104 (§483.212(c)). A facility would also have to notify the Medicaid agency within 5 days if there is a change in the facility's ownership or administrator or clinical director. A facility would be required to maintain a quality assurance program which monitors care provided in the facility and to cooperate with an authorized program of independent medical evaluation, including evaluation of each resident's need for facility care (proposed §483.212(e)). PRTFs would be one type of psychiatric facility, and would therefore be subject to the ``inspection of care'' provisions specified in subpart I of 42 CFR part 456. Section 483.218, Safety provisions, contains the provisions we propose to ensure general resident safety. We propose to require that PRTFs meet the applicable provisions of the Life Safety Code of the National Fire Protection Association (§483.218(a)). If these code provisions would result in unreasonable hardship upon facilities classified for health care occupancy only, they could be waived by the State survey agency, but only if the waiver does not adversely affect the health and safety of residents or staff. Refuse, including any toxic wastes generated in the facility, would have to be disposed of in accordance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws (§483.218(d)). PRTFs would be required in §483.222, Dietary services, to provide dietary services that ensure that each resident receives a diet that meets the daily nutritional needs of the resident. If a qualified dietitian is not employed on a full time basis, the facility would be required to designate a person to serve as the director of food service. The regulation would require menu planning, and sanitary food storage, preparation, and distribution methods. We would require that facilities provide sufficient space in the dining and program areas to enable staff to provide the services specified in each resident's inpatient plan of treatment (§483.224(a)). Residents' bedrooms would be required to accommodate no more than four residents, and to measure at least 80 square feet per resident in multiple resident bedrooms and at least 100 square feet in single resident rooms (§483.224(b)). Variations in these accommodation and size requirements could be allowed in individual cases when a physician providing direct care documents that the variations are required by special needs of residents and will not adversely affect residents' health and safety. Bedrooms would have to have direct access to a corridor and to have at least one window. Appropriate beds, bedding and furniture, and accessible closet space would be required. Each resident room would need to be equipped with or located near toilet and bathing facilities. Dining and activities rooms would have to be well lighted and ventilated, with nonsmoking areas identified if smoking is allowed in the facility. It is possible that, in the future, State and Federal laws may prohibit smoking in these facilities. The facility would have to ensure that there is a sanitary and orderly interior, including clean bath and bed linens. The facility would be required to establish procedures to ensure that water is available to essential areas when there is a loss of normal water supply. Comfortable temperature and sound levels would have to be maintained, and adequate ventilation would be required. The facility would have to maintain an effective pest control program. We believe that our proposed facility standards are reasonable and adequate for residential treatment facilities. We welcome comments and recommendations for modifications of these proposed requirements from the general public and especially from those who have had experience in providing these services and from residents and families of residents.
