FR940711-2-00108 FR940711-2-00046 Requesting Waiver When waiver is requested, the individual gives SSA information (usually on Form SSA&hyph;632&hyph;BK (Request for Waiver of Overpayment Recovery or Change in Repayment Rate)) to support his/her contention that he/she is without fault in causing the overpayment and that recovery would either cause financial hardship or be inequitable. That information, along with supporting documentation, is reviewed to determine if waiver can be approved. Reviewing Waiver Request In Retirement and Survivors Insurance overpayments, the waiver request is reviewed in the field office; in Disability Insurance overpayments, it is reviewed in the processing center. If waiver cannot be approved after review of the claims folder, the person is notified in writing and given necessary information about the dates, times, and place of the folder review and personal conference; the procedure for reviewing the claims folder prior to the personal conference; the procedure for seeking a change in the scheduled dates, times, or place; and all other information necessary to fully inform the person about the personal conference. The folder review is always scheduled at least 5 days before the personal conference. Folder Review At the folder review, the person and/or the person's representative has the right to review the claims folder and applicable law and regulations with the decisionmaker or another SSA representative who is prepared to answer questions. The individual can get copies of any requested material from the claims folder or pertinent sections of the law or regulations. Personal Conference At the personal conference, the person is given the opportunity to: •Personally appear, testify, cross-examine any witnesses, and make arguments; •Be represented by an attorney or other representative; and •Submit documents for consideration by the decisionmaker. The decisionmaker: •Tells the person that the decisionmaker was not previously involved in the issue under review, that the waiver decision is solely the decisionmaker's, and that the waiver decision is based only on the evidence or information presented or reviewed at the conference; •Ascertains the role and identity of everyone present; •Indicates whether or not the person reviewed the claims file; •Explains the provisions of law and regulations applicable to the issue; •Briefly summarizes the evidence already in file which will be considered; •Ascertains from the person whether the information presented is correct and whether he/she fully understands it; •Allows the person and the person's representative, if any, to present the person's case; •Secures updated financial information, if necessary; •Allows each witness to present information and allows the person and the person's representative, if any, to question the witness; •Ascertains whether there is any further evidence to be presented; •Reminds the person of any evidence promised by the person which has not been presented; •Lets the person and the person's representative, if any, present any final summary or closing statement; •Explains that a decision will be made and the person will be notified in writing; and •Explains further appeal rights in the event the decision is adverse to the person. Personal Conference Decision SSA issues a written decision to the individual (and his/her representative, if any) specifying the findings of fact and conclusions in support of the decision to approve or deny waiver and advising of the individual's right to appeal the decision. Effective Date: This Ruling is effective July 11, 1994. Cross References: Program Operations Manual System, Part 02, Chapter 022, Subchapter 01, Sections 009, 011, 021, and 023; Subchapter 50, Sections 301, 302, 370, and 390; Subchapter 70, Sections 003&hyph;017; SSR 79&hyph;30c, Recovery of Overpayment_Prerecoupment Oral Hearings. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16687 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;M
