FR941117-0-00036 FR941117-0-00008 PART 436_ELIGIBILITY IN GUAM, PUERTO RICO, AND THE VIRGIN ISLANDS 1. The authority citation for Part 436 continues to read as follows: Authority: Section 1102 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1302). 2. Section 436.114 is amended by adding new paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) to read as follows: ยง436.114 Individuals deemed to be receiving AFDC. * * * * * (f) The State must deem an individual to be receiving AFDC if a new collection or increased collection of child or spousal support under title IV&hyph;D of the Social Security Act results in the termination of AFDC eligibility in accordance with section 406(h) of the Social Security Act. States must continue to provide Medicaid for four consecutive calendar months, beginning with the first month of AFDC ineligibility, to each dependent child and each relative with whom such a child is living (including the eligible spouse of such relative as described in section 406(b) of the Social Security Act) who: (1) Becomes ineligible for AFDC on or after August 16, 1984; and (2) Has received AFDC for at least three of the six months immediately preceding the month in which the individual becomes ineligible for AFDC; and (3) Becomes ineligible for AFDC wholly or partly as a result of the initiation of or an increase in the amount of a child or spousal support collection under title IV&hyph;D. (g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, individuals who are eligible for extended Medicaid lose this coverage if they move to another State during the 4-month period. However, if they move back to and reestablish residence in the State in which they have extended coverage, they are eligible for any of the months remaining in the 4-month period in which they are residents of the State. (2) If a State has chosen in its State plan to provide Medicaid to non-residents, the State may continue to provide the 4-month extended benefits to individuals who have moved to another State. (h) For purposes of paragraph (f) of this section: (1) The new collection or increased collection of child or spousal support results in the termination of AFDC eligibility when it actively causes or contributes to the termination. This occurs when: (i) The change in support collection in and of itself is sufficient to cause ineligibility. This rule applies even if the support collection must be added to other, stable income. It also applies even if other independent factors, alone or in combination with each other, might simultaneously cause ineligibility; or (ii) The change in support contributes to ineligibility but does not by itself cause ineligibility. Ineligibility must result when the change in support is combined with other changes in income or changes in other circumstances and the other changes in income or circumstances cannot alone or in combination result in termination without the change in support. (2) In cases of increases in the amounts of both the support collections and earned income, eligibility under this section does not preclude eligibility under 45 CFR 233.20(a)(14) or section 1925 of the Social Security Act (which was added by section 303(a) of the Family Support Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1396r&hyph;6)). Extended periods resulting from both an increase in the amount of the support collection and from an increase in earned income must run concurrently. Administration for Children and Families 45 CFR Chapter II
