FR940318-0-00165 FR940318-0-00023 Nevertheless, there is concern over the potential health and safety issues posed by methylene chloride. In fact, due to these concerns, some local and regional restrictions apply to the use of methylene chloride. To assess these risks in the application under discussion, EPA used data collected by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) for the proposed revision of the permissible exposure level (PEL) for methylene chloride. The Agency's estimate for total population risk for methylene chloride was based on average plant emissions derived from OSHA's analysis, and while not negligible, was within the range of existing Agency decisions on acceptable risk. For further detail, refer to the background document entitled ``Risk Screen on the Use of Substitutes for Class I Ozone-Depleting Substances: Foams''. In light of the results of Agency analysis, EPA decided to find acceptable the use of methylene chloride subject to existing or future restrictions because it will allow immediate transition from class I substances in this end-use. Potential users should note that methylene chloride use will be subject to future controls for hazardous air pollutants under Title III section 112 of the CAA. In addition, use of the compound must conform to all relevant workplace safety standards; OSHA has proposed permissible exposure levels (PELs) for methylene chloride of 25 ppm on a time-weighted average (TWA). Once such additional controls have been adopted, use of this substitute must comply with any other applicable requirements, such as state restrictions. Use is also subject to waste disposal requirements under RCRA. (b) Acetone. Acetone (or blends thereof) is acceptable as a blowing agent for flexible polyurethane foams. In those areas where methylene chloride use is deemed unacceptable, acetone may provide another non-ODP alternative to CFC&hyph;11 and methyl chloroform. All grades of flexible polyurethane foam produced with CFCs can be produced using acetone as an auxiliary blowing agent. Acetone does not have an ozone depletion potential, and its global warming potential is negligible. Nevertheless, acetone is highly flammable and its use requires precautions to ensure safety to workers as prescribed by OSHA. In addition, use of this compound is subject to various federal, state, or local controls as a VOC under Title I of the CAA. (c) HFC&hyph;134a. HFC&hyph;134a (or blends thereof) is acceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;11 in flexible polyurethane foam. HFC&hyph;134a is a non-ozone-depleting alternative to CFC&hyph;11 blowing agents in flexible polyurethane foam. Plant modifications may be necessary to accommodate the use of HFC&hyph;134a because its boiling point is lower than that of CFC&hyph;11. (d) HFC&hyph;152a. HFC&hyph;152a (or use thereof) is acceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;11 in flexible polyurethane foam. HFC&hyph;152a is a non-ozone-depleting alternative to CFC&hyph;11 blowing agents in flexible polyurethane foam. Process changes may be necessary to accommodate the use of HFC&hyph;152a, and plant modifications may be necessary to manage its flammability. (e) AB Technology. AB Technology is acceptable as an alternative process in flexible polyurethane foams. The AB Technology generates carbon monoxide as the chemical blowing agent. Precautions should be taken to insure the safety of workers from exposure to elevated levels of carbon monoxide, particularly at the latter phases of production where ventilation is generally not as efficient as on the foam line. OSHA has set a permissible exposure level (PEL) for carbon monoxide of 35 ppm on a time-weighted average (TWA) with a ceiling of 200 ppm. (f) Carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide (or blends thereof) is an acceptable alternative process in flexible polyurethane foams. (8) Polyurethane integral skin foams. (a) HCFC&hyph;123. HCFC&hyph;123 (or blends thereof) is acceptable as an alternative to CFC&hyph;11 in integral skin foams. The physical and chemical properties of HCFC&hyph;123 are similar to CFC&hyph;11. As a result, HCFC&hyph;123, which has an ozone depleting potential significantly lower than that of CFC&hyph;11, has the potential to replace CFC&hyph;11 in many integral skin applications. Nonetheless, commercial availability of HCFC&hyph;123 is limited at present. The use of HCFC&hyph;123 in integral skin foams is subject to significant restriction under section 610 of the CAA, which bans the use of class II substances in noninsulating foams after January 1, 1994. The ban exempts only certain integral skin foams used to provide for motor vehicle safety. (b) HCFC&hyph;141b. HCFC&hyph;141b (or blends thereof) is acceptable as an alternative to CFC&hyph;11 in integral skin foams. Although its ODP of 0.11 is relatively high, HCFC&hyph;141b offers an acceptable transition substitute out of CFC&hyph;11 in integral skin foams. The use of HCFC&hyph;141b in integral skin foams, however, is subject to significant restriction under section 610 of the CAA, which banned the use of class II substances in noninsulating foams after January 1, 1994. The ban exempts only certain integral skin foams used to provide for motor vehicle safety. (c) HCFC&hyph;22. HCFC&hyph;22 (or blends thereof) is acceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;11 in integral skin foam. HCFC&hyph;22 offers an alternative with significantly less potential to deplete ozone than CFC&hyph;11. However, process changes may be necessary to accommodate the low boiling point of HCFC&hyph;22. The use of HCFC&hyph;22 in integral skin foams is subject to significant restrictions under section 610 of the CAA, which banned the use of class II substances in noninsulating foams after January 1, 1994. The ban exempts only certain integral skin foams used to provide for motor vehicle safety.
