FR940722-0-00103 FR940722-0-00019 52. In the Second Report and Order we adopted the Milgrom-Wilson activity rule as our preferred activity rule where a simultaneous stopping rule is used. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶144&hyph;145. The Milgrom-Wilson approach encourages bidders to participate in early rounds by limiting their maximum participation to some multiple of their minimum participation level. Bidders are required to declare their maximum eligibility in terms of MHz-pops, and make an upfront payment equal to $0.02 per MHz-pop. 30 ( See discussion of upfront payments infra. ) That is, in each round bidders will be limited to bidding on licenses encompassing no more than the number of MHz-pops covered by their upfront payment. Licenses on which a bidder is the high bidder from the previous round count against this bidding limit. Under this approach, bidders will have the flexibility to shift their bids among any licenses for which they have applied so long as, within each round, the total MHz-pops encompassed by those licenses does not exceed the total number of MHz-pops on which they are eligible to bid. Bidders will be able to secure the option to participate at whatever maximum level they deem appropriate by making a sufficient upfront payment. To preserve their maximum eligibility, however, bidders will be required to maintain activity during each round of the auction. A bidder is considered active on a license in the current round if the bidder has submitted an acceptable bid for that license in the current round, or has the high bid for that license from the previous round, in which case, the bidder does not need to bid on that license in the current round to be considered active on that license. 30 The number of ``MHz-pops'' is calculated by multiplying the population of the license service area by the amount of spectrum authorized by the license. We use the terms ``per MHz-pop'' and ``per MHz per pop'' interchangeably. 53. Under the Milgrom-Wilson proposal, the minimum activity level, measured as a fraction of the bidder's eligibility in the current round, will increase during the course of the auction. 31 Milgrom and Wilson divide the auction into three stages. During the first stage of the auction, a bidder is required to be active on licenses encompassing one-third of the MHz-pops for which it is eligible. The ``penalty'' for falling below that activity level is a reduction in eligibility. At this stage, bidders will lose three MHz-pops in eligibility for each MHz-pop below the minimum required activity level. 32 In the second stage, bidders are required to be active on two-thirds of the MHz-pops for which they are eligible. The penalty for falling below that activity level is a loss of 1.5 MHz-pops in eligibility for each MHz-pop below the minimum required activity level. In the third stage, bidders are required to be active on licenses encompassing all of the MHz-pops for which they are eligible. The penalty for falling below that activity level is a loss of one MHz-pop in eligibility for each MHz-pop below the minimum required activity level. Thus in the final stage, each bidder retains eligibility (for the next round) equal to the MHz-pops for which it is an active bidder in the current round. 31 Absent waivers (discussed infra ), a bidder's eligibility (in terms of MHz-pops) in the current round is determined by the bidder's activity level and eligibility in the previous round. In the first round, however, eligibility is determined by the bidder's upfront payment and is equal to the upfront payment divided by $.02 per MHz-pop. 32 An alternative way to state the rule for determining eligibility in stage I of an auction is that each bidder will be eligible to bid in the next round on three times the MHz-pops for which it is an active bidder in the current round, or the MHz-pops for which it is eligible in the current round, whichever is less. 54. The auction will start in stage I and move from stage I to stage II when, in each of three consecutive rounds of bidding, the high bid has increased on 10 percent or less of the spectrum (measured in terms of MHz-pops) being auctioned. 33 The auction will move from stage II to stage III when the high bid has increased on 5 percent or less of the spectrum being auctioned (measured in terms of MHz-pops), in each of three consecutive rounds of bidding in stage II. 34 In order to speed up an auction, the Commission may also announce, at any time after the initial 15 rounds, that the next stage of the auction (with a higher minimum participation level) will begin in the next bidding round. 35 Moreover, if as the Commission gains experience with auctions that use activity rules it determines that such auctions tend to move too slowly, it may, by public notice prior to a specific auction, increase the activity levels at which that auction moves between stages. Conversely, if the Commission determines that auctions tend to move too quickly, depriving bidders of sufficient time to deliberate and pursue back-up strategies, it may decrease the activity levels at which an auction moves between stages. 33 The transition rule may also be defined in terms of the ``auction activity level''_the sum of the MHz-pops of those licenses whose highest bid increased in the current round, as a percentage of the total MHz-pops of all licenses in that auction. (Note that this definition differs slightly from that used by Milgrom and Wilson. See reply comments by PacBell, Appendix to attachment by Milgrom and Wilson at 1.) The auction moves from stage I to stage II when the auction activity level is less than or equal to 10 percent for three consecutive rounds in stage I. The auction moves from stage II to stage III when the auction activity level is less than or equal to 5 percent for three consecutive rounds in stage II. For example, if two nationwide 30 MHz blocks of spectrum are put up for bid and the national population is approximately 250 million, a total of approximately 15,000 million MHz-pops would be available in the auction. If in stage I of the auction, the high bid increases on licenses encompassing less than 1,500 million MHz-pops for three consecutive rounds, the auction moves to stage II. This would be the case, for example, if in three consecutive rounds new bids were received on only a license for the New York MTA (26 million pops) and a license for the Los Angeles MTA (19 million pops), since the two licenses encompass a total of 1,350 million MHz-pops. Once in stage II, if in each of three consecutive rounds new acceptable bids are received on licenses encompassing less than 750 million MHz-pops, the auction would move to stage III. 34 Once an auction is in stage II, it cannot revert to stage I. Once an auction is in stage III, it remains there. 35 Moving to stage II prematurely might result in an auction moving too quickly to allow adequate time for consideration and may excessively limit the ability of bidders to pursue alternative backup strategies. See Second Report and Order at ¶142.
