FR940413-2-00076 FR940413-2-00040 Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records may be stored in file folders, computer tapes and diskettes, microfiche, and file cards. Retrievability: Records are retrieved by name, Social Security number, or other identifying numbers, keywords, and parameters of individual patient health or medical record data. Safeguards: 1. Authorized users: Data on computer files is accessed by keyword known only to authorized users who are NIH or contractor employees who have a need for the data in performance of their duties as determined by the System Manager. A list of authorized users will be maintained and updated periodically. Researchers authorized to conduct research on biological specimens will have access to the system through the use of encrypted identifiers sufficient to link individuals with records in such a manner that does not compromise confidentiality of the individual. Access to information is thus limited to those with a need to know. 2. Physical safeguards: Rooms where records are stored are locked when not in use. During regular business hours rooms are unlocked but are controlled by on-site personnel. Depending upon the sensitivity of the information in the record, additional safeguard measures may be employed. 3. Procedural and technical safeguards: Data stored in computers is accessed through the use of keywords known only to authorized users. A password is required to access the terminal and a data set name controls the release of data to only authorized users. All users of personal information in connection with the performance of their jobs (see Authorized Users, above) protect information from public view and from unauthorized personnel entering an unsupervised office. Contractors and subcontractors who maintain records in this system are instructed to make no further disclosure of the records except as authorized by the System Manager and as permitted by the Privacy Act. Privacy Act requirements are specifically included in contracts and in agreements with grantees or collaborators participating in research activities supported by this system. HHS project directors, contract officers, and project officers oversee compliance with these requirements. These practices are in compliance with the standards of Chapter 45&hyph;13 of the HHS General Administration Manual, ``Safeguarding Records Contained in Systems of Records,'' supplementary Chapter PHS hf: 45&hyph;13, and the Department's Automated Information System Security Program Handbook, and the National Institute of Standards and Technology Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS Pub. 41 and FIPS Pub. 31). Retention and disposal: Records are retained and disposed of under the authority of the NIH Records Control Schedule contained in NIH Manual Chapter 1743, Appendix 1_``Keeping and Destroying Records'' (HHS Records Management Manual, Appendix B&hyph;361), item 3000&hyph;G&hyph;3(b), which allows records to be kept as long as they are useful in scientific research. Refer to the NIH Manual Chapter for specific disposition instructions.
