FR941025-1-00016 FR941025-1-00004 Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 94&hyph;CE&hyph;07&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Central Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;CE&hyph;07&hyph;AD, Room 1558, 601 E. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. Discussion The FAA has received a report of the right lower aft wing attachment nut assembly separating in two pieces on a Beech Model T&hyph;34C&hyph;1 airplane. Laboratory investigation of the nut assembly revealed that stress corrosion caused the failure. If the separated assembly is not detected and corrected, and is operated in that condition, the wing could separate from the fuselage. Beech has issued Service Bulletin (SB) No. 2487, dated August 1993, which specifies procedures for installing Inconel wing attachment hardware on Models 34C, T&hyph;34C, and T&hyph;34C&hyph;1 airplanes. After examining the circumstances and reviewing all available information related to the incidents described above, the FAA has determined that AD action should be taken to prevent the wing from separating from the fuselage because of failure of this assembly. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop in other Beech 34C, T&hyph;34C, and T&hyph;34C&hyph;1 airplanes of the same type design, the proposed AD would require replacing the eight wing attachment steel bolts and hardware with Inconel bolts and hardware. The proposed actions would be accomplished in accordance with Beech SB No. 2487, dated August 1993. The compliance time for the proposed AD is presented in calendar time instead of hours time-in- service (TIS). The FAA has determined that a calendar time for compliance is the most desirable method because the unsafe condition described by the proposed AD is caused by stress corrosion. Stress corrosion initiates as a result of airplane operation, but can continue to develop regardless of whether the airplane is in service or in storage. Therefore, to ensure that the above-referenced condition is detected and corrected on all airplanes within a reasonable period of time without inadvertently grounding any airplanes, a compliance schedule based upon calendar time instead of hours TIS is proposed. The FAA estimates that 494 airplanes in the U.S. registry would be affected by the proposed AD, that it would take approximately 8 workhours per airplane to accomplish the proposed action, and that the average labor rate is approximately $55 an hour. Parts cost approximately $800 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $612,560. This figure is based on the assumption that no affected airplane owners/operator has accomplished the proposed replacement. The Beech Aircraft Company has informed the FAA that 89 wing attachment assembly kits have been sold. Assuming that each of these kits is installed on an affected airplane, this would reduce the cost impact of the proposed AD upon U.S. operators of the affected airplanes by $110,360 from $612,560 to $502,200. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action has been placed in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety. The Proposed Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) as follows:
