FR940916-2-00103 FR940916-2-00083 [Release No. 34&hyph;34651; File No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;35] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment No. 1 by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Storage of Option Customer Account Information for Supervisory Purposes September 12, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on July 5, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``PHLX'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 On August 26, 1994, the PHLX submitted Amendment No. 1 to the proposal to clarify that the purpose of the proposal is to allow members to maintain required customer information and account statements off-site, rather than at the member's principal supervisory office, as long as the records are readily accessible and promptly retrievable. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change Paragraph (d), ``Maintenance of Customer Records,'' of PHLX Rule 1025, ``Supervision of Accounts,'' requires member organizations to maintain at the branch office servicing the customer's account and at the principal supervisory office background and financial information of customers who have been approved for options transactions. In addition, Commentary .03 to PHLX Rule 1025 requires member organizations to maintain, at the principal supervisory office with jurisdiction over the office servicing the customer's account, information to permit review of each customer's options account to determine the compatibility of options transactions with investment objectives, the size and frequency of options transactions, commission activity in the account, profit or loss in the account, undue concentration in any options class or classes, and compliance with the provisions of Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board. The PHLX proposes to amend PHLX Rule 1025(d) and Commentary 0.3 to allow member organizations to maintain the required customer information and account statements off-site, rather than at the principal supervisory office, as long as the records are readily accessible and promptly retrievable. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, PHLX, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change
