FR940506-1-00071 FR940506-1-00014 (C) For determining the maximum and minimum additional penalties, the test shall be the interest penalty due on each separate payment made for each separate contract. The maximum and minimum additional penalty shall not be based upon individual invoices unless the invoices are paid separately. Where payments are consolidated for disbursing purposes, the maximum and minimum additional penalty determination shall be made separately for each contract therein. (D) The additional penalty does not apply to payments regulated by other Government regulations (for example, payments under utility contracts subject to tariffs and regulation). (b) Contract financing payments _(1) Due dates for progress payments . If this contract provides for contract financing, requests for payment shall be submitted to the designated billing office as specified in this contract or as directed by the Contracting Officer. Contract financing payments shall be made on the ( insert day as prescribed by agency head; if not prescribed, insert 30th day ) day after receipt of a proper contract financing request by the designated billing office. In the event that an audit or other review of a specific financing request is required to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract, the designated payment office is not compelled to make payment by the due date specified. (2) Due dates for other contract financing . For advance payments, loans, or other arrangements that do not involve recurrent submissions of contract financing requests, payment shall be made in accordance with the corresponding contract terms or as directed by the Contracting Officer. (3) Interest penalty not applicable . Contract financing payments shall not be assessed an interest penalty for payment delays. (End of clause) 14. Section 52.232&hyph;27 is revised to read as follows: 52.232&hyph;27 Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts. As prescribed in 32.908(b), insert the following clause: (a) As authorized in 32.905(c)(1), the Contracting Officer may modify the date in subdivision (a)(1)(i)(A) of the clause to specify a period longer than 14 days if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity to adequately inspect the work and to determine the adequacy of the Contractor's performance under the contract. (b) As authorized in 32.905(c)(5), the Contracting Officer may modify the date in subdivision (a)(4)(i) of the clause to specify a period longer than 7 days for constructive acceptance or constructive approval if required to afford the Government a reasonable opportunity to inspect and test the supplies furnished or evaluate the services performed. (c) If applicable, as authorized in 32.906(a) and only as allowed under agency policies and procedures, the Contracting Officer may insert in paragraph (b) of the clause a period shorter than 30 days (but not less than 7 days) for making contract financing payments. Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts (Date) Notwithstanding any other payment terms in this contract, the Government will make invoice payments and contract financing payments under the terms and conditions specified in this clause. Payment shall be considered as being made on the day a check is dated or the date of an electronic funds transfer. Definitions of pertinent terms are set forth in Federal Acquisition Regulation 32.902. All days referred to in this clause are calendar days, unless otherwise specified. (However, see paragraph (a)(3) concerning payments due on Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.) (a) Invoice payments _(1) Types of invoice payments . For purposes of this clause, there are several types of invoice payments which may occur under this contract, as follows: (i) Progress payments, if provided for elsewhere in this contract, based on Contracting Officer approval of the estimated amount and value of work or services performed, including payments for reaching milestones in any project: (A) The due date for making such payments shall be 14 days after receipt of the payment request by the designated billing office. If the designated billing office fails to annotate the payment request with the actual date of receipt, at the time of receipt, the payment due date shall be the 14th day after the date of the Contractor's payment request, provided a proper payment request is received and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or Contractor compliance with contract requirements. (B) The due date for payment of any amounts retained by the Contracting Officer in accordance with the clause at 52.232&hyph;5, Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts, shall be as specified in the contract or, if not specified, 30 days after approval for release to the Contractor by the Contracting Officer. (ii) Final payments based on completion and acceptance of all work and presentation of release of all claims against the Government arising by virtue of the contract, and payments for partial deliveries that have been accepted by the Government ( e.g., each separate building, public work, or other division of the contract for which the price is stated separately in the contract): (A) The due date for making such payments shall be either the 30th day after receipt by the designated billing office of a proper invoice from the Contractor, or the 30th day after Government acceptance of the work or services completed by the Contractor, whichever is later. If the designated billing office fails to annotate the invoice with the date of actual receipt, at the time of receipt, the invoice payment due date shall be the 30th day after the date of the Contractor's invoice, provided a proper invoice is received and there is no disagreement over quantity, quality, or Contractor compliance with contract requirements. (B) On a final invoice where the payment amount is subject to contract settlement actions ( e.g., release of claims), acceptance shall be deemed to have occurred on the effective date of the contract settlement. (2) Contractor's invoice . The Contractor shall prepare and submit invoices to the designated billing office specified in the contract. A proper invoice must include the items listed in subdivisions (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(ix) of this clause. If the invoice does not comply with these requirements, the Contractor will be notified of the defect within 7 days after receipt of the invoice at the designated billing office. Untimely notification will be taken into account in computing any interest penalty owed the Contractor in the manner described in subparagraph (a)(4) of this clause: (i) Name and address of the Contractor. (ii) Invoice date. (Contractors are encouraged to date invoices as close as possible to the date of mailing or transmission.) (iii) Contract number or other authorization for work or services performed (including order number and contract line item number). (iv) Description of work or services performed.
