FR940527-1-00234 FR940527-1-00014 The Commission also considers the update for facilities currently excluded from PPS and the update to the composite payment rate for dialysis services. The facilities excluded from PPS are subject to the payment limitations and incentives established in the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982. For fiscal year 1995, ProPAC recommends the target rates for these facilities should be updated by 2.7 percent. Finally, the Commission recommends that the composite payment rate for dialysis services should not be increased for fiscal year 1995. Other Payment Policies _The Commission is concerned with all factors that might affect Medicare payments to facilities. In Recommendations 15 through 23, ProPAC highlights issues affecting Medicare payment specific to the hospital wage index, the nursing facility wage index, the outlier payment policy, the indirect medical education (IME) adjustment, and payment policies for hospital outpatient services. ProPAC conducted additional analyses related to improving the hospital wage index. It recommends that the wage index be adjusted to remove the effect of occupational mix. Moreover, the implementation of a new wage index using hospital-specific labor market areas based on hospital geographic proximity would improve the accuracy of the wage index. The Commission also reexamined the appropriateness of nursing facility wage index, and recommends collecting data so that such an index can be developed and used to adjust Medicare skilled nursing facility payments. ProPAC supports the outlier payment provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 and makes several additional recommendations to improve the policy for identifying outlier cases and determining outlier payments. The Commission recommends reducing the IME adjustment to PPS operating payments from 7.7 percent to 7.0 percent and retaining the IME adjustment until an alternative system for compensating hospital for these costs is adopted. The Commission submits four recommendations regarding payment for hospital outpatient services. The need for a prospective payment system is reiterated. Until such a system can be implemented, the current payment formula to calculate hospital payments for ambulatory surgery center-approved procedures, radiology services, and diagnostic services should be revised. In addition, beneficiary liability for hospital outpatient services should be reduced. Finally, the length of hospital outpatient observation stays should be limited. Recommendations for Fiscal Year 1995 Medicare and Health Care Reform Recommendation 1: Medicare, Medicaid, and Private Payer Payment and Coverage of the Uninsured Health care reform will have a major effect on the Medicare and Medicaid programs and the care beneficiaries receive. The Commission believes substantial changes in program policies should be considered only with a health care reform plan that covers the uninsured and pays comparable rates for similar services. As Medicare and Medicaid have constrained payments, providers have obtained additional revenue from private payers rather than by reducing their costs. This increasing reliance on cost shifting concerns ProPAC because it is likely to have a negative effect on access to care for beneficiaries of government programs. Further, possible adverse effects on beneficiaries of slower growth in payments for hospital and other currently covered services must be carefully balanced against desirable effects of increased Medicare spending for new benefits proposed in the Health Security Act. Recommendation 2: Payments to Hospitals Serving a Large Share of Low-Income Patients The Health Security Act would substantially reduce Medicare disproportionate share payments, as universal coverage ameliorates many of the problems these payments are intended to address. The Commission believes the timing of any such reduction in Medicare payments should be coordinated with the extension of universal coverage, so that hospitals that provide care to low-income populations are not disadvantaged. As a result, payments would be targeted more effectively to the hospitals that provide care to these populations. Even so, the payments received by different hospitals and the balance between payment levels for Medicare and other patients may be affected significantly. These changes should be structured to ensure that both the level and distribution of payments are appropriate. ProPAC intends to work with the Congress and the Secretary of Health and Human Services to monitor and study this issue. Recommendation 3: Payments for Additional Patient Care Costs Incurred by Teaching Hospitals ProPAC supports the explicit recognition by all payers of the higher patient care costs teaching institutions incur. The Commission believes such payments should be separated from patient care rates and paid through a fund similar to the Academic Health Center Account proposed in the Health Security Act. ProPAC is concerned, however, that a sharp reduction in the payments teaching hospitals receive from government payers may result in financial hardships for some of the nation's major hospitals. Constraints on payments from private payers may exacerbate this problem. Therefore, ProPAC recommends that the total level of funding and the formula for distributing payments through such a mechanism should be based on careful analysis of the costs teaching institutions incur in carrying out their functions and how these payments will affect graduate medical education and access to the care these facilities provide. Recommendation 4: Graduate Medical Education Funding and Payment ProPAC supports efforts to establish a funding mechanism for graduate medical education training programs that encompasses all payers, including Medicare. The Commission believes this mechanism should be separate from the payment received for patient care services. The level of funding and the distribution of payments should be determined according to the following principles: •Funding for graduate medical education should be consistent with national work force goals, with respect to both the number of residents trained and their specialty distribution. •Funding should support training for physician and certain non-physicians medical personnel who contribute to attaining these goals. •Payment should be made to the training program, whether it is based in a hospital inpatient, hospital outpatient, or other ambulatory setting. The optimal method for allocating and distributing such payments needs to be determined. •Payment for graduate medical education should be based on a national per resident amount, adjusted to recognize regional differences in residents' salaries and other factors that, upon further study, are found to be appropriate. In addition, funds should be available to recognize the additional personnel costs of hospitals that operate programs that lose specialty training positions as a result of the process described above. Recommendation 5: Quality of Care The Commission believes there must be an effective quality assurance program for Medicare enrollees, especially given health reform's emphasis on cost control and proposed cutbacks in Medicare spending. The Peer Review Organization program should be continued but thoroughly evaluated. It should be replaced only by a program that has been determined to be more effective. Recommendation 6: Improvement in Premium Risk Adjustment Methods The Commission recommends that the Secretary undertake the research necessary to substantially improve current risk adjustment methods. Risk adjustment will be needed under many health reform proposals to ensure that the premiums paid to competing health plans accurately reflect the risk composition of their enrollees. Until major improvements can be made, some other mechanism may be needed to limit the potential impact of enrolling individuals whose care proves to be exceptionally costly. Recommendation 7: Controlling Medicare Spending Across All Sites of Care Medicare should continue to develop policies to monitor and control total expenditure growth across all sites of care. Payment methods should not unduly favor the choice of one site over another. They should also provide consistent incentives to constrain increases in volume and service intensity across physicians and other providers. Recommendation 8: Strengthening Medicare's Risk Contracting Program The Commission recommends that the Secretary improve Medicare's risk-based, managed care program to give more Medicare beneficiaries the option of enrolling in managed care plans. To increase plan participation, deficiencies related to the risk adjustment formula and local differences in payments need to be corrected. Payment Updates Recommendation 9: Update Factor for Operating Payments to PPS Hospitals For fiscal year 1995, the PPS standardized payment amounts should be updated to account for the following: •The projected increase in the HCFA PPS market basket index, currently estimated at 3.7 percent; •An adjustment of zero percentage points for the difference between the projected ProPAC and HCFA market baskets; •A negative adjustment of 1.1 percentage points for substantial error in the fiscal year 1993 market basket forecast; •A positive adjustment of 0.3 percentage points to reflect the cost-increasing effects of scientific and technological advances; •A negative adjustment of 0.7 percentage points to encourage hospital productivity improvements; and •A net adjustment of zero percentage points for case-mix change. In addition, a positive adjustment of 3.1 percentage points should be made for hospitals in rural areas to complete the phaseout of the differential in standardized amounts between rural and other urban hospitals. ProPAC's recommendation would result in an estimated average update factor of 2.7 percent for fiscal year 1995: an increase of 2.2 percent for urban hospitals and of 5.3 percent for rural hospitals. Recommendation 10: Update Factor for Capital Payment to PPS Hospitals For fiscal year 1995, the Commission recommends that a formula-based approach be used to update capital payment rates. The capital update should include the following: •The projected increase in a capital market basket index that measures one-year changes in a fixed basket of capital goods hospitals purchase, currently estimated at 3.4 percent; •An adjustment of zero percentage points to correct for past forecast errors; •An adjustment of zero percentage points to reflect changes in financing costs: •A positive adjustment of 0.9 percentage points for scientific and technological advances; A negative adjustment of 0.7 percentage points to encourage hospital productivity; and •A net adjustment of zero percentage points for case-mix change. The Commission's recommendation would result in a 3.6 percent increase in the Federal capital payment rate for both urban and rural hospitals. Recommendation 11: Single Operating and Capital Update Factor The Commission recommends that when the transition to fully prospective capital payments is complete, a single update factor be used for adjusting PPS operating and capital payment rates. Based on ProPAC's recommended updates to the operating and capital payment rates, the total increase to a fully prospective combined payment rate would be 2.8 percent for fiscal year 1995. Recommendation 12: Update Factor for Hospitals Paid on the Basis of Hospital-Specific Rates The Commission believes payments based on hospital-specific base-year costs for sole community hospitals should be updated by the average update given to all hospitals. Recommendation 13: Update Factor for PPS-Excluded Hospitals and Distinct-Part Units For fiscal year 1995, the target rates for PPS-excluded hospitals and distinct-part units should be updated by 2.7 percent. This recommendation accounts for the following: •The projected increase in the HCFA PPS-excluded hospital market basket, currently estimated at 3.7 percent; •An adjustment of zero percentage points for the difference between the projected ProPAC and HCFA market baskets; •A negative adjustment of 1.0 percentage points for substantial error in the fiscal year 1993 market basket forecast; and •An adjustment of zero percentage points for scientific and technological advances. Recommendation 14: Update to the Composite Rate for Dialysis Services The fiscal year 1995 update recommendation for the composite rate for dialysis services accounts for the following: •The projected increase in the market basket for dialysis services in fiscal year 1995, estimated at 4.3 percent; •A positive adjustment of 0.7 percentage points to reflect the additional costs associated with scientific and technological advances; •A negative adjustment of 1.0 percentage points to encourage productivity improvements; and •A negative discretionary adjustment of 4.0 percentage points to reflect the relationship between payments and estimated fiscal year 1994 costs. This results in a net update recommendation of zero percent. Other Payment Policies Recommendation 15: Improvements in Hospital Wage Data The Secretary should develop and implement improved methods for collecting data on employee compensation and paid hours of employment for hospital workers by occupational category. Once these data become available, the Secretary should implement an adjustment to the hospital wage index under PPS. This adjustment would correct the wage index for the inappropriate effects of including geographic differences in the mix of occupations employed. Recommendation 16: Improvements in the PPS Hospital Wage Index The Secretary should substantially revise the hospital wage index under PPS for fiscal year 1995. The revised wage index should be calculated using hospital-specific labor market definitions based on hospital geographic proximity measured by the air-mile distances between nearby hospitals. The Congress should repeal the current statutory provisions relating to geographic reclassification for the wage index. Recommendation 17: Nursing Facility Wage Index The Secretary should collect data on employee compensation and paid hours of employment for employees of nursing facilities that care for Medicare skilled nursing facility patients. Once these data become available, the Secretary should develop a nursing facility wage index and use it to adjust Medicare skilled nursing facility payments. Recommendation 18: Improving Outlier Payment Policy The Commission believes the outlier payment provisions of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 will improve the current policy for identifying outlier cases and determining outlier payments under PPS. However, the following changes also should be implemented for fiscal year 1995: •The estimated cost of the case and the outlier payment amount should no longer be adjusted to reflect the hospital's indirect medical education and disproportionate share status. •The marginal cost factor for cost outliers should be increased to 80 percent. These changes would further increase the effectiveness of outlier payment in protecting against the risk of large losses on some cases. They would also improve the distribution of outlier payments across hospitals, including hospitals that receive a large number of transfer cases. Recommendation 19: Level of the Indirect Medical Education Adjustment to PPS Operating Payments The Commission recommends that the indirect medical education adjustment to PPS operating payments be reduced from its current level of 7.7 percent to 7.0 percent for fiscal year 1995. This reduction should be implemented with the anticipated decrease in indirect medical education payments returned to all hospitals through a proportionate increase in the standardized payment amounts. The Commission also recommends continuation of the indirect medical education adjustment to PPS payments until an alternative system of compensating appropriately for the higher costs of patient care in teaching institutions is fully operational. Recommendation 20: Prospective Payment Method for Outpatient Services The Commission believes a prospective payment system for outpatient services should be implemented. Outpatient payment reform should result in consistent policies across all sites and providers. Payment should be based on a prospective price per unit of service until other methods can be developed that would appropriately control the volume of services. The payment rate should be adjusted to reflect justifiable cost differences across settings. Recommendation 21: Revision of the Payment Formula for Outpatient Services Until prospective payment systems can be implemented for hospital outpatient services, the blend formula used to calculate hospital payments for ambulatory surgery center-approved procedures, radiology services, and diagnostic services should be revised. The formula should subtract beneficiary copayment after the total payment has been calculated. The resulting reduction in Medicare program payments to hospitals should be used to partially offset increases in program expenditures due to reducing beneficiary liability. Recommendation 22: Beneficiary Liability for Hospital Outpatient Services Beneficiary coinsurance for hospital outpatient services should be limited to 20 percent of the Medicare-allowed payment, as it is in other settings. For services not paid on a prospective basis, beneficiary copayment would need to be estimated because it is not known at the time of service delivery. Recommendation 23: Limit the Length of Outpatient Observation Stays The Commission recommends limiting the length of hospital outpatient observation stays. Further, these changes should be coordinated with Peer Review Organizations so that appropriate short stay admissions are not denied. ProPAC supports HCFA's efforts in this regard.
