FR940110-1-00003 FR940110-1-00001 The ECP is authorized by the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2201 et seq. ). This program is designed to provide cost-share assistance for emergency restoration work to meet only the critical needs of agricultural producers due to drought or other natural disaster. The FIP is authorized by section 4 of the Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16 U.S.C. 2103) and is designed to increase the nation's supply of timber products from private nonindustrial forest lands. The purpose of FIP is to encourage private landowners to apply forestry practices that will provide for afforestation of suitable open lands and reforestation of cut-over or other nonstocked forest lands and to encourage intensive multi-purpose forest resource management and protection so as to provide for cost-effective timber production and other related forest resources needs. The regulation governing these programs is being restructured and simplified to provide an easier and more effective structure for the use of this regulation. The ACP is being revised to: (1) Incorporate several amendments that have been published in the Federal Register ; (2) Incorporate the WQIP; (3) Clarify that producers wanting to participate with practice WP4, Agricultural Waste Control Facilities, must have been in operation for at least 5 years; (4) Adjust the LTA payment limitation to reflect that the payment limitation shall be based on the number of years remaining on the LTA; and (5) reflect that payments shall be based on attribution. The ECP is being revised to: (1) Reflect that the Disaster Assistance Act of 1989 (16 U.S.C. 2202) authorized assistance for confined livestock operations; and (2) Define land subject to frequent damage which is ineligible for cost-share assistance. The FIP is being restructured for clarity. Currently, ACP practices are prioritized locally by county Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation committees to ensure that the most severe conservation and environmental problems are addressed. However, this county committee prioritization process has been criticized as not addressing the most severe conservation and environmental problems. Therefore, comments are requested regarding the manner in which ACP practices and allocation of funds could be prioritized to achieve greater conservation and environmental benefits at the least Federal cost. Although not exclusive, such considerations for prioritization may be based on temporary versus longer-term practices or type of conservation or environmental benefit. Further, consideration should be given to whether priorities should be established by the National, State, or county Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service offices. Moreover, for ACP, ECP and FIP, comments are requested on ways in which the programs can best be targeted in order to ensure that public benefits, rather than private benefits are maximized with Federal expenditures. For example, the use of ACP for temporary practices may not provide large public benefits. Comments are requested as to whether funds should be targeted toward designated areas with impaired water quality. Similarly, cost-share practices could be selected for a region where they will contribute to an identified problem. Thus, nutrient management practices would be designated as a cost-share option in areas where nutrients have been identified as a water quality problem. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 701 Disaster assistance, Forest and forest products, Grant programs_agriculture, Grant programs_natural resources, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas, Soil conservation, Water resources, Wildlife. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR Part 701 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: PART 701_CONSERVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS Subpart A_General Provisions Sec. 701.1␣Background. 701.2␣Administration. 701.3␣Definitions. 701.4␣Restriction on program eligibility. 701.5␣Practice specifications. 701.6␣Responsibility for referred technical phases of practices.
