FR940922-1-00025 FR940922-1-00008 B. Ozone Transport Region Provisions The OTR was established by operation of law under section 184 of the Act and is comprised of the States of Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, the District of Columbia, and the portion of Virginia that is within the Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area that includes the District of Columbia. Congress established the OTR in the 1990 Amendments to the Act based on the recognition that the transport of ozone and ozone precursors throughout the region may render the northeast states' attainment strategies interdependent. Under section 184, the Administrator established a Northeast Ozone Transport Commission for the OTR consisting of the Governors of each state or their designees, the Administrator or her designee, the Regional Administrators for the EPA regional offices affected (or the Administrator's designees), and an air pollution control official representing each state in the region, appointed by the Governor. Section 184(c) specifies a procedure for the OTC to develop recommendations for additional control measures to be applied within all or a part of the OTR if the OTC determines that such measures are necessary to bring any area in the OTR into attainment for ozone by the applicable dates in the Act. Section 184(c)(1) provides that: Upon petition of any States within a transport region for ozone, and based on a majority vote of the Governors on the Commission (or their designees), the Commission may, after notice and opportunity for public comment, develop recommendations for additional control measures to be applied within all or a part of such transport region if the commission determines such measures are necessary to bring any area in such region into attainment by the dates provided by [subpart 2 of part D of title I of the Clean Air Act]. Section 184(c) also lays out procedures the Administrator is to follow in responding to recommendations from the OTC. Upon receipt of the recommendations, the Administrator is to publish a Federal Register notice stating that the recommendations are available and providing an opportunity for a public hearing within 90 days. The Administrator is also to ``commence a review of the recommendations to determine whether the control measures in the recommendations are necessary to bring any area in such region into attainment by the dates provided by [subpart 2] and are otherwise consistent with [the] Act.'' Finally, in undertaking her review, the Administrator is to consult with members of the OTC and is to take into account the data, views, and comments received pursuant to the public hearing. Last, sections 184(c)(4) and (5) govern EPA's response to the OTC recommendations. The Administrator is to determine whether to approve, disapprove, or partially approve and partially disapprove the recommendations within nine months of receipt. For any disapproval, the Administrator is to specify: (i) Why any disapproved additional control measures are not necessary to bring any area in such region into attainment by the dates provided by [subpart 2] or are otherwise not consistent with the Act; and (ii) Recommendations concerning equal or more effective actions that could be taken by the commission to conform the disapproved portion of the recommendations to the requirements of [section 184]. Section 184(c)(5) provides that, upon approval or partial approval of any recommendations, the Administrator is to issue to each state in the OTR to which an approved requirement applies a finding under section 110(k)(5) that the SIP for that state is inadequate to meet the requirements of section 110(a)(2)(D), quoted above. Under section 184(c)(5), the Administrator's finding of inadequacy under section 110(a)(2)(D) is to require that each affected state revise its SIP to include the approved additional control measures within one year after the finding is issued. Finally, section 184(d) provides that, for purposes of section 184, the Administrator is to ``promulgate criteria for purposes of determining the contribution of sources in one area to concentrations of ozone'' in another nonattainment area. These criteria are to ``require that the best available air quality monitoring and modeling techniques be used for purposes of making such determinations.'' EPA issued such criteria in 1991. 1 1 See U.S. EPA, Doc. EPA&hyph;450/4&hyph;91&hyph;015, Criteria for Assessing the Role of Transported Ozone/Precursors in Ozone Nonattainment Areas (1991). C. Background Regarding OTC LEV Program The Administrator convened the OTC on May 7, 1991. Thereafter, the OTC moved to work toward a regional ozone strategy with emphasis on consensus agreements to adopt regional measures to address the ozone problem in the Northeast. To address the contribution of motor vehicles to the northeast ozone problem, the OTC focused early on emissions standards for new motor vehicles and on adoption of federal reformulated gasoline throughout the OTR as potential additional control measures. The Act, however, imposes certain limitations on the states' ability to adopt new motor vehicle emissions standards.
