FR941013-2-00062 FR941013-2-00053 Order I It is ordered That, as used in this Order, the following definitions shall apply: A. ``Sulzer'' means Sulzer Limited, its directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives, its domestic and foreign predecessors, successors, assigns, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, partnerships and joint ventures, and the directors, officers, employees, agents and representatives of its domestic and foreign predecessors, successors, assigns, divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, partnerships and joint ventures. B. ``Metco'' means the Metco Division of The Perkin-Elmer Corporation. C. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. D. ``Acquisition'' means the acquisition of certain assets of Metco by Sulzer. E. ``Aluminum polyester powder'' means a thermal spray material consisting of wholly aromatic polyester and aluminum silicon that is applied via thermal spray equipment to aircraft turbine engines. F. ``Amdry 2010'' means Sulzer's aluminum polyester powder marketed in the United States under the name ``Amdry 2010.'' G. ``Sumitomo Polyester'' means wholly aromatic polyester (polyoxybenzoyl homopolymer) that Sumitomo Chemical Company Limited produces for Sulzer according to Sulzer's specifications for use as an input in Amdry 2010. H. ``Sulzer aluminum silicon'' means the particular grade, specification, and type of aluminum silicon used in Amdry 2010. I. ``Amdry 2010 Ingredients'' means Sumitomo Polyester and Sulzer aluminum silicon. J. ``Amdry 2010 Information'' means a copy of all information necessary to purchase Amdry 2010 Ingredients and all information necessary for the manufacture and sale of Amdry 2010, including but not limited to: 1. All product information related to Sumitomo Polyester and related know-how, including (without limitation) its morphology, the name(s) of the supplier(s) of Sumitomo Polyester, all particle specifications, formulas, processes, technology, trade secrets, manufacturing information, plans, drawings and data and other tangible embodiments of know-how used to acquire commercially acceptable Sumitomo Polyester for use in Amdry 2010; 2. All product information related to Sulzer aluminum silicon, including (without limitation) its morphology, the name(s) of the supplier(s) of Sulzer aluminum silicon, all product specifications, formulas, processes, technology, trade secrets, manufacturing information, plans, drawings and data and other tangible embodiments of know-how used to acquire commercially acceptable Sulzer aluminum silicon for use in Amdry 2010; 3. All information related to the manufacture of Amdry 2010, including (without limitation) all production manuals, training materials, lists of equipment used in the manufacturing process, formulas, process, all manufacturing standards and procedures, quality control specifications, technology, trade secrets, manufacturing information, plans, drawings and data and other tangible embodiments of know-how used to manufacture commercially acceptable Amdry 2010; and 4. All information related to the sale of Amdry 2010, including (without limitation) product brochures, customer lists, training materials, and other tangible embodiments of know-how used in the sale of Amdry 2010. K. ``Amdry 2010 Equivalent'' means an aluminum polyester powder that is chemically equivalent to Amdry 2010 and that is not produced by Sulzer or Metco. L. ``Original equipment manufacturers'' means General Electric Aircraft Engines Division, Textron Lycoming, and the Garrett Division of Allied Signal, and their successors and assigns. M. ``Metco 601'' means Metco's aluminum polyester powder marketed in the United States under the name ``Metco 601.'' N. ``Carborundum Ekonol Polyester'' means wholly aromatic polyester that The Carborundum Company produces for Metco according to Metco's specifications for use as an input in Metco 601. O. ``Metco aluminum silicon'' means the particular grade, specification, and type of aluminum silicon used in Metco 601. P. ``Metco 601 Ingredients'' means Carborundum Ekonol Polyester and Metco aluminum silicon. Q. ``Metco 601 Information'' means a copy of all information necessary to purchase Metco 601 Ingredients and all information necessary for the manufacture and sale of Metco 601, including but not limited to: 1. All product information related to Carborundum Ekonol Polyester and related know-how, including (without limitation) its morphology, the name(s) of the supplier(s) of Carborundum Ekonol Polyester, all particle specifications, formulas, processes, technology, trade secrets, manufacturing information, plans, drawings and data and other tangible embodiments of know-how used to acquire commercially acceptable Carborundum Ekonol Polyester for use in Metco 601; 2. All product information related to Metco aluminum silicon, including (without limitation) its morphology, the name(s) of the supplier(s) of Metco aluminum silicon, all product specifications, formulas, processes, technology, trade secrets, manufacturing information, plans, drawings and data and other tangible embodiments of know-how used to acquire commercially acceptable Metco aluminum silicon for use in Metco 601; 3. All information related to the manufacture of Metco 601, including (without limitation) production manuals, training materials, lists of equipment used in the manufacturing process, formulas, process, all manufacturing standards and procedures, quality control specifications, technology, trade secrets, manufacturing information, plans, drawings and data and other tangible embodiments of know-how used to manufacture commercially acceptable Metco 601; and 4. All information related to the sale of Metco 601, including (without limitation) product brochures, customer lists, training materials, and other tangible embodiments of know-how used in the sale of Metco 601. R. ``Metco 601 Equivalent'' means an aluminum polyester powder that is chemically equivalent to Metco 601 and that is not produced by Metco or Sulzer.
