FR940927-0-00111 FR940927-0-00016 (C) A certification from a licensed physician or physician assistant in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. (D) Evidence of, or acceptable substitute for, sea service in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. (ii) The open-book exercise, if required, may be administered through the mail. (4) Concurrent renewal of merchant mariner's documents, and licenses, or certificates of registry. An applicant for concurrent renewal of more than one merchant mariner credential shall satisfy the individual renewal requirements and pay the applicable fees required by §§12.02&hyph;18 and 10.109 of this chapter for each merchant mariner's document, license, or certificate of registry being renewed. (f) Reissuance of expired merchant mariner's documents. (1) Whenever an applicant applies for reissuance of a merchant mariner's document endorsed with qualified rating(s) more than 12 months after expiration, in lieu of the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section the applicant shall demonstrate continued professional knowledge for each qualified rating for which reissuance is sought by completing a course approved for this purpose or, by passing the complete examination for each rating, or by passing the examination for a related license required by §10.209(f)(1) of this chapter. The fees listed in §§12.02&hyph;18 and 10.109 apply to these examinations. (2) A merchant mariner's document without any qualified rating endorsements that has been expired more than 12 months shall be reissued in the same manner as a current merchant mariner's document. There are no additional requirements for reissuing merchant mariner's documents without qualified ratings that have been expired more than 12 months. (g) Inactive document renewal. (1) Applicants for renewal of merchant mariner's documents that are endorsed with qualified ratings, who are unwilling or otherwise unable to meet the requirements of paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section may renew the merchant mariner's document, with the following restrictive endorsement placed on the document: ``Continuity only; service under document prohibited.'' Holders of merchant mariner's documents with this continuity endorsement may have the prohibition rescinded at any time by satisfying the renewal requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. (2) Applications for renewal of a document with the continuity endorsement must include: (i) The document to be renewed, or, if it is unexpired, a photocopy of the document including the back and, (ii) A signed statement from the applicant attesting to an awareness of the restriction to be placed on the renewed document and of the requirements for rescinding the continuity endorsement. 14. Section 12.02&hyph;29 and Table 12.02&hyph;29 are added to read as follows: §12.02&hyph;29 Expiration of existing merchant mariner's documents. The expiration year of a merchant mariner's document issued without an expiration date is calculated by adding 5-year increments to the issuance date of the document, up to the first applicable year falling between 1995 and 1999, inclusive. The day and month of expiration are the same as that of issuance. Table 12.02&hyph;29 is provided as an aid for calculating the expiration date of a document issued without an expiration date. A merchant mariner's document is not valid for use after the expiration date calculated under this section, but may be renewed in accordance with the requirements of §12.02&hyph;27.
