FR940426-0-00061 FR940426-0-00012 4. Other Disclosure Requirements The other disclosure requirements of the proposed amendments are being adopted largely as proposed. These requirements include how portfolio managers in the program are selected, 33 the information about the client that is communicated to its portfolio manager, 34 and restrictions placed on client contact with portfolio managers. 35 The general disclosure about the sponsor that is required to be included in the wrap fee brochure by reference to certain questions of Part II is also being adopted without modification to the proposal. 36 33 Item 7(g) of Schedule H. 34 Item 7(i) of Schedule H. 35 Item 7(j) of Schedule H. One commenter requested that the Commission clarify that the requirement to disclose restrictions on client contact with portfolio managers does not indicate a change in the Division of Investment Management's position that an adviser managing accounts in a collective manner may be operating an unregistered investment company. It does not. 36 Item 7(k) of Schedule H. Item 7(m) of Schedule H requires that the wrap fee brochure discuss the nature of the portfolio management services provided under the program by the sponsor's employees or divisions covered under the same investment adviser registration as the sponsor. Although the Schedule would not require disclosure regarding the educational and business background of, and the particular investment strategy used by, every registered representative that serves as a portfolio manager in a wrap fee program sponsored by the representative's employer, such information may be material and may have to be provided to clients in some form. See Proposing Release, supra note 1, at n.33. D. Delivery and Updating The amendments require that the wrap fee brochure be delivered to prospective wrap fee clients and annually offered to an adviser's existing wrap fee clients. 37 The Commission is also requiring that the wrap fee brochure be delivered to all clients (including clients who have received the sponsor's general brochure) on a one-time basis when the brochure is first filed with the Commission, so that existing clients of wrap fee programs receive the basic disclosure about the program that will in the future be provided to prospective clients. 38 37 These delivery requirements are the same as the requirements in the proposed amendments and for the general brochure. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of rule 204&hyph;3 [17 CFR 275.204&hyph;3 (b) and (c)]. The delivery to prospective clients must occur not less than forty-eight hours before the client enters into an advisory contract or, if the contract may be terminated by the client without penalty within five business days of its execution, at the time of entering into the contract. Paragraph (b)(1) of rule 204&hyph;3 [17 CFR 275.204&hyph;3(b)(1)]. 38 New paragraph (f)(4) of rule 204&hyph;3. See the effectiveness provisions in Section I.E of this Release infra. The wrap fee brochure is required to be updated promptly to reflect material changes to the information it contains, or within ninety days after the end of the sponsor's fiscal year to reflect other changes. 39 The wrap fee brochure may be updated by the use of a sticker ( i.e., a supplement affixed to the brochure that indicates what information is being added or updated and states the new or revised information). The proposed amendments would have limited sponsors to two consecutive stickers before all changes would have had to be incorporated into the brochure itself. As some commenters suggested, the Commission is not adopting a numerical limit on stickers; instead, updating by sticker will be permitted so long as the resulting brochure remains readable. 40 39 Paragraph (b) of rule 204&hyph;1, as amended. 40 Item 6 of Schedule H. The Commission would consider a brochure subject to multiple stickers or a single sticker amending multiple provisions to be unreadable if the brochure has become particularly unwieldy or difficult to follow as a result of the stickers or sticker.
