FR940224-0-00005 FR940224-0-00001 (e) Hearing Clerk means the Office of the Hearing Clerk, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250. (f) Judge means any Administrative Law Judge Appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 and assigned to the proceeding involved. (g) Judicial Officer means an official of the United States Department of Agriculture delegated authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, pursuant to the Act of April 4, 1940 (7 U.S.C. 450c&hyph;459g) and Reorganization Plan No. 2 of 1953 (5 U.S.C. 1988 ed., appendix, p. 1280), to perform the function involved (7 CFR 235(a)), or the Secretary of Agriculture, if the authority so delegated is exercised by the Secretary. (h) Party of record or Party is a party to the proceeding to determine approval or disapproval of a sourcing area application, including the proceeding for formal review of a sourcing area. The sourcing area applicant and persons who submit written comments on the sourcing area application at issue during the 30 calendar day comment period, including the Regional Forester, are the parties of record. For purposes of a formal review of a sourcing area, the holder of the sourcing area that is the subject of the review and persons who submit written comments on the sourcing area application at issue during the 30 calendar day comment period after institution of the formal review, including the Regional Forester, are the parties of record. (i) Sourcing Area Application means the application by which a person applies for a sourcing area or the application by which a sourcing area holder applies for a formal review of a sourcing area. ยง1.412 Institution of proceedings. (a) Sourcing area applications. The proceeding for determining sourcing areas shall be instituted by receipt of a sourcing area application by the Office of Administrative Law Judges, pursuant to 36 CFR 223.190. (b) Review of sourcing areas. Informal review of a sourcing area precedes institution of a formal review as follows: (1) Request by Sourcing area holder. A sourcing area holder who wishes to begin a review of a sourcing area shall send a written request for a review to the Regional Forester of the region in which the manufacturing facility being sourced is located. The request shall state the reason for the request. (i) Informal review. The Regional Forester shall begin an informal review, pursuant to 36 CFR 223.191(e), based on the written request. If no agreement is reached in the informal review process, the Regional Forester of the region in which the manufacturing facility being sourced is located shall transmit to the Office of Administrative Law Judges any submissions received during the informal review process, within 5 working days of the meeting convened during the informal review (36 CFR 223.191)e)). Agreement is reached when all persons attending the meeting convened by the Regional Forester to resolve differences as to the proper sourcing area, including the Regional Forester, sign the document describing the sourcing area. (ii) Formal review. Institution by a sourcing area holder of a formal review of the sourcing area occurs if the informal review process does not result in agreement among the parties, and the sourcing area holder submits a sourcing area application to the Office of the Administrative Law Judges, pursuant to 36 CFR 223.190, within 10 working days after the meeting convened by the Regional Forester as part of the informal process. (2) Initiation of Review By Agency. If the Forest Service wishes to begin a review of a sourcing area, the Regional Forester of the region in which the manufacturing facility being sourced is located shall begin an informal review, pursuant to 36 CFR 223.191(e). If no agreement is reached in the informal review process, the Regional Forester of the region in which the manufacturing facility being sourced is located shall transmit to the Office of Administrative Law Judges any submissions received during the informal review process, within 5 working days of the meeting convened during the informal review (36 CFR 223.191(e)). Agreement is reached when all persons attending the meeting convened by the Regional Forester to resolve differences as to the proper sourcing area, including the Regional Forester, sign the document describing the sourcing area. Institution by the Forest Service of a formal review of a sourcing area occurs when the Office of Administrative Law Judges receives the papers and documents submitted during the informal review process. ยง1.413 Submission of a sourcing area application. A sourcing area applicant shall send the application to the Office of Administrative Law Judges and shall, simultaneously, send a copy of the sourcing area application to the Forest Service Regional Forester of the region in which the manufacturing facility being sourced is located. Where the sourcing area application will cover purchases from more than one agency, application is to be made to the agency from which the applicant expects to purchase the preponderance of its Federal timber. The sourcing area applicant must also send a complete copy of the application to each agency concerned. The lead agency shall make the decision in consultation with, and upon co-signature of, the other agency(ies) concerned. Sourcing area applications must be signed by the persons making the request, or in the case of a corporation, by its chief executive officer, and must be notarized. The application shall be on company letterhead. ยง1.414 Docket number. Each proceeding, following its institution, shall be assigned a docket number by the Hearing Clerk, and thereafter the proceeding shall be referred to by such number. The Hearing Clerk shall notify the sourcing area applicant and the Regional Forester to whom the applicant submitted a copy of the application of the docket number and the name of the Judge to whom the case has been assigned. In a formal review of a sourcing area instituted by the Forest Service, the Hearing Clerk shall inform the sourcing area holder whose sourcing area is subject to the review and the Regional Forester who submitted the comments instituting the formal review of the docket number and the name of the Judge to whom the case has been assigned.
