FR940505-1-00234 FR940505-1-00012 The enhanced nonroad engine program is also proposed to include CI marine engines over 37 kw which have rated speeds at maximum torque of over 1200 revolutions per minute. These engines are generally used in non-oceangoing commercial vessels; oceangoing ships are dealt with in other portions of this FIP. The Agency notes that the proposal would include generators at or above 37 kw used on oil platforms, if they fit the mobility requirements defining nonroad engines in EPA's nationwide rule. If not, they are regulated as part of the platform under EPA's Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) rules if they are permanently placed at the OCS site. The provisions of this section apply only to engines sold for use in the FIP areas (although, as discussed later, EPA is considering options extending beyond the FIP areas). Nonroad engines are significantly less mobile than onhighway engines. Thus EPA has tailored its program to apply only to engines in the FIP areas. Any equipment with an applicable engine sold for use in a FIP area will be required to have a prominent exterior sticker showing that it meets the standards and other provisions of this program. A fleet averaging program, similar to that for on-highway, will also be applied to engines used in the FIP area to ensure continued turnover to cleaner engines. The enforcement of these two requirements is discussed further in the nonroad fleets section below. EPA proposes that after the inception of the nonroad engine program described in this Appendix, only engines complying with the provisions of this program may be imported for use into the FIP areas. Use of older engines, not previously used in the areas, is prohibited. Additionally, use of new engines which do not comply with the program is also prohibited. 2. Authority EPA is proposing this enhanced in-use compliance program for nonroad engines using its broad remedial authority under section 110(c). Section 213 of the Clean Air Act provides EPA with specific authority to regulate nonroad engines. Moreover, no provision of section 213, or any other section of the Clean Air Act, prohibits EPA from exercising its section 110(c) authority in the manner proposed herein. EPA's data indicate that the engines regulated herein, nonroad engines at or above 37 kw including SI engines and diesel marine engines with speeds greater than 1200 RPM, contribute to ozone pollution in the FIP areas. 3. Emissions Standards a. Oxides of Nitrogen Standard. Parallel to the onhighway requirements, EPA proposes that 1999 and later model year nonroad engines for use in the Ventura and South Coast nonattainment areas must meet a NO X standard of 1.5 g/bhp-hr. For Sacramento, EPA proposes a 2.5 g/bhp-hr standard, reflecting a somewhat lesser need for control in that area, but is considering a 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard for reasons discussed below. EPA requests comment on these proposed standards and their areas of application. As with onhighway engines, EPA is also considering an option to allow use of engines emitting up to 2.5 g/bhp-hr NO X in the South Coast or Ventura areas, subject to an emissions surcharge which would be paid at the time of equipment purchase. This option is intended to cover unique applications where the 1.5 g/bhp-hr standard might present unacceptable limitations. The surcharge, shown in the table below for applicable nonroad categories, is based on a cost of $10,000 per ton of increased NO X emissions over the life of the engine. The calculations are based on usage data supplied by manufacturers, as presented in EPA's ``Draft Regulatory Support Document for Control of NO X and Smoke Emissions from Nonroad Compression-Ignition Engines Greater than or Equal to 50 Horsepower'' (April 1993). EPA assumed that each category of engines would be operated at its average annual rate (hours per year) for sixteen years. Lifetime emissions are discounted at a seven percent annual rate. In computing the emissions surcharges, the Agency combined equipment types with similar surcharges into 7 different groups and assigned a surcharge value to each based on information from manufacturers. EPA is proposing that manufacturers of nonroad equipment containing an engine of over 37 kw must classify each type of equipment into one of these categories. Any equipment fitting possibly into two categories will be presumed to fit into the higher surcharge category unless further information is provided. Details of the individual values can be found in the docket. 116 EPA requests comment on the categories listed in the table below, especially whether any engine applications may be missing from the list, or whether the categories need further definition to distinguish between similar applications. EPA also requests comment on the possible need to further divide categories, perhaps by engine size, to avoid inappropriate fees for some engines. Any comments should reflect the need to keep the set of surcharges simple enough to maintain a manageable program. 116 ``New Vehicle/Equipment Surcharges for Heavy-Duty Onhighway and Nonroad Engines Under the California FIP,'' EPA memo to the Docket from Alan Stout, February 1994.
