FR941227-0-00117 FR941227-0-00021 Under the interpretive rule set forth below, these and other requirements under the Occupational Safety and Health Act will be applied in situations involving employee rescue efforts only when the employer has specifically designated an employee with responsibility to perform or assist in a rescue operation, or when employees have duties directly related to workplace processes or operations where the possibility of life-threatening accidents is foreseeable. Effect of the Interpretive Rule The present interpretive rule is intended to make clear that no citation will be issued by OSHA to any employer, under any OSHA standard or under the general duty clause, for any rescue activity by its employees except in the limited circumstances discussed in the written policy statement to be codified in 29 CFR Part 1903. The rule is adopted as a general statement of agency policy under the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. ยง553, and is an exercise of agency prosecutorial discretion in carrying out its enforcement responsibilities under the OSH Act. The interpretive rule issued today is not an exercise of standard-setting authority by OSHA; it does not require any additional compliance action by employers beyond what is already required under existing OSHA standards and the general duty clause, nor does it relieve employers of any obligations currently imposed by those requirements, including the responsibility to designate and appropriately train and equip emergency personnel when required under specific safety and health standards. Regulatory Impact Analysis In accordance with Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993) OSHA has assessed the potential impact of this interpretive rule. Based on the guidelines set forth in the Executive Order, OSHA has concluded that the interpretation is not a ``significant regulatory action'' which would necessitate further economic impact evaluation and the preparation of a regulatory impact analysis. As noted above, the interpretation does not add to the compliance responsibilities of any employer subject to the Act; nor would the rule interfere with action by any other agency. Finally, OSHA finds that today's interpretive rule would not have an adverse impact on small entities within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq . Administrative Procedure The policy set forth in this Federal Register notice is both an interpretive rule and a general statement of agency policy within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 553(b) and, accordingly, is being issued as a final rule without opportunity for public comment. OSHA finds, pursuant to 29 USC ยง553(d), that good cause exists for making the interpretive rule effective immediately upon publication; as discussed above, the rescue policy rule simply states OSHA's enforcement policy that citations involving employee rescue activity will be issued only with certain criteria are met, and adds no new compliance responsibilities beyond those already contained in existing OSHA standards. List of Subjects in 29 CFR Part 1903 Occupational Safety and Health; Occupational Safety and Health Administration; Law Enforcement; Penalties.
