FR940429-2-00092 FR940429-2-00070 [Release No. 34&hyph;33957; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;92&hyph;26] Self-Regulatory Organizations; American Stock Exchange; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change Relating to Amendments to Rule 170 Pertaining to Specialists' Liquidating Transactions April 22, 1994. I. Introduction On August 13, 1992, the American Stock Exchange (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''or ``Commission''), pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change to amend Amex Rule 170 to permit a specialist to effect a liquidating transaction on a zero minus tick, in the case of a ``long'' position, or a zero plus tick, when covering a ``short'' position, without Floor Official approval. The Amex also proposes to amend this Rule to set forth the affirmative action that specialists would be required to take subsequent to effecting various types of liquidating transactions. The Amex proposes to implement the proposed rule change for a one-year pilot period. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1990). The proposed rule change was published for comment in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32804 (August 25, 1993), 58 FR 45926 (August 31, 1993). No comments were received on the proposal. This order approves the proposed rule change for a one year period. II. Description of the Proposal Amex Rule 170, which is the primary Amex rule governing the functions of specialists, restricts a specialist's purchases or sales of his or her specialty stock to those dealings that are reasonably necessary to permit the specialist to maintain a fair and orderly market. 3 3 Amex Rule 170(c) states that a specialist shall not effect on the Exchange purchases or sales of any security in which such specialist is registered, for any account in which he or his member organization is directly or indirectly interested, unless such dealings are reasonably necessary to permit such specialist to maintain a fair and orderly market, or to act as an odd-lot dealer in such security. In general, specialist's activities are circumscribed by Section 11 of the Act [15 U.S.C. 78k] and the rules thereunder, and by the rules of the exchange where the specialist is registered. Commission Rule 11b&hyph;1(a)(2), which sets forth the primary responsibilities of a specialist, states that a specialist's course of dealings for his or her own account must assist in the maintenance, so far as practicable, of a fair and orderly market. 17 CFR 240.11b&hyph;1(a)(2). Rule 11b&hyph;1(a)(2) also states, however, that a specialist should restrict his or her dealings so far as practicable to those reasonably necessary to permit him or her to maintain a fair and orderly market. A specialist's dealer responsibilities consist of ``affirmative'' and ``negative'' obligations. In accordance with their affirmative obligations, specialists are obligated to trade for their own accounts to minimize order disparities and contribute to continuity and depth in the market. 4 Conversely, pursuant to their negative obligations, specialists are precluded from trading for their own accounts unless such dealing is necessary for the maintenance of a fair and orderly market. 5 In view of these obligations, the price trend in a security should be determined not by specialist trading, but by the movements of the incoming orders that initiate the trades. Amex Rule 170.02, which contains one of the specalist's ``negative'' obligations, sets forth distinct prohibitions against specialist trades on destablizing ticks (i.e., purchases on plus or zero plus ticks and sales on minus or zero minus ticks). 6 Rule 170.02 also provides that, unless a specialist has Floor Official approval, he or she should avoid liquidation of all, or substantially all, of a position by selling stock at prices below the last different price (on a direct minus or zero minus tick) or by purchasing stock at prices above the last different price (on a direct plus or zero plus tick), unless the transaction is reasonably necessary in relation to the specialist's overall position in his or her specialty stocks. 7 4 Amex Rule 170(d) states, in part, that it is ordinarily expected that a specialist will engage, to a reasonable degree under the existing circumstances, in dealings for his own account in full lots when lack of price continuity or lack of depth in the full lot market or temporary disparity between supply and demand in either the full lot or the odd-lot market exists or is reasonably to be anticipated. in addition, Rule 170(d) states that transactions on the Exchange for his own account effected by a specialist in the securities in which he is registered are to constitute a course of dealings reasonably calculated to contribute to the maintenance of price continuity with reasonable depth, and to the minimizing of the effects of temporary disparity between supply and demand, immediate or reasonably to be anticipated, in either the full lot or the odd-lot market. 5 See Amex Rule 170(c). 6 A plus tick is a price above the price of the last preceding sale. A zero plus tick is a price equal to the last sale if the last preceding transaction at a different price was at a lower price. Conversely, a minus tick is a price below the price of the last preceding sale. A zero minus tick is a price equal to the last sale if the last preceding transaction at a different price was at a higher price. 7 Rule 170.02 also provides that, unless a specialist has Floor Official approval, he or she should avoid: Failing to re-enter the market where necessary, after effecting transactions such as those described above; and failing to maintain a fair and orderly market during liquidations. The Amex proposes to delete these two provisions and replace them with new language described infra.
