FR940622-0-00061 FR940622-0-00011 Comment: Three commenters indicated that hospitals should be involved in the investigation's fact finding process and should be advised of all evidence before HCFA receives the deficiency report. In addition, they recommended the hospital be permitted to submit documentation regarding the evidence and a response to the information submitted to HCFA, so that HCFA will have all the information before taking action. Response: When the onsite investigation of a violation of section 1867 of the Act is completed, the hospital's representatives have an opportunity to be informed of the scope of the survey agency's investigation and findings at an exit conference. The survey agency, however, will inform the hospital that, unlike other surveys, an investigation of a violation of section 1867 of the Act usually does not end with its onsite investigation; it may require medical review. The HCFA regional office will make the final determination based on all of the relevant information, including the results of medical review, if needed. When the regional office makes a determination of noncompliance, it will notify the hospital via a preliminary determination letter. The date the hospital receives the preliminary determination letter becomes the date for commencement of the termination process, which lasts approximately 23 days in situations where it has been determined that the violation resulted in an immediate and serious threat to patient health and safety, or approximately 90 days where the violation was not considered to pose an immediate and serious threat. If the regional office receives additional information that proves the hospital did not violate section 1867 of the Act, or regional office verification reveals that the hospital has taken remedial action to prevent further violations before the actual date of termination, the termination action will be rescinded. As noted in a previous response to a comment, if there was a violation of section 1867 of the Act and the hospital does not take corrective action, a final termination letter will be sent to the hospital and the public will be notified concurrently through a notice in the newspaper (at least 2 days, but no more than 4 days, before the actual termination date in immediate and serious threat situations, or at least 15 days before the actual termination date in situations that do not pose an immediate and serious threat). Therefore, the change in the notice requirement in immediate and serious threat situations offers the provider approximately 19 days to correct the deficiencies before termination becomes effective in immediate and serious threat cases and continues to offer the provider approximately 75 days to correct deficiencies before termination becomes effective for situations that do not pose an immediate and serious threat. From the onset, the hospital is aware of the problem, HCFA's intended course of action, and that it must take corrective action or prove that the violation did not exist in order to halt the termination process. During and after this period, the hospital may submit documentation regarding the violation if it chooses; however, the termination process continues until proof is submitted to establish that a violation had not occurred, corrective action is verified, or the termination date is reached. HCFA's primary responsibility is to the people who come to the hospital in emergency situations. Their urgent need for proper medical care is a higher priority than providing for time-consuming historical re-review before action is taken against a hospital with improper practices. Comment: One commenter believes the OIG should revise its policy of prohibiting the PRO from consulting with the physician under investigation during the investigatory stage in cases in which the OIG requests an evaluation from the local PRO. Response: Section 4027(a) of OBRA 90 added section 1867(d)(3) to the Act to require the OIG, in considering whether to impose a civil monetary penalty or physician exclusion, to obtain and consider PRO review except when a delay would jeopardize the health or safety of individuals. The PRO, in turn, is required to assess whether the individual involved had an emergency medical condition that had not been stabilized and to provide the physician and hospital involved with a reasonable opportunity for discussion and to submit additional information. Comment: One commenter disagreed with HCFA's intention to rely on State survey agencies to investigate initial complaints of violation because in many States these agencies have an inherent conflict of interest. The commenter recommended that, to guarantee that there are no conflicts of interest, HCFA should at least apply certain minimum performance standards and investigatory guidelines in determining in which States the State survey agency can be entrusted with the role of investigating complaints. Response: As provided for by section 1864(c) of the Act, HCFA contracts with the State survey agency to conduct surveys to evaluate compliance with Federal health and safety requirements. We provide training, survey report forms and interpretive guidelines and perform Federal surveys and oversight to monitor the States' performances. Consequently, we are confident of the States' abilities to conduct compliant investigations. Comment: One commenter believes that complainants should be asked but not required to give their names or other identifying information, as many anonymous complaints have proven reliable in other health care enforcement contexts. These complaints are often made by hospital employees, who are in a position to know what constitutes an actual violation and who are fearful of losing their jobs if identified. Response: We agree that requesting, rather than requiring, a complainant's name would protect an employee with anonymity. This will be reflected in HCFA's revised Medicare Survey and Certification, State Operations and Regional Office Manuals instructions. We also note, as previously indicated, under section 4027(k)(3) of OBRA 90 hospitals are not allowed to penalize or take action against any hospital employee because the employee reported a violation of these provisions. State Agency Involvement Comment: Two commenters believe that our regulations dealing with documentation of findings at ยง405.1903(d) (recodified as ยง488.18(d)) should be revised to require State survey agencies to forward all complaints to HCFA, not just those they deem ``credible'', in order to maintain the integrity of the enforcement process. Response: We agree that HCFA should decide whether a complaint alleges a violation of these requirements and warrants an investigation. We are revising recodified ยง488.18(d), accordingly. Physician Role
