FR940303-2-00226 FR940303-2-00111 ADDRESSES: All comments concerning this proposed priority should be addressed to Bryan Gray, U.S. Department of Education, 555 New Jersey Avenue, NW., room 522, Washington, DC 20208&hyph;5524. Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;1496. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: An essential step in achieving our National Education Goals is ensuring that we have high academic expectations for all students and that each student has the opportunity to fulfill those expectations. Current national, State, and local efforts to define high standards for what students should know and be able to do in the various subject areas provide a starting point for creating the type of learning opportunities that an education system of excellence must provide for all members of an increasingly diverse student population. In order to provide learning opportunities where more rigorous and complex learning is expected of all students, teachers will need high-quality, career-long professional development programs. Other educators who help to create teaching and learning environments that better serve the academic and other needs of students will need similar high-quality professional development opportunities. Such educators might include school and district administrators, school and university-based teacher educators, curriculum and supervisory personnel, paraprofessionals/instructional aides, and members of school boards. To provide effective professional development programs for teachers and other educators, applicants must ensure that their proposed projects are aligned with high standards for student learning. Applicants should also consider related standards for teacher effectiveness and for the preparation, credentialling and continuing development of educators. More specifically, in designing policies and practices for professional development, applicants are urged to draw on relevant work, as appropriate, from groups such as the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards, the Interstate New Teacher Assessment and Support Consortium, and the National Council for the Accreditation of Teacher Education. The Secretary recognizes that successful well-articulated programs that provide for continuous improvement of professional educators from recruitment to retirement will require educators to work together across traditionally separated roles and organizations. Therefore, projects must be carried out by partnerships. Finally, the design of professional development efforts must incorporate what is known about developing and managing high-performance school systems that support education excellence and equity. The Secretary proposes to direct financial assistance to projects that develop new or further develop existing innovative partnerships of school, university, community, and other entities to establish and maintain high-quality, standards-based professional development programs for teachers and other educators. The purpose of these partnerships may be to improve the entire continuum of professional development or to focus on one or more points along that continuum (e.g., preservice, induction, inservice). In accordance with recommendations in the Senate Report that accompanied the Fiscal Year 1994 Department of Education Appropriation Act, the Secretary supports development of programs based on existing strategies, such as creating model professional development schools, or applicants' newly designed strategies. The Secretary also recognizes the need for professional development efforts, as identified in the Senate Report, that prepare educators for working with other human service professionals to address non-academic student/family problems (e.g., drugs, violence, nutrition, unemployment) as well as other conditions that place students at-risk for failure in school. The Secretary is particularly interested in projects that provide relevant development opportunities for educators who work in urban school communities.
