FR940620-0-00037 FR940620-0-00011 III. Restrictions on Individuals Engaging in Limited Practice The proposed regulations generally required that all nonpractitioners who engage in limited practice before the IRS under §10.7 uphold the same standards as practitioners and simplified the structure of that section. In response to a comment, the final regulations clarify ambiguous wording in §10.7(c)(1)(vii) of the proposed regulations, which relates to representation outside of the United States. The change makes clear that a nonpractitioner may represent a taxpayer before personnel of the IRS who are located outside of the United States, regardless of where the taxpayer is located. Another commentator asked that §10.7(c)(1)(viii), which relates to representation before the Examination Division by a preparer, be clarified by substituting ``as the preparer'' for ``on behalf of the taxpayer''. This change, which is not substantive in nature, is adopted by the final regulations. IV. Expedited Suspensions From Practice Before the Service in Certain Cases The proposed regulations added a new section permitting the Director of Practice to commence an expedited proceeding leading to a practitioner's suspension from practice before the Service in those instances in which an independent authority already has determined that the practitioner has engaged in serious misconduct. Some commentators recommended against adopting the expedited suspension provision. These commentators argued that an expedited suspension violates an individual's due process rights and constitutes an abuse of the Director of Practice's authority. Alternatively, it was suggested that: (1) An expedited suspension be deferred if the individual requests a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge; (2) the Director be required to take additional steps to ensure that the complaint in an expedited suspension proceeding is properly served; and (3) the respondent in such a proceeding be given additional time to respond to the Director's complaint and not be deemed to have waived his or her right to a conference if the respondent's answer is not timely filed. The acts giving rise to an expedited suspension, such as loss of professional license for misconduct or conviction of certain felonies, constitute disreputable conduct under Circular 230. Title 31, section 330(b) of the United States Code requires only that a representative who engages in disreputable conduct be given notice and an opportunity for a proceeding prior to being suspended from practice before the IRS. The expedited suspension procedures comply with these and general due process requirements by providing a practitioner with reasonable notice of the grounds for any proposed suspension and an opportunity to be heard by the Director of Practice before the suspension takes effect. The expedited suspension provision has been carefully drafted to apply only in limited circumstances, minimize any opportunities for abuse, and provide individuals with adequate procedural safeguards. For these reasons and considering Treasury's interest in expeditiously handling these cases, the commentators' recommendations on this section of Circular 230 generally were not adopted. However, in response to the comments, the time for responding to a complaint has been increased to 30 days. In addition, the scheduling requirements for a conference with the Director of Practice are relaxed and clarified. Under the final regulations, the conference with the Director of Practice may be held no sooner than 14 calendar days after the answer is required to be filed, rather than 30 calendar days after the complaint is served, unless the respondent agrees to an earlier date. The final regulations also provide that a practitioner's loss of his or her professional license solely due to a failure to pay a professional licensing fee will not constitute grounds for an expedited suspension. The section has been renumbered and conforming changes made to comply with the requirements of the Federal Register . V. Other Matters A. ``Return'' One commentator asked that the definition of ``return'' of tax in §10.2(g) be revised to explicitly state that a return includes an amended return. To eliminate any confusion on this point, the final regulations incorporate this recommendation. B. ``Reckless Conduct'' One commentator requested assurances that changes to the definition of ``reckless conduct'' in §10.51(j) were not intended to substantively change that provision. Other commentators asked that the words ``highly unreasonable omission'' be eliminated or replaced with other words. The proposed changes to the definition of ``reckless conduct'' were intended to streamline that definition without changing its substance. Accordingly, there is no substantive significance to eliminating the words ``merely simple or inexcusable negligence'' or to substituting ``should observe under the circumstances'' for ``is either known or is so obvious that the competent practitioner must or should have been aware of it.'' Because no substantive change is intended, substantive wording changes suggested by commentators to the proposed definition were not adopted. C. Comments Outside the Scope of the Project Additional comments were not adopted because they were beyond the scope of the regulations project. These included: (1) Altering the definition of ``practice before the Internal Revenue Service'' in §10.2(e); (2) extending the practice standards to commercial return preparers; (3) requiring a return preparer who is representing a taxpayer on audit to withdraw from the representation if a conflict of interest arises; (4) prescribing burdens of proof in disciplinary proceedings (which generally are governed by the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. section 551 et. seq.); and (5) permitting a temporary or part-time employee who is not a practitioner to represent an employer, partnership, corporation, or trust under the limited practice rules. Special Analyses
