FR940805-0-00027 FR940805-0-00009 A review of prior versions of this regulation indicates that, prior to the 1987 recodification of the visa regulations, the concepts now set forth in several shorter sentences were included in a single long compound sentence. It is apparently the division of the regulations into shorter sentences which has created the doubt in the commenter's mind about the Department's intentions here. Accordingly, the Department has decided that the first two sentences of the proposed text should be editorially amended to read as follows: ``Unless otherwise directed by the Department, an alien applying for an immigrant visa shall make application at the consular office having jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence; except that, unless otherwise directed by the Department, an alien physically present in an area but having no residence therein may make application at the consular office having jurisdiction over that area if the alien can establish that he or she will be able to remain in the area for the period required to process the application.'' While there appears to have arisen a general prejudice against the compound sentence in recent years, the Department trusts that, in this case, it will be seen as clarifying rather than obscuring the issue. This rule is not expected to have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. In addition, this rule would not impose information collection requirements under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. This rule has been reviewed as required under E.O. 12778 and certified to be in compliance therewith. This rule is exempt from review under E.O. 12866, but has been reviewed internally by the Department to ensure consistency with the objectives thereof. List of Subjects in 22 CFR Part 42 Aliens, Application, Immigrants, Visas. Accordingly, 22 CFR Part 42 is amended as follows: PART 42_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for Part 42 continues to read: Authority: 8 U.S.C. 1104; 8 U.S.C. 1202. 2. Section 42.61 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: ยง42.61 Place of application. (a) Alien to apply in consular district of residence . Unless otherwise directed by the Department, an alien applying for an immigrant visa shall make application at the consular office having jurisdiction over the alien's place of residence; except that, unless otherwise directed by the Department, an alien physically present in an area but having no residence therein may make application at the consular office having jurisdiction over that area if the alien can establish that he or she will be able to remain in the area for the period required to process the application. Finally, a consular office may, as a matter of discretion, or shall, at the direction of the Department, accept an immigrant visa application from an alien who is neither a resident of, nor physically present in, the area designated for that office for such purpose. For the purposes of this section, an alien physically present in the United States shall be considered to be a resident of the area of his or her last residence prior to entry into the United States. * * * * * Dated: August 1, 1994. Mary A. Ryan, Assistant Secretary for Consular Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19090 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;06&hyph;P
