FR940825-2-00138 FR940825-2-00093 The Exchange is now proposing to amend Section 107B in order to provide for the listing and trading of ELNs linked to a security, including a sponsored ADR, 9 that is traded in the U.S. markets and is issued by a non-U.S. company 10 that is subject to reporting requirements under the Act. Except for the requirement that the issuer of the underlying linked security must be a U.S. company, the listing requirements for ELNs linked to a security issued by a non-U.S. company will be the same as those set forth above with the following enhancements: 11 (1) Section 107B of the Guide is being amended to clarify that the trading volume requirement refers to U.S. trading volume; 12 (2) the term of such ELNs shall be limited to between two and three years; (3) either (i) the Exchange must have in place a comprehensive market information sharing agreement 13 with the primary exchange on which the underlying security is primarily traded (in the case of ADRs, with the primary exchange where the security underlying the ADR is traded), or (ii) at least 50% of the market for the underlying security and all related securities 14 for the six months prior to issuance must occur in the U.S. market; 15 (4) if linked to an ADR, the ADR must be sponsored; (5) there must be a minimum of 2,000 holders of the linked security; (6) the ELNs issuance may not exceed (i) 2% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 30% of the worldwide trading volume for the security for the six-months prior to listing occurred in the U.S. market, (ii) 3% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 50% of the worldwide trading volume for the security for the six-months prior to listing occurred In the U.S. market, or (iii) 5% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 70% of the worldwide trading volume for the security for the six-months prior to listing occurred in the U.S. market; and (7) no ELN may be listed if the U.S. market for the underlying security accounted for less than 30% of the worldwide trading volume for the security and related securities during the prior six months. 9 Amendment No. 6, supra note 5. As opposed to an unsponsored ADR, a sponsored ADR is established jointly by the issuer of the underlying security and a depositary. With a sponsored ADR, the depositary is generally required to distribute notices of shareholder meetings and voting instructions to ADR holders, thereby ensuring the ADR holders will be able to exercise voting rights through the depositary with respect to the underlying securities. 10 The exchange defines a non-U.S. company as any company formed or incorporated outside of the United States. Telephone conversation between Claire McGrath, Managing Director and Special Counsel, Derivative Securities, Amex, and Brad Ritter, Attorney, Office of Derivatives and Equity Regulation, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, on July 19, 1994. See also, 17 CFR 240.3b&hyph;4(b) (1985) (definition of foreign issuer under the Act). 11 See Amendment No. 6, supra note 5. 12 See infra notes 16&hyph;18 and accompanying text. This will also apply to ELNs linked to securities issued by U.S. companies. 13 See Amendment No. 6, supra note 5; and Letter form Benjamin Krause, Senior Vice President, Capital Markets Group, Amex, to Sharon Lawson, Assistant director, Office, Division, Commission, dated March 8, 1994 (``March 8 Letter''). A comprehensive market information sharing agreement would provide for the exchange of market trading activity, clearing activity, and the identity of the ultimate purchaser or seller of the securities traded. See, e.g. , Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33555 (January 31, 1994), 59 FR 5619 (February 7, 1994) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;28) (``ADR Approval Order''). 14 Such related securities include all classes of common stock issued by the foreign issuer and ADRs that overlie any of these classes of common stock. See March 8 Letter, supra note 13. 15 The trading volume for any linked security trading on an exchange that is not part of the U.S. market will be included in the determination of world-wide trading volume, but not in the determination of U.S. market trading volume. The Exchange represents that it shall use its best efforts to discover all markets (foreign and U.S.) on which the underlying security and all related securities trade. Id .
