FR940617-2-00236 FR940617-2-00118 The length of the application, including the application forms and all attachments, should not exceed 60 pages. A page is a single side of an 81/2 ’ ’ × 11 ’ ’ sheet of paper. Applicants are requested not to send pamphlets, brochures or other printed material along with their application as these pose photocopy difficulties. These materials, if submitted, will not be included in the review process if they exceed the 60-page limit. Each page of the application will be counted to determine the total length. 5. Organizational Capability Statement The Organizational Capability Statement should consist of a brief (two to three pages) background description of how the applicant organization (or the unit within the organization that will have responsibility for the project) is organized, the types and quantity of services it provides, and/or the research and management capabilities it possesses. This description should cover capabilities not included in the Program Narrative Statement. It may include descriptions of any current or previous relevant experience, or describe the competence of the project team and its demonstrated ability to produce a final product that is readily comprehensible and usable. An organization chart showing the relationship of the project to the current organization should be included. 6. Part V_Assurances/Certifications Applicants are required to file an SF 424B, Assurances_Non-Construction Programs, and the Certification Regarding Lobbying. Both must be signed and returned with the application. In addition, applicants must certify their compliance with: (1) Drug-Free Workplace Requirements; and (2) Debarment and Other Responsibilities. These certifications are self-explanatory. Copies of these assurances/certifications are reprinted at the end of this announcement and should be reproduced, as necessary. A duly authorized representative of the applicant organization must certify that the applicant is in compliance with these assurances/certifications. A signature on the SF 424 indicates compliance with the conditions set forth in the Drug Free Workplace Requirements, and Debarment and Other Responsibilities certifications located in Appendices and of this announcement. D. Checklist for a Complete Application Applications may be mailed to the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor OFM/DDG, Washington, DC 20447. Hand delivered applications are accepted during the normal working hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, on or prior to the established closing date at: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 901 D Street, SW., 6th Floor (OCS 94&hyph;08), OFM/DDG, Washington, DC 20447. The checklist below is for your use to ensure that your application package has been properly prepared. _One original, signed and dated application, plus three copies. Applications for different priority areas are packaged separately; _Application is from an organization which is eligible under the eligibility requirements defined in the priority area description (screening requirement); _Application length does not exceed 60 pages, unless otherwise specified in the priority area description. _A complete application consists of the following items in this order: _Application for Federal Assistance (SF 424, REV 4&hyph;88); _A completed SPOC certification with the date of SPOC contact entered in line 16, page 1 of the SF 424 if applicable. _Budget Information_Non-Construction Programs (SF 424A, REV 4&hyph;88); _Budget justification for Section B_Budget Categories; _Table of Contents; _Letter from the Internal Revenue Service to prove non-profit status, if necessary; _Copy of the applicant's approved indirect cost rate agreement, if appropriate; _Project summary description and listing of key words; _Program Narrative Statement (See Part III, Section C); _Organizational capability statement, including an organization chart; _Any appendices/attachments; _Assurances_Non-Construction Programs (Standard Form 424B, REV 4&hyph;88); _Certification Regarding Lobbying; and _Certification of Protection of Human Subjects, if necessary.
