FR940627-0-00173 FR940627-0-00019 Under section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., the Administrator is required to assess the economic impact of regulatory actions on small businesses. Accordingly, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (RFA) has been prepared for this rule and is presented as part of the Regulatory Support Document (available in the public docket). The RFA compares the financial impacts of this rule on small F/FA manufacturers to the impacts on large F/FA manufacturers. The analysis explains the small business definition specifically developed in this rule to provide special provisions for small F/FA manufacturers (see Section X.D) and assesses the effectiveness of these provisions. This final rule defines a small business as any motor vehicle fuel or fuel additive manufacturer with total annual sales of less than $50 million. A comparison of companies classified as small under this definition to those classified as small by the Small Business Administration (SBA) reveals that the F/FA program definition classifies a larger number of F/FA manufacturers as small, and more closely groups companies with similar financial characteristics. Based on this analysis, EPA determined that the small business definition established in this rule is reasonable and applicable to the F/FA industry. Impacts of this rule on F/FA manufacturers were determined by projecting the effects of the estimated compliance costs on each company's return on assets (ROA). In general, a reduction in ROA (after compliance costs) to less than 2.5 percent is indicative of financial distress. A ROA less than ^4 percent indicates that a company is in severe financial distress, and a ROA less than ^30 percent generally indicates closure. According to these ROA thresholds, results of the RFA show that approximately 68 unique F/FA manufacturers (43 additive manufacturers, 23 fuel manufacturers, and 2 that produce both fuels and additives) could potentially be pushed into some level of financial distress. All of these companies are classified as small (i.e., have sales less than $50 million). The majority of these companies would fall into the first level of financial distress; however, less than one-fifth of them (12 companies) would potentially be in danger of closure. In relation to the total population of F/FA manufacturers, the companies potentially falling into some level of financial distress account to about six percent, with about 1.2 percent potentially in danger of closure. As previously described, this final rule includes two types of special provisions for small businesses. With respect to baseline and non-baseline F/FAs, all small manufacturers (i.e., annual sales under $50 million) are excused from all Tier 1 and Tier 2 testing requirements. A segment of these small manufacturers, i.e., those having sales under $10 million, are also excused from Tier 2 testing responsibility for their atypical F/FAs. Nevertheless, all twelve of the manufacturers who are projected to be in danger of closure as a result of this rule are very small companies with one or more atypical F/FAs. The RFA analysis shows that the special provision for small manufacturers with atypical products lowers overall compliance costs for 60 such manufacturers by roughly $20 million (as compared with costs that would otherwise occur in the absence of this special provision). Without this provision, an additional 15 manufacturers of atypical products would potentially be pushed into closure. It should be noted that the RFA has assumed no changes in prices, sales, product mix, or financial strategies. In many cases, a portion of regulatory costs can be actually passed on to consumers or back to suppliers. Manufacturers also have the option of reformulating a product to a ``baseline'' standard which has much lower compliance costs, or even of dropping products with the greatest cost and smallest profit potential. A more detailed discussion on circumstances which could mitigate compliance cost impacts is provided in the RFA. C. Recordkeeping Requirements The information collection requirements in this rule have been submitted for approval to OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. An Information Collection Request document has been prepared by EPA (ICR # 1696.01) and a copy may be obtained from Sandy Farmer, Information Policy Branch, EPA, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460 or by calling 202&hyph;260&hyph;2740. These requirements are not effective until OMB approves them and a technical amendment to that effect is published in the Federal Register .
