FR941117-0-00165 FR941117-0-00011 (1) To satisfy the requirement of paragraph (a) of this section, a cellular system must be interconnected with the public switched telephone network (PSTN) and must be providing service to mobile stations operated by its subscribers and roamers. A cellular system is not considered to be providing service to subscribers if mobile stations can not make telephone calls to landline telephones and receive telephone calls from landline telephones through the PSTN, or if the system intentionally serves only roamer stations. (2) The licensee must notify the FCC (FCC Form 489) no later than 15 days after the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met. (b) Construction period for specific facilities. The construction period applicable to specific new or modified cellular facilities for which an authorization has been granted is one year from the date the authorization is granted. Failure to comply with this requirement results in termination of the authorization for the specific new or modified facility, pursuant to §22.144(b). §22.947 Five year build-out period. The licensee of the first cellular system authorized on each channel block in each cellular market is afforded a five year period, beginning on the date the initial authorization for the system is granted, during which it may expand the system within that market. (a) Exclusive right to expand within market. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the FCC does not accept applications for authority to operate a new cellular system in any unserved area in a market on a channel block during the five year build-out period. (b) Partitioned markets. During the five year build-out period, the licensee of the first cellular system on each channel block in each market may enter into contracts with eligible parties, allowing such parties to apply (FCC Form 401) for a new cellular system on that channel block within the market. The FCC may grant such applications if they are in compliance with the rules in this part. Markets with two or more authorized cellular systems on the same channel block during the five year build-out period are referred to (with respect to the affected channel block) as ``partitioned markets''. (1) Partitioning contracts must define the CGSA of the subsequent cellular system in accordance with §22.911, including any expansion rights ceded. If not exercised, any such expansion rights terminate at the end of the five year build-out period. (2) The five year build-out period begins on the date the initial authorization for the first cellular system is granted, and is not extended or affected in any way by the initial authorization of any subsequent cellular systems pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. (c) System information update. Sixty days before the end of the five year build-out period, the licensee of each cellular system authorized on each channel block in each cellular market must file, in triplicate, a system information update (SIU), comprising a full size map, a reduced map, and an exhibit showing technical data relevant to determination of the system's CGSA. Separate maps must be submitted for each market into which the CGSA extends, showing the extension area in the adjacent market. Maps showing extension areas must be labeled (i.e. marked with the market number and channel block) for the market into which the CGSA extends. SIUs must accurately depict the relevant cell locations and coverage of the system at the end of the five year build-out period. SIUs must be filed at the Mobile Services Division, Common Carrier Bureau, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. If any changes to the system occur after the filing of the SIU, but before the end of the five year build-out period, the licensee must file, in triplicate, additional maps and/or data as necessary to insure that the cell locations and coverage of the system as of the end of the five year build-out period are accurately depicted. (1) The scale of the full-size map must be 1:500,000, regardless of whether any different scale is used for the reduced map. The map must have a legend, a distance scale and correctly labeled latitude and longitude lines. The map must be clear and legible. The map must accurately show the cell sites (transmitting antenna locations) which determine the CGSA, the entire CGSA, any extension of the composite service are boundary beyond the CGSA (see §22.911) and the relevant portions of the cellular market boundary. The date on which the map depictions are accurate must appear on the map. (2) The reduced map must be a proportional reduction, to 81/2×11 inches, of the full-size map required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless it proves to be impractical to depict the entire market by reducing the full-size map. In such instance, an 81/2×11 inch map of a different scale may be substituted, provided that the required features of the full-size map are clearly depicted and labeled. §22.949 Unserved area licensing process. This section sets forth the process for licensing unserved areas in cellular markets on channel blocks for which the five year build-out period has expired. This process has two phases: Phase I and Phase II. (a) Phase I. Phase I is a one-time process that provides an opportunity for eligible parties to file competing applications for authority to operate a new cellular system in or to expand an existing cellular system into unserved areas (Phase I initial applications) as soon as these areas become available. In addition, each licensee whose Phase I initial application is granted is afforded one opportunity during the Phase I process to file an application proposing major modifications to the cellular system authorized by that grant (a Phase I major modification application), without being subject to competing applications. (1) Phase I initial applications must be filed on the 31st day after the expiration of the five year build-out period of the authorized system(s) on the channel block requested in the market containing the unserved area. (i) Each Phase I application must request authorization for one and only one cellular geographic service area (CGSA) in one and only one cellular market. (ii) Applicants must not file more than one Phase I initial application for any cellular market. (iii) Phase I initial applications must not propose any de minimis or contract service area boundary (SAB) extensions. (2) Only one Phase I initial application is granted on each channel block in each market. Consequently, whenever two or more acceptable Phase I initial applications are timely-filed in the same market on the same channel block, such Phase I initial applications are mutually exclusive, regardless of any other considerations such as the technical proposals. In order to determine which of such mutually exclusive Phase I initial applications to grant, the Commission administers random selection procedures in accordance with part 1 of this chapter. After such procedures, the application of the tentative selectee may be granted and the applications excluded by that grant may be dismissed without prejudice. (3) Phase I major modification applications (applications filed during Phase I that propose major modifications to cellular systems authorized by the grant of Phase I initial applications) must be filed no later than 90 days after the grant of the Phase I initial application. Each Phase I licensee may file only one Phase I major modification application. The FCC will not accept any competing applications in response to a Phase I major modification application. Phase I licensees may not sell to a third party any rights to apply for unserved area.
