FR940405-2-00178 FR940405-2-00081 Agreement to Enter Into Housing Assistance Payments Contract (``Agreement''). A written agreement between the Owner and the HA that, upon satisfactory completion of the new construction or the rehabilitation in accordance with requirements specified in the Agreement, the HA will enter into a Housing Assistance Payments Contract with the Owner. Area Agency on Aging means the single agency designated by the State Agency on Aging to administer the program described in title III of the Older Americans Act of 1965, as amended (45 CFR Chapter 13). Assistant Secretary means the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. Case management means implementing the processes of: establishing linkages with appropriate agencies and service providers in the general community in order to properly tailor the needed services to the program participant; linking program participants to providers of services that the participant needs; developing and monitoring case plans in coordination with a formal assessment of services needed; and educating participants on issues including, but not limited to, supportive service availability, application procedures and client rights. Elderly person means a person who is at least 62 years of age. Fair Market Rent (FMR) means HUD's determination of the rent, including utilities (except telephone), ranges and refrigerators, parking, and all maintenance, management and other essential housing services, which would be required to be paid, in order to obtain, in a particular market area, privately developed and owned, newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated rental housing of modest design with suitable amenities. Frail elderly person means a person at least 62 years of age who is unable to perform three or more activities of daily living. Housing Assistance Payments (HAP) Contract means a contract between an HA and Owner for the purpose of providing housing assistance payments to the Owner on behalf of a person or family eligible for occupancy in the Owner's housing project. Housing Agency (HA) means the public housing agency defined in section 3(b)(6) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, including Indian Housing Authorities as defined in section 3(b)(11) of the 1937 Act. HUD means the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Near-frail elderly person means a person who is at least 62 years of age and who is unable to perform one or two activities of daily living. Owner means any person or entity, including a cooperative, having the legal right to lease or sublease Existing Housing as defined in 24 CFR 882.101(b). Professional Assessment Committee (PAC). See section (B)(10) of these Guidelines. Program participant means a frail elderly person or near-frail elderly person who meets the requirements of Section (B)(8) of these Guidelines and has been admitted to the HOPE for Elderly Independence Multifamily Project Demonstration. Secretary means the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Service coordinator means a social services staff person who is hired by the HA or management company, or another third party contractor such as a local case management agency. The service coordinator is responsible for assuring through case management that program participants are linked to the supportive services they need to continue independent living.
