FR940228-1-00019 FR940228-1-00003 Section 34.81, Copies of operating and emergency procedures, is proposed as currently written in §34.32 and requires licensees to maintain copies of emergency and operating procedures until the Commission terminates the license. Section 34.83, Records of personnel monitoring, is proposed as currently written in §34.33(b), and requires licensees to maintain records of alarm ratemeter calibrations, pocket dosimeter readings, and operability checks for 3 years from the date the record was made, and to maintain records of film badge or TLD reports until the Commission terminates the license. Section 34.85, Records of radiation surveys, is proposed as currently written in §34.43(d) and requires records of the exposure device surveys for 3 years from the date the record was made. Section 34.87, Form of records, is proposed as currently written in §34.4 and specifies how records must be maintained, including permitting records to be stored in electronic media. Section 34.89, Documents and records required at field stations and permanent installations, would be added to list documents and records required at field stations and permanent installations. This section is necessary to ensure that licensees have available sufficient records to demonstrate compliance with NRC regulations. Field stations and permanent installations may be far removed from the home office. Therefore, records necessary to conduct operations safely should be readily available. These records include a copy of the current license, copies of pertinent regulations, copies of operating and emergency procedures, instrument calibration records, leak test results, inventory records, utilization logs, training and survey records. These records are those required for licensees to safely handle radioactive material, and are a subset of the records required at a licensee's normal place of business. Section 34.91, Documents and records required at temporary jobsites and use or storage locations exceeding 180 days, would be added to list documents and records required at temporary jobsites and locations where radioactive material will be in use or storage for more than 180 days. This section is necessary to ensure that licensees have available sufficient records to demonstrate compliance with NRC regulations and those records necessary to maintain safe operations. The records listed are a smaller subset of the records required for a field station or permanent installation. These records include copies of pertinent regulations, evidence of latest instrument calibrations, latest survey records, shipping papers, and NRC license or Agreement State license if operating under reciprocity. These records are those required for licensees to safely handle radioactive material. Subpart F_Notifications This subpart is basically unchanged from §34.30 with the exception of an additional requirement. Section 34.101(c) would require licensees to notify the appropriate NRC regional office in writing before using or storing radioactive material in one location for more than 180 days. This notification would be required within 30 days of exceeding the 180-day timeframe. This provision would be added to provide the NRC with information in a timely manner to permit inspection of radioactive material at these locations. Subpart G_Exemptions
