FR940919-2-00060 FR940919-2-00037 Terms of Office The length of the terms to which persons from the general public are appointed is four years. Once appointed, a person from the general public may be reappointed to one additional term at the discretion of the Secretary. Nomination The Department is soliciting nominations for the three seats to be occupied by members possessing specific expertise in: •the social services aspects of child maltreatment; •the role of elementary and secondary school teaching; and •an at-large seat. The terms of the three seats will expire on May 29, 1999. Nominations may be made for one's self or for someone else. The same individual may be nominated for a seat in more than one category. Nominations should be made in the form of a letter which indicates the seat or seats for which the nominee is being nominated and provides information about the qualifications for office of the nominee. A current curriculum vita for the nominee should be attached to the letter. (If the nominee is not the person submitting the nomination, a letter from the nominee indicating a willingness to serve should be attached). All nominations will be evaluated. To assist in that evaluation, persons submitting nominations may wish to provide the following kinds of information about the nominee's qualifications: •What general knowledge about child maltreatment (i.e., policy; prevention; intervention; treatment; and research) does the nominee possess and how has he/she gained that knowledge? •What specific knowledge does the nominee possess about the aspect of child maltreatment which he/she is being nominated to represent on the Board and how has he/she gained that knowledge? (If the individual is being nominated for more than one seat, separate answers should be provided setting forth the individual's specific knowledge in connection with each seat). •What materials has the nominee authored, what presentations has he/she made, what meetings has he/she planned, et cetera, which shed light on both the general and/or specific knowledge of the nominee? •What skills does the nominee possess which will allow him/her to contribute substantially to the conduct of Board business and what highlights and achievements in the nominee's career shed light on such skills? •Does the nominee possess other abilities which are relevant to his/her appointment to the Board? •Will the nominee's schedule permit him/her to devote a significant segment of time to Board activities? •Is the nominee's ethnic or racial background that of an American Indian or Alaskan Native, Asian or Pacific Islander, African-American, or Hispanic? Each letter of nomination should be accompanied by at least one but no more than three letters of reference attesting to the nominee's qualifications for office. Authors of reference letters may include but are not limited to: elected officials (Federal, State, or local); persons in the field of child maltreatment; and persons in the subject area of the seat being sought. The Secretary will select the three persons to be named to the Board from among those individuals either who are nominated in response to this announcement or who are otherwise qualified to serve. After the Secretary reaches a decision, those persons selected to serve will receive a letter of invitation. Service will begin on May 29, 1995, or the first Board meeting thereafter. Nomination packages (letter of nomination; attachment(s); and accompanying letter(s) of reference) must be postmarked no later than October 31, 1994. Packages received with a postmark later than October 31, 1994 will not be considered. Nominations should be sent to the: U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect, Room 303&hyph;D, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201. CONTACT PERSON FOR MORE INFORMATION: Marilyn J. Gosdeck, Program Analyst, U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect, Room 303&hyph;D, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201. Telephone: (202) 690&hyph;8604. Dated: September 13, 1994. Preston Bruce, Executive Director, U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23143 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
