FR941110-0-00168 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: A great number of commenters asked that the temporary manager be held liable to the owner or governing body of a facility for gross negligence, intentional acts and omissions, unexplained shortfalls in facility funds, and breaches of fiduciary duty. Certain commenters proposed that HCFA, the State, or the temporary manager be required to secure a bond before overseeing operation of a facility, and others requested that HCFA or the State indemnify the facility for harmful consequences arising from the temporary manager's actions or omissions. Another felt that HCFA or the State should be identified as the temporary manager's employer for liability purposes. Response: We expect facilities to monitor the performance of the temporary manager, and if they have any apprehensions about his or her performance, they may have the remedy discontinued. Neither HCFA nor the State can force a facility to relinquish control to the temporary manager. Because it is the facility that decides to continue to yield to the temporary manager, neither HCFA nor the State will assume liability for the facility's decision. However, the facility does have the right to seek from the temporary manager any redress available under State laws relating to liability and fiduciary responsibilities. Comment: A few commenters asked whether the temporary manager will have a contract. Response: All of the actions needed to remove immediate jeopardy and correct deficiencies at a facility may not be readily apparent at the outset of the temporary management; therefore, it would be imprudent to delineate the specific duties and authorities of the temporary manager in contract form. The temporary manager must have the autonomy to take whatever steps are necessary to bring the facility into substantial compliance and ensure resident health and safety. Shortsighted contract provisions could prove restrictive and thus impede the temporary manager's progress. Comment: One commenter was concerned about the effect that the appointment of a temporary manager would have on a facility's liability insurance rates. Response: It would be more appropriate for a facility's insurer to address this issue. Should a facility find that the imposition of a temporary manager will cause the cost of its liability insurance to rise, this increase would be one of the factors that the facility would have to consider when evaluating the benefits and costs of relinquishing control to a temporary manager. Comment: One commenter asked that the temporary manager be authorized to not honor pre-existing leases, mortgages or contracts if their costs are excessive or if the contracts are otherwise unconscionable. Response: The temporary manager does not have the authority to selectively meet the financial obligations of the nursing home. That is, the temporary manager can not choose to pay some bills and not others, because he or she disagrees with the wisdom of the permanent facility management having assumed those financial obligations previously. It is the temporary manager's role to manage all aspects of the facility's operation, including its finances. Comment: One commenter believed that it would be problematic to bring temporary managers into county facilities because those facilities are subject to many restraints on hiring and the expenditure of funds set by county commissioners. Other commenters were concerned about whether the temporary manager would respect a facility's union agreements and contracts.
