FR940817-2-00003 FR940817-2-00002 Office of the Secretary Privacy Act of 1974; Notice of a Computer Matching Program for Federal Salary Offset AGENCY: Food and Nutrition Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of computer matching programs between the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), and the United States Postal Service (USPS). SUMMARY: FNS, USDA, is giving notice that it intends to conduct a computer matching program with the USPS in order to identify USPS employees who owe certain delinquent debts to the United States Government under the Food Stamp Program administered by FNS for food stamp benefits which they received but to which they were not entitled. DATES: Comments must be received September 16, 1994, to be considered. Unless comments are received which result in a contrary determination, the matching program covered by this Notice will begin no sooner than September 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to James I. Porter, Supervisor, Issuance and Accountability Section, State Administration Branch, Program Accountability Division, Food Stamp Program, FNS, USDA, 3101 Park Center Drive, Room 905, Alexandria, Virginia 22302. Comments can be reviewed at that address during normal business hours. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James I. Porter, Supervisor, Issuance and Accountability Section, State Administration Branch, Program Accountability Division, Food Stamp Program, FNS, USDA, 3101 Park Center Drive, Room 905, Alexandria, Virginia 22302, telephone (703) 305&hyph;2385.. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This computer matching program is being initiated as part of an effort by USDA to increase the collection of overissued food stamp benefits. These overissued benefits are benefits which households received but to which they were not entitled. As part of their responsibility for administering the Food Stamp Program, State agencies are responsible for establishing claims for these overissued benefits and for taking certain steps to try to collect those claims. This computer match will provide otherwise unavailable information which State agencies can use to try to collect delinquent food stamp claims owed by USPS employees and if necessary, which USDA can use to collect such claim by involuntarily offsetting USPS employee salaries.
