FR940826-2-00074 FR940826-2-00055 3. AT&T shall establish, maintain, and strictly enforce procedures designed to prevent the disclosures of Nonpublic Information prohibited by this Final Judgment. 4. a. AT&T shall establish, maintain and strictly enforce separate Marketing Account Teams for (i) McCaw and other AT&T Affiliates providing Telecommunications services and (ii) Unaffiliated Wireless Infrastructure Equipment Customers. Members of Marketing Account Teams for Unaffiliated Wireless Infrastructure Equipment Customers shall not be assigned to any AT&T or McCaw business (i) providing Telecommunications Equipment to AT&T, McCaw or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System, or (ii) providing or planning for any AT&T or McCaw Wireless Service, except in compliance with the procedures to be adopted pursuant to Section V.A.4.c of this Final Judgment. b. If AT&T performs Proprietary Development for Unaffiliated Wireless Infrastructure Equipment Customers, members of the Development Teams who perform such Propriety Development shall not perform Proprietary Development for McCaw or for any AT&T Telecommunications service except in compliance with the procedures to be adopted pursuant to Section V.A.3.c of this Final Judgment. c. AT&T shall establish, maintain and strictly enforce procedures designed to prevent the use or disclosure of Nonpublic Information of Unaffiliated Wireless Infrastructure Equipment Customers gained as a result of an employee's (i)(A) assignment to a Marketing Account Team responsible for Unaffiliated Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customers, or (B) involvement in Proprietary Development for an Unaffiliated Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customer, and (ii)(A) subsequent assignment to a Marketing Account Team responsible for marketing Cellular Infrastructure Equipment to AT&T, McCaw or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems, (B) subsequent assignment to McCaw, McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems, or any business providing or planning for any AT&T or McCaw Telecommunications Service, or (C) subsequent involvement in Proprietary Development for McCaw or AT&T. B. AT&T shall have the following duties to its Unafiliated Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customers: 1. AT&T shall provide the Cellular Carrier and System with a. Technical support and maintenance; b. Installation, engineering, repair, and maintenance services; c. Additional switching and cell site equipment to be deployed in that system; d. Upgrades and other AT&T cellular infrastructure equipment developed for use with these systems; and e. Spare, repair, or replacement parts, in accordance with the same pricing and other business practices that prevailed prior to August 1, 1993. AT&T shall not discriminate in favor of McCaw Cellular Systems or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems in the way in which such services or products are made available to Cellular Carriers or Systems, and the terms on which such services and products are provided shall not vary depending on whether the Cellular System that will use such service or product competes with McCaw or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System; and 2. In the event AT&T has discontinued, or hereafter discontinues, the offering of any Cellular Infrastructure Equipment service, part, or product, AT&T shall seek to arrange an alternative source of service or supply for the Cellular Carrier and, if AT&T is unsuccessful, AT&T shall provide the Cellular Carrier with licenses to use (and rights to sublicense) whatever Technical Information is required to provide these services, products, or parts, to the extent AT&T is able to grant such licenses, in order to allow the carrier to obtain the service, part, or product in question from another source. The terms of any such license, including reasonable charges, shall be in accordance with reasonable and nondiscriminatory licensing procedures. C. 1. When AT&T engages in development of new features and functions for use with AT&T Equipped Cellular Systems installed or contracted for prior to the date of this Final Judgment that, if successful, will be made available to two or more Cellular Carriers that are not affiliated with each other through substantial common ownership. AT&T shall disclose the enhancements to Cellular Carriers not affiliated with AT&T at the time as it discloses them to McCaw, any McCaw Cellular Systems, or any McCaw Minority Owned System, and shall make them available to Unaffiliated Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customers at the same time as it makes them available to McCaw or any McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System. 2. If AT&T develops for McCaw, a McCaw Cellular System, or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System, features or functions that are applicable only to McCaw or to that System because of its adjunct hardware and software or because of its specific operations or network, AT&T shall afford Unaffiliated Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customers substantially the same opportunity to contract for such development work on substantially the same compensatory basis. 3. If AT&T performs for McCaw, McCaw Cellular Systems, or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems Proprietary Development, AT&T will be required to perform upon reasonable request Proprietary Development for Unaffiliated Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customers under reasonable terms and conditions not less favorable to the Unaffiliated Cellular Equipment Customer than those provided to McCaw, McCaw Cellular Systems or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems. D. If a Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customers has deployed or contracted to deploy an AT&T Equipment Cellular System in whole or in substantial part prior to the date of entry of this Final Judgment, and if that Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customer wishes to redeploy AT&T Cellular Infrastructure Equipment or, replace, or supplement the AT&T Equipped Cellular System with another manufacturer's switching, cell site and other Cellular Infrastructure Equipment in whole or in part, AT&T shall
