FR941227-0-00115 FR941227-0-00020 (3) Any ownership rights of HUD, as applicable, in debt obligations under this subpart. §570.706 Federal guarantee; subrogation. The full faith and credit of the United States is pledged to the payment of all guarantees made under this subpart. Any such guarantee made by HUD shall be conclusive evidence of the eligibility of the debt obligations for such guarantee with respect to principal and interest, and the validity of such guarantee so made shall be incontestable in the hands of a holder of the guaranteed debt obligations. If HUD pays a claim under a guarantee made under section 108 of the Act, HUD shall be fully subrogated for all the rights of the holder of the guaranteed debt obligation with respect to such obligation. §570.707 Applicability of rules and regulations. (a) Entitlement public entities. The provisions of subparts A, C, J, K and O of this part applicable to entitlement grants shall apply equally to guaranteed loan funds and other CDBG funds, except to the extent they are specifically modified or augmented by the provisions of this subpart. (b) State-assisted public entities. The provisions of subpart I of this part, and the requirements the State imposes on units of general local government receiving Community Development Block Grants or program income to the extent applicable, shall apply equally to guaranteed loan funds and Community Development Block Grants (including program income derived therefrom) administered by the State under the CDBG program, except to the extent they are specifically modified or augmented by the provisions of this subpart. (c) Nonentitlement public entities eligible under subpart F of this part. The provisions of subpart F of this part shall apply equally to guaranteed loan funds and other CDBG funds, except to the extent they are specifically modified or augmented by the provisions of this subpart. §570.708 Sanctions. (a) Non-State Assisted Public Entities. The performance review procedures described in subpart O of this part apply to all public entities receiving guaranteed loan funds other than State-assisted public entities. Performance deficiencies in the use of guaranteed loan funds made available to such public entities (or program income derived therefrom) or violations of the contract entered into pursuant to §570.705(b)(1) may result in the imposition of a sanction authorized pursuant to §570.900(b)(7) against pledged CDBG grants. In addition, upon a finding by HUD that the public entity has failed to comply substantially with any provision of the Act with respect to either the pledged grants or the guaranteed loan funds or program income, HUD may take action against the pledged grants as provided in §570.913 and/or may take action as provided in the contract for loan guarantee assistance. (b) State-assisted public entities. Performance deficiencies in the use of guaranteed loan funds (or program income derived therefrom) or violations of the contract entered into pursuant to §570.705(b)(1) may result in an action authorized pursuant to §570.495 or §570.496. In addition, upon a finding by HUD that the State or public entity has failed to comply substantially with any provision of the Act with respect to the pledged CDBG nonentitlement funds, the guaranteed loan funds, or program income, HUD may take action against the pledged funds as provided in §570.496 and/or may take action as provided in the contract. §570.709 Allocation of loan guarantee assistance. Of the amount approved in any appropriation act for guarantees under this subpart in any fiscal year, 70 percent shall be allocated for entitlement public entities and 30 percent shall be allocated for nonentitlement public entities. HUD need not comply with these percentage requirements in any fiscal year to the extent that there is an absence of applications approvable under this subpart from entitlement or nonentitlement public entities. §570.710 State responsibilities. The State is responsible for choosing public entities that it will assist under this subpart. States are free to develop procedures and requirements for determining which activities will be assisted, subject to the requirements of this subpart. Upon approval by HUD of an application from a State-assisted public entity, the State will be principally responsible, subject to HUD oversight under subpart I of this part, for ensuring that the public entity complies with all applicable requirements governing the use of the guaranteed loan funds. Notwithstanding the State's responsibilities described in this section, HUD may take any action necessary for ensuring compliance with requirements affecting the security interests of HUD with respect to the guaranteed loan. Dated: December 20, 1994. Andrew Cuomo, Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31663 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:20 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;29&hyph;P
