FR940603-2-00049 FR940603-2-00038 Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry [Program Announcement Number 444] Health Studies Related to the National Exposure Registry Introduction The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for a cooperative agreement/grant program to conduct health studies of trichloroethylene (TCE)-exposed subpopulations that comprise the TCE Subregistry of the National Exposure Registry. The studies will address health conditions identified by ATSDR as potential health conditions associated with environmental exposure to TCE, with emphasis on neurotoxic disorders. The recipient will utilize the National Exposure Registry Trichloroethylene (TCE) Subregistry database in designing and executing these studies. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Environmental Health. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section Where to Obtain Additional Information.) Authority: This program is authorized under sections 104(i)(1)(E),(7), and (15) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980 as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) of 1986, (42 U.S.C. 9604 (i)(1)(E),(7), and (15)). Smoke-Free Workplace The PHS strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American People. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants are the official public health agencies of States or their bona fide agents. This includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and federally-recognized Indian tribal governments. State organizations, including State universities, State colleges, and State research institutions, must establish that they meet their respective State's legislature definition of a State entity or political subdivision to be considered an eligible applicant. Availability of Funds Approximately $1,000,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund 3&hyph;5 new and competing awards. It is expected that the average award will be $200,000, ranging from $100,000 to $300,000. It is expected that the awards will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 3 years. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Purpose The purpose of this announcement is to solicit scientific proposals designed to study the occurrence of/and risk factors for specified health outcomes for persons who have had documented environmental exposure to TCE through drinking or using contaminated water. The study population will include all, or a subset, of the TCE Subregistry registrants. These studies will increase the knowledge base, and hence improve the ability of public health programs to address potential public health problems related to exposure to hazardous substances. Several research topics were suggested based on the analysis of the TCE Subregistry baseline data. The topics are to be considered suggestions and not limitations. These topics are: _Hearing, speech impairment in subpopulation exposed at >10 years of age (neurological disorders) _Cardiac problems (possibly congenital) in subpopulation exposed at >10 years of age _Diabetes _Hypertension/stroke/heart problems in adult subpopulation Program Requirements The TCE baseline data and documentation are available on CD-ROM (4.75 inch disc) which is accessed using the Statistical Export and Tabulation System (SETS), data format ISO 9660. This can be run on a fully IBM-compatible microcomputer 286/386/486 with 640K of memory, three megabytes of free space on a hard drive, an operating system of MS-DOS 3.1 or higher and a fully installed CD-Rom reader. Applicants must propose studies which will address one or more of the following areas of investigation: A. Evaluate the occurrence of adverse health effects in the identified population. This will include the evaluation of the incidence or prevalence of a disease, disease symptoms, self-reported health concerns, or biological markers of disease, susceptibility, or exposure (see Purpose section for the specific disease outcomes specified).
