FR940216-2-00006 FR940216-2-00004 The full Board will convene at 9 a.m. The morning session of the full Board meeting, 9 a.m. until 10 a.m., will include approval of the meeting agenda, the Executive Director's report, and an update on NAEP. From 10 a.m. until 12 noon, there will be open meetings of the Reporting and Dissemination Committee, the Design and Analysis Committee, and the Subject Area Committee # 1. The full Board will reconvene in partially closed session from 12 noon to 1:15 p.m. During this partially closed session the NAEP 1992 Trends in Academic Progress will be presented. The discussion will include references to specific items from the assessment, the disclosure of which might significantly frustrate implementation of the NAEP. This session must be closed to the public because reference may be made to data which may be misinterpreted, incorrect, or incomplete. Premature disclosure of this data might significantly frustrate implementation of a proposed agency action. Such matters are protected by exemption 9(B) of section 552b(c) of Title 5 U.S.C. The full Board meeting will open to the public at 1:15 p.m. and continue to 5 p.m. Agenda items include a final report form Subject Area Committee # 1 on the 1996 NAEP Arts Education Assessment Framework and Specifications; a presentation on NAEP Dissemination Strategy, GED Spanish Testing Equating Project, and an Ethics Briefing for new Board members. Also, on March 4, the Nominations Committee will meet in closed session from 4 p.m._5 p.m. The Committee will review and discuss the qualifications of nominees for vacancies in the membership of the National Assessment Governing Board and formulate recommendations for the Board. The review and subsequent discussions of this information relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency and will disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy if conducted in open session. Such matters are protected by exemptions (2) and (6) of Section 552b(c) of Title 5 U.S.C. On March 5, from 9 a.m. until 11:30 a.m., the full Board will reconvene. The agenda for this session includes a presentation on the analysis of NAEP results by socio-economic and ``opportunity to learn'' factors, and to hear reports from the subcommittees. Beginning at 11:30 a.m. and concluding at approximately 12 noon, the meeting will be closed to the public to permit the Board to hear the Nominations Committee recommendations of candidates for Board membership. The review and subsequent discussions of this information relate solely to the internal personnel rules and practices of an agency and will disclose information of a personal nature where disclosure would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy if conducted in open session. Such matters are protected by exemptions (2) and (6) of Section 552b(c) of Title 5 U.S.C. This meeting of the National Assessment Governing Board will be adjourned at approximately 12 noon. Records are kept of all Board proceedings and are available for public inspection at the U.S. Department of Education, national Assessment Governing Board, suite 825, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC, from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. A summary of the activities at each closed portion of these meetings, including related matters that are informative to the public, consistent with the policy of Title 5 U.S.C. 552b(c), will be available to the public within fourteen days of the closed and partially closed meetings. Roy Truby, Executive Director, National Assessment Governing Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3563 Filed 2&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;M
