FR940114-1-00104 FR940114-1-00018 (10) Administrative Garnishment. (i) If a guaranty agency decides to garnish the disposable pay of a borrower who is not making payments on a loan held by the agency, on which the Secretary has paid a reinsurance claim, it shall do so in accordance with the following procedures: (A) The employer shall deduct and pay to the agency from a borrower's wages an amount that does not exceed 10 percent of the borrower's disposable pay for each pay period, or the amount permitted by 15 U.S.C. 1673, unless the borrower provides the agency with written consent to deduct a greater amount. For this purpose, the term ``disposable pay'' means that part of the borrower's compensation from an employer remaining after the deduction of any amounts required by law to be withheld. (B) At least 30 days before the initiation of garnishment proceedings, the guaranty agency shall mail to the borrower's last known address, a written notice of the nature and amount of the debt, the intention of the agency to initiate proceedings to collect the debt through deductions from pay, and an explanation of the borrower's rights. (C) The guaranty agency shall offer the borrower an opportunity to inspect and copy agency records related to the debt. (D) The guaranty agency shall offer the borrower an opportunity to enter into a written repayment agreement with the agency under terms agreeable to the agency. (E) The guaranty agency shall offer the borrower an opportunity for a hearing in accordance with paragraph (b)(10)(i)(J) of this section concerning the existence or the amount of the debt and, in the case of a borrower whose repayment schedule is established other than by a written agreement under paragraph (b)(10)(i)(D) of this section, the terms of the repayment schedule. (F) The guaranty agency shall sue any employer (including a borrower who is self-employed) for any amount that the employer, after receipt of the garnishment notice provided by the agency under paragraph (b)(10)(i)(H) of this section, fails to withhold from wages owed and payable to an employee under the employer's normal pay and disbursement cycle. (G) The guaranty agency may not garnish the wages of a borrower whom it knows has been involuntarily separated from employment until the borrower has been reemployed continuously for at least 12 months. (H) Unless the guaranty agency receives information that the agency believes justifies a delay or cancellation of the withholding order, it shall send a withholding order to the employer within 20 days after the borrower fails to make a timely request for a hearing, or, if a timely request for a hearing is made by the borrower, within 20 days after a final decision is made by the agency to proceed with garnishment. (I) The notice given to the employer under paragraph (b)(10)(i)(H) of this section must contain only the information as may be necessary for the employer to comply with the withholding order. (J) The guaranty agency shall provide a hearing, which, at the borrower's option, may be oral or written, if the borrower submits a written request for a hearing on the existence or amount of the debt or the terms of the repayment schedule. An oral hearing may, at the borrower's option, be conducted either in-person or by telephone conference. All telephonic charges must be the responsibility of the guaranty agency.
