FR940527-1-00052 FR940527-1-00014 Under the proposed FY 1995 wage index, 86.4 percent of all prospective payment hospitals (4,778 hospitals) would experience a change in their wage index value of less than 5.0 percent. Approximately 5.2 percent (283 hospitals) would experience a change of between 5 and 10 percent, and 8.4 percent (469 hospitals) would experience a change of more than 10 percent. The following chart shows the projected impact for urban and rural hospitals. (The totals in this chart exceed the number of hospitals in our database, as our projection includes new hospitals and hospitals that for other reasons are not included in our wage file.) ␣ 1Percentage change in area wage index values 1Number of hospitals 2Rural 2Urban Decrease more than 10 percent 188 196 Decrease between 5 and 10 percent 26 94 Change between ^5 and +5 percent 2,099 2,679 Increase between 5 and 10 percent 44 119 Increase more than 10 percent 67 18 F. Occupational Mix Adjustment In its March 1, 1994 report, ProPAC recommended that the Secretary develop methods to collect more timely hospital wage data by occupational categories and to adjust the HCFA wage index for occupational mix (Recommendation 15). The HCFA wage index reflects variations in the cost of labor; that is, it includes the effects of variations in the mix of occupations as well as the price of labor. ProPAC believes that the wage index should reflect only variations in the price of labor, which are beyond the hospital's control and are not otherwise accounted for by adjustments in the prospective payment system. Previous ProPAC studies on the effect of adjusting the wage index for occupational mix using data collected from California hospitals found that a wage index adjusted for occupational mix would redistribute funds from urban to rural hospitals. Within urban areas, the occupational mix adjustment would redistribute funds from large to small hospitals. Within rural areas, the occupational mix adjustment would increase the wage index values of all bed-size groups. ProPAC also reanalyzed the California data to examine the impact of an occupational mix adjustment on wage index values based on hospital-specific labor market areas. ProPAC currently believes that the implementation of revised labor areas, including nearest neighbor labor markets, would substantially improve payment equity among hospitals if an occupational adjustment was developed. We are not convinced that an occupational mix adjustment would improve the accuracy of the wage index, as we have discussed most recently in the August 30, 1991 final rule (56 FR 43222). Currently, the wage index measures the overall costs of labor. If the wage index were to measure the price of labor, then a set of occupational weights would have to be developed to determine a standard occupational mix. Hospitals would not be compensated for a mix of employees above the standard, while hospitals with a mix of employees below the standard would be overcompensated, relative to their cost of labor. If we were to adopt hospital-specific labor market areas in conjunction with an occupational mix adjustment, one concern would be the application of occupational weights to every prospective payment hospital in the country. Application of one set of occupational weights to every prospective payment hospital would conflict with the intended purpose of hospital-specific labor markets, which is to make the wage index more responsive to local conditions. We cannot envision a single set of occupational weights that could be applied to all prospective payment hospitals in an equitable manner. Last year, ProPAC suggested that we convene a working group made up of representatives from HCFA and the hospital industry to try to improve the timeliness and accuracy of the wage data. HCFA assembled such a discussion work group and presented ProPAC comments concerning the equity of adopting a method to collect data to assist in the development of an occupational mix. The discussion workgroup's consensus was that the data required to implement the proposal is not currently available and the likelihood of obtaining such data would be minimal. There seems to be little support among hospital industry representatives for developing a system that in their opinion clearly creates additional reporting burdens with an unproven or minimal impact on the distribution of payments. Therefore, at this time we are not proposing any changes to the collection of data to be used in developing an occupational mix adjustment.
