FR940811-2-00078 FR940811-2-00048 Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: All records are stored in hard copy and/or on magnetic media Retrievability: Records may be retrieved by the MSIS identification number (which may be either a State-assigned identifier or a social security number). Safeguards: For computerized records, safeguards are established in accordance with department standards and National Institute of Standards and Technology guidelines (e.g., security codes) will be used, limiting access to authorized personnel. System security safeguards are established in accordance with HHS, Information Resource Management (IRM) Circular # 10, Automated Information Systems Security Program; and the HCFA Administrative Issuance System (AIS) Guide for Systems Security Policies. Retention and disposal: Records are maintained with identifiers as long as needed for program research. System manager and address: Director, Bureau of Data Management and Strategy, Health Care Financing Administration, Room 1&hyph;A&hyph;11 Security Office Park Building, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207&hyph;5187. Notification procedure: Inquiries and requests for system records should be addressed to the system manager at the address above. the requester must specify the State, Medicaid Identifier number, date of birth, and/or social security number (SSN). Divulgence of the requester's SSN is voluntary, unless the requester's record cannot be located without their SSN. Record access procedures: Same as notification procedures. Individuals in the system should also reasonably specify the record contents being sought. (These access procedures are in accordance with the Department regulations (45 CFR 5b.5.). Contesting record procedures: Contact the system manager named above, reasonably identify the record (provide State, Medicaid identifier number, date of birth, and social security number), and specify the information to be contested. State the reason for contesting it; e.g., why the information is inaccurate, irrelevant, incomplete or not current. (These procedures are in accordance with Departmental Regulations (45 CFR 5b.7).) Record source categories: HCFA obtains the identifying information in this system from State Medicaid Agencies. Almost all information in the proposed system is derived from States' Medicaid Management Information Systems. Drug data is obtained from the National Drug Data File. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19578 Filed 8&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;03&hyph;M
