FR940512-2-00081 FR940512-2-00052 To ensure that competition for ATM network services is in fact enhanced, Paragraph H of Section IV of the proposed Final Judgment enjoins EPS from restricting the ability of MAC members to access other networks through their own facilities or those of third party processors. While MAC itself is not required to establish gateways to competing networks, it may not hinder its members form joining other networks. EPS also may not condition the price or terms of MAC membership upon not joining another network. EPS must permit MAC members to display multiple network marks on ATMs and ATM cards, except for electronic stored value cards. 10 The injunction against prohibiting multiple branding of ATMs applies in all areas where MAC operates; the injunction against prohibiting multiple branding of ATM cards applies only in the States of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, Ohio and Indiana, areas in which MAC historically had monopoly power, or in which there is a dangerous probability that MAC might soon gain monopoly power. 11 10 Permitting EPS to restrict the multiple branding of electronic stored value cards will not lessen the procompetitive impact of the proposed Final Judgment, because the branding of ordinary ATM cards, which are by far more common, is not restricted. EPS maintains that allowing restrictive branding of electronic stored value cards will encourage innovation and competition in services among firms marketing such cards. 11 The United States believes that MAC also has monopoly power in New Hampshire and West Virginia. However, the United States believes that the proposed Final Judgment contains sufficient guarantees to open up those States to competition since there is substantial commerce between those States (or portions of them) and other regions in which MAC is not a significant competitor. Portions of the proposed Final Judgment, including the section lifting EPS restrictions on the participation of MAC members in competing ATM networks, will take effect immediately upon entry. Paragraphs A through E of Section IV, which lift EPS restrictions concerning the use of third party processors, will take effect in two stages. On October 1, 1994, EPS must begin the certification process for third party processors in the MAC Midwest Platform. It must allow third party processors to complete certification in a reasonably prompt manner, after which these processors will be able to act as third party processors for banks in MAC's midwest region. On January 1, 1995, EPS must allow certified third party processors to act as third party processors for all banks in the MAC network, and it must begin the process of certifying third party processors in any remaining region. The delay between entry of the proposed Final Judgment and the effective dates of the injunctions provides EPS sufficient time to undertake the technical steps necessary to ensure that all regions of the MAC network will be able to accommodate third party processors. These provisions take effect immediately in any area where banks were permitted to use third party processors as of January 1, 1993. This prevents EPS from banning third party processing in recently acquired or soon to be acquired networks where third party processing has not been restricted. Also, EPS may not discontinue existing arrangements whereby MAC members use third party processors. The United States and EPS have stipulated that the proposed Final Judgment may be entered by the Court at any time after compliance with the APPA. The proposed Final Judgment constitutes no admission by either party as to any issue of fact or law. Under the provisions of Section 2(e) of the APPA, entry of the proposed Final Judgment is conditioned upon a determination by the Court that the proposed Final Judgment is in the public interest. IV Remedies Available to Potential Private Litigants Section 4 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 15, provides that any person who has been injured as a result of conduct prohibited by the antitrust laws may bring suit in federal court to recover three times the damages the person has suffered, as well as costs and reasonable attorneys fees. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment will neither impair nor assist the bringing of any private antitrust action under the Clayton Act. Under the provisions of Section 5(a) of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(a), the proposed Final Judgment has no prima facie effect in any private lawsuit that may be brought against the defendant.
