FR940106-1-00119 FR940106-1-00013 Suisun Bay is the best known nursery habitat for reproduction and larval survival of splittail, but the habitat has been deleteriously altered by higher salinities in the spring. These higher salinities are caused by a large number of freshwater diversions that allow seawater to intrude farther upstream. At present, there are relatively few periods when freshwater outflow volumes through the Delta and Suisun Bay of any significance are mandated for wildlife or fisheries. State and Federal agencies had planned to increase 1991 and 1992 water supplies for out-of-stream uses at the expense of environmental protection of estuarine fish and wildlife resources in the fifth and potentially sixth years of drought (Morat 1991). Because of significantly higher than normal precipitation and subsequent higher instream flows after March 1991, a State agency request for relaxation of Delta water quality standards was withdrawn. Should a California drought return, water quality relaxation action likely will be requested again to favor out-of-stream water use over the need to protect aquatic habitats for fish and wildlife. Present regulatory processes do not ensure that water inflows to Suisun Bay and the western Estuary will be adequate to maintain the entrapment zone near or in Suisun Bay to benefit splittail. The California State Water Resources Control Board (Board) has the authority to condition or require changes in the amount of water inflow and the amount of water exported or diverted from the Delta. In testimony given before the Board's Water Quality/Water Rights Hearings in 1987, a Service biologist expressed concern for several Delta species including splittail (Lorentzen 1987). The Board did not take regulatory or legal action to protect this fish or its habitat during the four following years. On May 1, 1991, the Board adopted the Water Quality Control Plan for Salinity for the San Francisco Bay-Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary (1991 Bay/Delta Plan). On September 3, 1991, under provisions of the Clean Water Act, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) disapproved certain water quality standards for the Board's failure to adopt criteria to protect estuarine habitat. In 1993, EPA began the process of formulating replacement standards for those portions of the 1991 Bay/Delta Plan that were disapproved. In January 1992, the Governor of California announced a new water policy that included a directive to the Board to establish ``interim measures'' to reverse the decline of fishes in the Bay and Delta. Accordingly, the Board released an interim water quality plan (Draft Decision 1630) in December 1992 that immediately was suspended by the Governor. EPA's proposed rule to promulgate Water Quality Standards for Surface Waters of the Sacramento River, San Joaquin River, and San Francisco Bay and Delta is published in this same Federal Register separate part; however, enforcement of these standards may be difficult. The Service is aware that the salinity standards currently in effect (Water Right Decision 1485) are inconsistently implemented and frequently violated. Institutional guarantees of compliance have been lacking in the past and are needed in the future before existing mechanisms can contribute to the protection of this species. The Service currently is analyzing the potential effects on the splittail and other fish and wildlife resources in California as a result of recent enactment of the Central Valley Project Improvement Act (Pub. L. 102&hyph;575). Two of the stated purposes of this act are to: ``Protect, restore, and enhance fish, wildlife, and associated habitats in the Central Valley and Trinity River basins of California'' and ``to contribute to the State of California's interim and long-term efforts to protect the San Francisco Bay-Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta Estuary.'' Section 3406(b)(2) dedicates 800,000 acre-feet of Central Valley Project water annually for various purposes, including the benefit of federally listed species. Although the Service is reasonably certain that the splittail will realize some benefit from implementation of the Central Valley Project Improvement Act, the magnitude and timeliness of these protections may be inadequate to prevent further decline of splittail. Protective measures currently being implemented to benefit the delta smelt will beneficially affect the splittail by restricting pumping under certain conditions. However, the ecological requirements of each species differ, especially with respect to timing of important developmental stages and habitat use. Splittail need flooded lowland habitat for spawning and are particularly vulnerable to disturbance or destruction of marshy habitat. Therefore, the protections afforded the delta smelt, listed as threatened in 1993 under the Endangered Species Act, will not be sufficient to prevent further decline of the splittail. For the reasons stated above, the Service considers the existing regulatory mechanisms inadequate to ensure the long-term existence of the Sacramento splittail.
