FR941222-1-00032 FR941222-1-00008 C. Description of the Process Wastes Identified in Comparison to Those Specified in the Settlement Agreement Based on the Agency's study of the dye and pigment industries, EPA has concluded that many of the dye and pigment processes within each of the three chemical classes generate very similar wastestreams. Because of the similarity of wastestreams associated with the manufacture of each class of dye or pigment ( i.e., azo, anthraquinone, and triarylmethane), EPA combined closely related wastestreams into ``waste groupings,'' and proposed one hazardous waste listing description and waste code for each of these groupings. Although, given time and resource constraints, EPA was not able to sample wastestreams generated from the production of each distinct product within a particular waste grouping, the sampling data and raw material and process chemistry information that EPA collected support the waste groupings EPA has established. The constituents and their concentrations in a waste will determine, in turn, the nature of the toxicity of the waste. EPA is required to consider the nature and toxicity of a waste in making listing determinations pursuant to 40 CFR 261.11. Given that similarities between wastes will result in a similar listing determination pursuant to the factors in EPA's regulations, it is reasonable to group wastes for the purpose of making listing determinations. Further, grouping similar waste matrices ( i.e., wastewaters or sludges) will facilitate the development of land disposal treatment standards (see 40 CFR part 268). Listing determinations were made on each waste grouping. For example, all wastewaters resulting from the production of azo pigments are proposed to be listed as K163 hazardous wastes. Other wastewater groupings for which listing determinations were made include wastewaters resulting from the production of azo dyes, excluding FD&C colorants (proposed as K165), wastewaters resulting from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments, and wastewaters resulting from the production of FD&C colorants. In addition, wastewaters generated from the production of triarylmethane dyes and pigments are grouped together under one waste grouping due to the similarity of these wastes, with the exception of wastewaters from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock. Wastewaters from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock were found to be significantly different in chemical composition from other triarylmethane dye and pigment processes and, therefore, were placed in a separate waste grouping. Triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock are manufactured at two facilities in the country. Only two triarylmethane products are made at each of these facilities and one is used as an intermediate for the second. The process used in manufacturing these pigments is a batch process but is operated throughout the year. Only two primary reactants are used at these facilities, unlike other dye and pigment operations where hundreds of raw materials often are used at one site. As a result, these reactants are present in the wastewater at high concentrations.
