FR941110-0-00225 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We are not adopting the use of scope and severity scales to identify deficiencies because, as described below, the Act imposes limitations that make it impractical. However, we are adopting substantial compliance as the standard of performance to which providers will be held. This is consistent with the intent of the Act, and will accomplish much of what the advocates of scope and severity scales claimed that the scales would accomplish. Although the thrust of nursing home reform was to codify a system of nursing home regulation that is outcome oriented, the Congress enacted a number of requirements that simply do not lend themselves to an outcome analysis. Moreover, the Act does not always lend itself to an analysis of whether the resident population as a whole was treated properly which, in our view, would be essential to a workable scope index. For example, section 1919(b)(3)(C)(i)(I) of the Act requires facilities to conduct a resident assessment no later than 14 days after admission. Whether a facility complies with this obligation, which the Act makes applicable to each resident, rests only on whether the assessment was in fact done by the date prescribed in the Act. Should a facility conduct an assessment on the 15th day after a resident's admission, that facility will have failed to comply with the requirement, notwithstanding the fact that it may have conducted timely assessments on all other residents, and notwithstanding the fact that there may have been no negative outcome for the resident who received the untimely assessment. In the same fashion, section 1919(b)(7) of the Act requires that facilities having more than 120 beds employ a full-time social worker. Should a facility having 121 beds not have such an employee, that failure is a clear violation of the statutory standard regardless of whether there are any documented negative outcomes that resulted from this failure. There are numerous other examples of this type of requirement in the Act. Other requirements in the Act, as some commenters pointed out, focus on a facility's duty with respect to each resident and not its duty to perform in a certain fashion for the bulk of all individuals in residence. Other than the resident assessment requirement discussed above, section 1919(c)(1)(A) of the Act requires facilities to protect and promote the rights of each resident. Should a facility, therefore, not perform in such a manner (as further described in the Act and implementing regulations) even for one resident, it cannot be said that the facility was not deficient in this area notwithstanding the fact that the failure was an isolated one. In the same way, section 1919(b)(6) of the Act requires that the health care of every resident be under the supervision of a physician (or, at the State's option, other specified health care professionals). Here, too, a facility may not be determined to meet this requirement if it has successfully provided for such supervision for most of its residents as long as even one of its residents has not had the benefit of such supervision. This is not to say that any violation of these or other similar requirements ought to result in the imposition of sanctions of consequence. As we suggested in the proposed rule, and as we require in this final rule, the degree of seriousness of a deficiency looms large in determining the appropriateness of a remedy. In some of the hypothetical situations cited above, there may be nothing more than a plan of correction that is called for. The point is, however, that the kind of analysis that allows for the consideration of a deficiency's seriousness in determining an appropriate remedy will not always work when seriousness is considered to determine whether a deficiency exists. None of the commenters who sought the use of scales in this context acknowledged these issues squarely or made suggestions that would allow us to address this matter in a way that comports with the structure of the Act. The substantial compliance standard that we are adopting tolerates a reasonable degree of imperfection. Even though deficiencies will be cited for violations that constitute no actual harm and a potential for no more than minimal harm, these deficiencies, due to their negligible seriousness, will not deny a provider a certification of compliance nor subject a provider to a remedy. The substantial compliance standard should also insulate providers from the uneven enforcement that may result from inconsistent surveyor behavior, because the marginal deficiencies that surveyors are likely to be the most uncertain about citing are liable to be the deficiencies that fall into the substantial compliance range, and, consequently, neither a facility in which a situation constituting no actual harm and a potential for no more than minimal harm was cited as a deficiency nor a facility in which the same situation was not cited as a deficiency will be penalized. Comment: One commenter was concerned that a formal scope and severity scheme to determine deficiencies would add issues to hearings. Response: Providers have the opportunity to appeal certifications of noncompliance leading to an enforcement remedy, and if we adopted scope and severity scales for determining deficiencies, the commenter is correct that scope and severity assignments would be an integral part of the determination of noncompliance, and would therefore be subject to challenge if the deficiency led to the imposition of an enforcement remedy. Comment: Many commenters requested that we incorporate the survey guidelines into the body of survey and enforcement regulations. Certain commenters believed that a failure to do so would violate the Federal Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553, which requires that general notice of proposed rulemaking be published in the Federal Register when the rulemaking is substantive.
