FR940223-2-00051 FR940223-2-00035 Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist In the Matter of the American Association of Language Specialists, a corporation. The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of The American Association of Language Specialists, a corporation, and it now appearing that The American Association of Language Specialists, hereinafter sometimes referred to as ``TAALS'' or ``proposed respondent,'' is willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from engaging in certain acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between TAALS, by its duly authorized officer, and its attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. TAALS is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the District of Columbia, with its offices and principal place of business located at 1000 Connecticut Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20036. 2. TAALS admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 3. TAALS waives: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify proposed respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by TAALS that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached. 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondent, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondent's address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondent waives any right it may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 7. Proposed respondent has read the proposed complaint and order contemplated hereby. It understands that once the order has been issued, it will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that it has fully complied with the order. Proposed respondent further understands that it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after the order becomes final.
