FR940822-2-00094 FR940822-2-00058 Hogan & Hartson argues that UPREIT transactions do not trigger the application of the proposed rule change because such transactions either do not come under the definition of ``limited partnership rollup transaction,'' or, conceding the application of the definition, meet the requirements of one or more transactional exemptions from the definition. Hogan & Hartson concludes that the only part of the entire UPREIT transaction under consideration is the potential redemption/exchange of operating units for cash or REIT shares, not the initial consolidation of individual partnership interests into operating partnership units, nor the initial consolidation in conjunction with the redemption/exchange. Hogan & Hartson argues that the initial consolidation of limited partnership interests into an operating partnership that does not have its shares traded on an exchange or authorized for quotation on Nasdaq/NM does not come within the definition of a limited partnership rollup transaction and, thus, falls outside the purview of the proposed rule change. The Commission disagrees. UPREIT transactions should not be viewed in discrete stages, as if each stage in the transaction were isolated from any other stage, with no contemplated interrelationship between the partners, promoters, investors and financing plans of the partnership consolidation stage and the partners, promoters, investors and financing plans of the exchange offering stage. V. Discussion The Commission finds good cause for partially approving Amendments 5&hyph;8 on an accelerated basis. 57 As indicated above, the Commission recognizes that the rule change will provide important benefits to investors who may be subject to limited partnership rollup transactions in that the amended proposed rule change will ensure that investors' rights are protected in accordance with the intent of Congress as embodied in the Rollup Reform Act. In addition, the Commission finds that notice in advance of approval of those Amendments intended to conform the proposed rule change with the Rollup Reform Act is unnecessary because the Rollup Reform Act itself has given interested parties constructive notice of pertinent terms of the Amendments. The Commission also finds that, except as noted above, those amendments to the proposed rule change not intended to conform the proposed rule change with the Rollup Reform Act are intended merely to clarify the rule change. The NASD will implement the rule change on November 1, 1994. The Commission believes that accelerated approval will avoid unnecessary delay in requiring members to ensure that they participate in limited partnership rollup transactions only if those transactions provide for fair treatment of limited partnership investors, protect the rights of all limited partners, including dissenting limited partners, and do not contain unfair or unreasonable terms. 57 The Commission does not find good cause for approving the Differential Compensation Amendment. The Commission finds that, with the exception of the Differential Compensation Amendment, the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of Section 15A(b)(6) 58 of the Exchange Act, which require, in pertinent part, that the rules of a registered securities association be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, promote just and equitable principles of trade, and protect investors and the public interest; the provisions of Section 15A(b)(12) 59 of the Exchange Act, which require the rules of a registered securities association to promote just and equitable principles of trade include rules to prevent members of the association from participating in any limited partnership rollup transaction that does not provide procedures to protect certain specified rights of limited partners; and the provisions of Section 15A(b)(13) 60 of the Exchange Act, which require that the rules of a registered securities association prohibit the authorization for quotation on an automated interdealer quotation system sponsored by the association any security designated by the SEC as a national market system security resulting from a limited partnership rollup transaction, unless such transaction provides certain rights for limited partners. The proposed rule change will restrict member participation in unfair rollup transactions and prohibit inclusion in Nasdaq/NM of any securities resulting from an unfair rollup transaction. 58 15 U.S.C. ยง78 o &hyph;3(b)(6). 59 15 U.S.C. ยง78 o &hyph;3(b)(12). 60 Id. The Rollup Reform Act reflects a brief that partnership rollup transactions, when properly structured, may offer significant benefits to investors and for businesses that have used these structures to raise capital. However, Congress has determined that abusive limited partnership rollup transactions harm investors, undermine investor confidence and threaten capital formation. 61 The proposed rule change will permit rollups to take place but will curtail the abusive practices that have occurred in the past. The proposed rule change is designed to ensure the fairness of partnership rollup to the limited partners by giving dissenters the right to compensation, based on appraisal, rather than being forced into a rollup. In addition the proposed rule change contains provisions which prevent the unfair conversion and valuation of the general partner's interests in a rollup transaction, prevent investors' voting rights from being unfairly reduced or abridged, prevent the limited partners from having to bear an unfair portion of the cost of a transaction that has been rejected, and prevent the payment of fees to general partners in connection with a rollup that are unfair, unreasonable, or inappropriate. 61 Senate Report, supra n. 9, at 9. Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning Amendment Nos. 5&hyph;8. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection an copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;03 and should be submitted by September 12, 1994. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) 62 of the Exchange Act, that the proposed rule change SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;3 be, and hereby is approved, except with respect to that portion of Amendment No. 7 that proposes amendments to Subsections (b)(6)(A) and (b)(6)(B) of Article III, Section 34 of the NASD Rules of Fair Practice. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 63 62 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(2). 63 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20479 Filed 8&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
