FR941007-2-00083 FR941007-2-00050 •Make determinations for high-performing, standard, troubled and mod-troubled HAs. •Make determinations on exclusion and modification requests. •Make determinations on initial appeals. •Transmit the determination of an initial appeal to the HA. •Make determinations of intentional false certification. •Rescind any relief afforded high-performing HAs and reinstate any review as necessary to address the particular deficiencies, deny incentives or deny high performer status. •If relief is rescinded, explain in writing the reasons for the action to the HA. •If high performer status is denied or rescinded, send written notification to the HA. •Review all cases in which a HA's score falls within ten points below the percentage required for designations of high-performing HA, troubled HA and mod-troubled HA. •Rule on petitions to remove troubled or mod-troubled status. •Execute the Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between HUD and a HA. •Provide exemptions for the appointing authorities of the Board of Commissioners to execute the MOA. •Resolve MOA differences. •Submit MOA quarterly reports to Headquarters. •Make determination that a HA's PHMAP assessment reflects improvement to warrant the removal of troubled and/or mod-troubled designation. •Perform necessary data processing. Authority Specifically Excepted From Redelegation •Make determinations of appeals of rescission of high performer designation. •Appeals of a Field Office's denial of an initial appeal. (h) Demolition and Disposition of Public Housing (Section 18 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437p); and implementing regulations: Authority Redelegated •Authority to conduct environmental reviews and determine compliance with National Environmental Policy Act and related laws, orders and regulations •Authority to approve a HA's application for the disposition of non-dwelling units or structures (e.g., administration building, or community center). •Authority to approve a HA's application for the demolition on non-dwelling units or structures (e.g., administration building, or community center). •Authority to approve a HA's application for the disposition of utility systems. •Authority to approve a HA's application for the disposition of non-fee interests in real estate, such as easements, rights-of-way, mineral leases or other leasehold interests. •Authority to approve a HA's application for the disposition of 10 or less acres of land, whether vacant or occupied by non-dwelling structures. Authority Specifically Excepted From Redelegation •Authority to approve a HA's application for the demolition of public housing dwelling units, whether occupied or vacant. •Authority to approve a HA's application for the disposition of public housing dwelling units, whether occupied or vacant. •Authority to approve a HA's application for the disposition of public housing property (i.e., land, dwelling units, or non-dwelling space) at a negotiated sale. •Authority to approve a HA's application for the disposition of public housing property (i.e., land, dwelling units, or non dwelling space) at less than the fair market value. •Authority to approve a HA's application for the disposition of excess land, whether vacant or occupied by structures, of more than 10 acres. (i) Public Housing Energy Performance Contracting (Section 118 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987, 42 U.S.C. 1437g); and implementing regulations: Authority Redelagated •Approve solicitations and contracts. •Monitor program implementation.
