FR940627-2-00040 FR940627-2-00026 A number of efforts are responding to human resource deficiencies with the intent of increasing the professionalization of child welfare staff. The rebuilding of partnerships between social work education programs and public agencies, and States' increasing access to Federal financial participation in the form of title IV-E training reimbursements are examples. The National Resource Center for Organizational Improvement will help develop the capacity of child and family service agencies to design, implement and evaluate management improvement and human resource development practices to improve outcomes for families and children. In addition to meeting the minimum requirements detailed previously, applicants need to: •Describe how the Resource Center will employ an Organizational Development perspective in rendering services. Organizational Development is comprised of behavioral science and system based procedures and practices supporting organizational renewal. Organizational Development fosters agencies' capacity to gain insight regarding their own operational processes as well as develop and implement organizational change strategies. •Describe a plan for dealing with management improvement issues emphasizing administrative strategies and operational procedures such as managing systems change, redesigning case flow procedures to overcome fragmentation and revitalize case management, streamlining record-keeping practices, formulating strategic and operational planning processes, and monitoring purchase-of-service agreements. •Describe a plan for dealing with human resource development issues emphasizing effective staffing and workplace improvement initiatives such as, modifying decision-making practices to overcome staff isolation and promote their meaningful participation in issues affecting their work; developing career ladders and promotional opportunities; designing responses to worker safety; strengthening supervisory in-service training; and promoting methods for minimizing stress and burnout. •Describe a plan for addressing licensing issues related to child placement and child care services, emphasizing the collection and analysis of licensing related data for the purposes of identifying and responding to the needs of States, and conducting meetings and/or conferences on licensing. •Describe a plan for promoting interagency and intersystem collaboration and exchange of information around blending funding streams, planning practices, and policy and program innovations, making sure to link with the Child and Adolescent Service System Program (CAASP) Training and Technical Assistance Center funded by the Center for Mental Health Services, the Maternal and Child Health Bureau and the Children's Bureau. •Describe strategies for helping States, local and Tribal agencies become adept at using information system technology for strategic and operational decision-making. •Describe a plan for helping States and other publicly administered or publicly supported agencies develop outcome measures at the child, family and system levels. CFDA: 93.608 Child Welfare Research and Demonstration: Section 426 of the Social Security Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 626. 8. Priority Area 1.01D␣National Resource Center for Youth Development. The pressures on and dissolution of greater numbers of families coupled with negative social forces and peer pressure has resulted in higher levels of family conflict and increasing numbers of youth struggling with the problems of maintaining effective school performance, homelessness, substance abuse/addiction, prostitution, delinquency, pregnancy and suicide. Continuing difficulties in attaining permanency means many youth remain in foster care without returning to their biological family or becoming and remaining part of an adoptive family. This sizeable population of youth needs to be prepared for self-sufficiency, independence, and effective community living. These youth need assistance in seeking additional education or training, and help in securing employment, finding housing/living arrangements, learning about parenting as they form their own families, and linking with family/social/community supports.
