FR941212-0-00098 FR941212-0-00019 (ii) Claims of the type covered by this paragraph, which are presented in an amount over $25,000, will be disapproved only by the USARCS. (c) Claims in litigation. Disposition under this subpart of any claim of the type covered by this paragraph that goes into litigation in any State or Federal court under any State or Federal statute or ordinance will be suspended pending disposition of such litigation, and the claim file will be forwarded to USARCS. The Commander, USARCS, in coordination with the U.S. Department of Justice, may determine that final disposition under this subpart during pendency of the litigation is in the best interests of the United States. This paragraph will also apply to any litigation brought against any agent of the United States in his or her individual capacity that is based upon the same acts or incidents upon which a claim under the subpart is based. §536.53 Presentation of claim. (a) When claim must be presented. A claim may be settled under this subpart only if presented in writing within 2 years after it accrues. If a claim accrues in time of war or armed conflict, or if war or armed conflict intervenes within 2 years after it accrues, and if good cause is shown, the claim may be presented not later than 2 years after war or armed conflict is terminated. As used in this paragraph, a war or armed conflict is one in which any Armed Force of the United States is engaged. The dates of commencement and termination of an armed conflict must be established by concurrent resolution of Congress or by determination of the President. (b) Where claim must be presented. A claim must be presented to an agency or instrumentality of the DA. However, the statute of limitations is tolled if a claim is filed with another Government agency and forwarded to the DA within 6 months, or if the claimant makes inquiry of the DA concerning his or her claim within 6 months after it was filed with another agency of the Government. If a claim is received by an official of the DA who is not a claims approval or settlement authority under this subpart, the claim will be transmitted without delay to the nearest claims office or JA office for delivery to such an office. §536.54 Procedures. So far as not inconsistent with this subpart, the claims procedures set forth in subpart B will be followed. Subrogated claims will be processed as prescribed in §536.20(b). §536.55 Law applicable to liability. (a) Claims arising within the United States, and its territories, commonwealths and possessions. As to claims arising in the United States, its territories, commonwealths, and possessions, the law of the place where the act or omission occurred will be applied in determining liability and the effect of contributory negligence on the claimant's right to recover damages. However, theories of strict or absolute liability will not be applicable to claims under this subpart. (b) Claims arising within foreign countries. (1) For claims arising in a foreign country, liability of the United States will be assessed by reference to the law of the District of Columbia applicable to torts committed in and having their operative effect in the District (i.e., District of Columbia choice of law rules will not be applicable). The United States shall be liable in the same manner and to the same extent as a private individual under like circumstances, except that theories of absolute or strict liability may not be applied under this subpart. Damages will be determined under the provisions of §536.56 through §536.59. (2) The law of the place in which the alleged negligent act occurred will be applied to determine the effect of the claimant's own negligence on the merits of the claim. Where there is no law on this issue, the MCA requires application of traditional rules of contributory negligence. (3) In traffic accident cases, questions of negligence, and the degree of the claimant's comparative negligence, will be evaluated based on the traffic and vehicle safety laws and regulations of the country in which the accident occurred, but only to the extent they are not specifically superseded or preempted by U.S. military traffic regulations. Likewise, where a claim is based on the failure to comply with some safety or regulatory standard, the standard applicable at the time and in the place where the claim arose will be used, rather than any comparable standard in the District of Columbia. §536.56 Measure of damages for property claims. (a) General. The measure of damages in property claims arising in the United States or its possessions will be determined in accordance with the law of the place where the incident occurred. The measure of damages in property claims arising overseas will be determined in accordance with the law of the District of Columbia (see §536.55(a)). However, punitive or exemplary damages, including damages considered punitive in nature under 28 U.S.C. 2674, and interest on any settlement are not payable. (b) Proof of damage. The information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) thru (4) (similar to that required by 28 CFR 14.4(c) (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix H)) will be submitted by a claimant to substantiate a claim. (1) Proof of ownership. (2) Detailed statement of amount claimed for each item of property. (3) Itemized receipt or estimate for all repairs. (4) Statement giving date of purchase, price, and, where not economically repairable, the salvage value. (c) Appraisals. The assistance of appraisers should be used in all claims where, in the opinion of the claims officer, an appraisal is reasonably necessary and useful in effectuating the administrative settlement of claims. (See §536.26 for procedures on appraisals.) §536.57 Measure of damages in injury or death claims arising in the United States or its possessions. Measure of damages in injury or death claims arising in the United States or its possessions will be assessed as follows: (a) Where an injury or an injury resulting in death arises within the United States or its possessions, the measure of damages will be determined in accordance with the law of the State or possession wherein the injury arises. However, punitive or exemplary damages, including damages considered punitive in nature under 28 U.S.C. 2674, and interest on any settlement are not payable. (b) The information listed in paragraph (b)(1) thru (7) (similar to that required by 28 CFR 14.4(a) (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix H)) will be submitted by a claimant to substantiate a wrongful death claim: (1) Authenticated death certificate or other competent evidence showing date and cause of death and age of decedent. (2) Decedent's employment and occupation at time of death, including salary or earnings and duration of last employment or occupation. (3) Names, addresses, birth dates, kinship, and marital status of survivors. (4) Identification of persons dependent on decedent for support at time of death and the degree of support provided. (5) Decedent's general physical and mental condition at time of death. (6) Itemized bills or receipts for medical and burial expenses. (7) If damages for pain and suffering are claimed, a physician's statement specifying the injuries suffered, duration of pain and suffering, drugs administered, and decedent's physical condition between time of injury and time of death.
