FR940228-0-00018 FR940228-0-00002 ยง457.101 Small Grains Crop Insurance. The Small Grains Crop Insurance provisions for the 1995 and succeeding crop years are as follows: United States Department of Agriculture Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Small Grains Crop Provisions If a conflict exists between the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8) and the Special Provisions, the Special Provisions will control. If a conflict exists between these Crop Provisions and the Special Provisions, the Special Provisions will control. 1. Definitions (a) Adequate stand _A population of live plants per unit of acreage which will produce at least the yield used to establish your production guarantee. (b) Days _Calendar days. (c) Final planting date _The date contained in the Special Provisions by which the insured crop must initially be planted in order to be insured for the full production guarantee. (d) Good farming practices _The cultural practices necessary for the insured crop to make usual and normal progress toward maturity and which can be expected to produce at least the yield used to determine the production guarantee. Good farming practices are generally those in use in the county for production of the insured crop and are recognized by the Cooperative Extension Service as compatible with agronomic and weather conditions in the area. (e) Harvest _Combining or threshing the insured crop for grain or cutting for hay or silage on any acreage. A crop which is swathed prior to combining is not considered harvested. (f) Initially planted _The first occurrence of planting the insured crop on insurable acreage for the crop year. (g) Interplanted _Acreage on which two or more crops are planted in a manner that does not permit separate agronomic maintenance or harvest of the insured crop. (h) Irrigated practice _A method of producing a crop by which water is artificially applied during the growing season by appropriate systems, and at the proper times, with the intention of providing the quantity of water needed to produce at least the yield used to establish the production guarantee on the irrigated acreage planted to the insured crop. (i) Late planted _Acreage planted during the late planting period. (j) Late planting period _(not applicable for fall-planted wheat)_The period that begins the day after the final planting date for the insured crop and ends twenty-five (25) days after the final planting date. (k) Latest final planting date _ (1) The final planting date for spring-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate a final planting date for spring-planted acreage only; (2) The final planting date for fall-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate a final planting date for fall-planted acreage only; or (3) The final planting date for spring-planted acreage in all counties for which the Special Provisions designate final planting dates for both spring-planted and fall-planted acreage. (l) Local market price _The cash grain price per bushel for the U.S. No. 2 grade of the insured crop offered by buyers in the area in which you normally market the insured crop. The local market price will reflect the maximum limits of quality deficiencies allowable for the U.S. No. 2 grade of the insured crop. Factors not associated with grading under the Official United States Standards for Grain, including but not limited to protein, oil or moisture content, or milling quality will not be considered. (m) Nurse crop (companion crop)_A crop planted into the same acreage as another crop, that is intended to be harvested separately, and which is planted to improve growing conditions for the crop with which it is grown. (n) Planted acreage _Land in which seed has been placed by a machine appropriate for the insured crop and planting method, at the correct depth, into a seedbed which has been properly prepared for the planting method and production practice. Except for flax, land on which seed is initially spread onto the soil surface by any method and subsequently is mechanically incorporated into the soil in a timely manner and at the proper depth will be considered planted. Flax seed must initially be placed in rows to be considered planted.
