FR940407-1-00011 FR940407-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration 21 CFR Part 101 [Docket Nos. 94N&hyph;058C and 94N&hyph;058F] Dietary Fiber and Cancer and Coronary Heart Disease; Notice of Public Conference AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice of public conference. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing that it is cosponsoring, with other health research organizations, a public conference to update and summarize the scientific information available on the association between dietary fiber and cancer and dietary fiber and coronary heart disease. The conference will also provide an opportunity to discuss the criteria that should be used in determining whether significant scientific agreement on the validity of a dietary fiber-cancer or a dietary fiber-coronary heart disease relationship exists. The conference will include invited summary presentations and panel discussions by expert scientists and public discussions of the scientific evidence. DATES: The public conference will be held on May 12 and 13, 1994, 8 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Interested persons may submit written comments by May 9, 1994. Data received by May 2, 1994, will be forwarded to the individuals preparing presentations or serving as panelists for the conference for possible inclusion in their reviews and discussions. ADDRESSES: The public conference will be held at the Marriott Gateway, 1700 Jeff Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA. Submit to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857, written comments, data, new data not previously submitted, or information regarding this notice. Comments relating to dietary fiber and cancer are to be identified with the docket number 94N&hyph;058F. Comments relating to dietary fiber and coronary heart disease are to be identified with document number 94N&hyph;058C. Received comments may be seen in the office above between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James T. Tanner, Office of Special Nutritionals (HFS&hyph;451), Food and Drug Administration, Washington, DC 20204, 202&hyph;205&hyph;4168. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990 (the 1990 amendments) required that FDA consider health claims on food labels for 10 nutrient-disease relationships and determine, based on the totality of the publicly available scientific evidence, whether there is significant scientific agreement among qualified experts regarding the validity of these relationships. In the Federal Register of January 6, 1993, FDA issued final rules announcing its decision not to authorize the use on the label or labeling of foods of health claims relating to an association between dietary fiber and cancer (58 FR 2537) or dietary fiber and coronary heart disease (58 FR 2552). The agency concluded that there was not significant scientific agreement among qualified experts that a claim relating dietary fiber to reduced risk of cancer was adequately supported by the totality of publicly available scientific evidence. FDA concluded that the role for dietary fiber itself was not supported by the available data, but that consumption of diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables may be associated with reduced risk of some cancers (58 FR 2537 at 2548). The agency also concluded that there was not significant scientific agreement among qualified experts that a claim relating dietary fiber to reduced risk of coronary heart disease was adequately supported by the totality of publicly available scientific evidence. As was the case with respect to dietary fiber and cancer, FDA concluded that the role of fiber itself was not supported by the available data, but that consumption of diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber, particularly soluble fiber, may be associated with reduced risk of coronary heart disease (58 FR 2552 at 2578). In the Federal Register of October 14, 1993 (58 FR 53296), FDA published a proposed rule not to authorize health claims on five nutrient-disease relationships, including dietary fiber and cancer and dietary fiber and coronary heart disease, for dietary supplements of vitamins, minerals, herbs, or other similar nutritional substances. In that proposal, FDA reviewed the available evidence on the relationship of dietary fiber and cancer and on the relationship of dietary fiber and coronary heart disease. Based on its tentative conclusion that there is not significant scientific agreement among qualified experts that the totality of publicly available scientific evidence supported these nutrient-disease relationships, FDA proposed not to authorize claims on these relationships. On January 4, 1994, in a new statutorily-mandated rulemaking, changes in the agency's regulations (21 CFR 101.71(a) and (b)) reflecting those that FDA had proposed in October 1993, became final by operation of law (see 59 FR 436, January 4, 1994). However, the rulemakings that FDA instituted in October 1993 continue (59 FR 436). On May 12 and 13, 1994, FDA will cosponsor a public conference with other units of the Department of Health and Human Services, including the National Institutes of Health and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the American Cancer Society, the American Heart Association, the Institute of Medicine, the American Medical Association, the Federal Trade Commission, and the Congressional Research Service to review the publicly available evidence on the relationship of dietary fiber and cancer and the relationship of dietary fiber and coronary heart disease with particular emphasis on refining the issues relative to dietary fiber definition and levels to disease risk. The purpose of this public conference is to update and summarize the scientific information available on these associations and to discuss criteria that should be used to determine whether a significant scientific agreement on the validity of these nutrient-disease relationships exists. FDA is taking this action because it is aware, based on its review of the evidence on these nutrients-disease relationships, that at least some promising evidence exists. The agency believes that the conference will help elucidate whether recent developments have provided the basis for significant scientific agreement. The agency notes that the review of the issues regarding dietary fiber/disease claims on dietary supplements is ongoing. FDA solicits the input of all segments of the food industry and of other interested persons on these issues, however, because the agency intends, if the evidence justifies, to authorize any claims that are warranted for foods in conventional food form as well as for dietary supplements. FDA has invited experts in medicine, nutrition, epidemiology, pathology, and other disciplines related to dietary fiber and cancer and dietary fiber and coronary heart disease to serve as speakers and panelists. They will summarize and update the publicly available evidence, react to any evidence that is presented, and provide additional comment based on their individual expertise. Others may submit data from new research and will be given the opportunity to participate during the open discussions. Cancer and coronary heart disease will be the focus of the conference because they are the diseases that were highlighted by the 1990 amendments. The conference will be divided into four major parts as follows: (1) Opening and overview of dietary fiber; (2) dietary fiber and coronary heart disease; (3) dietary fiber and cancer; and (4) the criteria for determining whether significant scientific agreement on dietary fiber and cancer or dietary fiber and coronary heart disease exits. Interested persons may, on or before May 9, 1994, submit to the Dockets Management Branch (address above) written comments regarding this notice. Comments are to be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. Received comments may be seen in the office above between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Dated: April 1, 1994. Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8268 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
