FR940111-0-00024 FR940111-0-00006 (ii) Effect on interim benefits. Interim benefits will not be granted based on an application or petition held in suspense for the submission of requested initial evidence, except that the applicant or beneficiary will normally be allowed to remain while an application or petition to extend or obtain status while in the United States is pending. The Service may choose to pursue other actions to seek removal of a person notwithstanding the pending application. Employment authorization previously accorded based on the same status and employment as that requested in the current application or petition may continue uninterrupted as provided in 8 CFR 274a.12(b)(20) during the suspense period. (11) Submission of evidence in response to a Service request. All evidence submitted in response to a Service request must be submitted at one time. The submission of only some of the requested evidence will be considered a request for a decision based on the record. (12) Effect where evidence submitted in response to a request does not establish eligibility at the time of filing. An application or petition shall be denied where evidence submitted in response to a request for initial evidence does not establish filing eligibility at the time the application or petition was filed. An application or petition shall be denied where any application or petition upon which it was based was filed subsequently. (13) Effect of failure to respond to a request for evidence or appearance. If all requested initial evidence and requested additional evidence is not submitted by the required date, the application or petition shall be considered abandoned and, accordingly, shall be denied. Except as provided in §335.6 of this chapter, if a person requested to appear for an interview does not appear, the Service does not receive his or her request for rescheduling by the date of the interview, or the applicant or petitioner has not withdrawn the application or petition, the application or petition shall be considered abandoned and, accordingly, shall be denied. (14) Effect of request for decision. When an applicant or petitioner does not submit all requested additional evidence and requests a decision based on the evidence already submitted, a decision shall be issued based on the record. Failure to submit requested evidence which precludes a material line of inquiry shall be grounds for denying the application or petition. Failure to appear for a required interview, or to give required testimony, shall result in the denial of any related application or petition. (15) Effect of withdrawal or denial due to abandonment. The Service's acknowledgement of a withdrawal may not be appealed. A denial due to abandonment may not be appealed, but an applicant or petitioner may file a motion to reopen under §103.5. Withdrawal or denial due to abandonment does not preclude the filing of a new application or petition with a new fee. However, the priority or processing date of a withdrawn or abandoned application or petition may not be applied to a later application petition. Withdrawal or denial due to abandonment shall not itself affect the new proceeding; but the facts and circumstances surrounding the prior application or petition shall otherwise be material to the new application or petition. * * * * * (17) Verifying claimed permanent resident status. The status of an applicant or petitioner who claims that he or she is a permanent resident of the United States will be verified from official records of the Service. The term official records, as used herein, includes Service files, arrival manifests, arrival records, Service index cards, Immigrant Identification Cards, Certificates of Registry, Declarations of Intention issued after July 1, 1929, Alien Registration Receipt Cards Forms AR&hyph;3, AR&hyph;103, I&hyph;151 or I&hyph;551), passports, and reentry permits. To constitute an official record a Service index card must bear a designated immigrant visa symbol and must have been prepared by an authorized official of the Service in the course of processing immigrant admissions or adjustments to permanent resident status. Other cards, certificates, declarations, permits, and passports must have been issued or endorsed by the Service to show admission for permanent residence. Except as otherwise provided in 8 CFR part 101, and in the absence of countervailing evidence, such official records shall be regarded as establishing lawful admission for permanent residence. * * * * * (19) Notification. An applicant or petitioner shall be sent a written decision on his or her application, petition, motion, or appeal. Where the applicant or petitioner has authorized representation pursuant to §103.2(a), that representative shall also be notified. Documents produced after an approval notice is sent, such as an alien registration card, shall be mailed directly to the applicant or petitioner. * * * * * 4. Section 103.5 is amended by: a. Revising, in paragraph (a)(1)(i), the reference to ``part 242 of this chapter'', to read: ``8 CFR parts 210, 242, or 245a''; b. Adding, to the end of paragraph (a)(1)(i), a new sentence; c. Revising the first sentence in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) introductory text; d. Revising paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(C); e. Revising paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4); and by f. Adding a new paragraph (a)(8), to read as follows: §103.5 Reopening or reconsideration. (a) * * * (1) * * * (i) * * * Any motion to reconsider an action by the Service filed by an applicant or petitioner must be filed within 30 days of the decision that the motion seeks to reconsider. Any motion to reopen a proceeding before the Service filed by an applicant or petitioner, must be filed within 30 days of the decision that the motion seeks to reopen, except that failure to file before this period expires, may be excused in the discretion of the Service where it is demonstrated that the delay was reasonable and was beyond the control of the applicant or petitioner. * * * * * (iii) Filing Requirements_ A motion shall be submitted on Form I&hyph;290A, and may be accompanied by a brief. * * * * * * * * (C) Accompanied by a nonrefundable fee as set forth in §103.7; * * * * * (2) Requirements for motion to reopen. A motion to reopen must state the new facts to be provided in the reopened proceeding and be supported by affidavits or other documentary evidence. A motion to reopen an application or petition denied due to abandonment must be filed with evidence that the decision was in error because: (i) The requested evidence was not material to the issue of eligibility; (ii) The required initial evidence was submitted with the application or petition, or the request for initial evidence or additional information or appearance was complied with during the allotted period; or (iii) The request for additional information or appearance was sent to an address other than that on the application, petition, or notice of representation, or that the applicant or petitioner advised the Service, in writing, of a change of address or change of representation subsequent to filing and before the Service's request was sent, and the request did not go to the new address. (3) Requirements for motion to reconsider. A motion to reconsider must state the reasons for reconsideration and be supported by any pertinent precedent decisions to establish that the decision was based on an incorrect application of law or Service policy. A motion to reconsider a decision on an application or petition must, when filed, also establish that the decision was incorrect based on the evidence of record at the time of the initial decision. (4) Processing motions in proceedings before the Service. A motion that does not meet applicable requirements shall be dismissed. Where a motion to reopen is granted, the proceeding shall be reopened. The notice and any favorable decision may be combined. * * * * * (8) Treating an appeal as a motion. The official who denied an application or petition may treat the appeal from that decision as a motion for the purpose of granting the motion. * * * * * 5. A new §103.5b is added to read as follows:
