FR941117-0-00149 FR941117-0-00011 (e) A call is terminated by the ground station when either a hang-up signal is transmitted by the airborne mobile station, or the signal from the airborne mobile station on the communications channel is lost for a period of 15 continuous seconds. The hang-up signal is the on-off keying (50% duty cycle) of an unmodulated carrier over a period of one second with pulse duration of 5 milliseconds. However, if all carriers authorized to operate air-ground systems using the channels listed in §22.857 agree that an alternative hang-up signal and/or procedure would be more efficient or beneficial, such alternative hang-up signal and/or procedure may be used. The carriers must jointly give prior notification to the FCC if an alternative hang-up signal and/or procedure is used. §22.867 Effective radiated power limits. The effective radiated power (ERP) of ground and airborne stations operating on the channels listed in §22.857 must not exceed the limits in this section. (a) The ERP of airborne mobile station transmitters must not exceed 30 Watts. (b) The ERP of ground station transmitters must not exceed 100 Watts. (c) The ERP of low power ground station transmitters operating pursuant to paragraph (a) of §22.859 must not exceed 1 Watt. §22.869 Assignment of control channels. The FCC selects and assigns exclusively one control channel to each commercial aviation air-ground licensee. §22.871 Control channel transition period. The rules in this section provide for a period of transition during which the experimental air-ground system operating on the channels listed in §22.857 will be discontinued and replaced by a system operating in full compliance with the rules in this subpart. The experimental system may continue to exclusively use a 3.2 kHz control channel contained within the bandwidth of communications channel C&hyph;2 of each channel block until September 9, 1996. After that date communications channel C&hyph;2 will be available for use by all carriers authorized to operate an air-ground system on the channels listed in §22.857. §22.873 Construction period for commercial aviation air-ground systems. Construction of a new commercial aviation air-ground system is considered to be completed for the purpose of this section and §22.142 when the number of ground stations specified in this section are constructed and operational. (a) Stage I. At least 25 ground stations must be constructed and operational within 3 years. Licensees must notify the FCC (FCC Form 489) as soon as this requirement is met. Service to subscribers may commence as soon as the notification is mailed. If service to subscribers is not commenced at that time, the notification must contain a statement to this effect. (b) Stage II. At least 50 ground stations must be constructed and operational within 5 years. Nationwide service to subscribers must commence within 5 years. Licensees must notify the FCC (FCC Form 489) as soon as these requirements are met. §22.875 Commercial aviation air-ground system application requirements. Existing and prospective common carriers may file applications for authority to construct and operate a new nationwide air-ground system on the channels listed in §22.857 only during window filing periods that may be announced by the FCC in Public Notices. In addition to the requirements elsewhere in this part, such applications must contain the following exhibits: (a) Written agreement. A signed agreement between the applicant and at least one airline or airline organization, authorizing the applicant to provide air-ground service on its aircraft. (b) Financial qualifications. At the time of filing its application an applicant must demonstrate that it has either a firm financial commitment or available financial resources necessary to construct 50 ground stations and operate for one year after initiation of nationwide air-ground service its proposed air-ground system. (1) The demonstration of commitment must include and be sufficient to cover the realistic and prudent estimated costs of construction of 50 ground stations, operation and other initial expenses for one year after initiation of nationwide air-ground service. The estimated costs, operation costs and other initial expenses must be itemized. The estimated costs must include the anticipated costs of construction of each ground station. (2) The firm financial commitment required above must be obtained from a state or federally chartered bank or savings and loan association, or the financial affiliate or subsidiary of an equipment supplier, and must contain a statement that the lender: (i) Has examined the financial condition of the applicant including audited financial statements, and has determined that the applicant is credit worthy; (ii) That the lender is committed to providing a sum certain to the particular applicant; (iii) That the lender's willingness to enter into the commitment is based solely on its relationship with the applicant; and (iv) That the commitment is not in any way guaranteed by any entity other than the applicant. (3) Applicants intending to rely on personal or internal resources must submit:
