FR940930-0-00153 FR940930-0-00028 In addition to the analysis of the 1991 prototype heavy-duty diesel engine referenced in the NPRM, EPA has used a similar analysis to examine diesel fuel effects based on data presented in a study performed on a 1993 prototype Navistar Diesel DTA 466 medium heavy-duty engine. 26 As had been done in the earlier analysis, EPA compared federal and California diesel fuels on the basis of aromatic percent and cetane number. EPA used the specified aromatic levels of 10 percent for California test fuel and 35 percent for federal test fuel and natural cetane numbers of 50 and 46 for typical California and federal certification fuels, respectively. 27 An API gravity number typical of both test fuels of 36 degrees was used. The following regression equations were developed in the study conducted on the 1993 engine for total hydrocarbon (THC) and NO X : 26 Diesel Fuel Property Effects on Exhaust Emissions from a Heavy Duty Diesel Engine that Meets the 1994 Emissions Requirements, ``C. McCarthy, Amoco Oil Co., W. Slodowske, E. Sienicke, and R. Jass, Navistar International Transportation Corp., SAE Paper 922267. 27 The cetane numbers used in the EPA analysis on the 1993 heavy-duty engine were based on the following: (1) ``Development of the First CARB certified California Alternative Diesel Fuel'', M. Nikanjam, SAE Paper 930728, (2) Section 2282, Title 13, California Code of Regulations procedure for certifying diesel fuel formulations resulting in equivalent emissions reductions and (3) Cummins Engine Company and Caterpiller diesel fuel formulations for federal diesel fuel. These cetane numbers are natural cetane numbers (without cetane improver). THC [g/Bhp-hr] = 0.819 ^ 0.01942 * (Natural Cetane) + 0.01159 * (API) NO X [g/Bhp-hr] = 6.593 + 0.01183 * (SFC Aromatics %) ^ 0.02497 * (Natural Cetane) ^ 0.02365 (API) Substituting the values selected above for percent aromatics and cetane numbers into these equations, the Agency calculated a THC + NO X offset of about 9.7 percent. Applying this percent offset to the 3.5 g/Bhp-hr standard for CARB diesel fuel, the Agency analysis calculated that the offset would be about 0.34 g/Bhp-hr THC + NO X . (This analysis assumed that the offset would apply equally whether THC or NMHC was being considered; the Agency has no data to indicate that the small methane emissions component in diesel emissions would affect the relative behavior of the engine on the two fuels). Thus, the Agency concludes that diesel engines certified to a 3.5 g/Bhp-hr level on California diesel fuel would for typical engines, result in emissions of approximately 3.8 g/Bhp-hr for the same engines operated on federal diesel fuel, confirming the estimate made in the NPRM. In their comments engine manufacturers quoted the same data that EPA has used for the 1991 and 1993 prototype diesel engines, but used different assumptions for the cetane number for in-use diesel fuel. Also, the industry analysis did not adjust the offset proportionally to account for the much lower emissions of CFVs as compared to the current engine which generated the test data. In their comments, they concluded that the offset between federal certification fuel and California certification fuel may be more in the range of 0.55&hyph;0.66 g/Bhp-hr. EPA has examined the assumptions used in the industry analysis and concluded that the EPA analysis is a more appropriate approach for determining the expected emissions offset. While this conclusion is based on data from a single engine, the 1993 engine is of the appropriate size (medium heavy-duty) from which to draw a conclusion for this program and the study was done on a meaningful array of diesel test fuels. It is likely that if similar data were collected on other engines, somewhat different values for the CARB/federal fuel offset might be observed. Until such a time when additional data becomes available, EPA will assume that offsets for other heavy-duty diesel engines would range on either side of the 0.34 g/bhp-hr level EPA has developed for the 1993 engine. Thus, the Agency believes that its analysis reasonably accounts for potential fuel variability and that the 0.34 g/Bhp-hr value represents a reasonable estimate for the average emissions offset between federal certification fuel and California certification fuel. If a reduction catalyst is used as a means to reduce NO X levels, concerns over fuel variability diminish significantly. The CARB/federal fuel offset would tend to be less because the reduction catalyst would reduce emissions proportionally for both fuels. While the use of reduction catalysts may not be universal, EPA expects that some light/medium heavy-duty engine families will use reduction catalyst technology to meet the NO X target level. Additional data and analysis supporting the above conclusion of the offset between federal and California diesel fuel can be found in the Summary and Analysis of Comments document for this rulemaking. Based on its analysis of the emissions offset above, EPA has set the emission standard for HDD CFVs certified on federal diesel fuel at 3.8 g/Bhp-hr NMHC + NO X . This standard is consistent with EPA's intent that the heavy-duty clean-fuel vehicle standards be of as close to equivalent stringency as possible to the CARB LEV standard for similar vehicles to assure the production of an adequate number of diesel engine models for the clean fuel fleet program. Further, because the Agency is reasonably confident that in-use emissions of a engine certified at 3.5 g/Bhp-hr on California fuel will emit in the range of 3.8 g/Bhp-hr on federal fuel, EPA will grant a federal certificate of conformity to a manufacturer which demonstrates compliance with the 3.5 g/Bhp-hr standard on California certification fuel. While it is possible that individual engines certified on California fuel may experience a slightly different offset when operated on federal diesel fuel (e.g., when a cetane number is much different between the fuels), EPA believes that this will be the exception and that in-use performance on federal diesel fuel will average about 3.8 g/Bhp-hr. The use of federal fuel in engines certified on California fuel is consistent in this case with the fuel use provisions of sections 246(b) and 241(2), since EPA has concluded that such engines indeed comply with the clean fuel vehicle requirements on federal diesel fuel.
