FR940920-2-00089 FR940920-2-00041 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of a Technical/Agency Draft Recovery Plan for Aristida chasae, Vernonia proctorii and Lyonia truncata var. proctorii for Review and Comment agency: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. action: Notice of document availability. summary: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces availability for public review of a technical/agency draft recovery plan for Aristida chasae, Vernonia proctorii, Lyonia truncata var. proctorii. These three species are endemic to Puerto Rico and known only from the southwestern part of the island. The species are threatened by agricultural, residential and tourist development. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. dates: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before November 21, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. addresses: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting Ms. Susan Silander, Caribbean Field Office, P.O. Box 491, Boquerón, Puerto Rico 00622. Comments and materials received are available upon request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. for further information contact: Ms. Susan Silander, Caribbean Field Office, P.O. Box 491, Boquerón, Puerto Rico 00622, Telephone: 809/851&hyph;7297. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened species or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. Aristida chasae, Vernonia proctorii and Lyonia truncata var. proctorii are known only from the southwestern part of the island of Puerto Rico. A. chasae, an endemic grass, is known from two areas: The Cabo Rojo National Wildlife Refuge in Cabo Rojo and the Sierra Bermeja hills in Cabo Rojo and Lajas, V. proctorii and L. truncata var. proctorii, two small shrubs, are known only from upper slopes of the Sierra Bermeja hills. All three species are threatened in these hills by residential, agricultural and tourist development. Wildfires, a frequent occurrence in the dry southwest scrub forests, also threatened these species, particularly in the Sierra Bermeja. A. chasae may also be threatened by competition from introduced grass species. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531. Dated: September 13, 1994. James P. Oland, Field Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23163 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
