FR940412-1-00099 FR940412-1-00012 (b) Except for a cargo hold containing coal on a voyage with a duration of 72 hours or less, each space adjacent to a cargo hold containing the material must be regularly monitored for the presence of the flammable gas indicated by reference to ยง148.420. If the level of flammable gas in any space reaches 30% of the LFL all electrical equipment that is not certified safe for use in an explosive gas atmosphere must be deenergized at a location outside of that space. This location must be labeled to prohibit reenergizing until the atmosphere in the space is tested and found to be less than 30% of the LFL. (c) Each person who enters any space adjacent to a cargo hold or compartment containing the material must wear a self-contained breathing apparatus unless_ (1) The space has been tested, or is routinely monitored, for the appropriate flammable gas and oxygen; (2) The level of flammable gas is less than 10% of the LFL; (3) The level of toxic gas, if required to be tested, is less than the TLV; and (4) The concentration of oxygen is at least 19.5%. (d) Except in an emergency, no person may enter an adjacent space if the level of flammable gas is greater than 30% of the LFL. If emergency entry is necessary, each person who enters the space must wear a self-contained breathing apparatus and caution must be exercised to ensure that no sparks are produced. ยง148.450 Cargoes subject to liquefaction. (a) This section applies only to a material that is listed in table 148.10 with a reference to this section. (b) This section does not apply to_ (1) Shipments by unmanned barge; or (2) Coal that is not fine-particled coal. (c) The following terms are defined as used in this section: Cargo subject to liquefaction means a material which is subject to moisture migration and subsequent liquefaction if shipped with a moisture content in excess of the transportable moisture limit. Moisture migration is the movement of moisture by settling and consolidation of a material, which may result in the development of a flow state in the material. Transportable moisture limit (TML) of a cargo that may liquefy is the maximum moisture content which is considered safe for carriage on vessels. (d) Except on a vessel that is specially constructed or specially fitted for the purpose of carrying such cargoes, a cargo subject to liquefaction may not be transported by vessel if its moisture content exceeds its TML. (e) The shipper of a cargo subject to liquefaction shall provide the master with the material's moisture content and TML. (f) The master of a vessel shipping a cargo subject to liquefaction shall ensure that_ (1) A cargo containing a liquid is not stowed in the same cargo space with a cargo subject to liquefaction; and (2) Precautions are taken to prevent the entry of liquids into a cargo space containing a cargo subject to liquefaction. (g) The moisture content and TML of a material may be determined by the tests described in appendix D.1 of the BC Code. Dated: March 2, 1994. R.C. North, Captain, U.S. Coast Guard, Acting Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8364 Filed 4&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;P
