FR940930-0-00099 FR940930-0-00017 (2) If the application is incomplete, HCFA notifies the entity and allows 60 days from the date of the notice for the entity to furnish the missing information. (3) After evaluating all relevant information, HCFA determines whether the entity meets the applicable requirements of §§417.142 and 417.143. (b) Notice of determination. HCFA notifies each entity that applies for qualification under this subpart of its determination and the basis for the determination. The determination may be granting of qualification, intent to deny, or denial. (c) Intent to deny. (1) If HCFA finds that the entity does not appear to meet the requirements for qualification and appears to be able to meet those requirements within 60 days, HCFA gives the entity notice of intent to deny qualification and a summary of the basis for this preliminary finding. (2) Within 60 days from the date of the notice, the entity may respond in writing to the issues or other matters that were the basis for HCFA's preliminary finding, and may revise its application to remedy any defects identified by HCFA. (d) Denial and reconsideration of denial. (1) If HCFA denies an application for qualification under this subpart, HCFA gives the entity written notice of the denial and an opportunity to request reconsideration of that determination. (2) A request for reconsideration must_ (i) Be submitted in writing, within 60 days following the date of the notice of denial; (ii) Be addressed to the HCFA officer or employee who denied the application; and (iii) Set forth the grounds upon which the entity requests reconsideration, specifying the material issues of fact and of law upon which the entity relies. (3) HCFA bases its reconsideration upon the record compiled during the qualification review proceedings, materials submitted in support of the request for reconsideration, and other relevant materials available to HCFA. (4) HCFA gives the entity written notice of the reconsidered determination and the basis for the determination. (e) Information on qualified HMOs_ (1) Federal Register notices. In quarterly Federal Register notices, HCFA gives the names, addresses, and service areas of newly qualified HMOs and describes the expanded service areas of other qualified HMOs. (2) Listings. A cumulative list of qualified HMOs is available from the following office, which is open from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday: Office of Managed Care, Room 4360, Cohen Building, 400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20201. C. Subpart E is amended as set forth below. Subpart E_Inclusion of Qualified Health Maintenance Organizations in Employee Health Benefits Plans 1. Section 417.150 is amended to revise the introductory text, add definitions of ``agreement,'' ``contract,'' and ``qualified HMO,'' remove the definition of ``health benefits,'' and revise the definitions of ``bargaining representative,'' ``collective bargaining agreement,'' ``eligible employee,'' ``employer,'' ``health benefits plan,'' ``public entity,'' and ``to offer a health benefits plan'' to read as follows: §417.150 Definitions. As used in this subpart, unless the context indicates otherwise_
