FR940919-2-00059 FR940919-2-00037 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration for Children and Families Notice of Solicitation of Nominations for Membership on the U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect Purpose Pursuant to the terms of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (the Act), the Department of Health and Human Services is soliciting nominations for three vacancies (seats) on the U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse and Neglect (the Board). Membership The Board consists of 15 members appointed by the Secretary of Health and Human Services (the Secretary). Thirteen are appointed from the general public and two from the Federal Government. In making all 15 appointments, the Secretary is required by the Act to ensure that ethnic and racial minorities and diverse geographic areas are represented. All 15 persons appointed must possess general knowledge about child maltreatment (i.e., policy; prevention; intervention; treatment; and research). In addition, among the 13 members from the general public, 11 must represent one of the following areas: •the legal aspects of child maltreatment; •the psychological aspects; •the social services aspects; •the medical aspects; •the role of State and local government in the prevention and treatment of child abuse and neglect; •the role of organizations providing services to disabled persons; •the role of organizations providing services to adolescents; •the role of elementary and secondary school teaching; •the role of parent self-help organizations; •the role of parents' groups; and •the role of voluntary groups. In order to qualify for selection as such a representative, each individual must possess specific knowledge in the area which he/she represents. Responsibilities and Duties Among the responsibilities the Act requires the Board to perform is the preparation of an annual report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, appropriate committees of the Congress, and the Director of the National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect. In addition, the Board holds hearings, conducts symposia, and issues position papers. In its annual reports, the Board is charged with evaluating the nation's efforts to accomplish the purposes of CAPTA and developing recommendations about ways that those efforts can be improved. The 1990 report of the Board is entitled, Child Abuse and Neglect: Critical First Steps in Response to a National Emergency; the 1991 report, Creating Caring Communities: Blueprint for an Effective Federal Policy on Child Abuse and Neglect; the 1992 report, The Continuing Child Protection Emergency: A Challenge to the Nation; and the 1993 report, Neighbors Helping Neighbors: A New National Strategy for the Protection of Children. The Board usually meets three times a year, and, occasionally, four times a year. Meetings last three to four days. Between meetings, much of its work is accomplished by conference call. Service on the Board is extremely demanding of both time and effort. Duties of Board members are: •to serve as the Board authority in one or more areas of expertise, keeping current on developments in those areas; •to be conversant with the extensive array of background information provided to members prior to meetings and conference calls; •to attend meetings; •to participate in conference calls; •to suggest materials to staff for distribution as background information; •to author portions of Board publications; •to edit Board publications; and •to avoid all possible conflicts of interest between Board membership and non-Board activities.
