FR940810-0-00312 FR940810-0-00021 Appendix D to §1926.1101 [Amended] 9. Appendix D to §1926.1101 is revised to read as follows: This mandatory appendix contains the medical questionnaires that must be administered to all employees who are exposed to asbestos above the permissible exposure limit, and who will therefore be included in their employer's medical surveillance program.*␣*␣* 10. Appendix F to §1926.1101 is revised to read as follows: Appendix F to §1926.1101. Work Practices and Engineering Controls for Class I Asbestos Operations._Non-mandatory This is a non-mandatory appendix to the asbestos standards for construction and for shipyards. It describes criteria and procedures for erecting and using negative pressure enclosures for Class I Asbestos Work, when NPEs are used as an allowable control method to comply with paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section. Many small and variable details are involved in the erection of a negative pressure enclosure. OSHA and most participants in the rulemaking agreed that only the major, more performance oriented criteria should be made mandatory. These criteria are set out in paragraph (g) of this section. In addition, this appendix includes these mandatory specifications and procedures in its guidelines in order to make this appendix coherent and helpful. The mandatory nature of the criteria which appear in the regulatory text is not changed because they are included in this ``non-mandatory'' appendix. Similarly, the additional criteria and procedures included as guidelines in the appendix, do not become mandatory because mandatory criteria are also included in these comprehensive guidelines. In addition, none of the criteria, both mandatory and recommended, are meant to specify or imply the need for use of patented or licensed methods or equipment. Recommended specifications included in this attachment should not discourage the use of creative alternatives which can be shown to reliably achieve the objectives of negative-pressure enclosures. Requirements included in this appendix, cover general provisions to be followed in all asbestos jobs, provisions which must be followed for all Class I asbestos jobs, and provisions governing the construction and testing of negative pressure enclosures. The first category includes the requirement for use of wet methods, HEPA vacuums, and immediate bagging of waste; Class I work must conform to the following provisions: •oversight by competent person •use of critical barriers over all openings to work area •isolation of HVAC systems •use of impermeable dropcloths and coverage of all objects within regulated areas In addition, more specific requirements for NPEs include: •maintenance of ^0.02 inches water gauge within enclosure •manometric measurements •air movement away from employees performing removal work •smoke testing or equivalent for detection of leaks and air direction •deactivation of electrical circuits, if not provided with ground-fault circuit interrupters. Planning the Project The standard requires that an exposure assessment be conducted before the asbestos job is begun [§1926.1101 (f)(1)]. Information needed for that assessment, includes data relating to prior similar jobs, as applied to the specific variables of the current job. The information needed to conduct the assessment will be useful in planning the project, and in complying with any reporting requirements under this standard, when significant changes are being made to a control system listed in the standard, [see also those of USEPA (40 CFR 61, subpart M). Thus, although the standard does not explicitly require the preparation of a written asbestos removal plan, the usual constituents of such a plan, i.e., a description of the enclosure, the equipment, and the procedures to be used throughout the project, must be determined before the enclosure can be erected. The following information should be included in the planning of the system: A physical description of the work area; A description of the approximate amount of material to be removed; A schedule for turning off and sealing existing ventilation systems; Personnel hygiene procedures;
