FR940920-2-00050 FR940920-2-00025 HSRC Minority Academic Institution Program Pre-Proposal Submission Format Applicant Information Name of Institution Department Name and Telephone of Contract Person on Matters Involving This Submission HSRC to Which Submitting Date Address (city, county state & zip code) Address (if different than above) HSRC Collaborator(s) Areas of Proposed Participation (Please Indicate All That Apply) Cooperative Research Program •Thermal/incineration research •Bioremediation •Contaminated sediment, soils or groundwater •Other (specify) XXXXXXXXXX Student Enhancement •Undergraduate Internship •Graduate/Doctoral Internship •Other (specify) XXXXXXXXXX Faculty Enhancement •Academic-year Sabbatical •Summer research visit •Short-term faculty interations •Other (specify) XXXXXXXXXX Technology Transfer and Training •New technology training •Minority populations education project(s) expansion/training •Train-the-trainers: hazardous substance management •Practitioner-in-Residence Program •Other (specify) XXXXXXXXXX Project Title Amount Requested $ Additional Information In order to be considered for the HSRC Minority Academic Institution Program, applicants must submit the following documentation: 1. Proof of Minority Academic Institution status on the basis of enrollment data in the Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS) Fall Enrollment Survey, provided by postsecondary institutions, through the National Center for Education Statistics, to the Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education as set forth in 34 C.F.R. §637.4(b) (7&hyph;1&hyph;93 Ed.). 2. A maximum two-page description of Proposed Activity incorporating the following criteria: •Short- and long-term benefits to minority academic institution •Benefits to Principal Investigator's professional development •Compatibility with HSRC interests •Leverage of resources •Quality and potential impact of proposed activity 3. A statement from an Authorized Representative of the minority institution stating that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, all data in the submission are true and correct, the document(s) have been duly authorized by the governing body of the applicant and the applicant will comply with necessary assurances if the pre-proposal results in an award. The name, title and phone number for this Representative should be provided. Dr. Dale Manty, Director, Hazardous Substance Research Centers Program. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23148 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
