FR941216-2-00066 FR941216-2-00043 Response: EPA concurs with FDEP reason No. 1 above which allows short-term 8 hour pump tests at sites which have identified petroleum contamination, to be covered upon receipt of the NOI by the Permit Issuing Authority. Only short-term pump tests, 8 hours in duration or less, designed to obtain information on aquifer characteristics, will be automatically covered upon receipt of the permittee's NOI, and the permittee will be responsible or meeting the discharge limitations of Part A.1 or A.2. General Permit numbers will be assigned to these sites and DMR's sent with a copy of the general permit and a letter acknowledging receipt of the Notice of Intent. EPA responds to reasons # 2 and # 3 as proposed by the FDEP, which would allow coverage by simply submitting an NOI for local departments dewatering projects or scheduled dewatering during gasoline tank replacements. It is EPA's understanding that the construction activities described in No. 2 and No. 3 are planned well in advance of the initiation of the dewatering process. For this reason, EPA sees no reason to exempt these sites from NOI requirements. Unless preliminary groundwater assessments have been performed along the right-of-way project prior to startup, even the local departments may be unaware of an contaminated plume that may be encountered during the road widening, or excavation projects. The potential problem EPA expects in waiving NOI requirements for these activities, is the lack of sufficient data to cover these operations. The better approach would be for the permittee to survey potential problem areas well in advance of the dewatering startup, identify the type of contamination and seek discharge coverage under the NPDES general permit using the NOI process, for those potentially contaminated groundwater discharge areas. Comment 3: FDEP also questioned whether the indicator criteria values listed under Part I.A.3, should be analyzed using untreated groundwater or treated groundwater. FDEP also stated that if the intent of Part I.A.3 is to allow short term discharges from sites contaminated with petroleum only, then the indicators should be applied to treated recovered groundwater, because if these indicators were applied to untreated groundwater, this would preclude discharges from sites contaminated with petroleum only. However, FDEP stated that applying these indicator values to the treated effluent may allow treatment alternatives that are capable of removing the metals listed and become eligible to discharge under the general permit, since the indicator values were not exceeded (even if the source of contamination was not petroleum in nature). Response: EPA notes that the indicator values apply to untreated representative groundwater samples from the vicinity of the proposed produced groundwater discharge. These could be tests from monitoring wells, recovery wells, or samples of produced groundwater taken prior to any treatment and would not allow treatment alternatives capable of removing metals to be covered by this general permit. It should be emphasized that the intent of Part I.A.3 is to allow the discharge of produced groundwater from an uncontaminated site activity. If the site is contaminated with petroleum fuels, the permit refers back to Parts I.A.1 or I.A.2. Comment 4: FDEP requested EPA's determination on a particular issue before the finalization of the general permit. FDEP stated that many petroleum sites are located in urban areas, and other possible sources of contamination may be located in the vicinity of the petroleum site. In these situations commingling of plumes from non-petroleum sites may occur. It was noted that many sites performing Contamination Assessment Reports (CARs) had detected low levels of TCE or PCE for many sites which had a dry cleaner in the vicinity. FDEP stated that since these solvents had similar characteristics and were volatile, most treatment system designs based on permit effluent requirements for the petroleum compounds will easily remove the PCE or TCE to non-detectable levels without any oversizing of equipment or additional treatment processes. FDEP stated that other compounds in relatively low concentrations from off site sources should not preclude eligibility of the general permit for the overall cleanup, which is to remediate the petroleum plume and requested EPA's determination on the issue. Response: EPA in it's initial conception of the general permit, only made specific reference to contamination from petroleum fuels and referenced gasoline, aviation gas, diesel and jet-fuel. The intent in issuing this general permit was to provide general permit coverage for the discharge of treated petroleum contaminated groundwater. To cover other sources of contamination will require additional research and public participation. Because the general permit expired on July 16, 1994, EPA sees an urgency to reissue this permit; therefore, EPA may consider this issue in the future through a permit modification. EPA, after collecting sufficient information, may consider the inclusion of other chemicals associated with dry cleaners in the near future, but due to the lack of sufficient information, will not address it at this time.
