FR940407-2-00025 FR940407-2-00016 a. Correlation of media programs with applicant's overall international tourism marketing strategy. (30 points) b. Program timing and content, and potential acceptance by the target media. (25 points) c. Project cost versus media space/time return (a minimum 10 to 1 return on investment is suggested). (20 points) d. Measurement plan to assess program effectiveness. (25 points) 2. Market Development Market development projects are those designed to develop increased travel to the impacted area from primary international markets of opportunity. Criteria are set forth for the following three types of such projects: a. Operator/Agent Familiarization Tours 1. Preliminary planning and packaging of the familiarization tour(s) to cities, States or regions for tour operators to introduce the touristic product for marketing to the foreign consumer. (30 points) 2. Plans for subsequent implementation of the familiarization tour program in coordination with USTTA or VISIT USA Committees. (45 points) 3. Measurement plan to assess project return versus outlay. (25 points) b. Tour Package Development 1. Preliminary planning for and packaging of tour development program, i.e. , selection of target market and components. (30 points) 2. Plans for subsequent implementation of the program in conjunction with tour wholesalers, etc. (45 points) 3. Measurement to assess program effectiveness. (25 points) c. Special Travel Shows/Workshops 1. Preliminary planning and packaging of product primarily in support of market development efforts in foreign markets. (30 points) 2. Plans for subsequent follow-up and implementation of the project. (45 points) 3. Measurement of project effectiveness. (25 points) 3. Cooperative Advertising Applications for advertising projects should include planned campaign details, including program narrative, description of proposed layouts, copy and specific media plans. If a complete media schedule is not available at the time application is submitted, an outline of media plans will be accepted, provided that specific campaign details are submitted to the Office of Tourism Marketing prior to the actual placement of the advertising in the media. The applicable criteria are: a. Basic marketing approach and objectives. (20 points) b. Correlation with existing USTTA initiatives in this marketplace. (20 points) c. Evidence that economic, marketing and statistical data necessary to develop marketing and advertising strategy is available. (10 points) d. Creative interpretation of this strategy. (20 points) e. Expected reach of the advertising campaign in relation to its cost and short-term impact on the market. (15 points) f. Measurement plan to assess program cost/return effectiveness. (15 points) 4. Trade Development Trade development projects are those which complement ongoing VISIT USA marketing programs directed toward the members of the travel trade in foreign markets. Target markets include: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Ecuador, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Korea, Mexico, Nordic countries, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, United Kingdom, and Venezuela. For application purposes, trade development projects are not concerned with either the development or promotion of tour packages. Such projects may include: Trade-oriented travel missions, on-site training workshops/seminars, in-country training workshops/seminars, trade advertising, familiarization tours for foreign retail travel agents, and participation in foreign travel trade shows. The applicable criteria are: a. Techniques used to create an awareness and encourage selling of the destination by the foreign travel trade. (25 points) b. Implementation time and anticipated project benefits derived after grant expiration. (25 points) c. Goals of project and methods used to measure program results. (50 points) 5. Consumer and Trade Literature Consumer and trade literature must be designed specifically for use in foreign countries. Special attention should be devoted to designing literature to meet the needs of the target market. The applicable criteria are: a. Preliminary planning for design and content of brochures. (15 points) b. Evidence that market planning research has been utilized to identify visitor preferences and information needs. (15 points) c. Correlation between literature program and overall marketing plan. (25 points) d. Strategy for distribution of literature. (25 points) e. Measurement plan to assess program effectiveness. (20 points) V. Other Requirements 1. Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and Department of Commerce policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. 2. Indirect costs are allowable; however, the total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award or 100 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less.
