FR941130-0-00022 FR941130-0-00002 (e) Notice of intent not to object. If the FDIC determines, in its discretion, that the proposed conversion would not pose a risk to the institution's safety and soundness, violate any law or regulation or present a breach of fiduciary duty, then the FDIC shall issue to the bank seeking to convert, within 60 days of receipt of a complete notice of proposed conversion or within 20 days after the last applicable state or other federal regulator has acted on the proposed conversion, whichever is later, a notice of intent not to object to the proposed conversion. The FDIC may, in its discretion, extend by written notice to the institution the initial 60-day period by an additional 60 days. (f) Letter of objection. If the FDIC determines, in its discretion, that the proposed conversion poses a risk to the institution's safety and soundness, violates any law or regulation or presents a breach of fiduciary duty, then the FDIC shall issue a letter to the institution stating its objection(s) to the proposed conversion and advising the institution that the conversion shall not be consummated until such letter is rescinded. A copy of the letter of objection shall be furnished to the institution's primary state regulator and any other state or federal banking and/or securities regulator involved in the conversion. The letter of objection shall advise the institution of its right to petition the FDIC for reconsideration under §303.6(e). Such action shall not, in any way, prohibit the FDIC from taking any other action(s) that it may deem necessary. (g) Consummation of the conversion. An institution may consummate the proposed conversion upon either: (1) The receipt of a notice of intent not to object; or (2) The expiration of the 60-day period following acceptance of a complete notice by the FDIC or the 20-day period after the last applicable state or other federal regulator has acted on the proposed conversion, whichever is later, unless the FDIC issues a notice of objection before the end of that period and, in which case, the conversion shall not be consummated until such letter is rescinded. The FDIC may, in its discretion, extend by written notice to the institution the initial 60-day period by an additional 60 days. PART 333_EXTENSION OF CORPORATE POWERS 3. The authority citation for Part 333 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1816, 1818, 1819 (``Seventh'', ``Eighth'' and ``Tenth''), 1828, 1828(m), 1831p&hyph;1(c). 4. Section 333.4 is added to read as follows: §333.4 Conversions from mutual to stock form. (a) Scope. This section applies to the conversion of insured mutual state savings banks to the stock form of ownership. It supplements the procedural and other requirements for such conversions in §303.15 of this chapter. This section also applies, to the extent appropriate, to the reorganization of insured mutual state savings banks to the mutual holding company form of ownership. As determined by the Board of Directors of the FDIC on a case-by-case basis, the requirements of paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section do not apply to mutual-to-stock conversions of insured mutual state savings banks whose capital category under §325.103 of this chapter is ``undercapitalized'', ``significantly undercapitalized'' or ``critically undercapitalized''. The Board of Directors of the FDIC may grant a waiver in writing from any requirement of this section for good cause shown. (b) Conflicts with state law. In the event that an insured mutual state savings bank that proposes to convert to the stock form of ownership finds that compliance with any provision of this section would be inconsistent or in conflict with applicable state law, the bank may file a written request for waiver of compliance with such provision by the FDIC. In making such request, the bank shall demonstrate that the requested waiver, if granted, would not result in any effects that would be detrimental to the safety and soundness of the bank, entail a breach of fiduciary duty on part of the bank's management or otherwise be detrimental or inequitable to the bank, its depositors, any other insured depository institution(s), the federal deposit insurance funds or to the public interest. (c) Definition of Eligible Depositor. For purposes of this section, eligible depositors are depositors holding qualifying deposits at the bank as of a date designated in the bank's plan of conversion that is not less than one year prior to the date of adoption of the plan of conversion by the converting bank's board of directors/trustees. (d) Requirements. In addition to other requirements that may be imposed by the applicable state statutes and regulations and other federal statutes and regulations, including §303.15 of this chapter, an insured mutual state savings bank shall not convert to the stock form of ownership unless the following requirements are satisfied: (1) Eligible depositors shall have higher subscription rights than employee stock ownership plans; (2) The proposed conversion shall be approved by a vote of at least a majority of the bank's depositors and, as reasonably determined by the bank's directors or trustees, other stakeholders of the bank who are entitled to vote on the conversion, unless the applicable state law requires a higher percentage, in which case the higher percentage shall be used. Voting may be in person or by proxy; (3) Management shall not use proxies executed outside the context of the proposed conversion to satisfy the voting requirement imposed in the previous paragraph; and (4) In addition to the materials to be submitted to the FDIC pursuant to §303.15(c) of this chapter, the bank must submit to the FDIC:
