FR940302-2-00008 FR940302-2-00005 3. Misreported price of a specific input for one fan model; and 4. The Department's use of surrogate equivalents for certain inputs. Regarding issues one and two, the Department determined that double-counting had occurred in both instances in the Fans LTFV Final and Order. For the remand redetermination we eliminated all such double-counting. Regarding issue three, we corrected the misreported price. Finally, issue four involves CEC's challenge of certain applications of surrogate data in valuing factors of production. CEC claimed that the Department is required to adjust surrogate data for such factors as: the number of fan blades; the size of the fan; and variations in packing materials. In the remand redetermination we rejected CEC's arguments. The basis for our rejection is that section 773(c)(1) of the Act provides for valuation of factors of production on the ``best available information'' from an appropriate surrogate country, not on the basis of perfectly conforming information. Therefore, we maintained that we were not required to make the adjustments CEC requested. The Department's redetermination on remand was affirmed by the CIT on January 5, 1994. See CEC Electrical Manufacturing (Int'l) Company Ltd. v. United States, Slip Op. 94&hyph;2 (CIT January 5, 1994). As a result of these three modifications to our antidumping duty calculations, the final weighted-average dumping margin for CEC is 0.37 percent, and is, therefore, de minimis, pursuant to section 353.6(a) of the Department's regulations. Consequently, our final less-than-fair-value determination for CEC is negative. Exclusion From the Application of the Antidumping Duty Order, in Part Pursuant to section 735(c)(2) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.21(c), we are excluding CEC from the application of the antidumping duty order on imports of ceiling fans. However, if the Department has reasonable cause to believe or suspect at any time during the existence of the antidumping duty order that CEC has sold or is likely to sell the subject merchandise to the United States at less than its foreign market value, the Department may institute an administrative review of CEC under section 751(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. Because CEC obtained an injunction during the court proceeding, the effective date of the exclusion is retroactive to October 25, 1991, the publication date of the Final Determinations of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Oscillating Fans and Ceiling Fans From the People's Republic of China, and the date we began suspension of liquidation for entries of CEC ceiling fans from the PRC. Termination of Administrative Reviews Since publication of the Fans LTFV Final and Order, the Department has initiated, pursuant to section 751 of the Act, first and second administrative reviews of the antidumping duty order. Those reviews are investigating imports of subject merchandise during the respective review periods by CEC (as well as other producers). (See our published notices of initiation of administrative reviews, 58 FR 11026 (February 23, 1993) and 59 FR 2593 (January 18, 1994), respectively.) Because we are retroactively excluding CEC from the application of this antidumping duty order, we are also hereby terminating both administrative reviews with regard to imports by CEC. Termination of Suspension of Liquidation Pursuant to section 516(e)(2) of the Act, the Department will instruct the U.S. Customs Service to terminate the suspension of liquidation of ceiling fans from the PRC, entered or withdrawn for consumption on or after October 25, 1991, by CEC and to proceed with liquidation of the subject merchandise, which entered the United States on or after that date without regard to antidumping duties. Additionally, the Department will instruct U.S. Customs Service to release any bond or other security with respect to entries of subject merchandise, pursuant to section 735(c)(3)(B) of the Act. Change in All Others Rate The exclusion of CEC changes the all others antidumping rate from 2.05 to 1.65 percent, which is the rate of the only remaining company from the investigation (Wing Tat Electric Manufacturing Co., Ltd./China Miles Co., Ltd.) with a margin above de minimis. The Department will instruct the U.S. Customs Service to begin collecting antidumping duty deposits equal to 1.65 percent of the entered value of the subject merchandise from all other producers/exporters, effective January 15, 1994. Dated: February 23, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4773 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
