FR940429-0-00268 FR940429-0-00015 (i) The institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program; and (ii) The servicer's eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. The violation is also grounds for terminating, under this subpart, the participation in any Title IV, HEA program of any institution under whose contract the servicer committed the violation, if that institution knew or should have known of the violation. (f)(1) The debarment of a participating institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, under E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189) or the FAR, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, by the Secretary or another Federal agency from participation in Federal programs, under procedures that comply with 5 U.S.C. 554&hyph;557 (formal adjudication requirements under the Administrative Procedure Act), terminates, for the duration of the debarment_ (i) The institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program; and (ii) The servicer's eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. (2)(i) The suspension of a participating institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, under E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189) or the FAR, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, by the Secretary or another Federal agency from participation in Federal programs, under procedures that comply with 5 U.S.C. 554&hyph;557, suspends_ (A) The institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program; and (B) The servicer's eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program. (ii) A suspension under this paragraph lasts for a period of 60 days, beginning on the date of the suspending official's decision, except that the suspension may last longer if_ (A) The institution or servicer, as applicable, and the Secretary, agree to an extension of the suspension; or (B) The Secretary begins a limitation or termination proceeding against the institution or servicer, as applicable, under this subpart before the 60th day of the suspension. (Authority: E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189), E.O. 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235); 20 U.S.C. 1070, et seq., 1082(a)(1) and (h)(1), 1094(c)(1)(D) and (H), and 3474) 22. Section 668.83 is revised to read as follows: §668.83 Emergency action. (a) Under an emergency action, the Secretary may_ (1) Withhold Title IV, HEA program funds from a participating institution or its students, or from a third-party servicer, as applicable; (2)(i) Withdraw the authority of the institution or servicer, as applicable, to commit, disburse, deliver, or cause the commitment, disbursement, or delivery of Title IV, HEA program funds; or (ii) Withdraw the authority of the institution or servicer, as applicable, to commit, disburse, deliver, or cause the commitment, disbursement, or delivery of Title IV, HEA program funds except in accordance with a particular procedure; and (3)(i) Withdraw the authority of the servicer to administer any aspect of any institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program; or (ii) Withdraw the authority of the servicer to administer any aspect of any institution's participation in any Title IV, HEA program except in accordance with a particular procedure. (b)(1) An initiating official begins an emergency action against an institution or third-party servicer by sending the institution or servicer a notice by registered mail, return receipt requested. In an emergency action against a third-party servicer, the official also sends the notice to each institution that contracts with the servicer. The official also may transmit the notice by other, more expeditious means if practical. (2) The emergency action takes effect on the date the initiating official mails the notice to the institution or servicer, as applicable. (3) The notice states the grounds on which the emergency action is based, the consequences of the emergency action, and that the institution or servicer, as applicable, may request an opportunity to show cause why the emergency action is unwarranted. (c)(1) An initiating official takes emergency action against an institution or third-party servicer only if that official_ (i) Receives information, determined by the official to be reliable, that the institution or servicer, as applicable, is violating any statutory provision of or applicable to Title IV of the HEA, any regulatory provision prescribed under that statutory authority, or any applicable special arrangement, agreement, or limitation entered into under the authority of statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA; (ii) Determines that immediate action is necessary to prevent misuse of Title IV, HEA program funds; and (iii) Determines that the likelihood of loss from that misuse outweighs the importance of awaiting completion of any proceeding that may be initiated to limit, suspend, or terminate, as applicable_ (A) The participation of the institution in one or more Title IV, HEA programs; or (B) The eligibility of the servicer to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. (2) Examples of violations of a Title IV, HEA program requirement that cause misuse and the likely loss of Title IV, HEA program funds include_ (i) Causing the commitment, disbursement, or delivery by any party of Title IV, HEA program funds in an amount that exceeds_ (A) The amount for which students are eligible; or (B) The amount of principal, interest, or special allowance payments that would have been payable to the holder of a Federal Stafford, Federal PLUS, or Federal SLS loan if a refund allocable to that loan had been made in the amount and at the time required; (ii) Using, offering to make available, or causing the use or availability of Title IV, HEA program funds for educational services if_ (A) The institution, servicer, or agents of the institution or servicer have made a substantial misrepresentation as described in §§668.72, 668.73, or 668.74 related to those services; (B) The institution lacks the administrative or financial ability to provide those services in full; or (C) The institution, or servicer, as applicable, lacks the administrative or financial ability to compensate by appropriate refund for any portion of an educational program not completed by a student; and (iii) Engaging in fraud involving the administration of a Title IV, HEA program. Examples of fraud include_ (A) Falsification of any document received from a student or pertaining to a student's eligibility for assistance under a Title IV, HEA program; (B) Falsification, including false certifications, of any document submitted by the institution or servicer to the Secretary; (C) Falsification, including false certifications, of any document used for or pertaining to_ ( 1 ) The legal authority of an institution to provide postsecondary education in the State in which the institution is located; or ( 2 ) The accreditation or preaccreditation of an institution or any of the institution's educational programs or locations; (D) Falsification, including false certifications, of any document submitted to a guaranty agency under the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs or an independent auditor; (E) Falsification of any document submitted to a third-party servicer by an institution or to an institution by a third-party servicer pertaining to the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program; and (F) Falsification, including false certifications, of any document pertaining to the performance of any loan collection activity, including activity that is not required by the HEA or applicable program regulations.
