FR940505-1-00157 FR940505-1-00012 EPA requests comment on potential alternatives to the seasonal control period proposed today. EPA proposes to use 1990 as the baseline year for each military air base to establish a baseline emissions level, but also requests comment on the desirability of using an alternative baseline scheme, given the variability introduced by operations related to Desert Shield/Desert Storm. EPA requests comment on the desirability of using area-wide averaging to determine military compliance, and on possible alternative compliance determination schemes. EPA requests comment on the desirability of issuing additional specific technical guidance concerning emissions calculations for military air base operations. EPA requests comment on alternative methods of tracking and reporting emissions resulting from military operations at civilian airports. EPA requests comment on providing exemptions from the requirements of any control program for certain types of emergency or atypical military operations. EPA requests comment on the desirability and feasibility of establishing a de minimis exemption for any control program. EPA requests comment on national preparedness and response flexibility versus the degree and scope of the proposed emissions control program. Persons submitting comments on these issues or other specific aspects of today's proposal should consider and discuss the possible impact of their comments on other elements of the control program, particularly when such comments propose alternative strategies that would achieve smaller or larger emission reductions from military air bases. (d) General Aviation. ( 1 ) Source Description. The general aviation category consists of privately-owned aircraft operated under FAA Parts 91, 133, or 137. As such, it encompasses aircraft types with a variety of different engines, including piston, turboprop, and turbine. It also includes both fixed-wing and rotary-wing aircraft. Most general aviation aircraft are owned and operated by private individuals. Other aircraft are owned and operated by businesses. Much of the general aviation fleet is old, with few significant technological improvements in emissions performance expected in the foreseeable future. General aviation aircraft operate at a variety of facilities in the control areas, ranging from large commercial airports to small privately-owned airstrips and helipads. The table below (``Civil Airports in FIP Areas'') lists the civil airfields in the control areas, based on information provided by the FAA and discussed in the Technical Support Document. In addition to these civil airfields, FAA data for 1991 lists 198 helipads in the South Coast control area, 3 helipads in the Sacramento control area, and 12 helipads in the Ventura control area; this includes private helipads, medical facilities, and various local government facilities. Civil Airports in FIP Areas South Coast Air Basin Avalon Bay Bear Creek Big Bear City Billy Joe Brackett Field Burbank-Glen.-Pas. Cable Catalina Chino Compton Corona Muni. El Monte Ernst Field Flabob French Valley Fullerton Muni. Goodyear Blimp Base Hawthorne Muni. Hemet-Ryan John Wayne. Long Beach Muni. L. A. Internat'l Ontario Internat'l Pebbly Beach Perris Valley Pines Airpark Redlands Muni. Rialto Muni. Riverside Muni. Santa Monica Muni. Shepherd Field Skylark Field Torrance Muni. Two Harbors Van Nuys Whiteman Airpark Ventura County Camarillo Conover Air Lodge Oxnard/Ventura Santa Paula. Sacramento Air Basin Boeckmann Ranch Bottimore Ranch CHP Academy Cameron Airpark Flying B Ranch Flying R Franklin Field Holtsmans Lauppes Strip Lucchetti Ranch Mosier Natomas Rancho Murieta Riego Flight Strip Rio Linda Sacramento Executive Sacramento Metro. Sky Way Estates Spezia Sunset Skyranch Tenco Tractor Van Vleck Vestal Strip
