FR941003-0-00014 FR941003-0-00004 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Internal Revenue Service 26 CFR Part 1 [TD 8562] RIN 1545&hyph;AM92 Research or Experimental Expenditures AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Final regulations. SUMMARY: This document contains amendments to the Income Tax Regulations clarifying the definition of research or experimental expenditures and providing guidance regarding the reasonableness requirement of section 174(e), added to the Internal Revenue Code by the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1989. These amendments affect taxpayers conducting research or experimentation in connection with a trade or business. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lisa J. Shuman, (202) 622&hyph;3120 (not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 174 of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) provides two alternative methods that taxpayers may use to account for research or experimental expenditures. A taxpayer may either deduct the expenditures in the year in which they are paid or incurred, or treat the expenditures as deferred expenses, amortizable over a period of at least 60 months. In 1957, the IRS adopted ยง1.174&hyph;2(a)(1), which defines the term research or experimental expenditures as expenditures which represent research and development costs in the experimental or laboratory sense (22 FR 7901 (October 4, 1957)). In 1993, the IRS proposed amendments to ยง1.174&hyph;2(a)(1) to clarify the definition of research or experimental expenditures (58 FR 15819 (March 24, 1993)). The amendments also provide guidance regarding section 174(e), which was added to the Code by the Revenue Reconciliation Act of 1989. Section 174(e) provides that the accounting rules of section 174 apply to a research or experimental expenditure only to the extent that the amount of the expenditure is reasonable under the circumstances. The IRS received comments on the proposed amendments both in writing and at a public hearing on June 18, 1993. This Treasury decision adopts the proposed amendments with several revisions in response to public comments. Explanation of Provisions A. Clarification of Uncertainty Test As noted above, the 1957 regulations define research or experimental expenditures as expenditures which represent research and development costs in the experimental or laboratory sense. The proposed amendments provide that expenditures represent research and development costs in the experimental or laboratory sense if they are for activities intended to discover information that would eliminate uncertainty concerning the development or improvement of a product. Under the proposed amendments, the requisite uncertainty exists if the information reasonably available to the taxpayer does not establish the capability or method for developing or improving the product. Several commentators expressed concern that the uncertainty test provided in the proposed amendments could be construed to limit unduly the definition of research or experimental expenditures. In particular, the commentators argued that the test could exclude expenditures incurred to determine the appropriate design of a product if the taxpayer knows at the outset that the procedure will be successful. In such a case, the taxpayer is not uncertain as to either its capability to develop the product or the method by which it will develop the product. The Treasury Department and the IRS agree that a taxpayer's knowledge that a product development project will be successful does not preclude the process of determining the appropriate design of the product from qualifying as research. The Treasury Department and the IRS also agree that the language of the uncertainty test provided in the proposed amendments could be construed to reach a result contrary to that intended. The final amendments thus clarify the uncertainty test. Under the final amendments, the requisite uncertainty exists if the information available to the taxpayer does not establish either (i) The capability or method for developing or improving the product, or (ii) the appropriate design of the product. The uncertainty test, as clarified in the final amendments, reflects the dual purposes of section 174. Congress enacted section 174 not only to encourage research, but also to avoid the difficult tax accounting questions that would arise regarding research expenditures in the absence of special tax accounting rules. See H. Rep. 1337, 83d Cong., 2d Sess. (1954), reprinted in 1954 U.S.C.C.A.N. 4017, 4053. These difficult tax accounting questions would not be limited to cases in which the success of a product development project is in doubt. If a given line of inquiry proves to be unfruitful, questions could arise regarding whether the costs involved could be deducted, or whether the knowledge gained from the inquiry might contribute sufficiently to the ultimate design of the product that the costs must be capitalized. In short, the tax accounting questions that section 174 was meant to resolve can arise whenever the taxpayer is uncertain as to the capability or method for developing or improving the product, or the appropriate design of the product.
