FR940527-1-00093 FR940527-1-00014 3. Spenddown of ``Tainted'' Funded Depreciation The preamble to the August 30, 1991 final rule also addressed the issue of spenddown (56 FR 43421). ``Spenddown'' is a process whereby we permit providers to ``cure'' borrowing that was found to be unnecessary because of available funded depreciation by using those funded depreciation funds for a proper purpose. Under spenddown, if additional deposits are made to funded depreciation after the unnecessary borrowing determination, withdrawals from the funded depreciation subsequent to a determination of unnecessary borrowing are made on a last-in, first-out basis (typically, withdrawals for a proper purpose are made on a first-in, first-out basis). The result of this policy is that all additional deposits to funded depreciation must be used before spending can be allotted to the ``tainted'' funds, that is, the portion of the funded depreciation that resulted in the unnecessary borrowing. In addition, Medicare's policy has been that any other funded depreciation funds in the account at the time of the unnecessary borrowing must be used before the ``tainted'' funds can be spent down or cured. Since the publication of the August 30, 1991 final rule, we have received several inquiries asking why our policy on spenddown was not incorporated into the regulations. These inquiries also have pointed out that the last-in, first-out method set forth at ยง413.134(e)(3)(i)(C) will not work properly when the unnecessary borrowing is repaid from the funded depreciation account and that account contained untainted funded depreciation at the time of the unnecessary borrowing or received additional deposits after the borrowing. The inquirers suggested that this situation may be rectified by establishing an exception to the last-in, first-out rule when the unnecessary borrowing that caused the ``tainting'' is repaid out of funded depreciation. In this case, any use of funded depreciation to repay the unnecessary borrowing will be deemed to be from ``tainted'' funded depreciation. We agree and propose to provide for such an exception in ยง413.134(e)(2)(iv). Similarly, where the provider repays part or all of the principal of the unnecessary borrowing that caused the ``tainted'' funded depreciation by using general funds, a corresponding amount of the ``tainted'' funded depreciation must be cured. This is necessary so that the ``tainted'' portion of the funded depreciation does not exceed the amount of the balance of the unnecessary borrowing that caused the ``tainting'' in the first place. We are proposing to revise ยง413.134(e) to incorporate the curing process of ``tainted'' funded depreciation and also to provide that the provider's subsequent repayment of the principal portion of the unnecessary borrowing will be from the ``tainted'' funds in the funded depreciation. Thus, neither the first-in, first-out nor the last-in, first-out basis would be applicable for such repayments. 4. Necessary and Unnecessary Borrowing In February 1977, HCFA published ยง203 of the Provider Reimbursement Manual to address interest on loans in excess of asset value acquired after 1970. Section 203.D of the Manual states that ``[r]epayments of the funds borrowed are applied first to reducing the portion of the loan applied to the allowable cost of the patient care assets, then to the tangible and intangible assets not considered reasonably related to patient care, and lastly to goodwill.'' We have applied this long-standing principle to cases where a provider repays borrowed funds where some of these funds are deemed to be unnecessary. In these circumstances, we have held that all of necessary borrowing must be repaid before any of the repayments may be applied to the unnecessary borrowing. We also apply this principle to unnecessary borrowing that causes ``tainted'' funded depreciation. When a portion of a provider's borrowing is considered unnecessary because of the availability of funded depreciation, subsequent repayments, whether from funded depreciation or general funds, are first applied to the allowable portion of the borrowing and, when all of the allowable borrowing is repaid, to the unallowable portion of the loan. This places the provider in the same position as if the available funded depreciation had been used without any unnecessary borrowing.
