FR941117-0-00103 FR941117-0-00011 (1) The interfering contour of the proposed transmitter does not overlap the service contour of any protected co-channel transmitter controlled by a carrier other than the applicant, unless that carrier has agreed in writing to accept any interference that may result from operation of the proposed transmitter; and, (2) The service contour of the proposed transmitter does not overlap the interfering contour of any protected co-channel transmitter controlled by a carrier other than the applicant, unless the applicant agrees to accept any interference that may result from operation of the protected co-channel transmitter; and, (3) The area and/or population to which service would be provided by the proposed transmitter is substantial, and service gained would exceed that lost as a result of agreements to accept interference. (b) Protected transmitter. For the purposes of this section, protected transmitters are authorized transmitters for which there is a current FCC public record and transmitters proposed in prior-filed pending applications. (c) VHF service contour. For paging stations transmitting on the VHF channels, the distance from the transmitting antenna to the service contour along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows: d=1.243×h 0.40 ×p 0.20 where d is the radial distance in kilometers h is the radial antenna HAAT in meters p is the radial ERP in Watts (1) Whenever the actual HAAT is less than 30 meters (98 feet), 30 must be used as the value for h in the above formula. (2) The value used for p in the above formula must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more. (3) The distance from the transmitting antenna to the service contour along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is routinely calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle. However, in resolving petitions to deny, the FCC may calculate the distance to the service contour using the formula in paragraph (c) of this section with actual HAAT and ERP data for the inter-station radial and additional radials above and below the inter-station radial at 2.5 ○ intervals. (d) VHF interfering contour. For paging stations transmitting on the VHF channels, the distance from the transmitting antenna to the interfering contour along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows: d=6.509×h 0.28 ×p 0.17 where d is the radial distance in kilometers h is the radial antenna HAAT in meters p is the radial ERP in Watts (1) Whenever the actual HAAT is less than 30 meters (98 feet), 30 must be used as the value for h in the above formula. (2) The value used for p in the above formula must not be less than 27 dB less than the maximum ERP in any direction or 0.1 Watt, whichever is more. (3) The distance from the transmitting antenna to the interfering contour along any radial other than the eight cardinal radials is routinely calculated by linear interpolation of distance as a function of angle. In resolving petitions to deny, however, the FCC may calculate the distance to the interfering contour using the formula in paragraph (d) of this section with actual HAAT and ERP data for the inter-station radial and additional radials above and below the inter-station radial at 2.5 ○ intervals. (e) 931 MHz service contour. For paging stations transmitting on the 931 MHz channels, the service contour is a circle, centered on the transmitting antenna, with a radius determined from Table E&hyph;1 of this section.
