FR940304-1-00101 FR940304-1-00014 The Department does not consider the utility of having hot water, or other amenities, during power outages adequate reason to develop separate product classes. Between 90 percent and 93 percent of residential electric customers experience no electricity outages longer than four hours per year. 16 Currently, central gas furnaces are not divided into product classes based on the use of electricity as proposed above for gas water heaters. Additionally, in this proposal, ranges/ovens are not divided into two product classes based on the use of electricity. 16 A.P. Sanghvi. 1990. Cost-Benefit Analysis of Power System Reliability: Determination of Interruption Costs. Prepared by RCG/Hagler/Bailly Inc. for Electric Power Research Institute EL&hyph;6791, vol 2, p 3&hyph;3. The Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc. recommended that additional product classes be defined for gas-fired storage water heaters installed outside. (Public Service Company of North Carolina, Inc., No. 74 at 3). The Department is not aware of any unique water heater design features that lead to any utility and lower energy efficiency that justifies a separate class. Therefore, the Department is not establishing a separate product class for gas-fired water heaters installed outside. The Pacific Power and Edison Electric Institute supported three separate classes for electric water heaters (resistance, instantaneous, and heat pump). The Pacific Power stated that heat pump water heater efficiency depends upon climate and use patterns. (Pacific Power, No. 53 at 1, and Edison Electric Institute, No. 20 at 2). Peoples Natural Gas Company stated that heat pump water heaters should be promoted over electric resistance water heaters. (Peoples Natural Gas Company, No. 28 at 3). Several comments proposed that heat pump water heaters be treated as a design option for electric storage water heaters, and not as a separate product class. (DEC International No. 3 at 1; Mr. Wayne Goode, No. 8 at 1; Mr. Joe Wilson, No. 10 at 1; American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 1; Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 21; Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 2; Crispaire, No. 19 at 1; Citizens Environmental Coalition Educational Fund, No. 24 at 3; Champaign County Board, No. 36 at 1; Northwest Power Planning Council, No. 32 at 1; Mr. George Smith, No. 32 at 2; Sierra Club, No. 43 at 2; and Mr. Warren Widener, No. 78 at 2). Northwest Power Planning Council proposed a separate product class for add-on heat pumps for water heaters. (Northwest Power Planning Council, No. 32 at 2). The Natural Resources Defense Council argued that heat pump water heaters should not be a separate class. In its comments, the Natural Resources Defense Council acknowledged some arguments in favor of keeping them a separate class, such as the inability to operate at low temperatures, which the Natural Resources Defense Council claimed can be overcome with electric resistance backup; first hour rating, which the Natural Resources Defense Council stated can be overcome with a larger tank; and noise, which the Natural Resources Defense Council suggested can be overcome with more insulation. The Natural Resources Defense Council argued that these are economic considerations, not product utility considerations. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 22). On the other hand, Edison Electric Institute supported a separate product class for heat pump water heaters. Because of replacement market considerations, the heat pump compressor may have to be located outdoors, the air temperature must be greater than 45 ○F, sufficient air circulation is needed (500 cfm) or surrounding air space must be of sufficient volume (1000 ft3), and there must be provision for condensate drainage. (Edison Electric Institute, No. 20 at 2). The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association stated that DOE should not analyze heat pump water heaters since their shipments are extremely low, totaling less than 0.05 percent of all electric water heater shipments. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 4). The Department considered only one product class for electric storage water heaters. Heat pump water heaters were regarded as design options for electric storage water heaters. They provide the same utility as electric resistance storage water heaters. The Department agreed with the Natural Resources Defense Council that all of the issues regarding heat pump water heaters discussed above are economic in nature, and are treated as such in the analyses.
