FR940926-0-00040 FR940926-0-00010 Four commenters recommended the use of specific types of pressure relief devices. EDO recommended that the agency require the fusible plug device and prohibit the rupture disc device. EDO stated that a combination of hot conditions and overfill at the refueling pump could cause a rupture disc to activate, releasing CNG and causing a potentially dangerous situation. It further believed that the safety factor in the burst test would be sufficient to prevent over pressurization and that the pressure relief device should only open in a fire situation. Flxible stated that the agency should require a fusible plug to ensure pressure relief of partially filled containers subject to heat or fire. NYCFD stated that the agency should prohibit the combination fusible plug and rupture disc devices, claiming that over-charged containers exposed to high ambient temperature are likely to fail whether or not they are exposed to fire. Thomas commented that the agency should require the combination fusible plug and rupture disc device because it is required by NFPA 52. 7 7 NFPA 52, Standard for Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) Vehicular Fuel Systems , is a voluntary standard adopted by the National Fire Protection Association that specifies guidelines for the ``design and installation of CNG engine fuel systems on vehicles of all types including aftermarket and OEMs and to their associated fueling (dispensing) systems.'' (NFPA 52, ยง1&hyph;1) After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has concluded that the standard should not specify the type of pressure relief device with which a container may be equipped. The NPRM and SNPRM did not provide sufficient notice for the agency to adopt such a specification as part of this final rule. Further, the agency believes that the bonfire test, which is performed at both 100 percent of service pressure and 25 percent of service pressure, will adequately evaluate a container's ability to vent its contents in a high temperature/pressure situation. In the first test, the combination of the 100 percent service pressure condition and the high heat from the bonfire will cause the container's pressure to increase rapidly. This test evaluates a container's ability to vent its contents at high temperatures and pressures. In the second test, the 25 percent service pressure condition and the heat will cause the container's temperature to increase before the pressure in the container reaches a critical point. This test evaluates a container's ability to vent its contents at high temperatures, where the container is at a less than full condition. 3. Shielding NHTSA notes that there are two types of shielding that can affect the performance of pressure relief devices in bonfire tests: (1) ``Vehicle-based protective shielding'' that is placed around the container in the vehicle to protect the container from surrounding heat, and (2) ``test shielding'' that is placed over the pressure relief device to prevent flames from contacting the device. Test shielding is, as the name suggests, installed only for the purpose of conducting bonfire tests. Unlike vehicle-based protective shielding, it is not used to affect real world performance. In the NPRM, NHTSA recognized that some CNG vehicles may have vehicle-based shielding installed to protect the containers from exposure to heat. Nevertheless, the agency proposed that no vehicle-based shielding be used during the bonfire test because Standard No. 304 is an equipment standard, and applies to CNG containers, not to vehicles. Further, since the presence or amount of shielding could vary from vehicle to vehicle, the agency tentatively concluded that the containers should be tested in the worst case situation, i.e., without any vehicle-based shielding. Nevertheless, the agency stated that it did not want to discourage vehicle manufacturers from including shielding in CNG vehicles as an added safety feature. NHTSA received six comments addressing the use of vehicle- based shielding during the bonfire test. PST, EDO, ARC, Ontario, and NGVC agreed with the agency that vehicle-based shielding of the container should not be used during the bonfire test. They believed that such shielding could detract from or mask the results of the test. In contrast, AAMA stated that ``[i]f a manufacturer chooses to add the additional expense to protect the fuel tank from exposure to potential flame, the protection ought to be allowed in any test as representative of the tank's use in the vehicle.'' After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has decided not to permit vehicle-based shielding of the container during the bonfire test. As explained in the NPRM, the bonfire test is intended to evaluate the container and not the vehicle. Since this is an equipment standard, the tests are designed to ensure that the containers are safe for installation in any vehicle, regardless of the amount of protective vehicle shielding, if any, with which it is equipped. The agency disagrees with AAMA's contention. Using vehicle shielding in compliance testing would not ensure that a container could perform safely under worst case conditions (i.e., no vehicle-based shielding of any type or extent) that the container could encounter during its service life (e.g., if the container is subsequently placed in a different vehicle). Test shielding consists of a metal plate over the pressure relief device and is permitted, but not required, under NGV2 for purposes of the horizontal bonfire test. In the horizontal test, the CNG container is positioned over the bonfire with its longitudinal axis in a horizontal position. In the NGV2 vertical bonfire test (container longitudinal axis in a vertical position), pressure relief device shielding is also permitted, but not required, except where the CNG container is fitted with a pressure relief device on both ends. In that case, the bottom pressure relief device must be shielded. The goal is to not allow flames to impinge directly on any relief device. This may be done through test shielding, or by orienting the container so as to avoid flame impingement on any pressure relief device. Without this metal plate, the flames could contact the pressure relief device, possibly causing it to vent the container prematurely. If this occurred, the bonfire test results would neither evaluate the CNG container as a whole nor accurately reflect the container's pressure relief characteristics. CGA and PST opposed allowing shielding of the pressure relief device during the bonfire test. They commented that shielding the pressure relief device during the bonfire test would not be representative of a real-world crash fire situation. CGA stated that allowing, but not requiring shielding to be placed around pressure relief devices could produce non- repeatable results. PST stated that excessive shielding around the pressure relief device could cause an otherwise acceptable design to fail the test, but did not elaborate as to how this could occur.
