FR940228-1-00101 FR940228-1-00010 Appeal Procedures The Technical Amendments of 1993 amended section 435(a) and (m) of the HEA as those sections relate to institutional appeals of cohort default rates. These amendments are not reflected in this NPRM but will be addressed separately. However, the Secretary proposes to remove the provision that provides that an institution may appeal its loss of participation in the FFEL programs under the provisions of this section on the grounds that the institution has reduced its cohort default rate for each of the two most recent fiscal years for which the Secretary has calculated a cohort default rate for that institution by 50 percent of the amount by which its cohort default rate for the previous year exceeds the applicable threshold percentage specified in this section. This provision is no longer applicable because it was limited to notices of loss of eligibility that were received by an institution in the fiscal year that ended September 30, 1991. Current regulations allow an institution to appeal its loss of participation in the FFEL programs under the provisions of this section on the grounds that, for any twenty-four month period ending not more than six months prior to the date the institution submits its appeal, two-thirds or more of the institution's students who are enrolled on at least a half-time basis are individuals from disadvantaged economic backgrounds as established by documentary evidence submitted by the institution such as a Pell Grant Index of zero, or an AGI of less than the poverty level, as determined by criteria developed by the Department of Health and Human Services. The Secretary proposes that the term ``such as'' be eliminated to reflect the current practice; i.e., the institution must establish the grounds for its appeal based only on the information specified in the regulations. The Department would only accept the specific evidence listed in the regulations although the current regulations suggest that other evidence is acceptable. This change reflects the current practice of the Secretary. The Secretary solicits comment on other acceptable forms of acceptable documentation. Definitions The Student Loan Reform Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;66) amended the definition of cohort default rate to include Federal Consolidation Loans which are used to repay Federal Stafford and Federal SLS loans. The Secretary proposes to amend this section to reflect this change. Definitions applicable to this section would be revised to reflect changes to the definition of cohort default rate in section 435(m) of the HEA. In accordance with the statute, as in the past, for any fiscal year in which 30 or more current and former students at the institution enter repayment on Federal Stafford or Federal SLS program loans received for attendance at the institution, the cohort default rate is the percentage of those current and former students who enter repayment in that fiscal year on Federal Stafford or Federal SLS program loans received for attendance at that institution who default before the end of the following fiscal year. Formerly, for any fiscal year in which fewer than 30 of the institution's current and former students entered repayment on a Federal Stafford or Federal SLS loans received for attendance at the institution, the cohort default rate was the average over the three most recent fiscal years of the rates calculated in the manner described for any fiscal year in which 30 or more current and former students enter repayment on a Federal Stafford or Federal SLS program loan. The HEA now requires that, for any fiscal year in which fewer than 30 of the institution's current and former students enter repayment, the cohort default rate is the percentage of those current and former students who entered repayment on Federal Stafford loans or Federal SLS loans in any of the three most recent fiscal years who default before the end of the fiscal year in which they entered repayment. The Technical Amendments of 1993 changed section 435(m)(1)(B) of the HEA to make clear that the issue of improper loan servicing is only part of the appeal process and does not relate to the Secretary's initial release of cohort default rates. Thus, in issuing the rates initially, the Secretary is not obligated to consider allegations of improper loan servicing. The Secretary proposes to amend the regulations to reflect this change by removing the requirement that the Secretary must exclude any loans that, due to improper servicing or collection, would result in an inaccurate or incomplete calculation of the cohort default rate. Section 435(m) of the HEA requires the addition of the requirement that a Federal SLS loan not be considered to enter repayment until after the borrower has ceased to be enrolled in an educational program leading to a degree or certificate at the eligible institution on at least a half-time basis (as determined by the institution) and ceased to be in a period of forbearance based on that enrollment. Section 435(m) further requires that each eligible lender of a Federal SLS loan to provide the guaranty agency with the information necessary to determine when the loan entered repayment for purposes of this definition and requires the guaranty agency to provide that information to the Secretary.
