FR941116-2-00008 FR941116-2-00002 Heritage Resources/Pre-Historic Sites Goals Provide for the protection of the pre-historic sites from damage or destruction. Manage pre-historic sites for scientific research, public interpretation, education, and enjoyment to the extent consistent with protection. Objectives Reference Heritage Resources in this section. Standards and Guidelines Reference Heritage Resources in this section. Geologic Goals Provide for the protection of paleontological and unique geologic resources from damage or destruction. Manage paleontological resources for scientific research to the extent consistent with protection. Provide for interpretation and education of unique geologic events. Objectives Develop a paleontological/geologic management plan that stresses protection of those sites with greatest sensitivity and scientific value. Standards and Guidelines Develop S&Gs for scientific research consistent with their protection. Develop S&Gs for the management and interpretation that ensure the protection of paleontological and unique geologic resources. HCNRA Act Section 7 (6) preservation and restoration of historic sites associated with and typifying the economic and social history of the region and the American West. Heritage Resources/Historic-Sites Goals Evaluate historic sites for preservation and restoration that typify the economic and social history of the region and the American West. Preserve and restore selected sites which typify the economic and social history of the region and the American West. Objectives Reference Heritage Resources in this section. Standards and Guidelines Reference Heritage Resources in this section. HCNRA Act Section 7 (7) such management, utilization, and disposal of natural resources on federally owned lands, including, but not limited to, timber harvesting by selective cutting, mining, and grazing and the continuation of such existing uses and developments as are compatible with the provisions of the Act. Minerals Goals Prohibit all mining activities with the exception of valid existing mineral rights as of December 31, 1975. Mining and its associated activities of valid existing mineral rights will emphasize meeting the objectives for which the HCNRA was established. Manage common mineral materials for the sole purpose of construction and maintenance of facilities, emphasizing common mineral material sources outside of the HCNRA. Objectives No proposed changes. Standards and Guidelines Develop S&Gs for the use of common variety mineral materials in the construction and maintenance of facilities, pursuant to the LURs. Develop S&Gs for site reclamation upon termination of the extraction of common variety mineral materials. Landownership Goals Manage landownership patterns to best meet the objectives for which the HCNRA was established and by implementing the standards established for the use and development of private lands within the HCNRA. Coordinate with affected county governments in the implementation of private LURs. Objectives Modify the land and scenic easement acquisition plan. Standards and Guidelines There would be no changes in S&Gs for landownership. Implementation would be based on the land and scenic easement acquisition plan addressed in Objectives. Management Area Direction Management area descriptions provide the multiple-use direction for managing specific areas to facilitate achieving management goals and objectives. Each existing management area would be described in terms of (1) a description which defines specific managment area goals, objectives and resources priorities, and (2) direction. The following are proposed changes to management areas within the HCNRA: Management Area 4_Wilderness Develop S&Gs that establish specific management requirements for the Hells Canyon Wilderness, pursuant to Forest Service Manual 2320. Modify S&Gs for interface areas between the Hells Canyon Wilderness and the Wild and Scenic Snake River. Modify S&Gs for management and maintenance of administrative facilities and range improvements. Modify vegetation S&Gs for forage allocation and utilization standards to ensure achievement of the wilderness goals and objectives. Management Area 7_Wild and Scenic Rivers Modify vegetation S&Gs for forage allocation and utilization standards to ensure the protection and enhancement of the outstandingly remarkable values for which the river was designated. Modify vegetation S&Gs to reflect the scenic and recreational portions of these management areas would no longer be a component of the Forest allowable timber sale quantity. Management Area 8_Wild and Scenic Snake River No proposed changes to recreational based activities. Management direction would follow the record of decision and recreation management plan, issued in November 1994. Modify vegetation S&Gs for forage allocation and utilization standards to ensure the proection and enhancement of the outstandingly remarkable values for which the river was designated. Management Area 9_Dispersed Recreation/Native Vegetation Modify the title of this management area to ``Dispersed Recreation/Primitive/Semi-Primitive.'' Modify vegetation S&Gs for forage allocation and utilization standards to ensure achievement of the HCNRA-wide goals and objectives. Modify access S&Gs for over-snow travel to ensure achievement of the HCNRA-wide goals and objectives.
