FR940524-1-00040 FR940524-1-00010 The Department generally prepares a regulatory flexibility analysis, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, if the rule is expected to have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. That Act also requires that the Department periodically review existing regulations and consider reforming those that burden small entities, taking into account the degree to which technology or other factors have changed in the area affected by the rule. The Department does not believe that this proposal is ``economically significant'' within the definition of E.O. 12866 (e.g., it would not have an effect on the economy of $100 million). Nor does the Department believe that the proposal will have a significant impact on a substantial number of small firms. However, it will create costs for some firms in the respirator industry, and benefits for hospitals and other entities using respirators. The magnitude of these effects is uncertain. Accordingly, the Department has prepared the following voluntary Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. Most employers rely on government standards to determine acceptable levels of respirator performance. It would be inefficient and unreasonably costly for each of millions of occasional purchasers of these inexpensive devices to independently attempt to determine which devices operate effectively to filter out minuscule particles. This proposal will remove a regulatory impediment to the improved design of respirators by substituting a performance standard for an obsolete specifications standard. The practical effect of this will be to enable firms to substitute a more effective and efficient filter material in low-cost Class B and Class C respirators (respirators already using high efficiency filters meeting Class A requirements will not be affected by this proposal). It is our understanding that substituting better filter material will have negligible effects on the costs of filters, over the long run. The material may cost very slightly more, but its cost will remain measured in pennies per filter. NIOSH specifically solicits comments and data for projected estimates of cost for materials and labor for these improved respirators. The demonstrated level of performance for filters will, however, be substantially more effective. Instead of an efficiency rate of 95 percent for removing particles sized at 1 to 2 micrometers in diameter, they will demonstrate the ability to remove particles of less than 1 micrometer in diameter at a typical efficiency rate of 95 to 99.97 percent. The importance of this change will vary considerably from workplace setting to setting. However, in at least some settings the benefits will be considerable. For example, the classes of particulate filter respirators certified under this rule will meet or exceed the CDC recommendations for respiratory protective devices used for M. tuberculosis. Of the currently NIOSH-certified respirators, only high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters meet or exceed these recommendations. The certification to an enhanced performance level will create options for the choice of respirators that adhere to CDC recommendations at reduced expense. A disposable (one-time use) HEPA filter respirator generally sells for around $7 to $10 and replaceable respirators equipped with HEPA filters can cost $20 or more, with replacement filters costing about $5 each. Replacement non-HEPA filters cost about $1 to $2 each. Disposable non-HEPA filters cost about $1 to $8 each when purchased in bulk.
