FR941021-0-00032 FR941021-0-00001 (j) Packaging and identification requirements _(1) Product identification. (i) Each housing, terminal block, or cross- connect module shall be permanently marked with the manufacturer's name or trade mark. (ii) The date of manufacture, model number, serial number and REA assigned designations shall be placed on a decal inside housings. The product identification nomenclature must correspond with the nomenclature used in the manufacturer's quality assurance program. (2) Packaging requirements. (i) Buried plant housings shall be packaged securely in an environmentally safe container to prevent either deterioration or physical damage to the unit during shipment, handling and storage. (ii) The product with all the necessary parts shall be shipped in one container unless significant advantages to the user can be obtained otherwise. Packaging of parts in the carton shall be such that the parts become available in the order in which they are needed. The package should be clearly marked as to which end to open. Packages shall be clearly labeled, and correspond to the names given in the instructions. (iii) Products packed in shipping containers shall be cushioned, blocked, braced, and anchored to prevent movement and damage. (iv) All products shall be secured to pallets with non- metallic strapping. The strapping and the manner employed shall be of sufficient quantity, width, and thickness to preclude failure during transit and handling. (v) The use of shrink or stretch film to secure the load to the pallet is permitted. However, such film must be applied over the required strapping. (vi) Containers that are too large or heavy to be palletized, such as crates, shall be shipped in their own containers. When practical, these containers shall be provided with skids to facilitate fork-lift handling. (vii) When packaged, the outer cartons shall meet the requirements of the Uniform Freight Classification and the National Motor Freight Classification. (3) Container marking requirements. (i) The package shall be readily identifiable as to the manufacturer, model number, date of manufacture, and serial number. (ii) The REA assigned housing designation shall be stamped or marked on the outside of the package container with letter and number sizes large enough for easy identification. (iii) Each package shall be marked with its approximate gross weight. (iv) All containers carrying delicate or fragile items shall be marked to clearly identify this condition. (v) All marking shall be clear, legible, and as large as space permits. (The information and recordkeeping requirements of this section have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572&hyph;0059.) Dated: October 12, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25758 Filed 10&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;P
