FR941013-1-00029 FR941013-1-00005 2. DEA will not require persons who manufacture a List I chemical solely for internal use, with no subsequent distribution or exportation of the chemical, to obtain a chemical registration. DEA has found that such persons have not been a source of any significant diversion of List I chemicals; the primary sources of diversion are through the distribution channels which deal directly with the public. If these manufacturers should later become a source of diversion, the exemption can be removed. DEA is proposing in Section 1309.27 that such manufacturers be exempted from the chemical registration requirement. DEA has also determined that the requirement that manufacturers of listed chemicals report to DEA annually can be limited without compromising the intent of the requirement. DEA's primary interest in this area is determining the total quantity of each individual listed chemical that is available on the domestic market. Therefore, DEA proposes that only bulk manufacturers of the chemicals need report to DEA; other manufacturers, such as repacker/relabelers, dosage form, etc., do not need to report. DEA has also considered the impact on small businesses of the application of the existing chemical recordkeeping and reporting requirements to those drug products containing ephedrine which are now regulated as List I chemicals. The recordkeeping and reporting provisions of the CDTA, as set forth in section 830 of the CSA and parts 1310 and 1313 of title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations, have been in place since 1989 and form the backbone of DEA's chemical control program. The requirements were developed jointly with the chemical industry to provide the necessary information to track chemical transfers while minimizing the recordkeeping and reporting burden on the chemical industry. A retail distributor must keep records that reflect the name and address of the purchaser, the date of the transaction, the type of chemical and amount being transferred, and the form of identification provided by the purchaser. The requirement to make reports is limited to those transactions that are unusual or suspicious and to thefts or losses of listed chemicals. It is estimated that creating and storing a record will require an average of one minute per record. These recordkeeping procedures are accepted practice in the conduct of legitimate chemical commerce in the years they have been in effect. DEA is obligated to implement the mandate of Congress as set out in the DCDCA. The DCDCA states that persons who wish to manufacture, distribute, import or export List I chemicals must register with DEA. Further, the DCDCA makes drug products containing ephedrine as the sole medicinal ingredient subject to such registration, as well as to the existing chemical recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Consideration was given to exempting retail distributors from the registration, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. However, such an action would negate the purpose of the DCDCA by leaving a significant portion of the sales of regulated ephedrine products unregulated. Controlling the diversion of these products requires monitoring and recordkeeping by all portions of the industry. DEA has proposed steps to lessen the impact on retail distributors of the DCDCA's requirements, while simultaneously carrying out the chemical control mandate of the DCDCA. In addition to these proposed regulations to implement the DCDCA, DEA has published two other notices that should be given consideration by parties concerned with the DCDCA. The first, published on March 17, 1994 (59 FR 12562), proposes removal of the established threshold for ephedrine to reduce the diversion of ephedrine to clandestine laboratories for the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine and methcathinone. The second, published on March 24, 1994 (59 FR 13881), establishes a temporary exemption from the registration requirements for persons who manufacture, distribute, import or export List I chemicals. This notice proposes two new information collections: The DEA 510 and 510a application forms for registration and reregistration, and the reports required from certain manufacturers of listed chemicals. DEA is submitting a request to the Office of Management and Budget for review and approval of these new collections pursuant to the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. et seq. This regulation has been drafted and reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866, section 1(b), Principals of Regulation. The DEA has determined that this rule is a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866, section 3(f), Regulatory Planning and Review, and accordingly this rule has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that the proposed rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects 21 CFR Part 1307 Drug traffic control. 21 CFR Part 1309 Administrative practice and procedure, Drug traffic control, List I and List II chemicals, Security measures. 21 CFR Part 1310 Drug traffic control, List I and List II chemicals, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 21 CFR Part 1313 Drug traffic control, Exports, Imports, List I and List II chemicals, Transshipment and in-transit shipments. 21 CFR Part 1316 Administrative practice and procedure, Drug traffic control, Research, Seizures and forfeitures. I. For the reasons set out above, it is proposed that 21 CFR part 1307 be amended as follows: PART 1307_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 1307 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 821, 822(d), 871(b), unless otherwise noted. 2. Section 1307.03 is proposed to be amended by revising the introductory language to read as follows:
