FR941110-0-00227 FR941110-0-00016 Response: Any violation of Federal participation requirements must be noted and we cannot direct surveyors to ignore violations on account of a facility's past compliance record. If violations of participation requirements are corrected during the survey, surveyors will note the correction along with the citation on the statement of deficiencies, and this information will be considered when enforcement action is selected. Comment: Certain commenters believed that all deficiency citations made by surveyors should include what the negative outcome is. Response: A violation of any participation requirement must be considered a deficiency, even if the violation caused no negative outcome to occur. As discussed earlier, there are a number of requirements in the Act for which questions of outcomes are irrelevant. The deficiency citation will in all cases clearly identify how or why the requirement is or was not met and the extent of the deficient practice, but will only detail the impact or potential impact of the facility's non-compliance on the resident when it is appropriate. Comment: A great number of commenters complained that facilities do not know what is required of them until they are cited for deficiencies at the time of survey. They requested that we inform providers of the Medicare or Medicaid participation requirements, or both, to which they will be held accountable. Certain commenters specifically requested that we provide copies of those standards to facilities at no cost. Response: There is no reason why any Medicare or Medicaid provider should be unaware of program participation requirements. The requirements are public knowledge, and it is incumbent upon facilities that enter into Medicare and Medicaid agreements to familiarize themselves with the requirements with which they have voluntarily agreed to comply. Moreover, copies of the State Operations Manual Transmittal No. 250, which contains the interpretive guidelines, procedures, and forms used by surveyors to assess facility compliance, are available to the public for purchase from the National Technical Information Service. The address is: National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia 22161, (703) 487&hyph;4600. The document publication order number is PB&hyph;92&hyph;950003. Comment: One commenter recommended that violations of requirements be cited as they are discovered so that the facility can act upon them immediately. The commenter believed that correction should not be delayed until after the exit conference. Response: Because we direct surveyors to maintain an ongoing dialogue with facility staff, there should be few instances where the facility is not aware of surveyors' most serious concerns prior to the exit conference. We do expect surveyors to immediately communicate to the facility staff any findings that jeopardize the health or safety of residents, but it would be impractical for surveyors to advise the facility of each and every violation as it is identified. It could also be misleading because the deficiencies cited on the HCFA&hyph;2567 are not official until they are reviewed by supervisory personnel and the State or HCFA. This review could invalidate or alter some of the deficiencies cited by surveyors while onsite at the facility. Comment: Certain commenters asked that we recognize that a facility's failure to comply with participation requirements does not always occur at the time of the survey visit. These commenters requested that we empower surveyors to write citations for deficiencies that occurred before the survey, even if they were corrected prior to it. Response: If surveyors determine that a facility did not meet one or more participation requirements during a period preceding the survey, they may cite the deficiency, which may be sanctionable despite its correction prior to the survey. The Congress intended for past deficiencies to be identified and addressed. Sections 1819(h)(2)(A) and 1919(h)(1) of the Act provide that if the Secretary or the State finds that a facility meets participation requirements, but as of a previous period did not meet such requirements, then the Secretary or the State may provide for a civil money penalty for the days for which it finds that the facility was not in compliance. Comment: Certain individuals believed that State survey agency supervisors should review the survey results and make the compliance determinations instead of the surveyors. These commenters believed that this measure would enhance consistent decisionmaking.
