FR940617-2-00161 FR940617-2-00093 (ii) Satisfy one of the following: (aa) Be a CAC 40 Index component security; or (bb) Be an equity security of a French Issuer having an average daily trading volume that equals or exceeds the equivalent of FF 30 million (which exceeded US $5 million at June 6, 1994), as published by foreign financial regulatory authorities (``FFRAs'') 20 and any US securities exchanges or automated inter-dealer quotation systems during the Reference Period; or 20 An FFRA is defined in section 3(a)(51) of the Exchange Act, 5 U.S.C. 78(c)(51), as any (A) foreign securities authority; (B) other governmental body or foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to administer or enforce its laws relating to the regulation of fiduciaries, trusts, commercial lending, insurance, trading in contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery, or other instruments traded on or subject to the rules of a contract market, board of trade, or foreign equivalent, or other financial activities, or (C) membership organization a function of which is to regulate participation of its members in activities listed above. For purposes of this letter, the Société des Bourses Françaises, is considered to be an FFRA. (cc) Be a security that is convertible into, exchangeable for, or is a right to acquire a security of a French Issuer described in subparagraph ii (aa) or (bb) above. (b) ``Relevant Security'' means: (i) A Qualified French Security; or (ii) A security of the same class and series as, or a right to purchase, a Qualified French Security. 2. Transactions Effected in the United States All transactions in Relevant Securities effected in the United States shall comply with rules 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7 and 10b&hyph;8. 3. Transactions Effected in France (a) All transactions during the Covered Period (as defined below) in Relevant Securities effected in France shall be conducted in compliance with French law. For purposes of this exemption, ``Covered Period'' means (i) in the case of a rights offering, the period commencing when the subscription price is determined and continuing until the completion of the distribution in the United States, and (ii) in the case of any other offering, the period commencing in Paris three business days before the price is determined in the United States and continuing until the completion of the distribution in the United States; provided, however, that the Covered Period shall not commence with respect to any Relevant Party until such person becomes a distribution participant. (b) All transactions in Relevant Securities during the Covered Period effected in France on a principal basis shall be effected or reported on the trading facilities of the Société des Bourses Françaises. (c) Disclosure of Trading Activities. 21 21 This disclosure requirement shall not apply to distributions effected solely pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933 (the ``Securities Act''). (i) The inside front cover page of the offering materials used in the offer and sale in the United States of a Qualified French Security shall prominently display a statement in substantially the following form, subject to appropriate modification where circumstances require. Such statement shall be in capital letters, printed in bold-face roman type at least as large as ten-point modern type and at least two points leaded: IN CONNECTION WITH THIS OFFERING, CERTAIN PERSONS MAY ENGAGE IN TRANSACTIONS FOR THEIR OWN ACCOUNTS OR FOR THE ACCOUNTS OF OTHERS IN (IDENTIFY RELEVANT SECURITIES) PURSUANT TO EXEMPTIONS FROM RULES 10b&hyph;6, 10b&hyph;7 AND 10b&hyph;8 UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934. SEE ``[IDENTIFY SECTION OF OFFERING MATERIALS THAT DESCRIBES THE TRANSACTIONS TO BE EFFECTED].'' (ii) In addition, there shall be included in the identified section of the offering materials a comprehensive description of the activities that may be undertaken by the Relevant Parties in the Relevant Securities during the distribution in substantially the form of Exhibit A. (d) Recordkeeping and Reporting. (i) Each Relevant Party will keep the following information with respect to transactions during the covered Period in Relevant Securities, provided, however, that in the case of a distribution made pursuant to a right offering, such information is only required to be kept during the period or periods (a) commencing at any time during the Covered Period that the rights exercise price does not represent a discount of at least 10% from the current market price of the security underlying the rights and (b) continuing until the end of the Covered Period or until the rights exercise price represents a discount of at least 12 percent from the current market price of the security underlying the rights; 22 22 For purposes of this exemption, unless stated otherwise, the market price for a security shall be the closing price at the end of the trading session on the Paris Bourse. (aa) Name of the security, date, time of execution and reporting, where available to the Relevant Party, price and volume of each transaction; provided however that no information regarding a customer transaction need be provided unless such transaction has a value of FF 1500000 or more; (bb) The exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which the transaction was effected; 23 23 The members of the SBR currently have a monopoly for trading on French securities in France. (cc) An indication whether such transaction was for a proprietary account or the account of a customer, provided however that any transaction effected by an underwriter for a customer account for which it has exercised discretionary authority shall be reported as proprietary trade and; (dd) The identity of the counterparty only where the counterparty is an underwriter or a selling group member.
