FR940817-1-00006 FR940817-1-00002 ( 2 ) For real or personal property that is owned by the candidate or a member of the candidate's family, to the extent the payments exceed the fair market value of the property usage; (B) Expenses incurred in using a vehicle at campaign expense, to the extent that such expenses exceed a de minimus amount. Persons who use a vehicle for personal purposes at campaign expense shall reimburse the campaign within thirty days for that portion of the actual cost of the personal use that exceeds a de minimus amount; (C) Household food items or supplies; (D) Clothing; (E) Tuition; (F) Funeral, cremation or burial expenses; (G) Salary payments for a member of the candidate's family, to the extent that such payments exceed the fair market value of the services provided; (H) Legal expenses; (I) Transportation and subsistence expenses incurred during travel. Persons who combine personal activities with travel that is campaign or officeholder related shall reimburse the campaign within thirty days for any incremental expenses resulting from the personal activities, such as additional airfare, hotel and meal expenses; (J) Meal expenses; (K) Dues, fees or gratuities paid to a country club, health club, recreational facility or social organization; and (L) Admission to a sporting event, concert, theater or other form of entertainment. (ii) The use of funds to pay the candidate a salary is personal use. (iii) The Commission will determine, on a case by case basis, whether other uses of campaign funds confer a benefit on a candidate or a member of a candidate's family that is not primarily related to the candidate's campaign or the ordinary and necessary duties of a holder of Federal office, and therefore are personal use. (iv) The Commission may also determine that a use of campaign funds that confers a benefit on someone other than the candidate or a member of the candidate's family is personal use, if the benefit is not primarily related to a candidate's campaign or the ordinary and necessary duties of a holder of Federal office. (2) Charitable donations. Donations of campaign funds or assets to an organization described in section 170(c) of Title 26 of the United States Code are not conversions to personal use, unless the candidate receives compensation from the organization before the organization has expended the entire amount donated for purposes unrelated to his or her personal benefit. (3) Transfers of campaign assets. Transfers of campaign committee assets to the candidate or a member of the candidate's family for adequate consideration are not conversions to personal use. In order to be adequate, the consideration must be for fair market value, and any depreciation that takes place before the transfer must be allocated between the committee and the purchaser based on the useful life of the asset.
