FR941007-1-00106 FR941007-1-00009 (1) The results of the applicable assessment test(s) or standards or performance under an approved strategic plan; and (2) Any evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices. (d) Safe and sound operations. This part and the CRA do not require any bank to make loans or investments, or to provide services that are inconsistent with safe and sound operations. Banks are permitted and encouraged to develop and apply flexible underwriting standards, consistent with safe and sound operations, for loans that benefit low- or moderate-income geographies or individuals. (e) Compliance with community reinvestment obligation. The assigned ratings reflect the extent of compliance or noncompliance with the community reinvestment obligation described in ยง228.11(b) of this part. A bank that receives an assigned rating of ``substantial noncompliance'' shall be subject to enforcement actions pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818. ยง228.22 Lending test. (a) Scope of test. (1) The lending test evaluates a bank's performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through its lending activities, as measured by home mortgage originations and purchases, small business and small farm loans outstanding, and community development loans outstanding. At the bank's option, the lending test will also evaluate the bank's consumer loans outstanding and any other loan distribution data the bank may choose to provide, such as data on extensions of lines of credit, commitments, and letters of credit. (2) When evaluating a bank's overall lending performance, the Board shall weigh its assessments of the bank's home mortgage lending, small business and small farm lending, and (at the bank's option) consumer lending to reflect the relative importance of each category of lending to the bank's overall business. (3) The Board shall weigh the bank's community development lending according to the characteristics and needs of the bank's service area(s), the capacity and constraints of the bank, and the opportunities available to the bank for this lending. (b) Assessment criteria. The Board shall evaluate a bank's lending performance pursuant to the following criteria: (1) Geographic distribution. The geographic distribution of the bank's lending (based on the location of the loan as provided in ยง228.12 of this part), including: (i) The proportion of total lending in the bank's service area(s); (ii) The dispersion of lending throughout the bank's service area(s); and (iii) The number and amount of loans in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies in the bank's service area(s); (2) Borrower characteristics. The distribution, particularly in the bank's service area, of the bank's lending (based on borrower characteristics), including: (i) The number and amount of home mortgage loans to low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income individuals; (ii) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans to businesses and farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million; (iii) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans by size of loan; and (iv) At the bank's option, the number and amount of consumer loans to low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income individuals; (3) Community development lending. The bank's community development lending, including the number and amount of community development loans outstanding, their complexity and innovativeness, and the number and amount of lines of credit, commitments, and letters of credit for community development purposes; and (4) Innovative or flexible lending practices. The bank's use of innovative or flexible lending practices to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies. (c) Affiliate lending. (1) The Board shall, if the bank elects, consider in its assessment of a bank's lending performance under this section lending by an affiliate of the bank, if the bank, or its affiliate, reports or collects the lending data pursuant to ยง228.42 of this part. (2) The Board may consider in its assessment lending by a bank's affiliate even if the bank has chosen not to have the affiliate's lending considered if the Board determines that this lending is integral to the business of the bank. (3) Consideration of affiliate lending shall be subject to the following constraints:
