FR940526-2-00085 FR940526-2-00057 b. The establishment of such rating criteria necessarily implies a finding that a single area of skull loss greater than a specified size was considered to represent a greater impairment of earning capacity than two or more smaller areas having a greater aggregate area. We cannot conclude that establishment of such criteria was outside the scope of the Administrator of Veterans' Affairs' discretion under statutory provisions authorizing establishment of a rating schedule. Effective date: February 24, 1994. O.G.C. Precedent 7&hyph;94 Question Presented Does the amount of a Federal Tort Claims Act settlement to be set off against benefits payable under 38 U.S.C. 1151 include the amount of attorney fees paid out of the settlement proceeds? Held When an individual is awarded a judgment or enters into a compromise on a Federal Tort Claims Act claim subject to 38 U.S.C. 1151, that individual's future veterans' disability compensation benefits based on the same disability must be offset by the entire amount of the judgment or settlement proceeds, including the amount of any attorney fees paid out of such proceeds. Effective date: March 1, 1994. O.G.C. Precedent 8&hyph;94 Questions Presented a. If no claim has been filed under the Vocational Rehabilitation program authorized by chapter 31, title 38, United States Code, does Vocational Rehabilitation Service, Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) have statutory authority to evaluate a veteran for purposes of determining the individual's eligibility for compensation benefits under chapter 11, title 38, United States Code? b. If such statutory authority exists, is an implementing regulation also required pursuant to section 501(a)(3), title 38, United States Code? c. If Vocational Rehabilitation Service within VBA does not have statutory authority to provide a rehabilitation assessment for purposes of the VA compensation benefits program, is there statutory and regulatory authority for requesting an equivalent VA examination ( e.g., a fee-basis consultation by a psychologist who specializes in vocational assessments)? Held a. Vocational Rehabilitation evaluations conducted under authority of chapter 31, title 38, United States Code, may be provided only to eligible persons applying for benefits under that chapter and only for the specific purposes of that chapter. b. The Secretary has authority under section 501(a)(3), title 38, United States Code, to conduct a ``vocational rehabilitation assessment'' for purposes of determining the existence of facts to support an IU rating. Further, 38 U.S.C. 512 authorizes the Secretary to delegate to any VA component the responsibility for making such assessments. c. Under 38 U.S.C. 513, the Secretary theoretically may, subject to procurement rules, contract with third parties for such assessments if he deems them to be necessary for proper administration of the compensation benefits program. However, as noted in the [Office of General Counsel unpublished decision, dated July 25, 1988], the Congress has previously considered and failed to enact legislation mandating use of such assessments. Therefore, Congress may perceive that administrative implementation of such a requirement by the Secretary is an attempt to circumvent the legislative will of Congress by providing for a procedure which the latter, to date, has rejected. d. If the Secretary elects to exercise all or any of the statutory authority cited in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this holding, the Secretary must, as a prerequisite, promulgate appropriate implementing regulations consistent therewith and with the dictates of due process. In particular, substantive regulations first would have to be promulgated detailing the scope, purpose, criteria for, and potential legal effect of such assessments and should include a delegation of the task of administering the requirement to a particular agency activity. e. As to the case which precipitated this inquiry, we believe that the assessment agreed to by the parties and incorporated in the COVA remand may be conducted on an ad hoc basis by any agency activity competent to do so as informally designated by the Secretary. Absent such a consensual arrangement, however, and without appropriate regulatory authority, imposing that assessment on a case-by-case basis would violate due process and would be ultra vires. Moreover, absent a policy determination on the use of an employability assessment in deciding IU claims, and absent appropriate regulations, administrative procedures, and delegation of authority implementing such a policy, we would recommend against inviting or encouraging even consensual use of the assessment on an ad hoc basis in future cases. Among other legal concerns, such action could provoke claims of unequal treatment under the law. Effective date: March 25, 1994. O.G.C. Precedent 9&hyph;94 Question Presented Do decisions of the U.S. Court of Veterans Appeals (CVA or court) invalidating Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) regulations or statutory interpretations have retroactive effect? Held Decisions of the CVA invalidating VA regulations or statutory interpretations do not have retroactive effect in relation to prior ``final'' adjudications of claims, but should be given retroactive effect as they relate to claims still open on direct review. Effective date: March 25, 1994. By Direction of the Secretary. Mary Lou Keener, General Counsel. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12808 Filed 5&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8320&hyph;01&hyph;M
