FR941110-0-00258 FR941110-0-00016 (i) Take immediate action to remove the jeopardy and correct the noncompliance through temporary management; or (ii) Terminate the facility's participation under the State plan. If this is done, HCFA will also terminate the facility's participation in Medicare if it is a dually participating facility. (d) The State must provide for the safe and orderly transfer of residents when the facility is terminated. (e) If the immediate jeopardy is also substandard quality of care, the State survey agency must notify attending physicians and the State board responsible for licensing the facility administrator of the finding of substandard quality of care, as specified in §488.325(h). §488.412 Action when there is no immediate jeopardy. (a) If a facility's deficiencies do not pose immediate jeopardy to residents' health or safety, and the facility is not in substantial compliance, HCFA or the State may terminate the facility's provider agreement or may allow the facility to continue to participate for no longer than 6 months from the last day of the survey if_ (1) The State survey agency finds that it is more appropriate to impose alternative remedies than to terminate the facility's provider agreement; (2) The State survey agency has submitted a plan of correction approved by HCFA; and (3) The facility in the case of a Medicare SNF or the State in the case of a Medicaid NF agrees to repay to the Federal government payments received after the last day of the survey that first identified the deficiencies if corrective action is not taken in accordance with the approved plan of correction. (b) If a facility does not meet the criteria for continuation of payment under paragraph (a) of this section, HCFA will and the State must terminate the facility's provider agreement. (c) HCFA does and the State must deny payment for new admissions when a facility is not in substantial compliance 3 months after the last day of the survey. (d) HCFA terminates the provider agreement for SNFs and NFs, and stops FFP to a State for a NF for which participation was continued under paragraph (a) of this section, if the facility is not in substantial compliance within 6 months of the last day of the survey. §488.414 Action when there is repeated substandard quality of care. (a) General. If a facility has been found to have provided substandard quality of care on the last three consecutive standard surveys, as defined in §488.305, regardless of other remedies provided_ (1) HCFA imposes denial of payment for all new admissions, as specified in §488.417, or denial of all payments, as specified in §488.418; (2) The State must impose denial of payment for all new admissions, as specified in §488.417; and (3) HCFA does and the State survey agency must impose State monitoring, as specified in §488.422, until the facility has demonstrated to the satisfaction of HCFA or the State, that it is in substantial compliance with all requirements and will remain in substantial compliance with all requirements. (b) Repeated noncompliance. For purposes of this section, repeated noncompliance is based on the repeated finding of substandard quality of care and not on the basis that the substance of the deficiency or the exact tag number for the deficiency was repeated. (c) Standard surveys to which this provision applies. Standard surveys completed by the State survey agency on or after October 1, 1990, are used to determine whether the threshold of three consecutive standard surveys is met. (d) Program participation. (1) The determination that a certified facility has repeated instances of substandard quality of care is made without regard to any variances in the facility's program participation (that is, any standard survey completed for Medicare, Medicaid or both programs will be considered). (2) Termination would allow the count of repeated substandard quality of care surveys to start over. (3) Change of ownership. (i) A facility may not avoid a remedy on the basis that it underwent a change of ownership. (ii) In a facility that has undergone a change of ownership, HCFA does not and the State may not restart the count of repeated substandard quality of care surveys unless the new owner can demonstrate to the satisfaction of HCFA or the State that the poor past performance no longer is a factor due to the change in ownership. (e) Facility alleges corrections or achieves compliance after repeated substandard quality of care is identified. (1) If a penalty is imposed for repeated substandard quality of care, it will continue until the facility has demonstrated to the satisfaction of HCFA or the State that it is in substantial compliance with the requirements and that it will remain in substantial compliance with the requirements for a period of time specified by HCFA or the State.
