FR940610-2-00011 FR940610-2-00007 11. Waivers. Under certain exceptional circumstances, the heads of Federal departments and agencies may approve waivers to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). The head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of Title 44, U.S. Code. Waivers shall be granted only when: a. Compliance with a standard would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer system, or b. Cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator which is not offset by Governmentwide savings. Agency heads may act upon a written waiver request containing the information detailed above. Agency heads may also act without a written waiver request when they determine that conditions for meeting the standard cannot be met. Agency heads may approve waivers only by a written decision which explains the basis on which the agency head made the required finding(s). A copy of each such decision, with procurement sensitive or classified portions clearly identified, shall be sent to: National Institute of Standards and Technology; ATTN: FIPS Waiver Decisions, Technology Building, Room B&hyph;154, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. In addition, notice of each waiver granted and each delegation of authority to approve waivers shall be sent promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register . When the determination on a waiver applies to the procurement of equipment and/or services, a notice of the waiver determination must be published in the Commerce Business Daily as a part of the notice of solicitation for offers of an acquisition or, if the waiver determination is made after that notice is published, by amendment of such notice. A copy of the waiver, any supporting documents, the document approving the waiver and any supporting and accompanying documents, with such deletions as the agency is authorized and decides to make under 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552(b), shall be part of the procurement documentation and retained by the agency. 12. Where to Obtain Copies. Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161. (Sale of the included specifications document is by arrangement with the United States Geological Survey (USGS).) When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 173&hyph;1 (FIPSPUB173&hyph;1), and title. Payment may be made by check, money order, or deposit account. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14209 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M
