FR940513-0-00108 FR940513-0-00029 A. Unjust Enrichment Provisions 30. Congress directed that we take steps to prevent unjust enrichment due to trafficking in licenses that were obtained through competitive bidding. 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(4)(E). In Section VI, below, we adopt specific rules governing unjust enrichment by designated entities. 55 The IVDS rules already contain provisions to reduce trafficking, 56 and ICC argues that these rules are sufficient. 57 Consistent with the Second Report and Order, however, the IVDS-specific anti-trafficking provisions will not apply to licenses obtained through competitive bidding, although we will enforce the new transfer disclosure requirements contained in Section 1.2111 of our rules. 58 Generally, applicants seeking to transfer their licenses within five years of the initial license grant will be required to file, together with their transfer application, the associated contracts for sale, option agreements, management agreements, and all other documents disclosing the total consideration received in return for the transfer of the license. We will give particular scrutiny to auction winners who have not yet begun commercial service and who seek approval for an assignment or transfer of control of their licenses, in order to determine whether any unforeseen problems relating to unjust enrichment have arisen outside of the designated entity context. 55 See ¶¶47, 52, 54 & n. 90, infra. We have amended 47 CFR 95.819 to clarify the procedures for the transfer or assignment of IVDS licenses. 56 For example, current IVDS licenses must meet the five-year construction benchmark before they may transfer, sell, assign, or give an IVDS license to another entity. See 47 CFR 95.819. 57 ICC comment at 7. 58 See 47 CFR 1.2111; Second Report and Order at ¶¶263&hyph;265. B. Performance Requirements 31. Congress has directed that the Commission, in implementing auction procedures, ``include performance requirements, such as appropriate deadlines and penalties for performance failures, to ensure prompt delivery of service to rural areas, to prevent stockpiling or warehousing of spectrum by licensees or permittees, and to promote investment in and rapid deployment of new technologies and services.'' 59 In the Second Report and Order, we decided that it was unnecessary and undesirable to impose additional performance requirements for auctionable services beyond those already provided in service rules. 60 The IVDS rules already contain specific performance requirements, such as the requirement to build-out the system within a specified period of time. See, e.g., 47 CFR 95.833. Entities that obtain, by transfer or assignment, an IVDS license that was awarded by competitive bidding, take such license subject to the existing performance requirements. 59 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(4)(B). 60 Second Report and Order at ¶219. C. Rules Prohibiting Collusion 32. In the Second Report and Order we adopted special rules prohibiting collusive conduct in the context of competitive bidding. See 47 CFR 1.2105(c). We indicated that such rules would serve the objectives of the Budget Act by preventing parties, especially larger firms, from agreeing in advance to bidding strategies that might divide the market according to their strategic interests and to the disadvantage of other bidders. These rules apply to all auctionable services, including the IVDS. Bidders are required to identify on their FCC Form 175 applications any parties with whom they have entered into any consortium arrangements, joint ventures, partnerships or other agreements or understandings which relate to the competitive bidding process. Bidders are also required to certify that they have not entered into any explicit or implicit agreements, arrangements or understandings with any parties, other than those identified, regarding the amount of their bid, bidding strategies or the particular properties on which they will or will not bid. After the short-form applications are filed and prior to the time that the winning bidder has made its required down payment, all bidders are prohibited from cooperating, collaborating, discussing or disclosing in any manner the substance of their bids or bidding strategies with other bidders, unless such bidders are members of a bidding consortium or other joint bidding arrangement identified on the bidder's short-form application. 33. Concerning bidding consortia, joint venture, partnership or other such agreements or arrangements, all such arrangements must have been entered into prior to the filing of short-form applications. Where specific instances of collusion in the competitive bidding process are alleged, the Commission may conduct an investigation or refer such complaints to the United States Department of Justice for investigation. Bidders who are found to have violated the antitrust laws or the Commission's rules in connection with participation in the auction process may be subject to forfeiture of their down payment or their full bid amount, revocation of their license(s), and may be prohibited from participating in future auctions. VI. Treatment of Designated Entities A. Introduction 34. As discussed in the Second Report and Order, Congress mandated that the Commission ``ensure that small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women are given the opportunity to participate in the provision of spectrum-based services.'' 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(4)(D). The statute requires the Commission to ``consider the use of tax certificates, bidding preferences, and other procedures'' in order to achieve this congressional goal. In addition, Section 309(j)(3)(B) provides that in establishing eligibility criteria and bidding methodologies the Commission shall promote ``economic opportunity and competition .␣.␣. by avoiding excessive concentration of licenses and by disseminating licenses among a wide variety of applicants, including small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women.'' 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(3)(B). Finally, Section 309(j)(4)(A) provides that to promote these objectives, the Commission shall consider alternative payment schedules, including lump sums or guaranteed installment payments. 35. In the Second Report and Order we established the eligibility criteria and general rules that would govern the award of preferences for designated entities. We also established a menu of preferences, including installment payments and bidding preferences, that we could choose from in selecting the preferences that will be applicable to a particular service, and specified the circumstances under which a tax certificate program would be established. In addition, we set forth rules to prevent unjust enrichment by designated entities seeking to transfer licenses obtained through use of one of the preferences. 36. In this Fourth Report and Order we adopt specific preferences for the IVDS designed to ensure that designated entities are given the opportunity to participate both in the competitive bidding process and in the provision of the service. In particular, we adopt the following preferences: (1) A 25 percent bidding credit will be available for one license in each service area (for either frequency segment A or B), for businesses owned by minorities and/or women;
