FR940524-1-00004 FR940524-1-00002 Packers and Stockyards Administration 9 CFR Part 201 RIN 0590&hyph;AA08 Regulations and Statements of General Policy Issued Under the Packers and Stockyards Act: Definitions, Industry Rules, Schedules of Rates and Charges, Proceeds of Sales, Accounts and Records, Trade Practices, Stockyards Services, Brand Inspection, and Buyers Expenses AGENCY: Packers and Stockyards Administration, Agriculture. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Agency is currently reviewing all regulations and statements of general policy issued under the provisions of the Packers and Stockyards (P&S) Act. Review of 20 regulations and statements of general policy, which have been identified as Group 1, has been completed. As a result of the review, this document proposes to remove 2 regulations, amend 1 trade practice regulation, and retain 14 regulations and 3 statements of general policy in their present form. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before July 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to the Administrator, Packers and Stockyards Administration, room 3039, South Building, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250&hyph;2800. Comments received may be inspected during normal business hours in the Office of the Administrator. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tommy Morris, Acting Director, Livestock Marketing Division (202) 720&hyph;6951, or Kenneth Stricklin, Director, Packer and Poultry Division (202) 720&hyph;7363. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking was published in the Federal Register (57 FR 42515) on September 15, 1992. Comments were solicited, at that time, concerning the relevance and importance of each regulation and statement of general policy to today's livestock, meat, and poultry industries, and which sections should be retained, modified or removed. To complete the review process, the rules covered by the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking have been divided into three groups and this document relates to those rules identified as Group l. In response to the request for comments in the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, the Agency received a total of 1,419 comments relating to the rules in Group 1. Comments were received from 1,307 individuals not identified as producers or as members of any organization, 78 individuals identified as livestock producers, 15 livestock producer and trade associations, 8 animal welfare groups, 3 individuals representing livestock marketing interests, 3 attorneys, 1 association of veterinarians, 1 bank, 2 law enforcement associations, and 1 State Department of Agriculture. No comments were received regarding §201.5, which pertains to Agency procedures on posting a stockyard, or §201.6, concerning Agency deposting procedures. Both of these regulations involve internal procedures taken by the Agency in posting and deposting stockyards and are merely expository of the explicit statutory requirements and not necessary for carrying out the P&S Act. Neither provision affects members of the public. Therefore, this document proposes to remove §§201.5 and 201.6. Removal of these sections will not change the current posting and deposting procedures. Two commenters recommended modifications to §201.61(a). That subsection prohibits market agencies selling on commission from entering into arrangements with dealers and other buyers that would lessen their loyalty to their consignors or impair their selling services. In addition, the subsection specifically prohibits a market agency selling on commission from providing clearing services for an independent dealer purchasing livestock from consignments made to that market agency. Both commenters, a trade association and an agricultural cooperative, recommended deleting the specific prohibition in §201.61(a) against a market agency selling on commission providing clearing services to an independent dealer who purchases livestock from the selling agency's consignments. P&SA agrees with the recommendations. The purpose of §201.61(a) is to protect the integrity of the relationship between the consignor and the consignee market agency. Retention of the general prohibition against arrangements tending to undermine the loyalty of the market agency or to impair the quality of selling services achieves this purpose without the necessity of specifically prohibiting the furnishing of clearing services by a market agency selling on commission. P&SA has determined that the loyalty of the market agency is not likely to be impaired by the mere furnishing of clearing services to buyers, and so proposes to amend §201.61(a) by modifying the last sentence of the subsection to permit market agencies selling on commission to provide clearing services to independent dealers that purchase livestock from consignments to such market agencies selling on commission, provided that full disclosure of the clearing arrangement is noted on the accounting to the consignor. Full disclosure of the clearing arrangement will protect livestock consignors without unnecessarily restricting purchases from consignments and will allow market agencies selling on commission greater flexibility in representing the interests of livestock sellers. Finally, in view of amendments to §201.56(b), published in the Federal Register on October 13, 1993, at 58 FR 52884, the proposed modifications to subsection (a) are logically consistent and appropriate. A review of the following regulations and statements of general policy has been completed and the Agency proposes to retain each in its present form: Sec. 201.1␣Meaning of words. 201.2␣Terms defined. 201.3␣Authority. 201.4␣Bylaws, rules and regulations, and requirements of exchanges, associations, or other organizations; applicability, establishment. 201.17␣Requirements for filing tariffs. 201.39␣Payment to be made to consignor or shipper by market agencies; exceptions. 201.44␣Market agencies to render prompt accounting for purchases on order. 201.45␣Market agencies to make records available for inspection by owners, consignors and purchasers. 201.81␣Suspended registrants. 201.82␣Care and promptness in weighing and handling livestock and live poultry. 201.86␣Brand inspection: Application for authorization, registration and filing of schedules, reciprocal arrangements, and maintenance of identity of consignments. 201.94␣Information as to business; furnishing of by packers, live poultry dealers, stockyards owners, market agencies, and dealers. 201.95␣Inspection of business records and facilities. 201.96␣Unauthorized disclosure of business information prohibited. 203.5␣Statement with respect to market agencies paying the expenses of livestock buyers. 203.12␣Statement with respect to providing services and facilities at stockyards on a reasonable and nondiscriminatory basis. 203.17␣Statement of general policy with respect to rates and charges at posted stockyards. In the process of reviewing these regulations, it was determined that they were necessary to the efficient and effective enforcement of the P&S Act and to the orderly conduct of the marketing system. The absence of any of the regulations would be detrimental to the industry and could result in increased litigation.
