FR940602-0-00013 FR940602-0-00003 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 107 [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7844] Small Business Investment Companies; Valuation Guidelines; Correction AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Final rule; correction. SUMMARY: SBA is correcting the presentation of certain information concerning valuation guidelines which was included in the final rule published in the Federal Register on April 8, 1994 (59 FR 16933). Certain paragraphs were not printed in bold type as intended. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 25, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Saunders Miller, Senior Policy Advisor, Investment Division; Telephone (202) 205&hyph;6510. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On April 8, 1994, SBA published a final rule (59 FR 16933) which included the addition of a new appendix III to part 107 of title 13 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The appendix sets forth valuation guidelines for Small Business Investment Companies (Licensees). In Section III of appendix III, it was SBA's intention to have certain paragraphs printed in bold type and other paragraphs printed in regular type. Bold type was intended to identify a model valuation policy which could be adopted verbatim by Licensees, while regular type was intended to identify supplementary information which would assist Licensees in interpreting and applying the model policy. When the final rule was printed, however, none of the text in Section III appeared in bold type. In order to allow Licensees to distinguish between the model valuation policy and the supplementary information, SBA is publishing a reorganized version of appendix III. Section III of the reorganized appendix is retitled ``Model Valuation Policy'' and includes only those paragraphs originally intended to be printed in bold type. A new Section IV is entitled ``Valuation Policy With Supplementary Information'' and contains both the model and supplementary paragraphs with no difference in type face. An explanation of the difference between Sections III and IV, and how each may be used by Licensees, is provided in paragraphs H. and I. of Section II of the appendix. In FR Doc. 94&hyph;7844, published in the Federal Register on Friday, April 8, 1994, appendix III of 13 CFR part 107 is corrected to read as follows: Appendix III To Part 107_Valuation Guidelines for SBICs I. Introduction This appendix describes the policies and procedures to which Licensees (SBICs and SSBICs) must conform in valuing their Loans and Investments and provides guidance as to the techniques and standards which are generally applicable to such valuations. The need for clearly defined valuation policies and procedures and understandable techniques arises in connection with the requirement that Licensees report the worth of their portfolios to investors and SBA. This information assists SBA in its assessment of the overall operational performance and financial condition of individual Licensees and of the industry. II. Overall Guidelines A. Definitions 1. Asset Value means the amount that the general partners or board of directors of a Licensee have established as a current value in accordance with its Valuation Policy. 2. Marketable Securities means securities for which market quotations are readily available and the market is not ``thin'', either in absolute terms, or relative to the potentially saleable holdings of the Licensee and other investors with saleable blocks of such securities. These securities are valued as follows: (a) For over-the-counter stocks, taking the average of the bid price at the close for the valuation date and the preceding two days, and (b) for listed stocks, taking the average of the close for the valuation date and the preceding two days. This classification does not include securities which are subject to resale restrictions, either under securities laws or contractual agreements, although other securities of the same class may be freely marketable. 3. Other Securities means all Loans and Investments not defined in paragraph A.(2) of this section. Such securities shall be valued at Asset Value. Most SBIC and SSBIC investments will fall in this classification. 4. Valuation Policy means the official document of a Licensee that definitively sets forth the Licensee's methods of valuing Loans and Investments in accordance with the requirements of ยง101(g) and this appendix. B. Objective The goal of a Licensee's valuation process is to value its Loans and Investments. However, the very nature of Licensees' investments sometimes makes the determination of fair market value problematical. In most cases there is no market for the investment at the time of valuation. Therefore, except where market quotations are readily available and the markets are not ``thin'', the Boards of Directors or General Partners are necessarily responsible for determining in good faith the value of Loans and Investments. Determination of value will depend upon the circumstances in each case. No exact formula can be devised that will be generally applicable to the multitude of different valuation issues that will arise. This is especially true for semiannual valuation updates of relatively new investments for which current results either exceed or do not meet the Small Concern's forecasts. A sound valuation should be based upon all of the relevant facts, with common sense and informed judgement influencing the process of weighing those facts and determining their significance in the aggregate.
