FR940817-2-00007 FR940817-2-00005 Suitability Study of the North Fork, South Fork and Mills Rivers for Inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System; Pisgah National Forest (National Forests in North Carolina), Henderson and Transylvania Counties, NC AGENCY: USDA, Forest Service. ACTION: Notice of Intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service has prepared a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) to evaluate the environmental impacts of including suitable segments of North Fork, South Fork and Mills Rivers classified as wild, scenic, or recreational rivers in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. The decision to recommend the nomination of suitable river segments to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System rests with the Secretary of Agriculture. The Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (PL 90&hyph;542) reserves to Congress the authority to include rivers in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. The agency invites written comments on the suitability of these rivers and recommendations related to classifying and including them in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. In addition, the agency gives notice of the full environmental analysis and decision making process that has been occurring on the proposal so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. The Supervisor of the National Forests in North Carolina is responsible for the preparation of the EIS. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Mills River System Wild and Scenic River Study, c/o Randle Phillips, Forest Supervisor, P.O. Box 2750, Asheville, NC 28802. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Melinda McWilliams, Wild and Scenic Rivers Study Team Leader, U.S. Forest Service, P.O. Box 2750, Asheville, NC 28802, 704/257&hyph;4253. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In 1982, the Nationwide River Inventory developed by the National Park Service, U.S. Department of Interior, identified South Fork and Mills River as potential wild and scenic study rivers. The 1987 Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for the Land and Resource Management Plan for the Nantahala and Pisgah National Forests determined South Fork and Mills River to be eligible for designation with potential wild and recreational classifications for different segments of South Fork and recreational for Mills River. (That information and additional findings will be documented in this environmental impact statement.) The rivers were determined to be potentially suitable for designation pending further study. A follow-up study to the Forest Plan FEIS was begun in 1989. At the request of local citizens, through a North Carolina Congressional Delegate, North Fork was added to the study area. In November 1990, Public Law 101&hyph;538 was passed by Congress which designated 34.8 miles of the Mills River System (North Fork, South Fork and Mills Rivers) as a Wild and Scenic Study River. This Act excluded the segment of the Mills River from the confluence of the French Broad River to a point 750 feet upstream from the centerline of N.C. Highway 191/280. The Environmental Impact Statement will consider the following river segments: North Fork, Bottom of Hendersonville reservoir spillway to South Fork 5.9 miles South Fork, Pigeon Branch in headwaters to North Fork 25.4 miles Mills River, Confluence North and South Forks to point 750 feet upstream from centerline of N.C. Highway 191/280 3.5 miles The area of consideration for each stream is a corridor a minimum of 1/4 mile from each stream bank for the entire length of the study segment. These corridors include both public and private lands. Significant issues identified during initial scoping include the potential for future dams along these rivers based on past proposals for impoundments, the effects of designation on private lands, and protection of the free-flowing condition and resource values of these rivers. A range of alternatives will be developed based on issues and concerns raised during the study process. As a minimum, one alternative will maintain current management with a recommendation of nondesignation for the three rivers (the no action alternative). Other potential alternatives include: 1. Recommend designation for all eligible segments. 2. Recommend designation or nondesignation for specific segments of each river based on identified issues and 3. Recommend designation of eligible segments with different classifications (wild, scenic, recreational) based on identified issues. The environmental impact statement will disclose the direct, indirect, and cumulative effects of implementing each alternative. Public participation is important at several points during the analysis process. The first point was the scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7). The scoping process includes, but is not limited to: (1) Identifying potential issues, (2) identifying issues to be analyzed in depth, (3) eliminating insignificant issues or those that have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis, (4) exploring additional alternatives, and (5) identifying potential (direct, indirect, and cumulative) environmental effects of the alternatives.
