FR940216-0-00174 FR940216-0-00010 For the reasons set forth in the preamble, part 80 of title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 80_REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES 1. The authority citation for part 80 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sections 114, 211 and 301(a) of the Clean Air Act as amended (42 U.S.C. 7414, 7545, and 7601(a)). 2. Section 80.2 is amended by adding paragraphs (ee), (ff), (gg), (hh), (ii), (jj), (kk), (ll), (mm), and (nn) to read as follows: §80.2 Definitions. * * * * * (ee) Reformulated gasoline means any gasoline whose formulation has been certified under §80.40, which meets each of the standards and requirements prescribed under §80.41, and which contains less than the maximum concentration of the marker specified in §80.82 that is allowed for reformulated gasoline under §80.82. (ff) Conventional gasoline means any gasoline which has not been certified under §80.40. (gg) Batch of reformulated gasoline means a quantity of reformulated gasoline which is homogeneous with regard to those properties which are specified for reformulated gasoline certification. (hh) Covered area means each of the geographic areas specified in §80.70 in which only reformulated gasoline may be sold or dispensed to ultimate consumers. (ii) Reformulated gasoline credit means the unit of measure for the paper transfer of oxygen or benzene content resulting from reformulated gasoline which contains more than 2.1 weight percent of oxygen or less than 0.95 volume percent benzene. (jj) Oxygenate means any substance which, when added to gasoline, increases the oxygen content of that gasoline. Lawful use of any of the substances or any combination of these substances requires that they be ``substantially similar'' under section 211(f)(1) of the Clean Air Act, or be permitted under a waiver granted by the Administrator under the authority of section 211(f)(4) of the Clean Air Act. (kk) Reformulated gasoline blendstock for oxygenate blending, or RBOB means a petroleum product which, when blended with a specified type and percentage of oxygenate, meets the definition of reformulated gasoline, and to which the specified type and percentage of oxygenate is added other than by the refiner or importer of the RBOB at the refinery or import facility where the RBOB is produced or imported. (ll) Oxygenate blending facility means any facility (including a truck) at which oxygenate is added to gasoline or blendstock, and at which the quality or quantity of gasoline is not altered in any other manner except for the addition of deposit control additives. (mm) Oxygenate blender means any person who owns, leases, operates, controls, or supervises an oxygenate blending facility, or who owns or controls the blendstock or gasoline used or the gasoline produced at an oxygenate blending facility. (nn) Oxygenated fuels program reformulated gasoline, or OPRG means reformulated gasoline which is intended for use in an oxygenated fuels program control area, as defined at paragraph (pp) of this section, during an oxygenated fuels program control period, as defined at paragraph (qq) of this section. * * * * *
