FR941031-2-00122 FR941031-2-00084 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration National Award for the Advancement of Motor Vehicle Research and Development AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, DOT. ACTION: Announcement of award; request for nominations. SUMMARY: This notice announces the National Award for the Advancement of Motor Vehicle Research and Development, describes its background and basis, and solicits nominations for the award. It also identifies the required content for nominations and describes the evaluation process and criteria to be used in making selections. DATES: Nominations must be received not later than December 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send complete nominations with supporting information to George L. Parker, Associate Administrator for Research and Development, NRD&hyph;01, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh St. SW, Washington, DC 20590. For further information, contact Dr. Richard L. Strombotne, Special Assistant for Technology Transfer Policy and Programs, NRD&hyph;01, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Washington, DC 20590, phone: 202&hyph;366&hyph;4730, fax: 202&hyph;366&hyph;5930. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991 establishes a National Award for the Advancement of Motor Vehicle Research and Development. It sets the basis for the award as follows: The Secretary of Transportation shall periodically make and present the award to domestic motor vehicle manufacturers, suppliers, or Federal laboratory personnel who, in the opinion of the Secretary of Transportation, have substantially improved domestic motor vehicle research and development in safety, energy savings, or environmental impact. No person may receive the award more than once every 5 years. (15 USC 3711c.) This announcement is to solicit nominations for the National Award for the Advancement of Motor Vehicle Research and Development and to provide relevant information. It is the second year of competition for the award; the first competition having closed on December 31, 1993 after having been announced by Federal Register notice (58 FR 62180, Wednesday, November 24, 1993). The award consists of a medal and citation from the Secretary of Transportation. It will be presented at an appropriate ceremony. Nominators Any person may nominate individuals or organizations he or she believes are worthy of receiving the award by reason of accomplishments. Eligibility Eligibility for the National Award for the Advancement of Motor Vehicle Research and Development is limited to domestic motor vehicle manufacturers, domestic suppliers to the motor vehicle industry, their employees, and personnel of Federal laboratories. See the Definitions section below for the definitions of the following terms: Domestic motor vehicle manufacturer, Domestic supplier, and Federal laboratory. Qualifying Work The award will recognize work that has substantially improved domestic motor vehicle research and development in the areas of motor vehicle safety, motor vehicle energy savings, or environmental impacts of motor vehicles. The work may be a singular one time accomplishment or it may be a series of accomplishments that have had substantial effect over time. Examples of the types of achievements that fall into the three categories are: 1. Safety Improvement Vehicular technology that reduces the likelihood of crashes (crash avoidance) or the likelihood of serious injury when a crash occurs (crashworthiness) or otherwise improves the changes of post-crash survival/recovery of crash victims. This could include research and development of instrumentation of biomechanics. 2. Energy Savings Technology that saves energy in the production or operation of motor vehicles by such means as light weight structures, engine and drive train improvements, reductions in tire rolling resistance or aerodynamic drag, and modifications of fuel characteristics. 3. Improvements in Environmental Quality Motor vehicle technology that reduces emissions, reduces solid waste, reduces hazardous waste, reduces noise (e.g. tire noise), as well as technology that reduces waste byproducts of motor vehicle production, operation, or scrappage. Required Contents of Nomination •Names and identification of specific individuals or organizations being nominated. •Identification of nominator(s) with title(s), address(es) and phone number(s). At least one nominator must sign the nomination. •Description of accomplishments, including the nature of the specific research and development accomplishment and reasons why it constitutes substantial improvement. Identify involvement of organization or individual(s) nominated. •References for improvements (patents, awards, papers, other recognition).
