FR940912-0-00032 FR940912-0-00006 To ensure the quality of the report to investors, the FCA believes that each annual or quarterly report should be reviewed by the SAC in its entirety. Under §630.6(a)(2), which provides that ``members shall be knowledgeable in public and corporate finance and financial reporting and disclosure,'' members selected to serve on the SAC should have the expertise to review the entire report to investors, including both financial and nonfinancial information. However, the FCA agrees that the essence of press releases is to provide timely release of interim information and has deleted the requirement for a review of press releases by the SAC from §630.6(a)(4)(iv). 4. Section 630.6(a)(4)(v) and (b)(3)(ii) The FCC suggested that the word ``oversee'' contained in proposed §630.6(a)(4)(v) and (b)(3)(ii) regarding the responsibility of the SAC and the bank audit committee be replaced with the word ``review'' because the proposed wording implies that the audit committee would perform a management function in the System or the bank. The FCC also suggested other changes to proposed §630.6(a)(4)(v) to avoid this implication. The audit committee is commonly recognized as an entity established to perform an oversight function in the areas of financial reporting, internal control, and corporate governance. The word ``oversee'' contained in the proposed rule is consistent with the customary role of audit committees. The FCA has retained the word ``oversee'' in §630.6(a)(4)(v) and (b)(3)(ii). The FCA notes that it is the responsibility of the board of each System institution to determine the steps the audit committee should perform to fulfill its oversight responsibilities. Thus, the boards of individual System institutions could charter their audit committee to review and direct management to take necessary corrective actions or merely to review and make corrective recommendations to the board. F. Subpart B_Annual Report to Investors 1. Section 630.20(c)(2)_Description of Legal Proceedings and Enforcement Actions The FCC suggested that the proposed §630.20(c)(2) disclosure requirement for a summary of FCA enforcement actions against individual institutions be clarified and that any required discussion of the impact of the enforcement actions on the System's operations be linked to materiality. The FCA agrees with this suggestion and has revised the language of §630.20(c)(2) of the final rule accordingly. 2. Section 630.20(d)_Description of Liabilities The FCC expressed the view that the information called for by §630.20(d)(1) regarding System debt obligations is too detailed and, thus, impractical. Section 630.20(d)(1)(ii) is, in large part, based upon the disclosure currently furnished by the System in its Information Statements. Unless otherwise needed to provide readers of the report to investors with information needed to understand the characteristics of System debt, the FCA does not expect extensive detail regarding the characteristics of specific debt offerings. To clarify this position, the FCA has deleted the words ``terms and conditions'' and added prefatory language to §630.20(d)(1)(ii) requiring a description of debt obligations statutorily authorized to be issued and currently issued by the System, as well as other pertinent information. The FCC also requested that the regulation clearly set forth the option of incorporating by reference the annual and quarterly reports to investors into specific offering documents. The FCA notes that the focus of this regulation is on periodic reports of the System to investors. It does not govern offering circulars or specific offering documents. Nothing in this regulation precludes the System from incorporating by reference information contained in the annual or quarterly reports to investors into specific offering documents if otherwise appropriate. 3. Section 630.20(g)(1)_Loan Portfolio Proposed §630.20(g)(1)(ii) required disclosure of the amount of loans outstanding that were used to finance the purchases of stock or other equities of System institutions. The FCC expressed concern regarding the System's ability to comply with this requirement and questioned its relevance to investors. The FCC opined that disclosures currently provided by the System in its annual Information Statement are sufficient. The System's 1993 annual Information Statement states that association borrowers do not typically purchase capital stock for cash, but instead add the aggregate par value of stock to the principal amount of the related loan obligation. The 1993 report also provided the amount of capital stock and participation certificates outstanding at December 31, 1993. The FCC indicated that System compliance with the proposed requirement could only be on a prospective basis because System banks do not have a system in place to track needed information. Further, the FCC argued that the costs involved in complying with this proposed requirement would outweigh the benefits derived from the disclosure.
