FR940825-1-00019 FR940825-1-00002 (b) Circular stairways are prohibited except in ATCT cabs where the circular stairway serves an occupant load of 10 or less and the minimum width of run is not less than 5 inches and the rise is not more than 9 inches. Exception: The run of steps from the cab for existing ATCTs may be less than 5 inches (when measured 12 inches from the center column) provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). (c) The maximum riser height of every step in an existing ATCT stairway shall not exceed 71/2 inches and the minimum run (tread depth) shall not be less than 10 inches. For stairways constructed after the effective date of this standard, the stair rise shall not be less than 4 inches and shall not exceed 7 inches and the minimum run shall be 11 inches. Exception No. 1: Stairways serving an occupant load of less than 10 and stairways to roofs may be constructed with an 8-inch maximum rise and 9-inch minimum run. Exception No. 2: Circular stairways as permitted by section j.10.(b) are excluded from this requirement. Exception No. 3: The rise of steps from the cab for existing ATCTs may be greater than 71/2 inches and the run in existing ATCTs may be greater than 10 inches (when measured 12 inches from the center column) provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). (d) The least dimension of a stair landing shall not be less than the required width of the stairway (36 inches for new ATCTs and 28 inches for existing ATCTs), except that the landing dimension in the direction of egress travel need not exceed 4 feet where the travel from one stair flight to the next stair flight is a straight run. (e) There shall be not more than 12 feet vertically between landings. Exception: Distances between landings in existing ATCTs serving an occupant load of 10 or less may be more than 12 feet provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). (f) Exit stairs that continue beyond the floor of discharge shall be interrupted at the floor of discharge by partitions, doors, or other effective means. 11. Guards (a) Means of egress such as stairs or landings that are more than 30 inches above the floor or the grade below shall be provided with guards at least 42 inches high to prevent falls over the open side. Exception: Existing handrails meeting the requirements of section j.12 below shall be permitted to serve as guards. (b) Guards shall have a pattern such that a sphere 4 inches in diameter cannot pass through the opening. Exception: Guards in existing ATCTs may have an approved intermediate rail. 12. Handrails (a) Handrails shall continue for the full length of each flight of stairs. At turns of stairs, inside handrails shall be continuous between flights and landings. Exception: On existing stairs, the handrails are not required to be continuous between flights of stairs at landings provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). (b) Handrails on stairs shall not be less than 34 inches nor more than 38 inches above the surface of the tread. Exception No. 1: Handrails that form part of a guard shall be permitted to have a maximum height of 42 inches above the surface of the tread provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). Exception No. 2: Handrails in existing ATCTs shall not be less than 30 inches above the surface of the tread. Exception No. 3: Additional handrails, beyond those required in this standard, are permitted at heights other than those stipulated provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). (c) Handrails shall not project more than 31/2 inches into the required passageway, aisle, corridor, stair, or ramp width. (d) The clear space between the handrail and the adjacent wall or surface shall not be less than 11/2 inches. 13. Smokeproof Enclosures (a) A smokeproof enclosure shall consist of a continuous stairway enclosed by walls of fire resistive construction. The top of the enclosure shall be located within 50 feet travel distance from the most remote point of the cab for existing ATCTs and 20 feet travel distance from the most remote point of the cab for new ATCTs. (b) The smokeproof enclosure shall be designed for natural or mechanical ventilation in compliance with NFPA 101_Life Safety Code. (c) Every ATCT shall have at least one exit which shall be a smokeproof enclosure. The enclosure construction meet the requirements of section f.5.(c) of this standard.
