FR940202-2-00154 FR940202-2-00072 (d) Innovation and replication (10%) The proposal incorporates innovative approaches to partnerships, community involvement, and service, and evidences strategies and activities potentially replicable in other locations. (6) Selection and Approval Process An original and four copies of each proposal must be submitted together, and be received by the Corporation for National and Community Service, 1100 Vermont Ave., NW., 20525, by 6 pm EST on Monday, March 14, 1994. Proposals that meet the minimum requirements outlined above will be reviewed by panels that include experts from the fields of public safety and service. Publication of this announcement does not obligate the Corporation to award any specific number of grants or obligate the entire amount of funds available. Additional factors that may be taken into account in the selection process include population density, geographic distribution of programs, and diversity among participants and program strategies. Notification of tentative selection will be made by April 1, 1994. Selections will be considered tentative until execution of a final grant agreement, which may require discussions between Corporation and program staff to resolve remaining financial or programmatic issues and to refine and/or further develop plans or specific strategies. In addition, the Corporation anticipates providing extensive technical assistance to successful applicants between the time of selection through the launch of project service activity, and throughout the summer. This assistance will include a mandatory 3 day training/technical assistance workshop to be conducted for all Summer of Safety program directors and key staff in late April. Appendix 1 This Appendix provides suggestions for how you might approach the development of a Summer of Safety program. It is meant to be thought-provoking and is not a required process. I. Identify the Crime/Violence Problem To Be Addressed By working directly with local law enforcement, canvassing door-to-door in neighborhoods, attending community meetings, setting up meetings for law enforcement with community groups, contacting and surveying local businesses, public agencies, service organizations, youth groups, senior groups, etc., your organization can identify specific crime problems which confront the community and concern residents. The types of issues most readily identified through this kind of analysis include: _Specific population needs (e.g., seniors who are afraid to go to the market after dark, or children who can't use a playground because of drug activity, debris or disrepair, or teenagers who get in trouble when a facility_theater, club, etc._closes for the evening, or targets of hate crimes); _Physical hazards (e.g., drug houses, vacant structures used for drug trade or other illegal or disorderly purpose, abandoned vehicles, missing street lights, broken fences, dangerous vehicle traffic patterns, open-air drug markets); _Resident safety concerns (e.g., fear of crime and victimization, need for crime prevention information_locks, etc., lack of information about crime within neighborhood); and _Unreported or undetected criminal activity (e.g., drug use or sales in a neighborhood location, gang activity, prostitution, victims of crime who have not reported the victimization or who continue to be victimized_especially victims of domestic violence or fraudulent solicitors/practices). II. Pick The Partners Think broadly about the range of organizations that are already involved in reducing crime and violence in your community, or that may be interested in joining such an effort. Try to determine which ones have missions, resources or experience comparable to yours. City agencies, especially local law enforcement agencies, should be considered. Other possible partners include: _Schools (including higher education institutions). _Private non-profit organizations (particularly those that work to prevent crime and violence or that work with youth or victims of crime). _Community and neighborhood organizations. _Senior or neighborhood centers. _Private businesses. Please read Program Narrative section 2(g) (``Partnership'') carefully regarding the delineation of roles and other aspects of creating a useful partnership. Keep in mind that, while effective partnerships will involve many elements in a community, eligibility to receive funds and parameters of allowable activities are limited. (See sections entitled, ``Eligibility'' and ``Limitations''.) III. Craft a Specific Problem Response After analyzing the community's needs and picking your partners, you will plan and implement a specific program designed to make a direct and demonstrable difference.
