FR941202-0-00084 FR941202-0-00010 (9) Each solvent cleaning machine and associated controls shall be maintained as recommended by the manufacturers of the equipment or using alternative maintenance practices that have been demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction to achieve the same or better results as those recommended by the manufacturer. (10) Each operator of a solvent cleaning machine shall complete and pass the applicable sections of the test of solvent cleaning operating procedures in appendix B to this part if requested during an inspection by the Administrator. (11) Waste solvent, still bottoms, and sump bottoms shall be collected and stored in closed containers. The closed containers may contain a device that would allow pressure relief, but would not allow liquid solvent to drain from the container. (12) Sponges, fabric, wood, and paper products shall not be cleaned. (e) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine complying with either paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(4) of this section. (1) Conduct monitoring of each control device used to comply with §63.463 of this subpart as provided in §63.466. (2) Determine during each monitoring period whether each control device used to comply with these standards meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (e)(2)(vii) of this section. (i) If a freeboard refrigeration device is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall ensure that the chilled air blanket temperature (in ○F or ○C), measured at the center of the air blanket, is no greater than 30 percent of the solvent's boiling point. (ii) If a reduced room draft is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(A) and (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. (A) Ensure that the flow or movement of air across the top of the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine or within the solvent cleaning machine enclosure does not exceed 15.2 meters per minute (50 feet per minute) at any time as measured using the procedures in §63.466(d). (B) Establish and maintain the operating conditions under which the wind speed was demonstrated to be 15.2 meters per minute (50 feet per minute) or less as described in §63.466(d). (iii) If a working-mode cover is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(A) and (e)(2)(iii)(B) of this section.
