FR940413-2-00101 FR940413-2-00057 [SGA No. DAA 94&hyph;004] Employment and Training Administration Job Training Partnership Act: Youth Pilot Projects AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for grant application (SGA). SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, under Title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act, is seeking grant applications to test better ways of providing effective employment and training services to out-of-school youth who are economically disadvantaged. This grant solicitation consists of two separate competitions_(1) single site grants in which new untested ideas for a youth program will be implemented at one site, or an existing youth program will be pilot-tested in a different site; and (2) multi-site grants in which an existing small-scale youth program will be pilot-tested in five or more additional sites. The Department may award an evaluation contract to an outside contractor to evaluate grantees' performance which will require grantees' cooperation. Applications may be submitted for both the single site and multi-site grants. All information required to submit a proposal is contained in this announcement. DATES: Applications for grant awards will be accepted commencing April 13, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications shall be May 16, 1994, at 2 p.m. (Eastern Time). ADDRESSES: Applications shall be mailed to: U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Charlotte A. Adams, Reference: SGA/DAA 94&hyph;004, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., room S&hyph;4203, Washington, DC 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charlotte A. Adams, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, telephone (202) 219&hyph;8702 (this is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Employment and Training Administration (ETA) of the Department of Labor (DOL) announces the availability of funds to conduct innovative pilot projects aimed at out-of-school youth.
