FR941222-1-00051 FR941222-1-00008 Aniline is a high-volume dye reactant present in the wastewater treatment sludge at multiple facilities, according to RCRA Section 3007 questionnaire data. Aniline is the fourth highest-volume reactant used in the dye industry, according to data provided in the 1991 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaires, with a 1991 use volume of 4860 metric tons. Based on the aniline concentrations found in the waste, the Agency has calculated a high-end individual cancer-risk level for this constituent at 1E&hyph;5. Aniline was found in over 70% of the samples of wastewater treatment sludge from azo dye production. However, 11 of the 13 aniline data points, which were all from one facility, were dropped prior to the risk assessment because the facility reported that aniline found in the wastewater treatment sludges is associated with non-dye operations. This facility consumes larger volumes of aniline in their non-dye operations than in the manufacture of azo dyes. It is likely that aniline from dye operations contributed to the presence of the constituent in the waste; however, the Agency could not determine the extent of this contribution. In studying the wastewater treatment systems from azo dye manufacturing operations as a whole, the Agency found aniline to be present in all systems from which samples were collected. In addition, aniline was consistently present in the wastewaters for all samples collected. Furthermore, even though aniline would be expected to biodegrade in the wastewater treatment system, aniline was present in 2 out of 5 samples from the wastewater treatment sludge. Because the wastewater treatment sludge presents a complex matrix for chemical analysis, the detection limits obtained for the wastewater treatment sludges were high. Therefore, the Agency believes that, given the consistent presence of aniline in the wastewater, and the detection of aniline in 2 out of 5 sludge samples (with 11 data points dropped for the reasons stated earlier), aniline typically is present in wastewater treatment sludges from azo dye manufacturing operations. Based on the aniline concentrations found in the two data points that remain after 11 data points were dropped, the Agency has determined that the risk posed by aniline in this wastestream is significant. An additional high-volume raw material used in the manufacture of azo dyes, 3,3'-dimethoxybenzidine, was found to be present in the wastewater treatment sludge from azo dye operations at concentrations that result in calculated high-end individual cancer-risk level of 2E&hyph;5. Based on data from the 1991 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire, 1719 metric tons of 3,3'-dimethyoxybenzidine were used in the manufacture of azo dyes in 1991. In addition to the risks posed by the individual hazardous constituents found in the waste, some of the contaminants are co-occurring in this wastestream. The Agency found that sludge samples collected from each of the four azo dye manufacturing facilities generally contain one or more toxic raw materials simultaneously. Therefore, some individual carcinogens are co-occurring in the waste and the calculated risks are assumed to be additive. Given the waste characterization and risk assessment results, along with toxicity information on other raw materials used in the production of azo dyes ( i.e. , aromatic amines), the Agency believes that wastewater treatment sludges from azo dye manufacturing typically contain one or more toxic raw materials at concentrations that pose a significant risk. In addition to the azo dye raw materials that were found in the wastestream at concentrations that pose a high risk, two additional constituents, 2-methoxy-5-nitroaniline, and the two coeluting compounds diphenylamine and N-nitrosodiphenylamine, were found in the wastewater treatment sludge from azo dye operations at concentrations that pose carcinogenic risks above 1E&hyph;6 (See Section II.D for treatment of coeluting compounds). The results from the assessment of exposure pathways other than drinking contaminated ground water resulting from management in an on-site monofill also are presented in Table II&hyph;6. Calculated high-end individual cancer-risk levels between 1E&hyph;4 and 1E&hyph;6 were identified for six contaminants through indirect exposure pathways (contaminated vegetable ingestion) if airborne dusts are not controlled. In addition to the risks posed by the monofill management practice, the calculated risk posed by municipal landfill disposal also is within EPA's range of potential concern, 1E&hyph;6 to 1E&hyph;4, for two sets of coeluting compounds, 2- and 4-aminoaniline/2-methoxyaniline, and 2- and 4-aminotoluene. The Agency also considered the risks posed by these contaminants for a municipal landfill when making the listing decision. Based on an analysis of the risks associated with the current management practices, a monofill and municipal landfill, EPA is proposing to list as hazardous wastewater treatment sludge from the production of azo dyes, excluding FD&C colorants, designated EPA Hazardous Waste Number K164. For the reasons stated above, the Agency is proposing to add the following constituents to Appendix VII to Part 261_Basis for Listing: 2-aminoaniline, 4-aminoaniline, 2-methoxyaniline, aniline, diphenylamine, N-nitrosodiphenylamine, 3,3'-dimethoxybenzidine, 4-methylphenol, 1,3-dinitrobenzene, 2-methoxy-5-nitroaniline, 2,4-dinitrophenol, 2-aminotoluene, and 4-aminotoluene. In addition, 2-aminoaniline, 4-aminoaniline, 2-methoxyaniline, N-nitrosodiphenylamine, 4-methylphenol, 1,3-dinitrobenzene, and 2-methoxy-5-nitroaniline are proposed to be added to Appendix VIII to Part 261_Hazardous Constituents. b. Wastewaters from the production of azo dyes, excluding FD&C colorants (K165). Summary The Agency is proposing to list wastewaters from the production of azo dyes, excluding FD&C colorants, as hazardous. This wastestream meets the criteria set out at 40 CFR 261.11(a)(3) for listing a waste as hazardous and is capable of posing a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment. Based on ingestion of contaminated ground water, EPA calculated a high-end individual risk level of 1E&hyph;4 for one hazardous constituent for the plausible management scenario, treatment in an unlined surface impoundment. Two additional constituents are estimated to pose risks between 1E&hyph;4 and 1E&hyph;6 for the surface impoundment scenario. Discussion Based on response data from the 1991 RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire, the volume reported by the industry for wastewaters from azo dye production, excluding FD&C colorants, was 6,295,779 metric tons per year, or 4.6 million gallons per day. Approximately 58% of wastewaters from azo dye production, excluding FD&C colorants currently are pretreated and discharged to a POTW. Over 40% of these wastewaters are treated in aerobic biological tank systems, with subsequent NPDES discharge to a surface water. Approximately 5% of the wastewaters from azo dye operations excluding FD&C colorants are treated in biological treatment systems that use surface impoundments.
