FR940822-2-00157 FR940822-2-00061 7. The assignment of an employee or consultant to a key staff position whose qualifications were not described in the application, or a change of a person assigned to a key project staff position (see section X.X.). 8. A change in the name of the grantee organization. 9. A transfer or contracting out of grant-supported activities (see section XII.H.). 10. A transfer of the grant to another recipient. 11. Preagreement costs, the purchase of automated data processing equipment and software, and consultant rates, as specified in section XI.H.2. 12. A change in the nature or number of the products to be prepared or the manner in which a product would be distributed. B. Request for Grant Adjustments All grantees and subgrantees must promptly notify the SJI program managers, in writing, of events or proposed changes which may require an adjustment to the approved application. In requesting an adjustment, the grantee must set forth the reasons and basis for the proposed adjustment and any other information the SJI program managers determine would help the Institute's review. C. Notification of Approval/Disapproval If the request is approved, the grantee will be sent a Grant Adjustment signed by the Executive Director or his/her designee. If the request is denied, the grantee will be sent a written explanation of the reasons for the denial. D. Changes in the Scope of the Grant A grantee/subgrantee may make minor changes in methodology, approach, or other aspects of the grant to expedite achievement of the grant's objectives with subsequent notification of the SJI program manager. Major changes in scope, duration, training methodology, or other significant areas must be approved in advance by the Institute. E. Date Changes A request to change or extend the grant period must be made at least 30 days in advance of the end date of the grant. A revised task plan should accompany requests for a no-cost extension of the grant period, along with a revised budget if shifts among budget categories will be needed. A request to change or extend the deadline for the final financial report or final progress report must be made at least 14 days in advance of the report deadline (see section XI.K.3.). F. Temporary Absence of the Project Director Whenever absence of the project director is expected to exceed a continuous period of one month, the plans for the conduct of the project director's duties during such absence must be approved in advance by the Institute. This information must be provided in a letter signed by an authorized representative of the grantee/subgrantee at least 30 days before the departure of the project director, or as soon as it is known that the project director will be absent. The grant may be terminated if arrangements are not approved in advance by the Institute. G. Withdrawal of/Change in Project Director If the project director relinquishes or expects to relinquish active direction of the project, the Institute must be notified immediately. In such cases, if the grantee/subgrantee wishes to terminate the project, the Institute will forward procedural instructions upon notification of such intent. If the grantee wishes to continue the project under the direction of another individual, a statement of the candidate's qualifications should be sent to the Institute for review and approval. The grant may be terminated if the qualifications of the proposed individual are not approved in advance by the Institute. H. Transferring or Contracting Out of Grant-Supported Activities A principal activity of the grant-supported project shall not be transferred or contracted out to another organization without specific prior approval by the Institute. All such arrangements should be formalized in a contract or other written agreement between the parties involved. Copies of the proposed contract or agreement must be submitted for prior approval at the earliest possible time. The contract or agreement must state, at a minimum, the activities to be performed, the time schedule, the policies and procedures to be followed, the dollar limitation of the agreement, and the cost principles to be followed in determining what costs, both direct and indirect, are to be allowed. The contract or other written agreement must not affect the grantee's overall responsibility for the direction of the project and accountability to the Institute.
