FR940505-1-00354 FR940505-1-00012 Mastic coatings are coatings formulated to cover holes and minor cracks and to conceal surface irregularities, and applied in a thickness of at least 10 mils (dry, single coat). Metallic pigmented coatings are coatings containing at least 0.4 pound of elemental metallic pigment per gallon (50 grams/liter of coating as applied) or non-bituminous coatings which are formulated with metalic pigment. Multi-colored coatings are coatings which exhibit more than one color when applied and which are packaged in a single container and applied in a single coat. Non-flat coatings are coatings which register gloss of 15 or greater on an 85 ○ meter or five or greater on a 60 ○ meter, and which are identified on the label as a gloss, semigloss, or eggshell enamel coating. Non-flat high gloss coatings are coatings which register gloss of 70 or greater on a 60 ○ meter, and which are identified on the label as a high gloss enamel coating. NOS means not otherwise specified. Nuclear power plant coatings are industrial maintenance coatings formulated and certified by the US Department of Energy for application to Level 1 containment structures at nuclear power facilities. Opaque stains are all stains that are not classified as semitransparent stains. Opaque wood preservatives are all wood preservatives not classified as clear or semitransparent wood preservatives or as below-ground wood preservatives. Pre-treatment wash primers are coatings which contain a minimum of 1/2 percent acid by weight, applied directly to bare metal surfaces to provide necessary surface etching. Primers are coatings applied to a surface to provide a firm bond between the substrate and subsequent coats. Residential use is use in areas where people reside or lodge including, but not limited to single and multiple family dwellings, condominiums, mobile homes, apartment complexes, motels, and hotels. Roof coatings are coatings formulated for application to exterior roofs and for the primary purpose of preventing penetration of the substrate by water, or reflecting heat and reflecting ultraviolet radiation. Metallic pigmented roof coatings which qualify as metallic pigmented coatings shall not be considered to be in this category, but shall be considered to be in the metallic pigmented coatings category. Sanding sealers are clear wood coatings formulated for and applied to bare wood for sanding and to seal the wood for subsequent application of varnish. To be considered a sanding sealer a coating must be clearly labelled as such. Sealers are coatings applied to substrates to prevent subsequent coatings from being absorbed by the substrate, or to prevent harm to subsequent coatings by materials in the substrate. Semitransparent stains are coatings which are formulated to change the color of a surface but not conceal the surface. Semitransparent wood preservative are wood preservative stains formulated to protect exposed wood from decay or insect attack by the addition of a wood preservative registered with the USEPA, Office of Pesticide Programs, and which change the color of a surface but do not conceal the surface, including clear wood preservatives. Shellacs are clear or pigmented coatings formulated solely with the resinous secretions of the lac beetle (laccifer lacca), thinned with alcohol, and formulated to dry by evaporation without a chemical reaction. Solicit is to require for use or to specify, by written or oral contract. Solventborne means a coating that contains only organic solvents. If water is present, the coating must contain less than or equal to five percent water by weight in its volatile fraction. Specialty primers, sealers, and undercoaters means primers, sealers, and undercoaters used only to perform one of the following functions: repair fire, smoke or water damage; neutralize odor; block strains; block efflorescence; condition chalky surfaces; or coat accoustical materials without affecting their accoustical abilities.
