FR940110-2-00070 FR940110-2-00056 National Park Service Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park Commission Meeting Notice is hereby given in accordance with Federal Advisory Committee Act that a special meeting will be held at 10:00 a.m., Saturday, January 22, 1994, at Ferry Hill headquarters, 16500 Shepherdstown Pike, Route 34, West, Sharpsburg, Maryland. The Commission was established by Public Law 91&hyph;664 to meet and consult with the Secretary of the Interior on general policies and specific matters related to the administration and development of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal National Historical Park. The members of the Commission are as follows: Mrs. Sheila Rabb Weidenfeld, Chairman, Washington, DC Ms. Diane C. Ellis, Brunswick, Maryland Brother James T. Kirkpatrick, F.S.C., Cumberland, Maryland Ms. Anne L. Gormer, Cumberland, Maryland Ms. Elise B. Heinz, Arlington, Virginia Mr. George M. Wykoff, Jr., Cumberland, Maryland Mr. Rockwood H. Foster, Washington, DC Mr. Barry A. Passett, Washington, DC Mrs. Jo Reynolds, Potomac, Maryland Ms. Nancy C. Long, Glen Echo, Maryland Ms. Mary Elizabeth Woodward, Shepherdstown, West Virginia Dr. James H. Gilford, Frederick, Maryland Mr. Edward K. Miller, Hagerstown, Maryland Mrs. Sue Ann Sullivan, Williamsport, Maryland Mr. Terry W. Hepburn, Hancock, Maryland Mr. Laidley E. McCoy, Charleston, West Virginia Ms. Jo Ann M. Spevacek, Burke, Virginia Mr. Charles J. Weir, Falls Church, Virginia The purpose of this special meeting is to hear the recommendation of the special committee on the Cumberland Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and reach a decision on a formal position on the EIS. The meeting will be open to the public. Any member of the public may file with the Commission a written statement concerning the matter to be discussed. Persons wishing further information concerning this meeting, or who wish to submit written statements, may contact Thomas O. Hobbs, Superintendent, C&O Canal National Historical Park, P.O. Box 4, Sharpsburg, Maryland 21782. Minutes of the meeting will be available for public inspection six (6) weeks after the meeting at Park Headquarters, Sharpsburg, Maryland. Dated: December 28, 1993. Chrysandra L. Walter, Regional Director, National Capital Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;404 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;M
