FR940505-1-00498 FR940505-1-00012 (5) Conditional approval. The EPA may issue an Authority to Construct subject to conditions which will bring the operation of any article, machine, equipment or other contrivance, the use of which may cause the issuance of air contaminants or the use of which may eliminate or reduce or control the issuance of air contaminants, within the standards of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The conditions shall be specified in writing. Commencing work under such an Authority to Construct shall be deemed acceptance of all the conditions so specified. The EPA shall issue an Authority to Construct with revised conditions upon receipt of a new application, if the applicant demonstrates that the article, machine, equipment or other contrivance, the use of which may cause the issuance of air contaminants, can operate under the revised conditions within the standards of paragraph (c)(2) of this section. (6) Denial of application. In the event of a denial of an Authority to Construct, the EPA shall notify the applicant in writing of the reasons therefore. Service of this notification may be made in person or by mail, and such service may be proved by the written acknowledgement of the person(s) served or affidavit of the person making the service. The EPA shall not accept a further application unless the applicant has complied with the objections specified by the EPA as his or her reasons for denial of the Authority to Construct. (7) Disclosure. The EPA, at any time, may require from an applicant, or holder of any permit provided for in these rules and regulations, such information, analyses, plans, or specifications which will disclose the nature, extent, quality, or degree of air contaminants which are, or may be, discharged by the source for which the permit was issued or applied. A responsible official representing the owner or operator shall certify the truth, accuracy and completeness of disclosures. Studies necessary to provide such information shall be completed at the expense of the owner or operator of the source for which a permit was issued or applied. (8) Suspension. The EPA may suspend a permit if a holder of such permit willfully fails and refuses to furnish information, analyses, plans, and specifications, within a reasonable time, as requested by the EPA pursuant to any law, rule, regulation, agreement, or order enforceable by the EPA. The EPA shall serve notice, in writing, of such suspension and the reasons therefore. Service of said notification may be made in person or by mail, and such service may be proved by the written acknowledgement of the persons served or affidavit of the person making the service. The permit shall be reinstated when the EPA is furnished with all requested information, analyses, plans, and specifications. (9) Cancellation of application. An Authority to Construct application may be cancelled by the EPA: (i) At the request of the applicant; or (ii) If additional information has been requested of the applicant in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section without the subsequent submittal of information within a reasonable time. (f) Monitoring and records. (1) Testing procedures. (i) General requirements. Except as otherwise specified in the district rules and regulations, the State Implementation Plan, any applicable Federal Implementation Plan, any Authority to Construct issued pursuant to this section, testing methods for determining compliance with emission limits shall be: (A) The appropriate methods of 40 CFR part 50, appendix M, Recommended Test Methods for State Implementation Plans; or (B) Any appropriate method of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Test Methods; or (C) An alternative method following review and approval of that method by the California Air Resources Board and EPA. (ii) Initial boiling point. ASTM D&hyph;1078&hyph;86, ``Test Method for Distillation Range of Volatile Organic Liquids.'' (iii) Vapor pressure. ASTM D&hyph;2879&hyph;86, ``Vapor Pressure-Temperature Relation and Initial Decomposition Temperature of Liquids by Isoteniscope.'' (2) Monitoring. As applicable, each emission source subject to the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall comply with the following monitoring requirements: (i) The requirements of 40 CFR part 51, appendix P, Minimum Emission Monitoring Requirements. (ii) The applicable federal requirements for monitoring of Title V of the Clean Air Act as amended (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq .) (3) Recordkeeping.
