FR941005-2-00029 FR941005-2-00021 (a) The Head of the Contracting Activity shall publicize the intent to recommend a contract extension in the Federal Register and invite comment thereon. (b) A recommendation to extend a performance-based management contract (other than through the exercise of an option to extend) may be submitted to the Head of the Agency through the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Procurement and Assistance Management at any time, but no later than 24 months prior to the expiration of the contract term. The recommendation shall be supported by: (1) a justification for other than full and open competition prepared in accordance with FAR Part 6 and DOE Order 4200.1C, including a certification by the Head of Contracting Activity and cognizant program Assistant Secretary(s) that the use of full and open competition is incompatible with the effective and efficient discharge of Departmental programs or otherwise incompatible with the paramount interest of the United States; (2) a detailed description of the incumbent's performance history in areas such as program accomplishment, safety, health, environment, energy conservation, financial and business management and socio-economic programs, including measurable results against established performance measures and criteria; (3) an identification of significant projects or other objectives planned for assignment under the contract if extended; (4) an outline of principal issues and/or significant changes to be negotiated in the terms and conditions of the extended contract; (5) in the case of a Federally Funded Research and Development Center, a review of the use and continued need for FFRDC designation in accordance with FAR 35.0l7&hyph;4; (6) a determination that the performance-based management contract remains the appropriate form of contract; and (7) any other information pertinent to the decision. (c) Conditional Authorization. Authorization to extend by the Head of the Agency shall be considered conditional upon the successful negotiation of the contract to be extended in accordance with the Department's negotiation objectives. The Head of the Contracting Activity shall advise the approving authority no later than 6 months after receipt of the conditional authorization as to whether the Department's objectives will be met and, if not, the contracting activity's plans for competing the requirement. (d) Justification. FAR 6.302 identifies statutory authorities for the use of other than full and open competition. These authorities are permissive. Nothing in this Acquisition Letter is intended to impair the availability of these authorities for performance-based management contracts. However, it is intended that they be applied only when the use of competitive procedures is incompatible with the effective and efficient discharge of Departmental programs or is otherwise incompatible with the paramount interest of the United States . IV. Renewal of the Performance-based Management Contract Form All performance-based management contracts shall be periodically reviewed to determine whether the performance-based management contract form remains the most appropriate contract form. In the case of competitively awarded contracts, the request to authorize the continued use of the performance-based management contract shall be submitted at least 6 months prior to the anticipated release date of the solicitation. The Head of the Contracting Activity shall submit a request to authorize the continued use of the performance-based management form of contract to the Head of the Agency through the cognizant Assistant Secretary(s) and the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Procurement and Assistance Management. For contracts that will be extended using noncompetitive procedures, the request to authorize the continued use of the performance-based management contract shall be submitted as part of the extension recommendation required by III.(b)(6). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24649 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
