FR940922-1-00043 FR940922-1-00008 In addition, the transportation control measures that EPA would not consider clearly impracticable or unreasonable (including expanded geographic coverage of ECO programs and implementation of a comprehensive system of congestion pricing, employee parking pricing, and emissions-based registration fees, and the versions of those measures included in EPA's FIP proposal), would yield a combined reduction of 2.5% from 1990 baseline inventory-wide NO X reductions. Beyond that, implementation of California reformulated gasoline requirements in the OTR would achieve approximately a 1.4% reduction in NO X emissions from 1990 baseline inventory-wide levels. It is apparent that the combined NO X reduction of the entire set of these measures would be significantly short of the 65% NO X reduction EPA believes is needed throughout the OTR for attainment in the serious and severe nonattainment areas of the region. As a result, those areas will not be able to attain the standard through application of all of the potentially practicable measures, without NO X reductions from more stringent emissions standards for new vehicles region-wide. After evaluating the control measures discussed above, EPA concludes that the emissions reductions resulting from application of potentially reasonable and practicable control measures will not be sufficient to achieve attainment throughout the OTR without more stringent new vehicle emission standards. Mobile source emissions comprise a significant part of the 2005 NO X and VOC emissions inventories. Indeed, EPA believes that, apart from its analysis of each potentially reasonable control option independently, the reasonableness and practicability of adopting all these controls measures without adopting more stringent standards for new motor vehicles is questionable. And for NOx, while additional emissions reductions from other source categories will be important to meet the attainment goal, EPA believes the measures will be needed in addition to, rather than in place of, more stringent controls for new motor vehicles throughout the OTR. Although EPA has not quantified all of the VOC reduction measures described above, EPA believes the conclusion also applies for VOC, at least in and near the urban portions of the OTR. iii. Determination Whether Reductions from OTC LEV (or LEV-Equivalent) Approach to New Motor Vehicles Are Necessary. EPA believes that the foregoing information supports the conclusion that sufficient options to make up the shortfall in emissions reductions necessary for attainment in the OTR are not available from sources other than new motor vehicles, and that additional reductions in NO X and VOC emissions from new motor vehicles are therefore necessary. EPA believes that the OTC LEV program would achieve reductions beyond the mandated Clean Air Act measures by 2005 of 4% for NO X and 2% for VOC from the 2005 baseline. This information is presented in Table 4, below. 46 46 EPA's analysis presumes that the only difference in emissions between OTC LEV vehicles and federal vehicles is tailpipe emissions. Table 4._ Reduction in 2005 Baseline VOC and NO X Emissions Attributable To a LEV Program 1Emissions component 1NO X changes (percent) 1VOC changes (percent) Total highway emissions ^10 ^9 Total OTR emissions ^4 ^2 These calculations are based on the incremental effect of the LEV program beginning in 1999 throughout the OTR over the reductions that will take place in New York and Massachusetts as a result of their existing LEV programs beginning in 1996. Due to the phase-in schedule for the LEV program and the time required for fleet turnover, the maximum benefit for LEV would not be realized until 2028. Therefore, EPA expects that emissions reductions attributable to an OTC LEV program would continue to grow after 2005. Under the OTC LEV program, some increases in emissions would be associated with the permanent migration of non-LEVs into the OTR, and with temporary visits by non-LEV vehicles from other states. The amount of excess emissions associated with migrating and visiting vehicles is dependent on two factors: (1) the difference in emissions per car between the cars entering the OTR and the ``native'' fleet within the OTR; and (2) the number and age-mix of the cars entering the OTR from outside. Both questions are difficult to answer and will have different answers for permanent migration and temporary visitation. The numbers in this Table 4 do not include these effects because EPA is still analyzing this issue and has not yet quantified these effects. When this analysis is ready, EPA will put it in the docket and publish a notice of data availability in the Federal Register . As described above, EPA does not believe other practicable options are available to make up the shortfall to achieve the reductions necessary in the OTR for attainment. Therefore, EPA believes that a program available to achieve more reductions from new motor vehicles is necessary. Legal limitations make the LEV program the only option available to the states to achieve what are necessary additional reductions from new motor vehicles. Section 209 of the Act prohibits states from adopting or attempting to enforce any standard relating to the control of emissions from new motor vehicles or engines, except for California if a waiver is granted. This is subject to a limited exception provided in section 177 for states that have SIP provisions approved under part D of the Act to adopt and enforce emissions standards for new motor vehicles and engines if: (1) Such standards are identical to the California standards for which a waiver has been granted; and (2) California and the state adopt the standards at least two years before the beginning of the model year in which the standards are to apply. EPA has granted a waiver for the California LEV standards, and the states can therefore adopt them. 47,48 At the same time, section 202(b)(1)(C) explicitly prohibits EPA from changing the current ``Tier 1'' emissions standards for new motor vehicles in sections 202(a)(3)(B)(ii), (g), (h), and (i) before model year 2004. 47,48 See Waiver of Federal Preemption: California Low Emission Vehicle Standards (Jan. 8, 1993). Therefore, no options other than the LEV program are currently available to achieve the necessary additional reductions from new motor vehicles and engines. As explained in section V of this notice, EPA is proposing to allow for the possibility that an alternative federal program achieving comparable emissions reductions to the OTC LEV program may be developed. But the possibility that such an alternative program can be developed in the future does not contradict the conclusion that the only option currently available to the states to achieve the required reductions in new motor vehicle emissions (the LEV program) is necessary.
