FR940429-0-00020 FR940429-0-00008 (iv) Groundfish fishery categories requiring separate coverage_ (A) Pollock fishery. Fishing that results in a retained amount of pollock, during any weekly reporting period, that is greater than the retained amount of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (c)(1)(iv) (A) through (F). (B) Pacific cod fishery. Fishing that results in a retained amount of Pacific cod, during any weekly reporting period, that is greater than the retained amount of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (c)(1)(iv) (A) through (F). (C) Sablefish fishery. Fishing that results in a retained amount of sablefish, during any weekly reporting period, that is greater than the retained amount of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (c)(1)(iv) (A) through (F). (D) Rockfish fishery. Fishing that results in a retained aggregate amount of rockfish of the genera Sebastes and Sebastolobus, during any weekly reporting period, that is greater than the retained amount of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (c)(1)(iv) (A) through (F). (E) Flatfish fishery. Fishing that results in a retained aggregate amount of all flatfish species, except Pacific halibut, during any weekly reporting period, that is greater than the retained amount of any other groundfish species or species group that is specified as a separate groundfish fishery under this paragraph (c)(1)(iv) (A) through (F). (F) Other species fishery. Fishing that results in a retained amount of groundfish, during any weekly reporting period, that does not qualify as a pollock, Pacific cod, sablefish, rockfish, or flatfish fishery as defined under paragraphs (c)(1)(iv) (A) through (c)(1)(iv)(E) of this section. (v) Assignment of vessels to fisheries. During any weekly reporting period, the retained catch composition of groundfish species or species groups of a vessel for which a TAC has been specified under §672.20 or §675.20 of this chapter, in round-weight equivalents, will determine to which of the fishery categories listed under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) (A) through (F) of this section the vessel is assigned. (A) A catcher/processor vessel will be assigned to fishery categories at the end of each weekly reporting period based on the round-weight equivalent of the retained groundfish catch composition included in the weekly production report for the vessel submitted to the Regional Director under §672.5(c)(2) or §675.5(c)(2) of this chapter. (B) A catcher vessel that delivers to mothership processors in Federal waters during a weekly reporting period will be assigned to fishery categories based on the round-weight equivalent of the retained groundfish catch composition included in the weekly production report for the mothership submitted to the Regional Director for that week under §672.5(c)(2) or §675.5(c)(2) of this chapter. (C) A catcher vessel that delivers groundfish to shoreside processors or to mothership processors in Alaska State waters during a weekly reporting period will be assigned to a fishery category based on the round-weight equivalent of the groundfish delivered to processors during that weekly reporting period and reported on one or more Alaska Department of Fish and Game fish ticket or tickets as required under Alaska State regulations at A.S. 16.05.690. * * * * * PART 675_GROUNDFISH OF THE BERING SEA AND ALEUTIAN ISLANDS AREA 3. The authority citation for 50 CFR part 675 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 4. Section 675.25 is revised to read as follows: §675.25 Observers. Observer requirements authorized under the Observer Plan are set out at §672.27 of this chapter. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10195 Filed 4&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
