FR940525-2-00138 FR940525-2-00070 Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards; Meeting Agenda In accordance with the purposes of Sections 29 and 182b. of the Atomic Energy Act (42 U.S.C. 2039, 2232b), the Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards will hold a meeting on June 9&hyph;11, 1994, in room P&hyph;110, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland. Notice of this meeting was published in the Federal Register on February 15, 1994. Thursday, June 9, 1994 8:30 A.M.&hyph;8:45 A.M.: Opening Remarks by the ACRS Chairman (Open)_The ACRS Chairman will make opening remarks regarding conduct of the meeting and comment briefly regarding items of current interest. During this session, the Committee will discuss priorities for preparation of ACRS reports. 8:45 A.M.&hyph;9:45 A.M.: Proposed Workshop on Digital Instrumentation and Control Systems (Open/Closed)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the details of the National Academies of Science and Engineering (NAS) proposal, which was submitted in response to an NRC request-for-proposal, to conduct a workshop and gather information for use in performing a study on the use of digital instrumentation and control systems at nuclear power plants and the adequacy of the regulatory requirements. A portion of this session may be closed to discuss matters (the NAS proposal) exempted from disclosure by statute and such statute requires that the matter be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue. 9:45 A.M.&hyph;12 Noon: Fire Protection Related Matters (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding insights gained from the NRC staff reassessment of the fire-protection program, status of resolution of issues/new developments associated with the Thermo-Lag Fire Barriers, Shutdown Fire Risk, and related matters. Representatives of the industry will participate. 1 P.M.&hyph;2:30 P.M.: Proposed Revisions to the License Renewal Rule (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the proposed revisions to the License Renewal Rule. Representatives of the industry will participate. 2:30 P.M.&hyph;3:30 P.M.: Protective Action Guidelines (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the staff use of the EPA's Protective Action Guidelines in its review of nuclear plant activities. 3:45 P.M.&hyph;6:30 P.M.: Preparation of ACRS Reports (Open/Closed)_The Committee will discuss the proposed ACRS report on matters discussed during the 8:45 A.M.&hyph;9:45 A.M. session (Proposed Workshop on Digital Instrumentation and Control Systems), and other ACRS reports on matters considered during this meeting, as well as those regarding improvement of the rulemaking process, and issues stemming from the review of the evolutionary plant designs and their applicability to operating nuclear power plants. A portion of this session may be closed to discuss matters (the NAS proposal) exempted from disclosure by statute and such statute requires that the matter be withheld from the public in such a manner as to leave no discretion on the issue. Friday, June 10, 1994 8:30 A.M.&hyph;8:35 A.M.: Opening Remarks by the ACRS Chairman (Open)_The ACRS Chairman will make opening remarks regarding conduct of the meeting. 8:35 A.M.&hyph;10 A.M.: Valve Operability Program (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the status of ongoing NRC and industry activities associated with the operability of motor-operated valves, check valves, butterfly valves, and other related matters. Representatives of the industry will participate, as appropriate. 10 A.M.&hyph;11:45 A.M.: Operating Experience (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the December 1993 loss of RCS level control event at the Sequoyah nuclear plant, and the March 17, 1994 loss of shutdown cooling event at the Cooper nuclear power plant. 11:45 A.M.&hyph;12 Noon: Reconciliation of ACRS Comments and Recommendations (Open)_The Committee will discuss responses from the NRC Executive Director for Operations to recent ACRS comments and recommendations. 1:00 P.M.&hyph;2 P.M.: AEOD Report on Potter-Brumfield Motor Driven Relay (MDR) Failures (Open)_The Committee will hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff regarding the Potter-Brumfield MDR relay failures, the associated root cause, and the conclusions and recommendations of the NRC Office for Analysis and Evaluation of Operational Data (AEOD) resulting from its study of this matter. Representatives of the industry will participate, as appropriate. 2 P.M.&hyph;3 P.M.: Report of the Planning and Procedures Subcommittee (Open/Closed)_The Committee will hear a report of the Planning and Procedures Subcommittee on matters related to the conduct of ACRS business and internal organizational and personnel matters relating to the ACRS staff members. A portion of this session may be closed to discuss matters that relate solely to internal personnel rules and practices of this advisory Committee, and matters the release of which would represent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. 3:15 P.M.&hyph;3:45 P.M.: Future ACRS Activities (Open)_The Committee will discuss topics proposed for consideration during future ACRS meetings. 3:45 P.M.&hyph;4:30 P.M.: Strategic Planning (Open)_The Committee will continue its discussion of issues of significant importance to the ACRS and Commission. 4:30 P.M.&hyph;6:30 P.M.: Preparation of ACRS Reports (Open/Closed)_The Committee will discuss the proposed ACRS report on matters discussed during the Thursday, June 9, 8:45 A.M.&hyph;9:45 A.M. session (Proposed Workshop on Digital Instrumentation and Control Systems), and on other matters considered during this meeting.
