FR940630-2-00182 FR940630-2-00128 (2) Notification. HUD will provide notification of whether a project will be funded or rejected. (3) Form of award. (i) HUD will award technical assistance funds as a grant, cooperative agreement or procurement contract, consistent with this section, the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977, 31 U.S.C. 6301&hyph;6308, the HUD Acquisition Regulation, and the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (ii) When HUD's primary purpose is the transfer of technical assistance to assist the recipients in support of the Title I or Section 810 programs, an assistance instrument (grant or cooperative agreement) will be used. A grant instrument will be used when substantial Federal involvement is not anticipated. A cooperative agreement will be used when substantial Federal involvement is anticipated. When a cooperative agreement is selected, the agreement will specify the nature of HUD's anticipated involvement in the project. (iii) A contract will be used when HUD's primary purpose is to obtain a provider of technical assistance to act on the Department's behalf. In such cases the Department will define the specific tasks to be performed. However, nothing in this section shall preclude the Department from awarding a procurement contract in any other case when it is determined to be in the Department's best interests. (4) Administration. Project administration will be governed by the terms of individual awards and relevant regulations. As a general rule, proposals will be funded to operate for one to two years, and periodic and final reports will be required. (i) Environmental and Intergovernmental Review. The requirements for Environmental Reviews and Intergovernmental Reviews do not apply to technical assistance awards. (j) Selection of Recipients of Technical Assistance. Where under the terms of the funding award the recipient of the funding is to select the recipients of the technical assistance to be provided, the funding recipient shall publish, and publicly make available to potential technical assistance recipients, the availability of such assistance and the specific criteria to be used for the selection of the recipients to be assisted. Selected recipients must be entities participating or planning to participate in the Title I or Urban Homesteading programs or activities for which the technical assistance is to be provided. (Approved under OMB control numbers 2535&hyph;0085 and 2535&hyph;0084) (56 FR 41938, Aug. 26, 1991)
