FR940405-1-00031 FR940405-1-00011 In order to avoid any further confusion on this issue, however, the Department has decided to issue its regulations on costs of incarceration as two separate rules. The first rule, proposed for codification at 28 CFR 0.96c, provides the authority for establishing and collecting a fee for the costs of one year of incarceration. This rule also specifies the calculation used to determine the average cost of incarceration. In addition, the rule designates the Director of the Bureau of Prisons as being responsible for the review of the fee, for its calculation in accordance with the formula set forth in ยง0.96c(b), and for the publication of each year's fee (or revised fee) as a notice in the Federal Register. This rule also delegates to the Director the authority to promulgate regulations concerning the collection of the fee, to be codified as a second rule at 28 CFR part 505. As previously proposed, the Director would have been required both to public the current fee as a notice in the Federal Register and to amend the fee in the regulation. This requirement has been modified in the interest of reducing unnecessary regulatory publication. Average Cost of Incarceration Figure With regard to comments concerning the substantive provisions of the proposed rule, three commenters disagreed with the figure stated in proposed ยง505.2(b) representing the average cost of incarceration. Two commenters asserted that the average cost figure is not a fair calculation basis for those inmates placed in or transferred to minimum-security_and thus lower cost_institutions within the first year. One commenter stated that the figure was irrational, believing that the assessment would reduce inmates to the poverty level. Finally, one commenter contended that the Bureau of Prisons should not determine the average cost of incarceration figure. Despite these contentions, the Attorney General believes that this figure is a reasonable interpretation of the implementing statute. The plain language of section 111 of Public Law 102&hyph;395 orders the Attorney General to ``establish and collect a fee to cover the costs of confinement,'' with such fee being ``equivalent to the average cost of one year of incarcertation.'' Public Law 102&hyph;395, section 111(a) (1), (2), 106 Stat. 1828, 1842 (1992). Although at first glance it may seem fair to assess each fee based upon each individual inmate's cost of incarceration, this figure would not represent the ``average cost'' to the United States to confine every prisoner. Nor would basing the fee upon each inmate's initially designated institution be a fair assessment. While an inmate initially could be designated to a lower cost facility, within the first year he or she might be redesignated to a higher security/administrative, and higher cost, institution. Thus, the figure merely represents the average cost to the Bureau of Prisons to confine any prisoner and, accordingly, is a reasonable choice for the Attorney General to make in order to comply with the statute. However, to clarify the process and address these concerns, the Department is including in the proposed rule the formula used to calculate the average cost of one year of incarceration (see ยง0.96c(b)). This calculation is intended to provide a figure reflective of the actual costs expended to maintain inmates at Bureau facilities. The fee is calculated by dividing the expenses incurred at the Central, Regional, and institution level in such areas as salaries, supplies, travel, and equipment for the care and custody of inmates (e.g., security, programming, maintenance and general administration), excluding activation costs, by the number of inmate days, and by then multiplying the quotient by 365. The number of inmate days is calculated by adding, cumulatively, the number of inmates in custody at a given time each day for the one year period. Activation costs are those expenses incurred by the Bureau in the construction of new facilities and in their operation before staff assume control of the facility for the arrival of inmates.
