FR940628-2-00057 FR940628-2-00045 [Docket No. 94N&hyph;0136] New Monographs and Revisions of Certain Food Chemicals Codex Monographs; Opportunity for Public Comment AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing an opportunity for public comment on pending changes to certain Food Chemicals Codex monographs from the third edition and its four supplements and is also soliciting public review of specifications for proposed new monographs. For certain substances used as food ingredients, specifications consisting of new monographs and additions, revisions, and corrections to current monographs are being prepared by the National Academy of Sciences/Institute of Medicine (NAS/IOM) Committee on Food Chemicals Codex (the committee). This material will be presented in the next publication of the Food Chemicals Codex (fourth edition). Upon completion of the review of the comments by the committee, an announcement will be made in the Federal Register that copies of the new and revised monographs, as they will appear in the fourth edition of the Food Chemicals Codex, are available on request to NAS/IOM. DATES: Submit written comments by August 29, 1994. The committee advises that comments received after this date cannot be considered for the next publication but will be considered for later supplements. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments to the NAS/IOM Committee on Food Chemicals Codex, National Academy of Sciences, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Fatima N. Johnson, Committee on Food Chemicals Codex, Food and Nutrition Board, National Academy of Sciences, 2101 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20418, 202&hyph;334&hyph;2580; or Paul M. Kuznesof, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition (HFS&hyph;247), Food and Drug Administration, 200 C St. SW., Washington, DC 20204, 202&hyph;254&hyph;9537. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA provides research contracts to the NAS/IOM to support preparation of the Food Chemicals Codex, a compendium of specifications for substances used as food ingredients. Before the inclusion of any specifications in a Food Chemicals Codex publication, public announcement is made in the Federal Register . All interested parties are invited to comment and to make suggestions for consideration. Suggestions should be accompanied by supporting data or documentation to facilitate and expedite review by the committee. In the Federal Register of January 4, 1994 (59 FR 307), FDA announced that the committee was considering new monographs and monograph revisions for inclusion in the fourth edition of the Food Chemicals Codex, which is now in preparation. Notice and opportunity for public comment have also been given on policies adopted by the committee for the fourth edition. In the Federal Register of July 15, 1993 (58 FR 38129), FDA announced the committee's policy on lead and heavy metals. In the Federal Register of March 14, 1994 (59 FR 11789), FDA announced the committee's policy on arsenic specifications. FDA now gives notice that the committee is soliciting comments and information on additional proposed new monographs and proposed changes to certain current monographs. These new monographs and changes will be published in the fourth edition of the Food Chemicals Codex. Copies of the proposed new monographs and revisions to current monographs may be obtained from NAS at the address listed above. FDA emphasizes, however, that it will not consider adopting new monographs and monograph revisions until the public has had ample opportunity to comment on the changes and the new monographs. Such opportunity for public comment is announced in a notice published in the Federal Register . The committee invites comments and suggestions of specifications by all interested parties on the proposed new monographs and revisions of current monographs, which follow: I. Proposed New Monographs Bentonite Glyceryl tristearate II. Current Monographs to which the Committee Proposes to Make Revisions Ammonium bicarbonate (heavy metals, arsenic) Ammonium carbonate (functional use in foods, arsenic) -Apo-8'-carotenal (arsenic, melting range) Aspartame (identification, arsenic, assay, other related substances, 5-benzyl-3,6-dioxo-2-piperazineacetic acid) Biotin (identification, arsenic) Butadiene-styrene 50/50 rubber (description, arsenic, lithium, residual hexane) Calcium gluconate (arsenic, sucrose and reducing sugars) Calcium propionate (arsenic) Canthaxanthin (arsenic, melting range) Carnauba wax (arsenic, ester value, heavy metals) Casein and caseinate salts (acid value, arsenic, heavy metals) Glucono delta-lactone (arsenic, identification) Polyvinylpyrrolidone (name change from PVP, arsenic, aldehydes, hydrazine, k-value, residue on ignition, loss on drying) Potassium citrate (arsenic, rubric, loss on drying) Propionic acid (arsenic, definition) Sodium ascorbate (functional use in foods, arsenic, heavy metals, lead) Two copies of written comments regarding the monographs listed in this notice are to be submitted to NAS (address above). Each submission should include the statement that it is in response to this Federal Register notice. NAS will forward a copy of each comment to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857, to be placed under Docket No. 94N&hyph;0136 for public review. Dated: June 21, 1994. L. Robert Lake, Acting Director, Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15668 Filed 6&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
