FR941110-0-00213 FR941110-0-00016 Response: It is our intent that both HCFA and the State apply remedies tailored to fit specific problems. We have developed an enforcement model which correlates categories of remedies to the seriousness of noncompliance. However, with approximately 16,000 nursing homes in the United States, it is impossible to specify in regulations precise remedies to fit every particular problem in facilities. The seriousness of the noncompliance dictate the category of minimum enforcement action to be taken. The exact choice of a remedy or remedies from that category should be based on an evaluation of the nature of the situation in a particular nursing home and the course of action most likely to precipitate the rapid correction of the noncompliance. ``Pay Back Provisions'' Comment: Some commenters proposed interpreting the ``pay back'' provisions in section 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act as applying only to those rare situations in which the Secretary concludes that termination is necessary, but yields to the State's recommendation that intermediate sanctions be imposed instead. In situations in which the Secretary does yield to the State, that action could properly be contingent on the State's promise to repay Federal funds if the intermediate sanctions do not succeed in bringing the facility into compliance. These commenters wanted HCFA to add language giving guidance to the States on the corrective action plans mentioned in the Act. Response: We believe that the Congress intended to give facilities the chance to come into substantial compliance during a period when only limited, alternative remedies are imposed, but that in return for this grace period, during which Federal money is expended on noncompliant facilities, the facilities (and the State) must agree to repay the Federal money if substantial compliance is not achieved. Because of the procedural specificity of preparing corrective action plans, we have decided to incorporate such guidance in manual instructions. Other Comments Comment: Several commenters suggested that the State be designated the primary enforcement agency, with authority to select and carry out remedies prior to HCFA review. They feared that enforcement would be delayed if the survey agency only recommended to HCFA, and waited for HCFA's determination on what remedies to apply. Several commenters suggested that we delete the requirement that State survey agencies submit the plan of correction along with suggested intermediate sanctions, to HCFA for approval prior to imposing the intermediate sanctions. Response: The Act is quite clear in its division of responsibilities between the States and the Federal government when it comes to the enforcement of Federal certification requirements. Under the Medicare program, the State has no authority to impose remedies as the commenter suggests. Section 1819(h) of the Act reserves all enforcement decisions to the Secretary and permits States to make recommendations only on the basis of the surveys they do under their section 1864 agreements with the Secretary. Under the Medicaid program, however, we agree with the commenter that in most cases it is the States in the first instance that are responsible for enforcement decisions affecting providers of services. In either case, we believe we have designed an enforcement model that will place a premium on swift action once noncompliance is identified by either the State or the Secretary, and we do not anticipate delay in the implementation of decisions. Comment: A few commenters wanted to add provisions that would require HCFA and the State to consider the availability of other nursing home beds, when a termination action is considered. They wanted HCFA and the State to consider the relative effects on the facility's residents of relocation compared to remaining in the facility.
