FR940606-0-00006 FR940606-0-00003 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 2 RIN 3150&hyph;AE67 Informal Hearing Procedures for Materials Licensing Adjudications AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is amending its regulations to provide that persons requesting a hearing in certain materials license proceedings must file their requests within 30 days of receiving actual notice of the pendency of the license application, or, if the person does not learn about the application until it has been granted, within 30 days of receiving actual notice of the grant of the application. No hearing requests filed more than 180 days after the grant of the application will be entertained. The amendment applies only to materials licensing actions which are not of sufficient importance to warrant notice in the Federal Register . The rule change eliminates an ambiguous provision in the Commission's current regulations and serves to ensure that hearing requests are filed as promptly as possible, in order to promote the timely identification and resolution of problems with or objections to proposed licensing actions. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Peter G. Crane, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Telephone: 301&hyph;504&hyph;1634. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Commission's rules governing informal hearing procedures of adjudications on materials licenses are set forth in subpart L to part 2. When the rules do not require the Commission to publish notice of all proposed licensing actions, the requirements for requesting a hearing are tied to the date on which a requester receives actual notice of such actions. Prior to this rule change, the regulation stated that if Federal Register notice of an action is not published, then a request for a hearing must be filed within ``the earlier of_(i) Thirty (30) days after the requestor receives actual notice of a pending application or an agency action granting an application; or (ii) One hundred and eighty (180) days after agency action granting an application.'' In August, 1992, the presiding officer in a materials licensing proceeding was faced with a case in which a requester with actual notice of a license application filed in 1989 waited to ask for a hearing until the NRC granted the application, three and a half years later. The licensee and the NRC staff objected that the request should have been filed within 30 days of the requester's receiving actual notice of the application. (In other words, they were arguing that the rule was meant to allow persons to file within 30 days of receiving actual notice of the grant of an application only if they were unaware until then of the pendency of the application.) The requester responded that the regulation contained no such implicit condition, and instead gave requesters a choice: Either they could file within 30 days of receiving actual notice of the application, or they could wait until the grant of the application and then file within 30 days of learning of the agency's action. The presiding officer sustained the requester's position. He observed that the NRC staff and the licensee were in effect arguing that the regulation should be read as though it required the request to be filed at the earliest of three events: 30 days after receipt of actual notice of the filing of the application; 30 days after receipt of actual notice of the grant of the application; and 180 days after the grant of the application. He added that the Statement of Considerations accompanying the rule had referred to requests for hearing being timely if filed within 30 days of a requester's receiving actual notice ``of a licensing action.'' The presiding officer offered a possible rationale for the two separate windows of opportunity: a potential requester, hopeful that an application might not be approved, would not have to file a hearing request until the grant of the application eliminated doubt as to the NRC's intent. The Commission did not disturb the presiding officer's ruling, but it directed the staff to prepare a proposed rule that would make clear that requesters are indeed required to file at the earliest of the three events described above. Such a notice was published in the Federal Register on September 29, 1993, at 58 FR 50858. Analysis of Public Comments Two comments were received on the proposed rule, but neither one was directed to the actual subject of the rulemaking, i.e., whether the NRC should continue to allow someone with actual knowledge of an application to wait for that application to be granted before requesting a hearing. 1. Comment of Kerr-McGee Corporation The first comment, from Kerr-McGee Corporation, endorsed the proposed rule, but noted that the new language ``seemingly leaves the door open for filing of requests for hearing almost at will.'' Kerr-McGee asserted that the rule is hinged on when the requester ``receives actual notice,'' an ``ambiguous'' term that ``is not related to the time an actual amendment application is filed.''
