FR940617-0-00238 FR940617-0-00026 (c) For nonroad engine manufacturers, nonroad engines manufactured for export purposes are exempt without application, subject to the provisions of §89.909. (d) For eligible manufacturers, as determined by §89.906, manufacturer-owned nonroad engines are exempt without application, subject to the provisions of §89.906. (e) For any person, display nonroad engines are exempt without application, subject to the provisions of §89.907. §89.905 Testing exemption. (a) Any person requesting a testing exemption must demonstrate the following: (1) That the proposed test program has a purpose which constitutes an appropriate basis for an exemption in accordance with this section; (2) That the proposed test program necessitates the granting of an exemption; (3) That the proposed test program exhibits reasonableness in scope; and (4) That the proposed test program exhibits a degree of control consonant with the purpose of the test program and EPA's monitoring requirements. (5) Paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section describe what constitutes a sufficient demonstration for each of the four identified elements. (b) With respect to the purpose of the proposed test program, an appropriate purpose would be research, investigations, studies, demonstrations, or training, but not national security. A concise statement of purpose is a required item of information. (c) With respect to the necessity that an exemption be granted, necessity arises from an inability to achieve the stated purpose in a practicable manner without performing or causing to be performed one or more of the prohibited acts under §89.1003. In appropriate circumstances, time constraints may be a sufficient basis for necessity, but the cost of certification alone, in the absence of extraordinary circumstances, is not a basis for necessity. (d) With respect to reasonableness, a test program must exhibit a duration of reasonable length and affect a reasonable number of engines. In this regard, required items of information include: (1) An estimate of the program's duration, and (2) The maximum number of nonroad engines involved. (e) With respect to control, the test program must incorporate procedures consistent with the purpose of the test and be capable of affording EPA monitoring capability. As a minimum, required items of information include: (1) The technical nature of the test; (2) The site of the test; (3) The time or mileage duration of the test; (4) The ownership arrangement with regard to the engines involved in the test; (5) The intended final disposition of the engines; (6) The manner in which the engine identification numbers will be identified, recorded, and made available; and (7) The means or procedure whereby test results will be recorded. (f) A manufacturer of new nonroad engines may request a testing exemption to cover nonroad engines intended for use in test programs planned or anticipated over the course of a subsequent one-year period. Unless otherwise required by the Director, Manufacturers Operations Division, a manufacturer requesting such an exemption need only furnish the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (d)(2) of this section along with a description of the record-keeping and control procedures that will be employed to assure that the engines are used for purposes consistent with paragraph (a) of this section. §89.906 Manufacturer-owned exemption and precertification exemption. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any manufacturer-owned nonroad engine, as defined by §89.902, is exempt from §89.1003, without application, if the manufacturer complies with the following terms and conditions:
