FR941031-1-00012 FR941031-1-00002 7. Section 618.8030_Out-of-territory Related Services Proposed §618.8030 would allow a System bank or association to offer a related service outside of its chartered lending territory. It would replace guidance provided in FCA Bookletter 366&hyph;OE, which implemented the FCA Board policy statement concerning the offering of out-of-territory related services (58 FR 36410, July 2, 1993). Presently, an institution is required to obtain the concurrence of all System banks or associations serving the territory before it can offer its related services. The other chief conditions are: (1) A common program requirement within a district (associated with existing related service regulations); and (2) a requirement that the service provided within the institution's territory remain as the primary component of its services. The proposed regulation eliminates the common program feature in §618.8000(b)(3) because the FCA recognizes that this feature reflects an out-of-date system structure. In addition, the PPC work group and FRS petition both requested that the FCA drop the common program requirement in favor of greater flexibility. The requirement that related services provided within an institution's own territory remain the institution's primary service component is not part of the proposed regulation. The FCA concludes that as long as an institution is able to adequately serve the needs of eligible borrowers in its chartered territory, there should not be a limit on how much business it conducts out of its territory. The FCA agrees with a comment made by the PPC work group that services can have a positive effect on an institution's credit program by providing diversity and an additional income stream. Under the proposed regulation, the requirement for consent before offering related services out-of-territory would be modified. In proposed §618.8030(a), an institution would be required to obtain the concurrence of at least one institution chartered to service that outside territory. The FCA believes it is important to preserve the rights of all System institutions within their chartered territories. The fact that some territories overlap is irrelevant to the right of an institution to determine what services it wishes to provide in its own territory. Thus, the FCA believes that if a bank or association wishes to make a related service available to its customers, it can arrange with any other System institution to provide the service in its chartered territory without any other institution's consent. This outcome is no different from the current situation in which an institution can offer a service itself or it can contract with a non-System entity to offer the service; in either case, the institution is not required to obtain the consent of any other institution. The proposed regulation also requires that for services provided out of its territory, the providing institution must meet all of the requirements of subparts A and B of part 618, including adopting a related services policy and determining feasibility. It should be noted that if the providing institution is expanding an existing program, a new feasibility analysis and bank verification would be needed. An institution that gives consent to another bank or association to provide a related service in its chartered territory need must meet the requirements of proposed §618.8030, but need not comply with the other requirements of subparts A and B, unless the program consented to imposes on the consenting institution a financial obligation, in which case the consenting institution must comply with §§618.8015, 618.8020, and 618.8025. Another aspect to the out-of-territory issue is whether an institution that initially concurs in another institution providing related service programs in its territory can later withdraw its approval. One example could be a situation in which an institution has approved a service in its territory because that service is not currently offered, but later that institution wishes to begin exclusively offering the same service. The FCA believes that by entering into a written agreement with specific terms, conditions, and timeframes, the consenting institution can best protect its interests. One example could be that the institutions enter into a formal contractual arrangement that provides for termination by either party with proper notice. B. Subpart B_Member Insurance 1. Section 618.8040_Authorized Insurance Services, Debtor/Creditor Relationship The PPC work group and the Insurance petition raised questions concerning the authority in section 4.29 of the Act for banks (excluding banks for cooperatives) and associations to provide to members and borrowers credit or term life and credit disability insurance appropriate to protect the loan commitment. When it enacted section 4.29 of the Act, Congress stated that for System institutions to ``sell credit or term life, there must be a debtor-creditor relationship and the amount of insurance should be appropriate to protect but not exceed the total loan commitment to the member-borrower.'' 6 Therefore, current regulations require that a debtor-creditor relationship exist for the sale of credit or term life and credit disability insurance. Although the Insurance petition requested that this requirement be removed from the regulations, the FCA concludes that this is a statutory requirement, not only a regulatory requirement. 6 See, H.R. Rep. No. 1287, 96th Cong., 2nd Sess., 43 (1980). Questions have also arisen as to whether the debtor-creditor relationship must exist with the institution offering credit or term life or credit disability insurance. For example, in situations in which related services may be offered out-of-territory, a borrower may have a debtor-creditor relationship with the bank or association in the territory, but an out-of-territory association may be offering the insurance. The FCA interprets section 4.29 of the Act and its legislative history to mean that there must be a borrowing relationship with a System institution, but not necessarily with the institution offering the service. Therefore, as long as the recipient of credit or term life or credit disability insurance has a debtor-creditor relationship with a bank or association of the System, the insurance can be offered by any institution authorized to provide insurance to that recipient. Accordingly, in proposed §618.8040(b)(1), the FCA would add a statement that the debtor-creditor relationship does not necessarily have to be with the offering institution.
