FR940628-1-00059 FR940628-1-00011 When the new administration came into office in 1993, Reclamation decided to review certain agency policies, one of which was the full-cost compensation policy for RRA form violations. The Commissioner of Reclamation asked the Department of the Interior's Office of the Solicitor whether Reclamation is permitted to impose charges other than full-cost compensation charges for such violations. In a July 23, 1993, memorandum, the Associate Solicitor, Division of Energy and Resources, advised the Commissioner that several laws ``*␣*␣* authorize Reclamation to promulgate regulations necessary to carry out its mission, including those which would assess fees. This means that Reclamation may, by regulation, impose administrative fees or other charges designed to recover the costs it incurs for processing improperly submitted forms or for collecting forms from those who have not submitted them.'' The Associate Solicitor further concluded that ``*␣*␣* Reclamation has considerable discretion in determining how to calculate those costs, so long as the charges imposed bear a demonstrable relationship to the costs incurred by the agency and have the intended effect of improving compliance with the Act and achieving congressional objectives.'' Based on the Associate Solicitor's conclusions, Reclamation decided to consider the imposition of assessments to recover its administrative costs. Under this approach, an assessment would be established based on the costs incurred by Reclamation for additional actions the agency must take to correct instances of noncompliance. An average cost per violation would be determined and applied uniformly throughout Reclamation projects. The assessments would provide an equitable method for addressing RRA violations and result in charges that are reasonable, while recovering the incremental costs Reclamation incurs. In addition, even though such assessments would be applied after a violation had taken place, they would provide an incentive for landholders and districts to comply in upcoming water years. Thereby, the assessments would help to ensure that ineligible landholders do not receive irrigation water. After reviewing the concept of assessments for administrative costs, Reclamation decided to revise the current rules to provide for such assessments. However, before initiating the rulemaking, Reclamation notified the public of its intent and asked for their comments. (See 58 FR 59427, Nov. 9, 1993.) Summary of Comments During the comment period, 32 responses were received. Most responses were submitted by district personnel or attorneys representing districts or other water user organizations; some individual landholders also submitted comments. Approximately 50 percent of the respondents approved of Reclamation's intent to establish the proposed assessments. The remaining 50 percent were either opposed to the concept or did not express a strong position on the matter. The most frequently expressed comment was that the assessments should not be based on the full-cost water rate as that term is defined in the RRA. Many respondents gave suggestions for establishing the proposed assessments; they are summarized in the following list. The respondents thought the assessments should be: 1. fair; 2. reasonable; 3. uniform throughout Reclamation projects; 4. related to (a) the severity of the violation, (b) the number of acres involved in the violation, (c) the costs incurred by the Government to enforce the RRA, (d) the purposes of the RRA, (e) the number of previous offenses by landholders and districts, (f) costs other than Reclamation's audit costs; 5. minimal because (a) the RRA is complex, (b) sometimes Reclamation is at least partially responsible for the offense; 6. limited to cases where (a) water is delivered to landholders that failed to submit RRA forms, (b) water is delivered to excess land, (c) water users are pumping more water than Reclamation law or the district contract allows; 7. applied (a) prospectively only, (b) only after landholders and districts have been given a grace period in which to correct the problem, (c) only if an error was intentional,
