FR941012-0-00073 FR941012-0-00011 The bar tip guard (or nose tip guard) is a device that is bolted or screwed onto the tip of the bar. Its primary function is to prevent contact with the tip of the bar from which kickback is generated. Commenters identified three problems with bar tip guards. First, one commenter said bar tip guards are not usable in felling and bucking of some trees (Ex. 9&hyph;16). This commenter said forward leaning trees usually require the bar tip to fell the tree safely. Second, two commenters said the hazards associated with bar tip guards outweigh their protective value (Ex. 5&hyph;42, 9&hyph;20). According to NIOSH bar tip guards reduce kickback danger only under certain conditions, that is, when the log or limb is elevated and does not have any off-angle to cause pinching of the bar (Ex. 5&hyph;42). NIOSH concluded that the bar tip guard may pose greater hazards than saws without tips because they require the bucker to maintain working stances that are less stable. The other commenter said that the bar tip can get caught on limbs. Third, the major problem with bar tip guards is that they are removable (Ex. 5&hyph;13, 5&hyph;13H). According to the CPSC report, the bar tip guard is removed by operators because it reduces the utility of the saw by preventing boring and the cutting of any logs that are wider than the guide bar. Evidence in the record indicates that bar tip guards are being removed by a significant number of operators: Only about half of the operators of saws so equipped always use such guards. About 36 percent never use them, and about 12 percent sometimes take them off the guide bar. Thus, while nose tip guards are effective anti-kickback devices, many operators remove them from their saws (Ex. 5&hyph;13). The Portable Power Equipment Manufacturers Association (PPEMA) submitted testimony from CPSC's own proceedings, which also acknowledged the extent to which bar tip guards are removed from chain saws: [T]he Commission received the benefit of a survey that was done on the part of the NESDA, National Equipment Servicing Dealers Association. They on their own surveyed hundreds of their dealers. *␣*␣* [T]heir survey corroborated my own personal observations, namely, that in real life practice users of chain saws in the droves are simply not using that nose tip, and while if it were used or if it were permanently established on the saw, it would be a complete barrier to kickback, the fact of the matter is because it's temporary and because it is removed, because in my view it affects in the case of the dealers, as you'll see from their comments, it affects the efficacy of the saw, it is taken off, and as a result provides no protection, zero. Just to cite from the survey, 73.5 percent of the responding dealers to the NESDA survey reported that only zero to five percent of the chain saws brought into their shops for repair, of the ones that were originally equipped with the nose guards, that 73.5 percent of the dealers responded that only zero to five percent had nose guards in place. Another 9.3 percent reported that six to ten percent of such saws had nose guards in place, leaving only 17.1 percent of the dealers who put the figure of nose guards in place at something more than ten percent. The unmistakable conclusion is that the overwhelming majority of consumers are removing the nose guards from their saws and not putting them on in the first place. The survey also revealed that almost no consumers are interested in replacing nose guards that are not in place. Eighty-eight percent of the dealers, 88 percent, stated that zero percent of their customers wanted replacements, and an additional 8.9 percent put the replacement request at a mere one to five percent (Ex. 5&hyph;13H). There are two different types of reduced-kickback guide bars. One is designed and manufactured with a taper from the back of the bar and has a correspondingly small radius of curvature at the tip of the bar. This type of bar is commonly referred to as a narrow nose bar. The other type of reduced kickback guide bar has a reduced radius nose but achieves its taper from the fact that the top and bottom edges of the bar a asymmetrical (the top and bottom edges are curved and have a different radius of curvature). This type bar is commonly called a banana bar because of its peculiar shape. According to the CPSC report, both the narrow nose bar and the banana bar have significant drawbacks, primarily in the useful life of the bar and chain and the efficiency of the chain saw. The narrow nose bar, because of its reduced radius of curvature at the tip, receives more stress at the tip, thereby requiring more frequent replacement. Because of its asymmetrical design, the banana bar cannot be merely turned over when the bottom edge of the bar becomes worn, but must be replaced. This type of bar also reduces the ability of the operator to use the saw for boring. This disadvantage is compounded if the saw also is equipped with a low- or reduced-kickback chain.
