FR941031-2-00054 FR941031-2-00042 Notice of Issuance of Decisions and Orders; Week of September 19 Through September 23, 1994 During the week of September 19 through September 23, 1994, the decisions and orders summarized below were issued with respect to appeals and applications for other relief filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy. The following summary also contains a list of submissions that were dismissed by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. Appeal Consultec Inc., 9/22/94, LFA&hyph;0415 Consultec Inc. filed an Appeal from a determination issued by the Office of Placement and Administration of the Department of Energy in response to a request from Consultec under the Freedom of Information Act. Consultec sought the names of subcontractors to a DOE contract as well as a copy of any subcontracts that DOE possessed in its files. In considering the Appeal, the Office of Hearings and Appeals found that the Office of Placement properly withheld the names of subcontractors under Exemption 4 and performed an adequate search for subcontracts. Accordingly, the Appeal was denied. Refund Applications Enron Corp./Dilts Gas Service, Butane Gas Company, Novak Enterprises, Inc., 9/21/94, RF340&hyph;146, RF340&hyph;185, RF340&hyph;192 The DOE issued a Decision and Order concerning refund applications that Dilts Gas Service (Dilts), Butane Gas Company (BGC), and Novak Enterprises, Inc. (Novak) had submitted in the Enron Corporation (Enron) special refund proceeding. The DOE found that those firms were retailers of Enron products who qualified for refunds under the small claim or 60 percent mid-range presumption of injury. However, the DOE found that Energy Refunds, Inc. (ERI) had submitted completely unrealistic and conflicting gallonage figures for Dilts and had failed to revise these estimates when it submitted ledger pages documenting the actual gallonage figures for that firm. Accordingly, the DOE found that ERI violated the terms of its reinstatement order. Energy Refunds, Inc., 24 DOE ¶85,016 at 88,034 (1994). The DOE granted Dilts, BGC and Novak a total refund of $44,115. Telum Inc./Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District, 9/20/94, RF353&hyph;1 The DOE issued a Decision and Order granting an Application for Refund filed by Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District (Salt River Project) in the Telum Inc. Subpart V special refund proceeding. In the Implementation Order establishing the Telum Inc. Subpart V special refund proceeding, the DOE determined that Salt River Project, a regulated public utility, was the only firm affected by the alleged overcharges that were the subject of the Telum consent order. Therefore, in the present Decision, Salt River Project was granted a refund equal to the entire collected amount of the Telum consent order ($56,149.35) plus all interest that has accrued since the Telum consent order funds were placed in a DOE escrow account. In compliance with the requirements of the Telum Inc. Subpart V Implementation Order, Salt River Project (i) certified that it will pass the refund it receives through to its customers, (ii) provided DOE with a full explanation of how it plans to accomplish this restitution, and (iii) certified that it will notify the appropriate regulatory body of the receipt of the refund.
