FR941103-0-00037 FR941103-0-00007 An RTG could propose any pricing reform that is open to an individual utility and also other reforms that address the loop flow issue. Many approaches to reforming transmission pricing that were suggested in the record of the Pricing Inquiry address the loop flow issue and appear to require a regional approach. From the comments, the Commission discerns two major alternatives to traditional contract path pricing that RTGs could choose for dealing with loop flow: •``Enhanced'' contract path pricing, which improves the contractual institutions underlying traditional contract path trading; 32 and 32 ``Enhanced contract path'' refers to any approach intended to reconcile capacity rights between points of receipt and delivery and actual power flows on a network of lines. •Flow-based pricing, which refers to pricing designed to reflect the actual or projected power flows associated with a transaction. Cost-based pricing could be designed to accommodate either of these alternatives. Examples of pricing reform based on a flow-based approach that the Commission would look approvingly on if proposed by an RTG and if consistent with our principles include: •A MW-mile method, which could be implemented in one of several ways. For example, it could be based on ``or'' pricing and line-by-line power flows. Alternatively, a MW-mile approach could be based on embedded cost for the whole company, allocated as the ratio of transaction-specific megawatt-miles to total megawatt-miles. •Postage-stamp ``or'' ratemaking at the utility level that is combined with power flow analysis to determine the compensation due to all transmission owners on the parallel paths. This would be a departure from the current contract path approach. •Zonal ``or'' pricing based on power flow analysis to determine the use a transaction makes of the facilities in each zone. •Short-run marginal cost pricing with transmission prices based on line-by-line losses and opportunity costs caused by power flow constraints. RTGs may be able to design a pricing approach that combines elements of flow-based pricing with elements of contract path pricing. An example might be contract-path pricing for capacity rights to engage in long-term firm transactions combined with flow-based pricing for short-term, nonfirm transactions that are not covered by such rights. As can be seen from these examples, the Commission will provide RTGs substantial flexibility in choosing among a wide range of pricing approaches. (3) Examples of Unacceptable Transmission Pricing As discussed above, any pricing proposal, even a proposal that does not conform to the traditional revenue requirement, must meet the just and reasonable standard of the FPA. Below we list two types of pricing proposals which we find unacceptable. •Postage-Stamp ``And'' Pricing: Some utilities have proposed so-called ``and'' pricing, which would add an embedded cost rate to an incremental cost rate for the same service over the same facilities. The proposals have been based on traditional postage stamp ratemaking for which costs are aggregated at the utility level. This type of pricing has been found by the Commission to be unjust and unreasonable. 33 We cannot see how such an approach is consistent with either our fairness principle or our efficiency principle. 34 33 See Penelec, supra n.5. 34 The flexibility that we endorse in this Policy Statement regarding cost disaggregation, among other things, addresses the industry's underlying concerns regarding ``or'' pricing. That is, while we cannot justify pricing that purports to recover two measures of a single cost, allowing the entity to account for costs on a disaggregated basis would permit separate pricing for separate facilities or small groupings of facilities. Hence, we would entertain proposals for flow-based line-by-line ``or'' pricing. This would permit the use of embedded costs for some lines when this is the higher of embedded or incremental costs, and the use of incremental cost for other lines when this is the higher of embedded or incremental costs. •Pricing by Individual Utilities to Account for Loop Flow: While individual utilities may propose new and innovative pricing methods that seek to apportion transmission costs on the basis of scheduled flows ( e.g. , zonal or line-by-line methods), we also believe that it would be inappropriate for individual utilities to reform their own approach to transmission pricing in a way that is inconsistent with regional practices regarding unscheduled or inadvertent flows (loop flow). 35 We are concerned that individual public utilities may propose approaches to loop flow pricing that lead to a patchwork of mutually inconsistent loop flow pricing methods within a region. Accordingly, a utility's proposal to use flow-based pricing generically to recover the costs of unscheduled inter-utility power flows will be treated as a non-conforming proposal if it is inconsistent with regional loop flow practices, such as use of a contract path convention. 36 35 Of course, such individual utility pricing may be appropriate if there are no objections to the loop flow solution from any affected neighboring utilities or transmission customers. 36 However, a public utility may seek on a case-by-case basis relief from the Commission, including appropriate compensation, in situations in which it is experiencing severe unscheduled loop flows on its system because of specific power transactions by other neighboring utilities and it has been unable to resolve the problem through existing industry mechanisms. See American Electric Power Service Corp., et al., 49 FERC ¶61,377 at 62,381 (1989).
