FR940223-2-00241 FR940223-2-00104 Appendix A_Application Form for Proposals for the Department of Transportation National and Community Service Program Proposals for the DOT National and Community Service Program should contain all of the following information and should be submitted in the following format. DOT may need to seek additional information from applicants as a result of changes in the proposed regulations issued by the National Service Corporation or to more fully clarify and define specific proposals. Applications should be double sided, double spaced, and printed in a font size not smaller than 12 points. One unbound copy of the proposal with original signatures suitable for reproduction, plus two bound copies, should be submitted. All pages should be numbered and the specific DOT Program or Programs to be addressed should be identified at the top of each page. All documentation, attachments, or other information pertinent to the application should be included in a single submission, forwarded directly to the address listed below. Proposals should be submitted to: Brenda L. Harris Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization Department of Transportation 400 7th Street SW., room 9410 Washington, DC 20590 Proposals must be received by DOT no later than March 23, 1994, 4 p.m. EST. 1. Title page (to be completed on the attached form identified as ``Attachment 1''), along with a Table of Contents for the proposal. 2. Application summary page , providing a one page overview of the following: a. Identification of which of the five DOT Programs the applicant intends to implement. b. The specific needs to be met, particularly as they relate to the national priorities identified for the individual DOT Program(s). c. Key elements of the program design. d. Recruitment goals, including the percentage of participants (if any) to be drawn from the national recruitment system established by the National Service Corporation. e. Description of the administering organization and identification of primary program partners. 3. Program mission statement and annual objectives (to be completed on the attached form identified as ``Attachment 2''). The National Service Corporation has identified three goals of National Service: a. Community service. Meeting community needs by getting things done through direct and demonstrable service in education, public safety, human needs, and the environment. b. Participant development. Positively impacting participants by developing leadership skills, fostering active, productive citizenship, and enhancing educational opportunities.
