FR941006-1-00039 FR941006-1-00008 (4)(i) No portion of the investment is being made (directly or indirectly) with amounts that are to be used to discharge a tax-exempt bond issue and that are derived or are to be derived (directly or indirectly) from the sale of escrowed open market securities, the proceeds of which were to be used to discharge a tax-exempt bond issue; or (ii) Although a portion of the investment is being made (directly or indirectly) with amounts that are to be used to discharge a tax-exempt bond issue and that are derived or are to be derived (directly or indirectly) from the sale of escrowed open market securities, the proceeds of which were to be used to discharge a tax-exempt bond issue, the composite yield to maturity of all investments being purchased with such amounts does not exceed the composite yield to maturity of the securities that were sold, based on the price at which they were sold. (5) Where proceeds are subject to yield restrictions for a limited period of time, under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, no investment of such proceeds beyond such period may be made. For example, if a reserve fund of a refunding issue is subject to yield restrictions for a period of four years, the securities purchased as an investment of the reserve fund may not have a maturity longer than four years. With respect to obligations described in section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code issued after January 31, 1987, paragraph (c)(2) of this section is satisfied only if on the date of investment, all the proceeds of the issue which are subject to yield restrictions are invested in State and Local Government Series securities. Paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not apply to purpose investments, such as mortgage notes or student loan obligations. Transferred proceeds of the tax exempt bond issue that were proceeds of another issue shall not be treated as proceeds for purposes of paragraph (c)(2) of this section if no portion of the total investment consists of such proceeds. See ยง344.1(f) as to improper certifications. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1535-0091) ยง344.4 Issue date and payment. (a) General. The subscriber shall fix the issue date of each security in the initial subscription. The issue date must be a business day and may not exceed by more than 60 calendar days either the date the initial subscription was telecopied to the Bureau of the Public Debt or, where mailed, the postmark date, or where delivered by other carrier, the carrier date-stamp thereof. Full payment for each subscription must be submitted by the Fedwire funds transfer system with credit directed to the Treasury's General Account. Full payment should be submitted by 3 p.m., Eastern time, to ensure that settlement on the securities occurs on the date of issue.
