FR941216-1-00126 FR941216-1-00012 (b) Equipment for processing oxidizing agents shall not be used for fuels, flammable substances, metal powders, etc. It should be constructed of non-combustible materials only. (c) Solutions of oxidizing agents shall be placed in nonabsorbent, non-combustible containers only. (d) Damaged combustible containers shall not be repaired in the storage building because of the risk of contamination and ignition. Discarded containers shall serve no other purpose, but shall be burned in the open. Combustible containers infused with oxidizing agents burn fiercely if ignited, and may explode. (e) Employees handling oxidizing agents should wear flame-resistant clothing as minimal protection. Contaminated clothing should be stored in metal cabinets until laundered. (f) Spills of small quantities of oxidizing agents during processing shall be cleaned up immediately. If large quantities are spilled, the uppermost layers may be salvaged if free of contaminants. ยง184.121 Chlorates. (a) Chlorates mixed with sulfur, sulfides, or other readily oxidizable material may cause spontaneous ignition. Sulfur presents a greater hazard than sulfides. Adding phosphorus to a sulfur-chlorate mixture increases the danger. Shellac, potassium, sodium nitrate with petroleum derivatives, and powdered metals render chlorates sensitive; mixtures of trinitrocresol or picric acid and chlorates should be avoided since they are particularly sensitive. Chlorates shall never be mixed with ammonium salts since the ammonium chlorate that could form could spontaneously explode. Moisture of 0.5 percent or more in mixtures containing chlorates is considered dangerous because of the possible formation of chloric acid. (b) Substituting sodium chlorate for potassium chlorate in any of the above-described mixtures increases the hazard. (c) Ammonium chlorate decomposes spontaneously. When mixed with perchlorates it constitutes a major hazard. (d) Barium chlorate is very toxic. In storage, it poses a greater danger than potassium chlorate. (e) Zinc chlorate, in contact with certain organic materials, explodes under the influence of slight friction, percussion, or shock. When involved in a fire, it is life-threatening. (f) Storage of chlorates should preclude contact with other combustible material, organic or inorganic. Broken or damaged containers and spilled material should be promptly removed and destroyed. (g) Fires involving chlorates should be fought with solid streams of water or with water fog. With solid streams, firefighters can maintain a greater distance but steam explosion becomes a danger requiring precautionary measures. Water fog offers the advantage of quicker cooling. Its normal smothering action, however, is obviated by the ability of chlorates to furnish oxygen to the fire.
