FR940722-2-00129 FR940722-2-00080 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms [Notice No. 795] RIN 1512&hyph;AB23 States Subject to the Waiting Period Provision Imposed by the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act; States Having Alternative Systems to the Waiting Period Provision; Listing of Chief Law Enforcement Officers for Purposes of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (93F&hyph;057P) AGENCY: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF), Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Notice of States subject to the waiting period provision of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act and States having alternative systems, and a list of chief law enforcement officers for purposes of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act. SUMMARY: Beginning on February 28, 1994, the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act imposes a 5-day waiting period on the sale, delivery, or transfer of a handgun in States that do not require a background check. ATF is issuing this notice to inform Federal firearms licensees of the States that do not currently require a background check, as well as those States requiring a background check for handgun purchasers. In addition, ATF has compiled a list of chief law enforcement officers for purposes of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James P. Ficaretta, Revenue Programs Division, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 650 Massachusetts Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20226 (202&hyph;927&hyph;8230). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On November 30, 1993, Public Law 103&hyph;159 (107 Stat. 1536) was enacted, amending the Gun Control Act of 1968 (GCA), as amended (18 U.S.C. Chapter 44). Title I of Pub. L. 103&hyph;159, cited as the ``Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act'' (hereafter ``the Act'') provides, in part, for a national waiting period of 5 days before a licensed importer, manufacturer, or dealer may lawfully transfer a handgun to a nonlicensed individual. The Act provides that the waiting period provisions of the law are effective on February 28, 1994, and cease to apply on November 30, 1998. The statute also provides alternatives to the waiting period provisions. On February 14, 1994, ATF issued temporary regulations implementing the provisions of Public Law 103&hyph;159 (T.D. ATF&hyph;354, 59 FR 7110). During February, letters were sent to all Federal firearms licensees advising them as to whether their sales or other dispositions were subject to the Federal 5-day waiting period or their State background check system. In addition, licensees in States which are subject to the Federal 5-day waiting period were advised of the designated chief law enforcement officers in their State. ATF has completed a study of relevant State laws to determine which States are subject to the federal waiting period provisions and which qualify as ``alternative'' States. Information regarding each category is set out below: States Subject to the Federal Five Day Waiting Period and Their Respective Chief Law Enforcement Officers for Brady Purposes Alabama The County Sheriff. Alaska The Chief of Police in areas having a police department. The Alaska State Troopers in areas without a Chief of Police. Arizona The Chief of Police in incorporated areas and the County Sheriff in unincorporated areas. In Maricopa County, the Chief of Police, Phoenix Police Department for both the City of Phoenix and all other municipalities in the metropolitan Phoenix area. The County Sheriff for the unincorporated areas of Maricopa County. Arkansas The Arkansas State Police. Georgia The Federal 5-day waiting period does not apply to transfers of handguns to persons holding a valid Georgia license to carry any pistol or revolver issued by the State within 5 years of the proposed purchase. In all other instances, the County Sheriff, except in the following Counties: Bacon County_Chief, Alma Police Department Dekalb County_Chief, Dekalb County Police Department Elbert County_Chief, Elberton Police Department Evans County_Chief, Claxton Police Department Irwin County_Chief, Ocilla Police Department Jefferson County_Chief, Wrens Police Department Wilkinson County_Chief, Gordon Police Department Kansas The County Sheriff.
