FR940505-2-00114 FR940505-2-00083 [Release No. 34&hyph;33972); File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to Trading Floor Booth Policy and Fee Changes April 28, 1994. On February 2, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission''), pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19B&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change to set forth formally the Exchange's current policy (``Policy'') regarding the rental of booths on the CBOE trading floor, and to amend its current Fee Schedule as it pertains to Facility Fees for the rental of Exchange trading floor booths. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1982). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1993). The proposed rule change was published for comment in the Federal Register on March 16, 1994. 3 No comments were received on the proposed rule change. This order approves the proposal. 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33745 (March 9, 1994), 59 FR 12388 (March 16, 1994). The purpose of the proposed rule change is to memorialize for distribution to the CBOE membership the Exchange's policy regarding the rental and use of booth space on the CBOE trading floor by member organizations. The CBOE included with its filing, solely for informational purposes, a sample ``Trading Floor Booth Rental Agreement'' that would be executed between the Exchange and the member organizations regarding the leasing of trading floor booths. In addition, in connection with the Exchange's elimination of a practice known as ``joint leasing,'' the Exchange has proposed to amend the existing fee structure regarding the rental of trading floor booths. The CBOE currently has certain space located on its trading floor which it makes available for rental to qualified member organizations. These ``booths'' are located at various locations on the trading floor adjacent to the trading ``pits'' or ``crowds'' where the actual CBOE trading activity takes place. The booths generally are used by member organizations to perform various functions in support of their CBOE trading activities. Over the years, the CBOE has developed certain policies and practices with regard to the rental and use of these trading floor booths by member organizations. The Exchange has determined that it would benefit both the CBOE and the membership to memorialize the Exchange's current policies for distribution to the members. The Policy addresses several issues pertaining to booth rental, including eligibility requirements, allocation and assignment, and booth usage and rental terms. Specifically, the Policy sets forth the four broad categories of member organizations that, in accordance with current policy, may rent booth space on the floor. These four types of eligible members are: (1) Members of The Options Clearing Corporation (``OCC'') that conduct a retail customer business; (2) members of OCC that clear CBOE market-maker and/or floor broker trades; (3) members that operate a public customer and/or broker business in options and meet any financial requirements established at any time by the Exchange; and (4) members that are stock execution service firms approved by the Exchange in accordance with CBOE Rule 6.77. 4 These categories were formulated in order to accommodate member organizations with the greatest need for working space in close proximity to CBOE trading activity, and they encompass almost all major types of CBOE member organizations. Market-maker organizations, the only major category of member organization that cannot obtain a booth under the Policy, customarily obtain booth space through their clearing firms. 4 A stock execution service is a regular member organization that is registered with the Exchange for the purpose of providing stock execution services to market-makers on the floor of the Exchange. CBOE Rule 6.77. To account for the possibility that in the future demand for booth space may exceed availability, the Policy states that the Facilities Committee of the CBOE may establish guidelines with respect to the allocation and assignment of trading floor booths to CBOE member organizations, based upon trading volume, business need, product support, and other reasonable criteria. 5 The CBOE currently has no such guidelines in effect, and does not anticipate the creation of such guidelines in the foreseeable future. 5 Prior to implementing such guidelines, the Exchange represents that it will consult with Commission staff to determine whether such guidelines would have to be filed with the Commission as a rule change and be approved pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act. Telephone conversation between Dan Schneider, Schiff Hardin & Waite, Joanne Moffic-Silver, CBOE, and Mary Gilhooly, CBOE, and Thomas N. McManus, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, on April 26, 1994.
