FR940819-0-00008 FR940819-0-00002 (b) Nothing in this part precludes a member of the Armed Forces from filing a complaint of reprisal for making or preparing a lawful communication within their Military Department. If the member elects to file the complaint within his or her Department, he or she should contact a local IG or JA for information concerning the procedures for filing such a complaint. Members who file complaints of reprisal for making or preparing a lawful communication within their Military Department should be advised that the provisions of Pub. L. 102&hyph;190, Section 843, and Pub. L. 100&hyph;456, Section 846 only apply to reprisal complaints filed with the IG, DoD. (c) A member or former member of the Armed forces who has filed an application for the correction of military records under Pub. L. 100&hyph;456 alleging reprisal for making or preparing a protected disclosure may request review by the Secretary of Defense of the final decision of the Secretary of a Military Department concerned on such application. The following procedures apply to requests for review by the Secretary of Defense: (1) Content of request. The request for review must be in writing and include the member's name, address, and telephone number; copies of the application to the BCMR and the final decision of the Secretary of the Military Department concerned on such application; and a statement the specific reasons why that member is not satisfied with the decision of the Secretary concerned. (i) Requests based on factual allegations or evidence not previously presented to the cognizant BCMR shall not be considered. (ii) New allegations or evidence must be submitted directly to the BCMR for reconsideration under procedures established by the BCMR. (2) Review by the Secretary of Defense. The Secretary of Defense shall review the allegations submitted by a member or a former member of the Armed Forces requesting review and other records deemed appropriate and necessary by the Secretary of Defense for deciding, in his or her sole discretion, whether to uphold or reverse the decision of the Secretary concerned. The decision of the Secretary of Defense is final. (3) Time limits. The request for review of the final decision of the Secretary of the Military Department concerned must be filed within 90 days of receipt of the decision by a member or former member of the Armed Forces. (4) Address. Requests for review by the Secretary of Defense must be submitted to the following: Under Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readiness), Attention: Director, Legal Policy, Room 4C763, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;4000. Dated: August 15, 1994. L.M. Bynum, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20425 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
