FR940816-1-00072 FR940816-1-00010 (D) To relocate wolves that have moved outside the experimental population area back into the experimental population area; (E) To aid or euthanize sick, injured, or orphaned wolves; (F) To salvage a dead specimen which may be used for scientific study; or (G) To aid in law enforcement investigations involving wolves. (xii) Any taking pursuant to this section must be reported immediately (within 24 hours) to the appropriate Service or Service-designated agency, which will determine the disposition of any live or dead specimens. (3) Human access to areas with facilities where wolves are confined may be restricted at the discretion of Federal, State, and Tribal land management agencies. When 5 or fewer breeding pairs are in an experimental population area, land-use restrictions may also be employed on an as-needed basis, at the discretion of Federal land management and natural resources agencies to control intrusive human disturbance around active wolf den sites. Such temporary restrictions on human access, when 5 or fewer breeding pairs are established in an experimental population area, may be required between April 1 and June 30, within 1 mile of active wolf den or rendezvous sites. When 6 or more breeding pairs are established in an experimental population area, no land use restrictions may be employed outside of National Parks or National Wildlife Refuges. (4) No person shall possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, ship, import, or export by any means whatsoever, any wolf or part thereof from the experimental populations taken in violation of these regulations or in violation of applicable State or Tribal fish and wildlife laws or regulations or the Endangered Species Act. (5) It is unlawful for any person to attempt to commit, solicit another to commit, or cause to be committed, any offense defined in paragraphs (␣)(2) through (4) of this section. (6) The site for reintroduction is within the historic range of the species: (i) The Yellowstone Management area is shown on the following map. The boundaries of the nonessential experimental population area will be that portion of Idaho that is east of Interstate Highway 15; that portion of Montana that is east of Interstate Highway 15 and south of the Missouri River from Great Falls, Montana, to the eastern Montana border; and all of Wyoming. (ii) [Reserved] (iii) All wolves found in the wild within the boundaries of this paragraph (␣)(6) after the first releases will be considered nonessential experimental animals. In the conterminous United States, a wolf that is outside an experimental area (as defined in paragraph (␣)(6) of this section) would be considered as endangered (or threatened if in Minnesota) unless it is marked or otherwise known to be an experimental animal; such a wolf may be captured for examination and genetic testing by the Service or Service-designated agency. Disposition of the captured animal may take any of the following courses: (A) If the animal was not involved in conflicts with humans and is determined likely to be an experimental wolf, it will be returned to the reintroduction area. (B) If the animal is determined likely to be an experimental wolf and was involved in conflicts with humans as identified in the management plan for the closest experimental area it may relocated, placed in captivity, or killed. (C) If the animal is determined not likely to be an experimental animal, it will be managed according to any Service approved plans for that area or will be marked and released near its point of capture. (D) If the animal is determined not to be a wild grey wolf or if the Service or agencies designated by the Service determine the animal shows substantial evidence of recent hybridization with other canids such as domestic dogs or coyotes or of being an animal raised in captivity, it will be returned to captivity or killed. (7) The reintroduced wolves will be continually monitored during the life of the project, including by the use of radio telemetry and other remote sensing devices as appropriate. All released animals will be vaccinated against diseases and parasites prevalent in canids, as appropriate, prior to release and during subsequent handling. Any animal that is sick, injured, or otherwise in need of special care may be captured by authorized personnel of the Service or Service designated agencies and given appropriate care. Such an animal will be released back into its respective reintroduction area as soon as possible, unless physical or behavioral problems make it necessary to return the animal to captivity or euthanize it. (8) The status of the experimental population will be reevaluated within the first 5 years after the first year of releases of wolves to determine future management needs. This review will take into account the reproductive success and movement patterns of the individuals released in the area, as well as the overall health of the experimental wolves. Once recovery goals are met for downlisting or delisting the species, a rule will be proposed to address downlisting or delisting. (9) The Service does not intend to reevaluate the ``nonessential experimental'' designation. The Service does not foresee any likely situation which would result in changing the nonessential experimental status until the gray wolf is recovered and delisted in the Northern Rocky Mountains according to provisions outlined in the Act. BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEP16AU94.000 BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;C Dated: August 8, 1994. George T. Frampton, Jr., Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19998 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
