FR940106-2-00097 FR940106-2-00050 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY Agency for International Development Public Administration Assistance Program in Central and Eastern Europe (RFP: OP/A/EE&hyph;94&hyph;P&hyph;003 Due 02/28/94) POC Contact Point: Dana Doo-Soghoian, Contract Specialist, 703/875&hyph;1995, Contracting Officer, Diane M. Howard The following notice appeared in the Commerce Business Daily on Monday, December 20, 1993: This notice is a reissuance of a notice published on 12/7/93 and is for the same RFP. Any requests for this RFP that have already been submitted in response to the earlier notice will be honored, and a new request is not necessary. The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) is soliciting proposals for up to two contracts to provide public administration services throughout Central and Eastern Europe. Activities under the contract(s) will be focused primarily in Romania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Albania, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and possibly the republics of the former Yugoslavia, and secondarily, in Bulgaria, Hungary, and Poland. Each contract term is expected to be for two years, with the option to extend the contract(s) for 50% of the level of effort in the 2-year base period. The contract(s) will be based on a level-of-effort, and contract resources will be accessed through individual Technical Service Orders (TSOs). In addition, the contract(s) will provide a set amount of funds for equipment and U.S.-based training for which the Contractor will be logistically responsible. Contractor(s) shall furnish qualified personnel to provide technical assistance and training in the field of public administration in, but not limited to, the following categories of activity: public management training, personnel systems, organizational management, budgeting systems, regulatory systems, transparency of process, accountability, decentralization, intergovernmental finance, local self-governments, procurement, and future public administrators. Given the scope of activities, USAID encourages proposals from consortia or organizations joining together under one proposal. All responsible sources may submit a proposal to be considered by USAID. Proposals will be evaluated in accordance with the selection criteria stated in the RFP, with award(s) based on the proposal(s) that are most advantageous to the Government, cost and other factors considered. To help identify potential subcontractors, the RFP will contain an attachment listing all organizations who requested the RFP up to the time the RFP goes to print. By providing a list, USAID does not endorse any of the listed organizations as being capable of carrying out the activity, nor does USAID verify the claimed status of the organizations known to USAID prior to the issuance of the RFP. All requestors are encouraged to state in their requests for the RFP whether their organization is a small business or a disadvantaged enterprise. USAID promotes participation of small business concerns and disadvantaged enterprises (firms owned by minorities or women, historically black colleges and universities, college and universities with more than 40 percent Hispanic American students, and private voluntary organizations controlled by minorities or women) as contractors or subcontractors. Accordingly, the prime contractor(s) will make reasonable efforts to identify the use of such groups. All other selection criteria being equal, the participation of such groups may be a determining factor for selection. Only one request for the RFP per organization will be honored. The RFP will be available approximately 15 days after issuance of this notice. Interested parties may obtain a copy of the RFP by submitting a written request, citing RFP number OP/A/EE&hyph;94&hyph;P&hyph;003, with one self-addressed mailing label to Dana Doo-Soghoian, U.S. Agency for International Development, Office of Procurement, M/OP/A/EE, room 1566, SA&hyph;14, Washington, DC 20523&hyph;1426. Only written requests will be honored. Parties interested in obtaining a copy of the RFP after its issuance may request a copy in person by presenting a written request with the organization mailing address to the 15th Floor Receptionist, 1100 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22209. To expedite receipt of the RFP, organization requesting the RFP may provide a self-addressed envelope already prepared for mailing with either their Federal Express or Express Mail account number. If an envelope already prepared for mailing is not provided by the requestor, the RFP will be mailed through the regular U.S. Postal Service. Telephonic requests will not be honored. Requests for the RFP that are received one week or less before the RFP closing date will be filled subject to the availability of copies. (0350) Dated: December 22, 1993. Susan Kosinski, Project Officer, ENI/EUR/DR/DPI. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;292 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6116&hyph;01&hyph;M
