FR940713-2-00175 FR940713-2-00098 [CFDA No.: 84.133D] Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services; National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research Notice Inviting Applications for a New Award Under the Knowledge Dissemination and Utilization Program for Fiscal Year (FY) 1994 NOTE TO APPLICANTS: This notice is a complete application package. The notice contains information, application forms, and instructions needed to apply for a grant under this competition. The final priority for the Knowledge Dissemination and Utilization program is published in this issue of the Federal Register . This consolidated application package includes the closing date, estimated funding, and application forms necessary to apply for an award under this program's competition. Potential applicants should consult the statement of the final priority published in this issue to ascertain the substantive requirements for their applications. The estimated funding level in this notice does not bind the Department of Education to make awards or to any specific number of awards or funding levels. Note: The Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 require that each applicant for a project under this competition must demonstrate in its application how it will address the needs of individuals from minority backgrounds who have disabilities. Before your application can be reviewed, it must include this description. Applications for which this information is not received will not be reviewed. Successful applicants that provide services to individuals with disabilities will be required to advise these individuals, or as appropriate, the parents, family guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of these individuals, of the availability and purposes of the State Client Assistance Program (CAP), including information on means of seeking assistance under such programs. A list of State CAPs will be provided to successful applicants when they are notified of their award. This notice supports the National Education Goal that calls for all Americans to possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. If you need further information about these requirements, please contact Betty Jo Berland at (202) 205&hyph;9739. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at (202) 205&hyph;5516. DEADLINE FOR TRANSMITTAL OF APPLICATIONS: August 26, 1994. APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE: July 13, 1994. AVAILABLE FUNDS: $400,000. ESTIMATED NUMBER OF AWARDS: 1. PROJECT PERIOD: Up to 60 months. APPLICABLE REGULATIONS: (a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), 34 CFR Parts 74, 75, 77, 78, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86; (b) the regulations for this program in 34 CFR Parts 350 and 355; and (c) the notice of final priority as published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register . PURPOSE OF PROGRAM: The Knowledge Dissemination and Utilization program is designed to support activities that ensure that rehabilitation knowledge generated from projects and centers funded by NIDRR and others is utilized fully to improve the lives of individuals with disabilities and their families. This notice invites applications for a project to support the international exchange of information and experts. The final priority for this award is published in this issue of the Federal Register . Potential applicants should consult the statement of the final priority published in this issue to ascertain the substantive requirements for their applications. Selection Criteria: The Secretary uses the following selection criteria to evaluate applications under this program. (a) Potential Impact of Outcomes: Importance of Program (Weight 3.0). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The proposed activity relates to the announced priority; (2) The research is likely to produce new and useful information (research activities only); (3) The need and target population are adequately defined; (4) The outcomes are likely to benefit the defined target populations; (5) The training needs are clearly defined (training activities only); (6) The training methods and developed subject matter are likely to meet the defined need (training activities only); and (7) The need for information exists (utilization activities only). (b) Potential Impact of Outcomes: Dissemination/Utilization (Weight 3.0). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The research results are likely to become available to others working in the field (research activities only); (2) The means to disseminate and promote utilization by others are defined; (3) The training methods and content are to be packaged for dissemination and use by others (training activities only); and (4) The utilization approach is likely to address the defined need (utilization activities only). (c) Probability of Achieving Proposed Outcomes; Program/Project Design (Weight 5.0). The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (1) The objectives of the project(s) are clearly stated; (2) The hypothesis is sound and based on evidence (research activities only); (3) The project design/methodology is likely to achieve the objectives;
