FR940816-2-00055 FR940816-2-00043 Trauma Associates of North Broward, Inc., et al. Analysis of Proposed Consent Order To Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted, subject to final approval, an agreement to a proposed consent order from Trauma Associates of North Broward, Inc. (``Trauma Associates''), and ten surgeons in Broward County, Florida (``surgeon respondents''). The agreement would settle charges by the Federal Trade Commission that Trauma Associates and the surgeon respondents violated Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act by, among other things, combining or conspiring to (1) Fix or increase the fees received by the surgeon respondents for the provision of trauma services and (2) threaten and carry out a concerted refusal to deal. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or make final the agreement's proposed order. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the agreement. The analysis is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of either the proposed complaint or the proposed consent order to modify their terms in any way. The Complaint Under the terms of the agreement, a proposed complaint would be issued by the Commission along with the proposed consent order. The proposed complaint alleges that the North Broward Hospital District (``the District''), a hospital authority in Broward County, Florida, resolved in March, 1992, to seek a state license to operate trauma centers at two District hospitals. According to the complaint, the surgeon respondents, who compete among themselves and with other general surgeons in Broward County, signed individual statements committing themselves to participate in the District's trauma program. The complaint further alleges that the surgeon respondents, who have not integrated their practices, refused to contract with the District individually, and agreed on price proposals prior to submitting them to the District. On May 1, 1992, the surgeon respondents began providing trauma services to the District, and several days later Dr. Richard A. Johnson, the surgeon respondents' leader, signed a letter of intent with the District outlining the terms under which the surgeon respondents would provide services at the District's trauma centers. Dr. Johnson also reached an understanding with the District on the prices to be paid for the surgeon respondents' services. The complaint alleges that Dr. Johnson incorporated Trauma Associates on May 7, 1992, and is its sole owner. Trauma Associates served as the vehicle for the surgeon respondents to engage in collective negotiations on fees and other contract terms to be sought from the District. The complaint alleges that in July 1992, the District decided not to contract with the surgeon respondents as a group, and that in response the surgeon respondents: (1) refused to deal with the District individually; (2) sent the District a letter with a list of demands, including price terms; (3) threatened to cease providing services at the District's trauma centers if their demands were not met; and (4) walked out of the District's trauma centers. As a direct result of the walkout, one of the two trauma centers had to be shut down, and the other was adversely affected. The complaint alleges that the above actions of the proposed respondents have had the purpose or effect in Broward County, Florida, of: (1) Restraining competition among general surgeons; (2) Fixing or increasing the prices that are paid to general surgeons who provide trauma services; (3) Raising the cost, lowering the quality, and reducing access to and the quality-adjusted output of the District's trauma services; and (4) Depriving the District and its patients of the benefits of competition among general surgeons. Finally, the complaint alleges that the above actions of the proposed respondents constitute unfair methods of competition in violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 45. The Proposed Consent Order The proposed consent order would prohibit the surgeon respondents from entering into, organizing, or implementing, any agreement to: (1) Refuse to provide surgical services in connection with any effort to fix the level of fees for such services; (2) Prevent the offering or delivery of surgical services; (3) Deal on collectively determined terms with anyone who pays for health services; and (4) Encourage any person to engage in any action prohibited by the order. The order provides that it does not prevent the following: (1) Surgeon respondents who practice together as partners or employees in the same professional corporation or partnership dealing with any third party on collectively determined terms; or (2) Surgeon respondents who participate in the same integrated joint venture dealing with others on collectively determined terms through the joint venture, so long as they remain free to deal individually with others that decline to deal with the joint venture. (The consent order defines ``integrated joint venture'' as a joint arrangement to provide health care services in which surgeons participating in the venture who would otherwise be competitors pool their capital to finance the venture, by themselves or together with others, and share a substantial risk of loss from their participation in the venture.) The proposed order would require respondent surgeon Richard A. Johnson, M.D., to dissolve Trauma Associates within 180 days after the order becomes final. Furthermore, before such dissolution takes place, the order would require Trauma Associates to distribute copies of the complaint and order to each person with whom it has entered into contract negotiations concerning the provision of trauma surgical services. The order also requires the proposed surgeon respondents to file compliance reports with the Commission, notify the Commission if they form or participate in the formation of an integrated joint venture, and maintain certain files relating to their compliance with the order. The proposed respondents agreed to the order for settlement purposes only, and their agreement to the order does not constitute an admission by them that the law has been violated as alleged in the complaint. C. Landis Plummer, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20021 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
