FR940404-2-00156 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the All Weather Operations Panel, Fourteenth Meeting, International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), Montreal, Canada, January 25&hyph;February 5, 1993 Representative Thomas J. Laginja, Engineer, Navigation, Landing and Surveillance Division, Federal Aviation Administration Advisers Barry Billman, Technical Program Manager, Airborne Technology Branch, Federal Aviation Administration James H. Enias, Manager, All Weather Operations Branch, Federal Aviation Administration Donald Pate, Manager, Standards Development Branch, Federal Aviation Administration David A. Spang, Program Manager, DOD Precision Landing Systems, United States Air Force, Department of Defense Eugene Vrenick, Project Manager, All Weather Operations Branch, Federal Aviation Administration Private Sector Advisers Eric Cassell, Senior Engineer, Rannoch Corporation, Washington, DC Gil Christiana, Senior Engineer, MITECH, Inc., Rockville, Maryland James Darque, ATC Specialist, MITECH, Inc., Rockville, Maryland Robert Kelly, Senior Program Engineer, Bendix Communications Division, Towson, Maryland Robert Lilley, Director, Avionics Engineering Center, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio Andrew Nelson, Senior Engineer, Booz-Allen & Hamilton, Bedford, Massachusetts Ed Plant, Senior Engineer, Systems Control Technology, Washington, DC United States Delegation to the 32nd Session of the Subcommittee on Containers and Cargoes, International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, England, February 8&hyph;12, 1993 Representative Joseph J. Angelo, Assistant Chief, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security, and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Peter A. Popko, Commander United States Coast Guard, Chief, Standards Development Branch, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Roy H. Barrett, Deputy Director, Food Safety and Technical Services, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture David A. Du Pont, Lieutenant Commander, United States Coast Guard, Standards Development Branch, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security, and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Robert M. Gauvin, Standards Development Branch, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security, and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Frank K. Thompson, Hazardous Materials Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security, and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers Jack A. Coleman, Division General Manager, Research Fumigation Company, Reserve, Louisiana James J. McNamara, Chief Surveyor, National Cargo Bureau, One World Trade Center, New York, New York S. Fraser Sammis, President, National Cargo Bureau, One World Trade Center, New York, New York
