FR940913-2-00098 FR940913-2-00069 E. The PSE's Proposal The PSE proposal is nearly identical to the CBOE proposal. The PSE proposal creates new Rule 4.19, Reporting Requirements Applicable to Short Sales in Nasdag/NM Securities. The PSE filed an amendment requesting accelerated effectiveness of its proposal. 28 In addition, the PSE's proposal contains a non-substantive difference with respect to format. 28 See PSE Amendment No. 1, supra note 9. F. The NYSE's Proposal The NYSE's proposal is structured differently from those of the CBOE and other Exchanges, though it is not dissimilar in effect. Instead of referring to ``Nasdag NM securities,'' the NYSE refers to ``Nasdag NMS securities,'' defining such securities as having the meaning that Part I of Schedule D to the By-Laws of the NASD assigns either to NM or NMS securities. 29 The NYSE defines a ``qualified options Exchange market maker'' to mean either an NYSE options specialist acting in respect of one of his specialty options or an NYSE Competitive Options Trader (``COT'') acting in respect of an NYSE listed option. 30 29 See Proposed NYSE Rule 759A(a)(iv). 30 See NYSE Proposed Rule 759A(a)(v). Unlike the CBOE proposal, the NYSE proposed rule does not state explicitly the prohibition against its members transacting an improper short sale for the account of another NYSE member. Instead, the NYSE states that the market maker exemption is available only if the short sale is related to normal market making activity. 31 31 See NYSE Proposed Rule 759A(a)(i)(C)(3). A short sale effected for such purposes as index arbitrage or risk arbitrage that in either case is independent of a market maker's market making functions is not considered related to normal market making activity. Id. In its filing, the NYSE states that its specialists are subject to market making obligations with respect to all activity in their assigned specialty options and COTs are subject to market making obligations with respect to all activity in all Exchange listed options. Nevertheless, the NYSE proposal also includes a requirement that the market maker exemption only be available for transactions ``related to market making activity'' in order to accommodate the possibility that the Exchange may someday limit the scope or parameters pursuant to which COTs must fulfill their market making obligations in a manner similar to that of the options market makers on the options exchanges that divide their floors into zones. See File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;22. III. Discussion The Commission believes that the Exchanges' proposed rule changes are consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to national securities exchanges. Specifically, the Commission believes the Exchanges' proposals are consistent with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act 32 in that they are designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and the public interest. The proposals coordinate the Exchanges' rules with the NASD's bid test applicable to short sales of NM securities. The bid test is intended to reduce the potential for abusive short selling practices in the Nasdaq market without restricting options market makers who may need to sell stocks short in order to hedge options positions resulting from their market making activities. 32 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). The Commission approved the NASD's short sale rule proposal on June 29, 1994, 33 and in doing so stated that the rule, together with the market maker exemption, is a reasonable approach to short sale regulation of Nasdaq National Market securities. The Commission believes the Exchanges' proposals are consistent with the NASD's bid test rule. Moreover, the Commission believes the Exchanges' proposals address the limitations imposed by the NASD for applicability of the market maker exemption. 33 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34277, supra note 5. Specifically, the Exchanges' proposals will implement rules designed so that each Exchange will satisfy the NASD's definition of a ``qualified options exchange.'' 34 Additionally, the proposals include provisions to allow the Exchanges to designate options market makers, specialists, and their equivalents as ``qualified options market makers.'' 35 This designation will allow these market makers, specialists, and their equivalent to make use of the NASD's market maker exemption to the bid test rule. 34 See supra note 16. 35 See supra note 15. The first requirement imposed by the NASD for an exchange to be a ``qualified options exchange'' is that it have approved rules and procedures for designating market makers as qualified options market makers. These standards must be designed to identify options market makers who regularly engage in market making activities in the particular options class(es). Accordingly, the CBOE proposal states that a CBOE market maker will be considered a ``qualified options market maker'' in options on properly ``designated NM securities.'' 36 CBOE market makers may designate NM securities underlying options, or included in an index underlying options, for which they hold an appointment at no more than three trading stations at the CBOE. 37 A short sale in a designated NM security that is an ``exempt hedge transaction,'' 38 is entitled to the NASD's market maker exemption from its bid test rule. The Phlx, 39 Amex, 40 PSE, 41 and NYSE 42 have very similar provisions in their proposals. The Commission believes that these standards should help to ensure that qualified options market makers continue to engage in market making activities in their assigned options, while not allowing the market maker exemption to be extended beyond its original purpose. 36 See Proposed CBOE Rule 15.10(c)(2)(B), and supra note 20. 37 Id. A Phlx ROT may designate NM securities underlying no more than 20 of the options or index options which the ROT has been allocated or assigned as designated NM securities; a Phlx specialist may designate NM securities underlying all the options or index options for which the specialist is registered. See Phlx Proposed Rule 1072(c)(2) (ii) & (iii). Designated securities of an Amex ROT or options specialist are NM securities underlying a class of stock options or included in an index underlying a class of index options in which the specialist is registered or the ROT is assigned. See Amex Proposed Rule 957(d)(2)(b)(i). A PSE market maker may designate NM securities underlying options or included in an index underlying options for which he holds an appointment on the PSE options floor. See PSE Proposed Rule 4.19(c)(2)(B)(ii). For NYSE specialists and COTS, designated securities include assigned specialty options for NYSE options specialists, and all securities underlying NYSE-listed options with respect to NYSE COTS. See File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;22. 38 The CBOE proposal defines an ``exempt hedge transaction'' as a short sale in an NM security that was effected to hedge, and in fact serves to hedge, an existing offsetting options position or an offsetting options position that was created in one or more transactions contemporaneous with the short sale. See CBOE Proposed Rule 15.10(c)(2)(ii)(A), and supra note 22. 39 See Phlx Proposed Rule 1072. 40 See Amex Proposed Paragraph (d) to its Rule 957. 41 See PSE Proposed Rule 4.19. 42 See NYSE Proposed Rule 759A.
