FR940523-0-00053 FR940523-0-00014 2. Overview of Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act As a result of these studies, in November 1978, Congress enacted UMTRCA, which authorizes the Department to undertake remedial action at ``inactive'' uranium milling sites and at vicinity properties contaminated with residual radioactive material 1 generated at a site. Inactive uranium milling sites are those which were no longer licensed under the Atomic Energy Act on January 1, 1978, and where all or substantially all of the uranium concentrate was produced for the Federal Government. The Department conducts remedial action in coordination with affected States and Indian tribes under cooperative agreements at 24 inactive sites. 1 The term ``residual radioactive material'' is defined by Section 101(7) of UMTRCA (42 U.S.C. 7911(7)) to mean: ``(A) Waste (which the Secretary determines to be radioactive) in the form of tailings resulting from the processing of ores for the extraction of uranium and other valuable constituents of the ores; and (B) other waste (which the Secretary determines to be radioactive) at a processing site which relate to such processing, including any residual stock or unprocessed ores or low-grade materials.'' In addition, UMTRCA established a program authorizing the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (hereinafter ``NRC'') to regulate mill tailings generated during processing operations at ``active'' processing sites ( i.e., sites with active licenses under the Atomic Energy Act on or after January 1, 1978) to ensure sound management of tailings throughout the production, reclamation and disposal phases. 3. Legislative Background UMTRCA did not provide for payment of costs of remedial action incurred at active uranium processing sites which were contaminated with uranium mill tailings generated under Federal contract. Two reports prepared subsequently for Congress, by the Department in January 1979 2 and by the General Accounting Office in February 1979, 3 concluded that Federal assistance should be provided to licensees at these sites to address the cost of remediating mill tailings that were generated under contracts with the United States Government. 2 ``Answers to Questions on Commingled Tailings at Currently Operating Uranium Ore Processing Mills That Produced Uranium Under Atomic Energy Commission Contracts'' (Department of Energy, January 29, 1979). 3 ``Cleaning Up Commingled Uranium Mill Tailings: Is Federal Assistance Necessary'' (General Accounting Office, EMD&hyph;79&hyph;29, U.S. Department of Commerce, February 5, 1979). Congress directed the Department, through section 213 of Public Law 96&hyph;540, to develop a plan for establishing a cooperative program to provide Federal assistance in the stabilization and management of uranium mill tailings generated as an incident of sales to the United States Government which are commingled with other tailings. The Department was directed to identify, among other things, the amount of tailings generated under Federal contract at each active site. This determination was to be used to calculate the percentage of such tailings in relation to total tailings at each site, and the corresponding share of Federal assistance appropriate to meet the costs of stabilizing and managing tailings as required by Federal law. Title X establishes the authority and framework for providing this Federal assistance. The Department is required to issue regulations governing reimbursement to licensees at active uranium and thorium processing sites for certain costs of remedial action. This final rule establishes the requirements and procedures under which the Department will implement this reimbursement program.
