FR941110-0-00260 FR941110-0-00016 (1) The facility is not in substantial compliance, as defined in ยง488.401, 3 months after the last day of the survey identifying the noncompliance; or (2) The State survey agency has cited a facility with substandard quality of care on the last three consecutive standard surveys. (c) Resumption of payments: Repeated instances of substandard quality of care. When a facility has repeated instances of substandard quality of care, payments to the facility or, under Medicaid, HCFA payments to the State on behalf of the facility, resume on the date that_ (1) The facility achieves substantial compliance as indicated by a revisit or written credible evidence acceptable to HCFA (under Medicare) or the State (under Medicaid); and (2) HCFA (under Medicare) or the State (under Medicaid) believes that the facility is capable of remaining in substantial compliance. (d) Resumption of payments: No repeated instances of substandard quality of care. When a facility does not have repeated instances of substandard quality of care, payments to the facility or, under Medicaid, HCFA payments to the State on behalf of the facility, resume prospectively on the date that the facility achieves substantial compliance, as indicated by a revisit or written credible evidence acceptable to HCFA (under Medicare) or the State (under Medicaid). (e) Restriction. No payments to a facility or, under Medicaid, HCFA payments to the State on behalf of the facility, are made for the period between the date that the_ (1) Denial of payment remedy is imposed; and (2) Facility achieves substantial compliance, as determined by HCFA or the State. ยง488.418 Secretarial authority to deny all payments. (a) HCFA option to deny all payment. If a facility has not met a requirement, in addition to the authority to deny payment for all new admissions as specified in ยง488.417, HCFA may deny any further payment for all Medicare residents in the facility and to the State for all Medicaid residents in the facility. (b) Prospective resumption of payment. Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, if the facility achieves substantial compliance, HCFA resumes payment prospectively from the date that it verifies as the date that the facility achieved substantial compliance. (c) Restriction on payment after denial of payment is imposed. If payment to the facility or to the State resumes after denial of payment for all residents, no payment is made for the period between the date that_ (1) Denial of payment was imposed; and (2) HCFA verifies as the date that the facility achieved substantial compliance. (d) Retroactive resumption of payment. Except when a facility has repeated instances of substandard quality of care, as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, when HCFA or the State finds that the facility was in substantial compliance before the date of the revisit, or before HCFA or the survey agency received credible evidence of such compliance, payment is resumed on the date that substantial compliance was achieved, as determined by HCFA. (e) Resumption of payment_repeated instances of substandard care. When HCFA denies payment for all Medicare residents for repeated instances of substandard quality of care, payment is resumed when_ (1) The facility achieved substantial compliance, as indicated by a revisit or written credible evidence acceptable to HCFA; and (2) HCFA believes that the facility will remain in substantial compliance. ยง488.422 State monitoring. (a) A State monitor_
