FR941021-2-00022 FR941021-2-00016 Southwest Gas Corporation, a local distribution company, would also build facilities to receive gas from Paiute and serve additional customers in the Truckee, California area. Those facilities include: •22.9 miles of small diameter distribution pipeline; •18.4 miles of transmission pipeline (ranging from 6 to 12 inches in diameter); and •Five distribution regulator stations. We have determined that an environmental assessment (EA), rather than an EIS is the more appropriate document for analyzing the potential environmental impacts associated with Paiute's project. 3 This decision was made because the scope of the projects originally anticipated for the EIS decreased when Northwest's applications no longer included the delivery of gas to Paiute, severing the connection between the two proposals, and Paiute withdrew one of its proposals. The Bureau of Land Management and U.S. Forest Service concur as cooperating agencies. 3 Pronouns ``we,'' ``us,'' and ``our'' refer to the staff of the Office of Pipeline Regulation at the FERC. The EA Process The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requires the Commission to take into account the environmental impacts that could result from a major Federal action whenever it considers the issuance of a Certificate of Public Convenience and Necessity. Our EA will give the Commission the information it needs to do that. If the EA concludes that the projects would result in significant environmental impacts, we will prepare an environmental impact statement. Otherwise we will prepare a Finding of No Significant Impact. NEPA also requires us to discover and address concerns the public may have about proposals. We call this ``scoping''. The main goal of the scoping process is to focus the analysis in the EA on the important environmental issues, and to separate these from issues that are insignificant and do not require detailed study. Local scoping meetings have already been held for the original projects. Additional scoping meetings are not planned since the facilities have not changed. We are asking for comments which may provide new information or on the change in the environmental documentation. The EA will discuss impacts that could occur as a result of the construction and operation of the proposed projects under these general subject headings: •Geology and soils •Endangered and threatened species •Water resources •Vegetation •Land use •Air quality and noise •Wetland and riparian habitat •Cultural resources •Fish and wildlife •Public safety We will also evaluate possible alternatives to the projects, or portions of the projects, and make recommendations on how to lessen or avoid impacts on the various resource areas. Our independent analysis of the issues will result in the publication of the EA which will be mailed to Federal, state, and local agencies, public interest groups, interested individuals, affected landowners, newspapers, libraries, and the Commission's official service list for these proceedings. Public Participation You can make a difference by sending a letter with your specific comments or concerns about the projects. You should focus on identifying information that was not previously available or brought to our attention. You do not need to re-submit comments if you have already done so. We are particularly interested in alternatives to the proposals (including alternative routes), and measures to avoid or lessen environmental impact. The more specific your comments, the more useful they will be. Please follow the instructions below to ensure that your comments are received and properly recorded: •Address your letter to: Lois Cashell, Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol St., NE., Washington, D.C. 20426; •Reference Docket No. CP94&hyph;9&hyph;000; •Send a copy of your letter to: Ms. Lauren O'Donnell, Project Manager, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol St., N.E., Room 7312, Washington, D.C. 20426; and •Mail your comments so they will be received in Washington D.C. on or before November 7, 1994. Becoming an Intervenor In addition to involvement in the EA scoping process, you may want to become an official party to the proceedings or an ``intervenor''. Among other things, intervenors have the right to receive copies of case-related Commission documents and filings by other intervenors. Likewise, each intervenor must provide copies of its filings to all other parties. If you want to become an intervenor you must file a Motion to Intervene according to Rule 214 of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214) which is attached as appendix 2. The date for filing timely motions to intervene in this proceeding has passed. Therefore, parties now seeking to file late interventions must show good cause, as required by Section 385.214(b)(3), why this time limitation should be waived. Environmental issues have been viewed as good cause for late intervention. You do not need intervenor status to have your scoping comments considered. Environmental Mailing List If you do not want to send comments at this time but still want to receive a copy of the EA, please return the Information Request (see appendix 3). If you have previously returned the Information Request you don't need to do so again. Additional information about the proposed projects is available from Ms. Lauren O'Donnell, EA Project Manager, at (202) 208&hyph;325. Lois D. Cashell Secretary [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26149 Filed 10&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
