FR941004-1-00117 FR941004-1-00018 (c) Payments. Payments to each State will be made in accordance with section 434 of the Act. (d) Matching funds. (1) Funds used to provide services in FY 1994 and in subsequent years will be federally reimbursed at 75 percent of allowable expenditures. Federal funds, however, will not exceed the amount of the State's allotment. (2) The State's contribution may be in cash or donated funds. (3) Except as provided by Federal statute, other Federal funds may not be used to meet the matching requirement. (e) Supplantation (Maintenance of effort). States may not use the Federal funds under title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2, to supplant Federal or non-Federal funds for existing family preservation and family support services. For the purpose of implementing this requirement, ``non-Federal funds'' means State and local public funds. Local public entities will provide assurances on their maintenance of effort to the State and maintain sufficient information to document this maintenance of effort upon request. ACF will collect information annually from each State on expenditures for family support and family preservation using the State fiscal year 1992 as the base year. (f) Time limits on expenditures. Funds must be expended by September 30 of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the funds were awarded. (g) Administrative costs. (1) States using funds for services in FY 1994 and subsequent years may not use more than 10 percent of total Federal and State service expenditures under subpart 2 for administrative costs at either State or subrecipient levels. States must obtain such assurances from subrecipients as to ensure that no more than 10 percent of total State funds are used for administrative costs. (2) For the purposes of title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2, ``administrative costs'' are costs properly identified through an agency's accounting system (meeting the requirements of 45 CFR Parts 92 and 95) which are: (i) Allocable (in accordance with the agency's approved cost allocation plan) to the title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2 program cost centers; and (ii) Costs of auxiliary functions necessary to sustain the direct effort involved in administering the state plan for title IV&hyph;B, subpart 2, or an activity providing service to the program. These services may be centralized in the grantee department or in some other agency, and may include but are not limited to the following: Procurement; payroll processing; personnel functions; management, maintenance and operation of space and property; data processing and computer services; accounting; budgeting; auditing; and indirect costs. (3) Program costs are costs, other than administrative costs, incurred in connection with developing and implementing the CFSP (e.g., delivery of services, planning, consultation, coordination, training, or supervision).
