FR940407-1-00060 FR940407-1-00012 A carrier's BTWACC shall be calculated in precise accordance with the rules set forth in this section. (2) Subsidiary carrier's capital structure. Where a carrier is a subsidiary that obtains its common-stock equity capital through a parent company, the capital structure of the subsidiary shall be used in computing the BTWACC. The subsidiary carrier's cost of common-stock equity capital, the subsidiary carrier's cost of long-term debt capital, the subsidiary carrier's cost of preferred stock capital, and the subsidiary carrier's composite statutory corporate income tax rate shall also be used in computing the BTWACC. The subsidiary carrier's cost of common-stock equity capital shall be inferred as the cost of common-stock equity capital estimated for a sample of firms having business and financial risk comparable to the subsidiary carrier when the subsidiary carrier's capital structure is used in calculating the BTWACC. (3) Comparable risk companies. (i) Concurrently with the filing of the annual financial statements required under ยง552.2, a carrier must submit for Commission approval a proxy group of companies to impute the carrier's cost of common-stock equity capital where: (A) The carrier is an independent company (i.e., it has no corporate parent) which issues no publicly-traded common-stock equity, or (B) The carrier is a subsidiary that obtains its common-stock equity capital through a parent company. (ii) After notice and opportunity for comment, the Commission will approve a proxy group of companies based on the following criteria: (A) The proxy companies shall be based in the United States and shall be listed in The Value Line Investment Survey. (B) The proxy companies shall operate and derive a major portion of their gross revenues primarily as common carriers in the business of freight transportation, and shall own or operate transportation vehicles or vessels. Companies with gross annual revenues equal to or less than the $25,000,000 shall be excluded from the proxy group. (C) In addition, comparable risk companies shall be selected by examining some, but not necessarily all, of the following risk indicators: (1) A company's total capitalization ratio and/or debt-to-equity ratio; (2) The investment quality ratings of a company's long-term debt instruments; (3) The investment safety ranking of a company's common-stock equity;
