FR940119-2-00100 FR940119-2-00069 Orbital Science Corporation also proposes to incorporate an onboard command destruct system on the ALV to allow ground launch range safety personnel to terminate the ALV's flight if, after release, the ALV threatens public safety. The command destruct system will be inoperative while the ALV remains attached to the carrier aircraft. Should ground personnel activate the command destruct system after the pilot releases the ALV, the system will disable the rocket motors and the ALV will fall towards the earth, where they could decide to initiate command destruct action.Depending on whether the launch is government or commercial, either USAF/NASA/FAA or OCST/FAA, respectively, evaluate potential risks posed to public safety by possible use of the command destruct system. Either the carrier aircraft's or the ALV's flight path may be restricted if necessary to protect public safety.In an emergency, the carrier aircraft pilot could jettison the ALV from the aircraft. If the pilot jettisons the ALV during ferry flight operations or before release during launch operations, the ALV will fall, intact, to the earth's surface. However, if the pilot jettisons the ALV only a few moments prior to a normal launch, it is possible that the ground launch range's safety personnel may be able to activate the command destruct system. In that case, the safety personnel will either allow the ALV to fall to the earth's surface or initiate the command destruct action, whichever best protects the public safety.Orbital Science Corporation has conducted four ALV launches from a NASA-owned model NB&hyph;52 at both the Western and Eastern Ranges. NASA and DOD conducted extensive safety and design reviews for the ALV launches from the NB&hyph;52. OSC expects that launch operations using the carrier aircraft will be similar to those conducted using NASA's NB&hyph;52.In issuing restricted category certificates, the FAA is required to prescribe appropriate conditions and limitations upon the aircraft type design and the operations of those aircraft to ensure the safety of persons and property in the air and on the ground. The FAA specifically solicits comments on whether the proposed special purpose operation, ``space vehicle launching,'' would be in the public interest. The requester states that this special purpose would allow an operator to put payloads in orbit for approximately half the cost of using either conventional rockets or the space shuttle. Supplying this ``space vehicle launching'' service would provide jobs for both the operator and companies developing and building the payloads (satellites or research packages). Companies (and individuals) could use the payloads for business and research activities: Improving communication systems, researching atmospheric phenomena, improving navigation systems, developing new manufacturing techniques, and more. The FAA also solicits comment on operational restrictions the public believes are appropriate for these carrier aircraft while transporting ALV's, and the reasons for those restrictions. Comments should cover both launch and ferry flights. Issued in Washington, DC, on January 11, 1994. David W. Ostrowski, Acting Manager, Aircraft Engineering Division, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1208 Filed 1&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
