FR940406-1-00019 FR940406-1-00006 4. Surface coal mining operations will affect natural hazard lands in which the surface coal mining could increase flooding potential in an already flood-prone area. OSM has identified four possible alternatives that the combined PED/EIS would evaluate: Alternative 1_Designate the entire petition area as unsuitable for surface coal mining operations. Alternative 2_Not designate any of the area as unsuitable for surface coal mining operations. Alternative 3_Designate parts of the petition area as unsuitable for all surface coal mining operations: A. Designate as unsuitable for all or certain types of surface coal mining operations, including the designation of selected reserves, those parts of the petition area in which such operations would affect fragile lands and result in significant damage to important aesthetic values and natural systems. B. Designate as unsuitable for all or certain types of surface coal mining operations, including the designation of selected reserves, those parts of the petition area in which such operations would result in a substantial loss or a reduction of long-range productivity of water supply. C. Designate as unsuitable for all or certain types of surface coal mining operations, including the designation of selected reserves, those parts of the petition area in which such operations would be incompatible with existing local land use plans and programs. D. Designate as unsuitable for all or certain types of surface coal mining operations, including the designation of selected reserves, those parts of the petition area in which such operations would affect natural hazard lands. Alternative 4_Designate the entire petition area as unsuitable for surface coal mining but allow underground mining with or without certain restrictions. A scoping comment period is intended to raise the relevant issues to be addressed by the combined document. OSM seeks public comments in relation to the scope of issues to be addressed by the impact evaluation, including impacts and alternatives that should be addressed. Written comments should be specific and confined to issues pertinent to the petition. The public comments received during the scoping period will assist OSM in making decisions on the petition evaluation and in preparing the PED/EIS. OSM believes that the proposed action is a major Federal action that may significantly affect the quality of the human environment and may require the preparation of an EIS. OSM additionally gives notice here that should information or analyses show that the proposed action does not require an EIS, it will terminate the environmental impact statement process through an appropriate notice in the Federal Register , prepare an environmental assessment, and continue processing of the petition under 30 CFR part 764 and 942. Dated: March 30, 1994. Brent Wahlquist, Assistant Director, Reclamation and Regulatory Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8158 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;05&hyph;M
