FR941202-0-00021 FR941202-0-00001 (5) Comment. The proposed rule stated that all definitions in §§30.4 and 35.2 would be Division 1 levels of compatibility. This would include definitions in §30.4 that do not relate to medical uses and should not be affected by this rulemaking. Response. The language in the preamble for the proposed rule intended to indicate that all definitions in §§30.4 and 35.2 that are established or modified by this rulemaking would be Division 1 levels of compatibility. Levels of compatibility for other definitions in existing §§30.4 and 35.2 that are not modified in this rulemaking will remain unchanged. The language in this preamble has been modified to clarify this point. (6) Comment. Based on the State Agreements Program Procedure B.7, all Part 35 items categorized in that procedure are Division 3. Response. Before the quality management program and misadministration rulemaking became effective, all sections in Part 35 were Division 3 levels of compatibility. However, following that amendment (56 FR 34104; July 25, 1991), the levels of compatibility for Part 35 were modified as follows: The definitions associated with the quality management rule and misadministrations in §35.2 became Division 1 levels of compatibility; §§35.32 and 35.33 became Division 2 levels of compatibility; §35.8 became a Division 4 level of compatibility; and all other sections of Part 35 remained Division 3 levels of compatibility. (7) Comment. The proposed rule stated that Agreement States are expected to adopt rules required to maintain compatibility within 3 years. Agreement States should be able to adopt this rulemaking in a shorter time. Response. Some Agreement States may need less time to adopt certain parts of this rulemaking. Other Agreement States may need the full 3 years to adopt the rule because of constraints on resources. Therefore, the Commission retains the 3-year period for adopting this rule. In reevaluating its compatibility policy, the Commission is considering whether the time can be shortened when demonstrable health and safety considerations require it. (8) Comment. What would happen if an Agreement State fails to adopt requirements that are items of compatibility? Response. During the periodic review of the Agreement State's program, the NRC would determine whether the State meets the compatibility requirements. If not, the State would be notified that its program must be compatible with the NRC's requirements, and using current procedures a finding of compatibility for the Agreement State program would be withheld. Such a failure, if uncorrected or unjustified, could lead to the loss of the State's status as an Agreement State. (9) Comment. Creating a Division 1 or Division 2 level of compatibility for parts of this rule may cause conflict with State boards of pharmacy and medicine. Response. The provisions contained in this rulemaking that require a Division 1 or Division 2 level of compatibility are necessary to provide an adequate level of protection of public health and safety from radiological hazards. In addition, the Commission is not aware of any conflicts between these provisions and the requirements of State boards of pharmacy and medicine.
