FR940323-2-00015 FR940323-2-00012 Preliminary Results of Review As a result of our comparison of USP to FMV, we preliminarily determine that the following margin exists for the period March 1, 1991 through February 29, 1992: ␣ 1Manufacturer/exporter 1Margin (percent) OAB 7.19 Interested parties may request disclosure within 5 days of the date of publication of this notice and may request a hearing within 10 days of publication. Any hearing, if requested, will be held 44 days after the date of publication or the first business day thereafter. Case briefs and/or written comments from interested parties may be submitted no later than 30 days after the date of publication. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttals to written comments, limited to issues raised in those comments, may be filed no later than 37 days after the date of publication of this notice. The Department will publish the final results of this administrative review including the results of its analysis of issues raised in any such written comments or at the hearing. The Department will determine, and the Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. Individual differences between USP and FMV may vary from the percentage stated above. The Department will issue appraisement instructions directly to the Customs Service. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective for all shipments of the subject merchandise entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the publication date of the final results of this administrative review, as provided by section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act: (1) The cash deposit rate for the reviewed company will be that rate established in the final results of this review; (2) for previously reviewed or investigated companies not listed above, the cash deposit rate will continue to be the company-specific rate published for the most recent period; (3) if the exporter is not a firm covered in this review, a prior review, or the original less-than-fair-value (LTFV) investigation, but the manufacturer is, the cash deposit rate will be the rate established for the most recent period for the manufacturer of the merchandise; and (4) if neither the exporter nor the manufacturer is a firm covered in this review, the cash deposit rate will be the ``all others'' rate established in the LTFV investigation. On May 25, 1993, the CIT, in Floral Trade Council v. United States , Slip. Op. 93&hyph;79, and Federal-Mogul Corporation v. United States , Slip. Op. 93&hyph;83, decided that once an ``all others'' rate is established for a company, it can only be changed through an administrative review. The Department has determined that in order to implement these decisions, it is appropriate to reinstate the original ``all others'' rate from the LTFV investigation (or that rate as amended for correction for clerical errors or as a result of litigation) in proceedings governed by antidumping duty orders. Therefore, the ``all others'' rate for this proceeding is 9.49 percent. This notice also serves as a preliminary reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 353.26 to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in the Secretary's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and 19 CFR 353.22. Dated: March 15, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6845 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
