FR941003-2-00096 FR941003-2-00049 (10) Health care positions of the National Health Service Corps for employment of any one individual not to exceed 4 years of service in health manpower shortage areas. (11) Pharmacy Resident positions at GS&hyph;7 in the National Institutes of Health's Clinical Center, Pharmacy Department. Employment in these positions is confined to graduates of approved schools of pharmacy and is limited to a period not to exceed 12 months pending licensure. (12) Hospital Administration Resident positions at GS&hyph;9 in the National Institutes of Health's Clinical Center, Bethesda, Maryland. Employment in these positions is confined to graduates of approved hospital or health care administration programs and is limited to a period not to exceed 1 year. (13) Not to exceed 30 positions of Cancer Control Science Associate in the Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, for assignments at a level of difficulty and responsibility at or equivalent to GS&hyph;11/13. No one may be employed under this authority for more than 3 years, and no more than 10 appointments will be made under the authority in any 1 year. (14) Not to exceed 30 positions at grades GS&hyph;11/13 associated with the postdoctoral training program for interdisciplinary toxicologists in the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of Health, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. (15) Not to exceed 200 staff positions, GS&hyph;15 and below, in the Office of Refugee Health, for an emergency staff to provide health related services to Haitian entrants. (c) (Reserved). (d) Social Security Administration . (1) Six positions of social insurance representative in the district offices of the Social Security Administration in the State of Arizona when filled by the appointment of persons of one-fourth or more Indian blood. (2) Seven positions of social insurance representative in the district offices of the Social Security Administration in the State of New Mexico when filled by the appointment of persons of one-fourth or more Indian blood. (3) Two positions of social insurance representative in the district offices of the Social Security Administration in the State of Alaska when filled by the appointment of persons of one-fourth or more Alaskan Native blood (Eskimos, Indians, or Aleuts). (e) (Reserved). (f) The President's Council on Physical Fitness . (1) Four staff assistants. (g)&hyph;(i) (Reserved). (j) Health Care Financing Administration . (1) Reserved. (2) Not to exceed 10 professional positions, GS&hyph;9 through GS&hyph;15, to be filled under the Health Care Financing Administration Professional Exchange Program. Appointments under this authority will not exceed 1 year.
