FR940513-2-00152 FR940513-2-00077 [Docket No. 50&hyph;247] Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc.; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption from certain requirements of 10 CFR part 50, Appendix J. Paragraph III.D.3, Type C tests, to the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. (the licensee), for the Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit No. 2, located in Westchester County, New York. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The licensee would be exempt from the requirements of 10 CFR part 50, appendix J. Paragraph III.D.3, to the extent that an extension would be allowed for performing Type C leak rate tests on containment isolation valves. These leak rate tests are currently required to be performed at intervals no greater than 2 years. The exemption would allow Type C leak rate tests to be performed at intervals no greater than 30 months. By letter dated January 28, 1994, the licensee requested an amendment to the Technical Specifications (TSs) and an exemption from the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) requirements to allow Type C leak rate tests to be performed at intervals no greater than 30 months. Need for the Proposed Action The licensee commenced operating on 24-month fuel cycles, instead of the previous 18-month fuel cycles, starting with fuel cycle 12. Fuel cycle 12 started in April 1993. The requirements of 10 CFR part 50, appendix J, Paragraph III.D.3, indicate the Type C leak rate tests must be performed during each reactor shutdown for refueling at intervals no greater than 2 years (24 months). In order to conform with this regulation, the licensee could be required to shutdown Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit No. 2 and enter a forced outage prior to the next refueling outage. The NRC staff had previously recognized that certain regulations would not accommodate fuel cycles longer than 18 months. Consequently, the NRC staff issued Generic Letter (GL) 91&hyph;04, ``Changes in Technical Specification Surveillance Intervals to Accommodate a 24-Month Fuel Cycle.'' This GL provides guidance to licensees on how to prepare requests for TS amendments and regulation exemptions which are needed to accommodate 24-month fuel cycles. The licensee's letter of January 28, 1994, followed the guidance of GL 91&hyph;04. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The proposed exemption does not increase the probability or consequences of accidents previously analyzed and the proposed exemption does not affect facility radiation levels or facility radiological effluents. The requested exemption is based, in part, on increasing the margin to the allowed combined leakage limit for Type B and C tests by 25 percent. In addition, the licensee has reviewed the results of previous leak rate tests performed at Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit No. 2, and provided a basis for concluding that containment leakage will be maintained within acceptable limits with a maximum test interval of 30 months. The NRC staff has determined that the licensee's submittal is consistent with the guidance provided in GL 91&hyph;04. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed exemption. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed exemption only involves leak rate tests on containment isolation valves. It does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there is no significant nonradiological environmental impact associated with the proposed exemption. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded that there are no significant environmental effects that would result from the proposed exemption, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impacts need not be evaluated. The principal alternative would be to deny the licensee's request for exemption. Such action would not reduce the environmental impacts of plant operations. Alternate Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the ``Final Environmental Statements Related to the Operation of Indian Point Nuclear Generating Plant Unit No. 2,'' dated September 1972. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff reviewed the licensee's submittal that supports the proposed exemption discussed above. The NRC staff consulted with the State of New York regarding the environmental impact of the proposed exemption. The State of New York had no comments regarding this proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the exemption under consideration. For further details with respect to this action, see the licensee's application for exemption dated January 28, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue, White Plains, New York 10610. Detailed at Rockville, Maryland, this 6th day of May 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Robert A. Capra, Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects-I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11655 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
