FR940727-1-00022 FR940727-1-00010 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 180 [PP 4E4310/P585; FRL&hyph;4898&hyph;5] RIN 2070&hyph;AC18 Watermelon Mosaic Virus-2 Coat Protein, Zucchini Yellow Mosaic Virus Coat Protein and the Genetic Material Necessary for Production of These Proteins in Transgenic Squash Plants; Tolerance Exemption AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This document proposes establishing an exemption from the requirement for a tolerance under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for residues of the plant-pesticides watermelon mosaic virus-2 (WMV2) coat protein and zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV) coat protein, as expressed in Asgrow line ZW20 of Cucurbita pepo L. and the genetic material necessary for the production of these proteins. This exemption was requested by Asgrow Seed Co. DATES: Written comments, identified by the document control number [PP 4E4310/P585], must be received on or before August 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: By mail, submit written comments to: Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, bring comments to: Rm. 1128, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202. Information submitted as a comment concerning this document may be claimed confidential by marking any part or all of that information as ``Confidential Business Information'' (CBI). Information so marked will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. A copy of the comment that does not contain CBI must be submitted for inclusion in the public record. Information not marked confidential may be disclosed publicly by EPA without prior notice. All written comments will be available for public inspection in Rm. 1128 at the Virginia address given above, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Steve Robbins, Product Manager (PM) 21, Registration Division (7505C), Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Rm. 227, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202, (703)&hyph;305&hyph;6900. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: EPA received from Asgrow Seed Co., Kalamzoo, MI 49004, pesticide petition (PP) 4E4310 on December 6, 1993, proposing to amend 40 CFR part 180 by establishing a regulation pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 346a, to exempt from the requirement of a tolerance, the residues of the plant-pesticides watermelon mosaic virus-2 coat protein and zucchini yellow mosaic virus coat protein as expressed in Asgrow line ZW20 of Cucurbita pepo L., and subsequent generations obtained through normal sexual reproduction. An amendment to this petition was received on April 4, 1994, which changed the proposed exemption by including the genetic material necessary for the production of these proteins. The squash plants identified as Asgrow line ZW20 have been genetically modified to produce the coat proteins of two viruses which commonly infect squash plants (watermelon mosaic virus-2 and zucchini yellow mosaic virus). Production of specific viral coat proteins by the plant will protect it from infection by those viruses. Viral coat proteins, along with the genetic material (nucleic acids) necessary to produce them in the plant, are designated as plant pesticides by EPA. The data submitted in the petition and all other relevant material have been evaluated. The data considered in support of the exemption from the requirement of a tolerance include the following: Sequences of the engineered WMV2 and ZYMV coat protein coding regions and their resulting coat proteins, Southern blots to show absence of NPT2 gene and non-T-DNA sequences in ZW 20 squash, levels of WMV2 and ZYMV coat protein deduced from amino acid sequence, and levels of viral coat proteins in fruit collected from local markets. The Agency agrees with the petitioner's contention that components of plant pathogenic viruses, as represented by the protein coats of zucchini yellow mosaic virus and watermelon mosaic virus-2, present no health concerns when expressed in edible portions of the plant. The data include evidence to support the lack of any NPT2 marker gene in the ZW20 plants. Therefore, the only transgene expressed is the viral coat protein. The submitted data include results of tests to determine the levels of the proteins in market-ready fruit from line ZW20 and related this information to the normal levels of these viruses in cucurbit fruits pruchased at local markets. These data demonstrated that, overall, the levels of viral coat proteins in locally grown cucurbit plants were higher than those expressed in the transgenic squash. The exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for specific viral coat proteins WMV2 and ZYMV is based on the following: (1) Virus-infected plants have always been a part of the human and domestic animal food supply since most crops are frequently infected with plant viruses, and food from these crops has been and is being consumed without observed adverse human health effects; (2) plant viruses have never been shown to be infectious to humans or mammals. Plant viruses are not able to replicate in mammals or other vertebrates. Thus, there is no possibility of human infection. In addition, only the portion of the viral genome coding for the whole coat protein or a subcomponent of the coat protein will be expressed in the ZW20 plants. This portion by itself is incapable of forming infectious particles. Since whole intact plant viruses are not known to cause deleterious human health effects, it is reasonable to assume that a subunit of these viruses likewise will not cause adverse human health effects. Asgrow Seed Co. amended its petition to include the genetic material necessary for the production of the proteins because EPA considers such genetic material to be part of the plant-pesticide product. It is the genetic material that is introduced into the plant with the intent that it will ultimately result in a pesticidal effect (i.e., the plant will produce the viral coat protein). Moreover, the pesticidal proteins could not be produced without the genetic material being present in the plant. The exemption from a tolerance for the genetic material which codes for the production of the viral coat proteins is based on the fact that the nucleic acids which form the genetic material are found in all foods and have not, by themselves, been associated with toxic or pathogenic effects on animals and humans. None of these constituents of nucleic acids are know to be acute toxicants by themselves but, like proteins and other normal constituents of food, may cause indirect, adverse metabolic effects if consumed exclusively at high doses over a long period of time in the absence of a normal balanced diet. Nucleic acids will not occur at these high amounts in ZW20 plants. Thus, EPA does not believe there is any potential for adverse health effects related to the consumption of the ZW20 plants. The data and information submitted with this petition are acceptable and are adequate to show that there are no forseeable human or domestic health hazards likely to arise from the consumption of fruit from the Asgrow line ZW20 of Cucurbita pepo L. Acceptable daily intake (ADI) and maximum permissible intake (MPI) considerations are not relevant to this petition because the data submitted demonstrate that these plant pesticides are not toxic to humans. No enforcement actions are expected based upon the level of residues of viral coat proteins and the genetic material necessary for their production. Therefore, the requirement for an analytical method for enforcement purposes is not applicable to this exemption request. This will be the first exemption from the requirement of a tolerance for this plant pesticide. The plant pesticides in the Asgrow squash line ZW20 are considered useful for the purpose for which the exemption from the requirement of a tolerance is sought. Based on the information considered, the Agency concludes that establishment of the exemption will protect the public health. Therefore, the regulation is proposed as set forth below. Interested persons are invited to submit written comments on the proposed rule. Comments must bear a notation indicating the document control number, [PP 4E4310/P585]. All written comments filed in response to this petition will be available in the Public Response and Program Resources Branch at the address given above from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this rule from the requirements of section 2 of Executive Order 12866. Pursuant to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354, 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612), the Administrator has determined that regulations establishing new tolerances or raising tolerance levels or establishing exemptions from tolerance requirements do not have an economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. A certification statement to this effect was published in the Federal Register of May 4, 1981 (46 FR 24950). Interested persons are invited to submit written comments on the proposed rule. Comments must bear a notation indicating the document control number [PP 4E4310/P585]. All written comments filed in response to this petition will be available in the Public Response and Program Resources Branch at the address given above from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this rule from the requirements of section 2 of Executive Order 12866. Pursuant to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354, 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612), the Administrator has determined that regulations establishing new tolerances or raising tolerance levels or establishing exemptions from tolerance requirements do not have an economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. A certification statement to this effect was published in the Federal Register of May 4, 1981 (46 FR 24950). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 180 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Agricultural commodities, Food additives, Pesticides and pests, Processed foods, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: July 11, 1994. Lois Rossi, Acting Director, Registration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. Therefore, it is proposed that 40 CFR part 180 be amended as follows: PART 180_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 180 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 346a and 371. 2. In subpart D, by adding new ยง180.1132, to read as follows: ยง180.1132 Watermelon mosaic virus-2 coat protein, zucchini yellow mosaic virus coat protein and the genetic material necessary for the production of these proteins; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance. The plant-pesticides watermelon mosaic virus-2 coat protein and zucchini yellow mosaic virus coat protein as expressed in Asgrow line ZW20 of Cucurbita pepo L. and the genetic material (nucleic acids) necessary for the production of these proteins are exempted from the requirement of a tolerance in this transgenic plant and in subsequent generations of Asgrow line ZW20 of cucurbita pepo L. obtained through normal sexual reproduction. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17912 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
