FR940429-0-00156 FR940429-0-00014 (2) If an institution fails to satisfy the waiver requirements for an award year, the institution becomes ineligible on June 30 of that award year. (g)(1) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and any applicable waiver or exception under this section, the institution shall substantiate the required calculations by having the certified public accountant who prepares its audited financial statement under 34 CFR 668.15 or its title IV, HEA program compliance audit under 34 CFR 668.23 report on the accuracy of the institution's calculation based on performing an agreed-upon procedures attestation engagement in accordance with the AICPA's Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements, and include that report as part of the audit report. (2) If the certified public accountant cannot attest to the accuracy of the institution's calculations for purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section or any applicable waiver or exception under this section, the Secretary presumes that the institution lost its eligibility as a result of those provisions. (3) The institution may rebut this presumption if, no later than 30 days after the date on which the audit report that includes the attestation engagement report was submitted, the institution submits a calculation to the Secretary indicating that it satisfies the provisions of paragraph (a)(8) of this section, and the certified public accountant who could not attest to the accuracy of its previous calculation, attests to the accuracy of those calculations. (h) Notice to the Secretary. An institution shall notify the Secretary_ (1) By July 31 following the end of an award year if it falls within one of the prohibitions contained in paragraph (a)(1)of this section, or fails to continue to satisfy a waiver or exception granted under this section; or (2) Within 10 days if it falls within one of the prohibitions contained in paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section. (i) Regaining eligibility. (1) If an institution loses its eligibility because of one of the prohibitions contained in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, to regain its eligibility, it must demonstrate_ (i) Compliance with all eligibility requirements; (ii) That it did not fall within any of the prohibitions contained in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for at least one award year; and (iii) That it changed its administrative policies and practices to ensure that it will not fall within any of the prohibitions contained in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (2) If an institution loses its eligibility because of one of the prohibitions contained in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section, this loss is permanent. The institution's eligibility cannot be reinstated. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088) ยง600.8 Treatment of a branch campus. A branch campus of an eligible institution must be in existence for at least two years as a branch campus before seeking to be designated as a main campus or a free-standing institution. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099c) ยง600.9 Written agreement between an eligible institution and another institution or organization. (a) Without losing its eligibility under this part, an eligible institution may enter into a written agreement with another eligible institution under which the latter institution provides all or a part of the educational program of students enrolled in the former institution if the former institution gives credit to students enrolled in that contracted program on the same basis as if it provided that program itself. (b) Without losing its eligibility under this part, an eligible institution may enter into a written agreement with an institution or organization that is not an eligible institution under which the latter institution or organization provides a part of the educational program of students enrolled in the eligible institution if_ (1) The eligible institution gives credit to students enrolled in that contracted program on the same basis as if it provided that program itself; (2) The ineligible institution or organization_ (i) Has not been terminated from participation in the title-IV, HEA programs; or (ii) Has not withdrawn from participation in the title IV, HEA programs under a termination, show-cause, suspension, or similar type proceeding initiated by the institution's State licensing agency, accrediting agency, guarantor, or SPRE, or by the Secretary; and (3) The ineligible institution or organization provides_ (i) Not more than 25 percent of the educational program of a student enrolled in the eligible institution; or (ii) More than 25 percent but not more than 50 percent of the educational program of a student enrolled in the eligible institution so long as_ (A) The eligible institution and the ineligible institution or organization are not owned or controlled by the same individual, partnership, or corporation; and (B) The eligible institution's accrediting agency or, if the eligible institution is a public postsecondary vocational educational institution, the relevant State agency listed in the Federal Register in accordance with 34 CFR part 603, specifically determines that the institution's agreement meets the agency's standards for the contracting out of educational services. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) ยง600.10 Date, extent, duration, and consequence of eligibility. (a) Date of eligibility. (1) If the Secretary determines that an applicant institution satisfies all the statutory and regulatory eligibility requirements, the Secretary considers the institution to be an eligible institution as of the date_
