FR940810-0-00158 FR940810-0-00021 Paragraph (k)(7) Care of asbestos-containing flooring material, prohibits for the first time, sanding and high-speed (greater than 300 RPM) stripping of floor material. This new housekeeping paragraph also requires that burnishing and dry buffing of asbestos-containing flooring be performed only when a finish on the flooring is sufficient to prevent contact with ACM. Evidence from the record indicates that many building maintenance personnel are currently meeting these requirements (Tr. 2/7/91 at 4256&hyph;4270, Ex. 7&hyph;91). Therefore, new Paragraph (k)(7) is technologically feasible. Lastly, the final revision to the current standard requires certain engineering controls and work practices for brake and clutch repair and services. These requirements include the mandatory use of a negative pressure enclosure/HEPA vacuum method, a low pressure/wet cleaning method, or an alternate method capable of reducing exposure levels to or below levels achieved by the enclosure/HEPA vacuum method. Brake shops performing fewer than six brake or clutch repair jobs per week are permitted to use Method [D] Wet Methods in revised Appendix F of 1910.1001. According to the National Automobile Dealers Association, both the enclosure/HEPA vacuum method and the low pressure/wet cleaning method are currently in use throughout the automotive brake and clutch repair industry (Ex. 7&hyph;104); therefore, the revised control requirements for brake and clutch repair are judged by OSHA to be technological feasible. Construction. The evaluation of technological feasibility in construction focused on the various combinations of engineering controls, work practices, and respiratory protection necessary to reduce current exposures to achieve compliance with the final PEL of 0.1 f/cc. In addition, OSHA examined a number of engineering controls, work practices, and ancillary requirements which will directly and indirectly contribute to reducing employee exposures. Exposures to asbestos in the construction industry were classified into six activity categories: • New construction _including the installation of asbestos/cement (A/C) pipe and sheet. New construction falls under Class III asbestos work as defined in the revised asbestos standard. • Asbestos abatement _including both asbestos removal and encapsulation with a polymeric coating, or enclosure. Asbestos abatement falls under asbestos work Classes I and III as defined in the revised standard. • Demolition _involving asbestos removal prior to the demolition of all or part of a building or industrial facility that contains asbestos materials. Demolition falls under asbestos work Class I as defined in the revised standard. • General building renovation and remodeling _including drywall demolition involving the removal of pipe and boiler insulation, fireproofing, drywall tape and spackling, acoustical plasters, transite panels, built-up roofing and flooring products. Renovation and remodeling generally involve contact with generic building materials and would therefore fall under asbestos work Class II as defined in the revised standard. • Routine facility maintenance in commercial/residential buildings and in general industry _including maintenance and repair activities involving disturbance of asbestos materials and products (for example, repair of leaking steam pipes, ceiling tiles, roofing, drywall, or flooring; or adjustment of HVAC equipment above suspended ceilings). Routine maintenance falls under Class III asbestos work as defined in the revised standard when asbestos-containing materials (ACM) are disturbed during the maintenance activity; and under Class IV asbestos work as defined in the revised standard when maintenance involves minor, incidental contact with ACM. • Custodial Work _including sweeping, dusting and other housekeeping duties that occasionally expose building maintenance and custodial personnel to asbestos. Custodial work falls under Class IV asbestos work as defined in the revised standard. To support the regulatory impact analysis for the 1986 asbestos standard, CONSAD derived baseline exposure levels for each construction activity from a database that included personal and area air samples, OSHA inspection reports, expert testimony, and various published reports [CONSAD, 1990]. The technological feasibility assessments for this final revised standard were influenced by expected exposure reduction following the promulgation of the 1986 asbestos standard, and by a review of the literature, including submittals to the OSHA docket (H&hyph;033e). OSHA determined in 1986 that, for a variety of construction activities, it was feasible to reach the current PEL of 0.2 f/cc through the use of available engineering controls and work practices (i.e., without the need for respiratory protection). These construction activities included:
