FR941003-2-00160 FR941003-2-00053 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34711; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;30] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., Relating to Storage of Customer Account Records September 23, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on September 7, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change Currently, paragraph (c) of CBOE Rule 9.8, ``Supervision of Accounts,'' provides that background and financial information of customers who have been approved for options transactions must be maintained at both the branch office servicing the customer's account and at the principal supervisory office with jurisdiction over the branch office. In addition, copies of options customer account statements over the most recent six months must be maintained at both the branch office supervising the accounts and at the principal supervisory office with jurisdiction over that branch. The CBOE proposes to amend CBOE Rule 9.8(c) and Interpretation and Policy .03 to enable members' supervisory offices to maintain certain customer account information at off-site locations as long as the records are readily accessible and promptly retrievable. The text of the proposal is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The CBOE states that the purpose of the proposal is to enable supervisory offices of CBOE members to store certain customer account records off-site. CBOE members that elect to do so must ensure that the records are easily accessible and promptly retrievable. Currently, under CBOE Rule 9.8, background and financial information about customers, as well as copies of customer account statements, must be maintained at the branch office serving the customer and at that branch's principal supervisory office. The substance of this rule appears uniformly in the rules of the other options exchanges and in the options account rules of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD''). According to the CBOE, on-site storage in major financial centers is expensive, and, in today's market environment, automated and secure facilities for data storage and retrieval make it unnecessary to require on-site storage. The CBOE states that, given those realities, the Options Self-Regulatory Council (``OSRC'') 1 has recommended that record retention requirements be relaxed and that the exchanges and the NASD amend their rules to permit supervisory offices to store customer records off-premises as a matter of routine practice. 2 1 The OSRC, which was created pursuant to a plan submitted by the options exchanges under Rule 17d&hyph;2 (``17d&hyph;2 plan'') under the Act, includes representatives from each of the registered options exchanges and the NASD. The 17d&hyph;2 plan was developed by the exchanges and approved by the Commission to reduce regulatory duplication and to coordinate solutions to options-related sales practice issues common to firms which are members of two or more self-regulatory organizations. 2 In connection with the OSRC's recommendation, the designated options examining authorities, including the CBOE, have committed to periodic examinations of the document retention and supervisory practices of firms using off-site storage arrangements. The CBOE concurs with the OSRC's recommendation and believes that its proposal will afford the CBOE's members the opportunity to discharge their supervisory responsibilities more efficiently and more cost-effectively. Accordingly, the CBOE's proposal amends paragraph (c) and Interpretation and Policy .03 of CBOE Rule 9.8 to enable CBOE members' supervisory offices to use off-premises storage for certain of the customer records specified in the rules, provided the records are easily accessible and promptly retrievable. 3 3 Interpretation and Policy .03 requires member to maintain, at the principal supervisory office with jurisdiction over the office servicing a customer's account, information to permit review of each customer's account to determine (1) the compatibility of options transactions with investment objectives and with the types of transactions for which the account was approved; (2) the size and frequency of options transactions; (3) commission activity in the account; (4) profit or loss in the account; (5) undue concentration in any options class or classes and (6) compliance with the provisions of Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board. The CBOE believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to protect investors and the public interest. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of Burden on Competition The CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days after the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reason for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (a) by order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, D.C. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by October 24, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24301 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8016&hyph;01&hyph;M
