FR941213-1-00005 FR941213-1-00001 Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Board certifies that the proposed criteria would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities that are subject to its regulation. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 211 Exports, Federal Reserve System, Foreign banking, Holding companies, Investments, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set out in the preamble, the Board proposes to amend 12 CFR part 211 as set forth below: PART 211_INTERNATIONAL BANKING OPERATIONS (REGULATION K) 1. The authority citation for Part 211 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 221 et seq., 1818, 1841 et seq., 1843 et seq., 3100 et seq., 3901 et seq. 2. A new §211.30 is added to subpart B to read as follows: §211.30 Criteria for evaluating the U.S. operations of foreign banks not subject to consolidated supervision. (a) General. Pursuant to the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement Act, Public Law 102&hyph;242, 105 Stat. 2286 (1991), (the FBSEA) the Board shall develop and publish criteria to be used in evaluating the operations of any foreign bank in the United States that the Board has determined is not subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis. (b) Criteria. Following a determination by the Board that a foreign bank is not subject to comprehensive, consolidated supervision by its home country supervisor in accordance with §211.24(c)(1) of this subpart, the Board shall consider the following criteria in determining whether the foreign bank's U.S. operations should be permitted to continue and, if so, whether any supervisory constraints should be placed upon the bank in connection with those operations: (1) The proportion of the foreign bank's total assets and total liabilities that are located or booked in its home country, as well as the distribution and location of its assets and liabilities that are located or booked elsewhere; (2) The extent to which the operations and assets of the foreign bank and any affiliates are subject to supervision by its home country supervisor; (3) Whether the foreign bank has effective and reliable systems of internal controls and management information and reporting, which enable management properly to oversee the bank's worldwide operations; (4) Whether the foreign bank's home country supervisor has any objection to the bank continuing to operate in the United States; (5) Whether the foreign bank's home country supervisor and the home country supervisor of any parent of the foreign bank share material information regarding the operations of the foreign bank with other supervisory authorities; (6) The relationship of the U.S. operations to the other operations of the foreign bank, including whether the foreign bank maintains funds in its U.S. offices that are in excess of amounts due to its U.S. offices from the foreign bank's non-U.S. offices; (7) The soundness of the foreign bank's overall financial condition; (8) The managerial resources of the foreign bank, including the competence, experience, and integrity of the officers and directors and the integrity of its principle shareholders; (9) The scope and frequency of external audits of the foreign bank; (10) The operating record of the foreign bank generally and its role in the banking system in its home country; (11) The foreign bank's record of compliance with relevant laws, as well as the adequacy of its money laundering controls and procedures, in respect of its worldwide operations; (12) The operating record of the U.S. offices of the foreign bank; (13) The views and recommendations of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency or the relevant state banking regulator regarding the U.S. offices of the foreign bank; (14) Whether the foreign bank, if requested, has provided the Board with adequate assurances that such information will be made available on the operations or activities of the foreign bank and any of its affiliates as the Board deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with the International Banking Act, the Bank Holding Company Act, and other applicable federal banking statutes; and (15) Any other information relevant to the safety and soundness of the U.S. operations of the foreign bank. (c) Restrictions on U.S. operations _(1) Terms of agreement. Any foreign bank that the Board determines is not subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by its home country supervisor pursuant to §211,24(c)(1) of this subpart, may be required to enter into an agreement to conduct its U.S. operations subject to such restrictions as the Board, having considered the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, determines to be appropriate in order to assure the safety and soundness of its U.S. operations. (2) Failure to enter into or comply with agreement. A foreign bank that is required by the Board to enter into an agreement pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section and either fails to do so or fails to comply with the terms of such agreement may be subject to enforcement action in order to assure safe and sound banking operations under 12 U.S.C. 1818, or to termination or a recommendation for termination of its U.S. operations under §211.25(a) and (e) of this subpart and section (7)(e) of the IBA (12 U.S.C. 3105(e)). By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December 7, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30549 Filed 12&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
