FR940513-2-00069 FR940513-2-00039 4. Blueprint for an Aging Society Another major AoA initiative that the Program Announcement will address is development of a blueprint for how the Nation can and should now prepare for the retirement of future generations, particularly the baby-boom generation. As society ages, and the first of the baby boom generation reaches retirement age in the next decade, we must begin to plan for the impact that this aging cohort, and those following, will have on our society. Significant increases in the numbers and diversity of older persons, the complexity of claims on resources being made between generations, dramatically different lifestyle changes such as four generation households and more women serving in both caregiving roles and the work force_these are among the critical factors that must be addressed in planning for an aging society. In addition, society must learn to recognize that active and productive retirement is the norm. In determining how best to address the needs of our aging society, we must examine not only the economic implications, but the social implications as well. The Blueprint will outline a framework for responding to the issues of future retirees by examining the aging of the baby boom cohort from a wide perspective, including issues such as the role of health and long-term care; the importance of supportive services such as housing and transportation; lifestyle choices and individual responsibility; the impact of demographic changes on family and social structures; diversity issues; and the economic realities of an aging society. This conceptual framework will assist the federal government in sorting out the options available to promote a more coordinated approach to our aging society. Addressing the aging of society from this broad framework necessitates that we explore ways of working both within and outside of the Department of Health and Human Services to address these critical issues. The role of the Administration on Aging would include mounting an education campaign around savings and thrift issues, as well as physical fitness and health promotion. This education campaign would have as its focus making society aware of the opportunities and choices available to older persons to remain productive and active citizens, as well as the contributions seniors make to this country. D. Other Older Americans Act Mandates Other areas of emphasis in this Title IV Discretionary Funds Program Announcement derive from certain specific mandates of the Older Americans Act, which concentrate discretionary funding resources on making specific aging programs more effective and on better serving vulnerable population groups. The priority program areas (in addition to long term care, nutrition, older women, and a future aging society) include multigenerational and intergenerational programs, volunteerism, and minority aging.
