FR941028-2-00162 FR941028-2-00109 Contents Executive Summary I. Introduction A. Purpose of Document B. Epidemiology, Transmission, and Pathogenesis of TB C. Risk for Nosocomial Transmission of M. tuberculosis D. Fundamentals of TB Infection Control II. Recommendations A. Assignment of Responsibility B. Risk Assessment, Development of the TB Infection-Control Plan, and Periodic Reassessment 1. Risk assessment a. General b. Community TB profile c. Case surveillance d. Analysis of HCW PPD test screening data e. Review of TB patient medical records f. Observation of TB infection-control practices g. Engineering evaluation 2. Development of the TB Infection-Control Plan 3. Periodic Reassessment 4. Examples of Risk Assessment C. Identifying, Evaluating, and Initiating Treatment for Patients Who May Have Active TB 1. Identifying patients who may have active TB 2. Diagnostic evaluation for active TB 3. Initiation of treatment for suspected or confirmed TB D. Management of Patients Who May Have Active TB in Ambulatory-Care Settings and Emergency Departments E. Management of Hospitalized Patients Who Have Confirmed or Suspected TB 1. Initiation of isolation for TB 2. TB isolation practices 3. The TB isolation room 4. Discontinuation of TB isolation 5. Discharge planning F. Engineering Control Recommendations 1. General ventilation 2. Additional engineering control approaches a. HEPA filtration b. UVGI G. Respiratory Protection H. Cough-Inducing and Aerosol-Generating Procedures 1. General guidelines 2. Special considerations for bronchoscopy 3. Special considerations for the administration of aerosolized pentamidine I. Education and Training of HCWs J. HCW Counseling, Screening, and Evaluation 1. Counseling HCWs regarding TB 2. Screening HCWs for active TB 3. Screening HCWs for latent TB infection 4. Evaluation and management of HCWs who have positive PPD test results or active TB a. Evaluation b. Routine and follow-up chest radiographs c. Workplace restrictions (1) Active TB (2) Latent TB infection K. Problem Evaluation 1. Investigating PPD test conversions and active TB in HCWs a. Investigating PPD test conversions in HCWs b. Investigating cases of active TB in HCWs 2. Investigating possible patient-to-patient transmission of M. tuberculosis 3. Investigating contacts of patients and HCWs who have infectious TB L. Coordination with the Public Health Department M. Additional Considerations for Selected Areas in Health-Care Facilities and Other Health-Care settings 1. Selected areas in health-care facilities a. Operating rooms b. Autopsy rooms c. Laboratories 2. Other health-care settings a. Emergency medical services b. Hospices c. Long-term care facilities d. Correctional facilities e. Dental settings f. Home-health-care settings g. Medical offices Supplement 1: Determining the Infectiousness of a TB Patient Supplement 2: Diagnosis and Treatment of Latent TB Infection and Active TB I. Diagnostic Procedures for TB Infection and Disease A. PPD Skin Testing and Anergy Testing 1. Application and reading of PPD skin tests 2. Interpretation of PPD skin tests a. General b. HCWs 3. Anergy testing 4. Pregnancy and PPD skin testing 5. BCG vaccination and PPD skin testing 6. The booster phenomenon B. Chest Radiography C. Bacteriology II. Preventive Therapy for Latent TB Infection and Treatment of Active TB A. Preventive Therapy for Latent TB Infection B. Treatment of Patients Who Have Active TB Supplement 3: Engineering Controls I. Introduction II. Ventilation A. Local Exhaust Ventilation 1. Enclosing devices 2. Exterior devices 3. Discharge exhaust from booths, tents, and hoods B. General Ventilation 1. Dilution and removal a. Types of general ventilation systems b. Ventilation rates 2. Airflow patterns within rooms (air mixing) 3. Airflow direction in the facility a. Directional airflow b. Negative pressure for achieving directional airflow 4. Achieving negative pressure in a room a. Pressure differential b. Alternate methods for achieving negative pressure c. Monitoring negative pressure C. HEPA filtration 1. Use of HEPA filtration when exhausting air to the outside 2. Recirculation of HEPA-filtered air to other areas of a facility 3. Recirculation of HEPA-filtered air within a room a. Fixed room-air recirculation systems b. Portable room-air recirculation units c. Evaluation of room-air recirculation systems and units 4. Installing, maintaining, and monitoring HEPA filters D. TB Isolation Rooms and Treatment Rooms 1. Preventing the escape of droplet nuclei from the room 2. Reducing the concentration of droplet nuclei in the room 3. Exhaust from TB isolation rooms and treatment rooms 4. Alternatives to TB isolation rooms III. UVGI A. Applications 1. Duct irradiation 2. Upper-room air irradiation B. Limitations C. Safety Issues D. Exposure Criteria for UV Radiation E. Maintenance and Monitoring 1. Labelling and posting 2. Maintenance 3. Monitoring Supplement 4: Respiratory Protection I. Considerations for Selection of Respirators A. Performance Criteria for Personal Respirators for Protection Against Transmission of M. tuberculosis B. Specific Respirators C. The Effectiveness of Respiratory Protective Devices 1. Face-seal leakage 2. Filter leakage 3. Fit testing 4. Fit checking 5. Reuse of respirators II. Implementing a Personal Respiratory Protection Program Supplement 5: Decontamination_Cleaning, Disinfecting, and Sterilizing of Patient-Care Equipment References Glossary Index List of Tables List of Figures
