FR940328-2-00126 FR940328-2-00068 Concept papers will be accepted on May 27, 1994 and September 13, 1994. Following the May deadline, the Corporation expects to invite likely applicants to submit a detailed proposal by June 30, 1994. (A) National Service Resource Center _Preference will be given to applicants which can begin delivering assistance by August, 1994. Summary The Corporation seeks to provide a National Service Resource Center to compile, store, and retrieve the T/TA resources provided by the Corporation and other T/TA providers. Rather than producing materials and resources, the resource center will ensure that State Commissions and AmeriCorps programs have easy access to the T/TA services and resources other T/TA providers produce. The Resource Center will develop and manage the following: _A resource library that gathers training curricula, effective strategies for program planning and management, and other information and materials from Corporation T/TA providers and the service field. The Resource Center will also develop means of dissemination, both in print and through electronic outlets. _A start-up survey of T/TA providers around the nation who can meet needs of State Commissions and AmeriCorps programs. This survey should be done as quickly as possible, to provide an immediate resource for Corporation grantees, and to establish the foundation for the long-term project of creating and developing a comprehensive database for the directory service. _A T/TA directory service that draws on the start-up survey and subsequent database to respond to queries for information from state commissions and national service programs in search of trainers, consultants, and other resources. On a toll-free assistance line, trained information specialist(s) will respond to day-to-day questions and inquires from grantees, state commissions, and Corporation staff, matching their needs with T/TA services whenever possible. The Resource Center will be responsible for marketing the directory service to AmeriCorps programs and State Commissions in order to make its services as accessible as possible and may make the directory service database available to them through print and/or electronic means. AmeriCorps program grantees will be required to assess the T/TA they use and report back to the Corporation program staff and the Resource Center with their evaluations. This information will inform Resource Center listings and eventually may serve as the foundation for a system of consumer-based T/TA service provider ratings. The Resource Center will be expected to make recommendations to the Corporation on how to certify T/TA providers should the Corporation decide that this is necessary. Grantee evaluations are especially important in the case of T/TA purchased with the up to $5,000 of discretionary T/TA money each AmeriCorps program grantee will be allotted. The purpose of these funds is to flexibly meet immediate program needs not met by other Corporation- or state-funded T/TA services, tap grantee-based networks, and help to establish a consumer-driven marketplace. The Resource Center, working closely with Corporation staff, will be the repository for all grantee evaluations of T/TA and will incorporate those evaluations into the resource library and directory service. Amount and Duration of Funding The Corporation will make available one grant totaling approximately $500,000. The grant or cooperative agreement will be issued for 18 months, with no guarantee of renewal but possibility of renewal based on performance, need, and availability of funds. Requirements _The resource library staff must work closely with Corporation staff to make sure that the Corporation's own internal resource room is kept up to date with important materials and other pieces of information. _The Commission on National and Community Service, predecessor to the Corporation, awarded funds to a consortium of organizations led by the National Youth Leadership Council to establish a clearinghouse for information and technical assistance on service-learning primarily for K&hyph;12. To avoid duplication of effort and unnecessary costs, will be expected to refer interested parties to the Service-Learning Cooperative and coordinate other efforts with them whenever possible. _Providers must use Foxpro or Oracle software when establishing any databases. (B) Strengthening the Basics of National Service Programs _Preference will be given to applicants who can begin delivering assistance August 1994. Summary The Corporation will fund T/TA activities that help programs strengthen the basic components that enable programs to implement excellent service projects and engage participants in addressing vital community needs. The Corporation hopes that many seasoned service providers will share their expertise with others in the service field through these activities. The Corporation describes many of these components in the second half of its ``Principles of High Quality National Service Programs.'' Opportunities to provide technical assistance supporting several of these components_building a strong organization, evaluation procedures, and developing fundraising expertise_are listed in the ``Maintaining a Strong Organization'' section of this Notice. Here, the Corporation encourages potential grantees to provide assistance in_ _Designing excellent service projects; _Providing a high quality participant experience through participant preparation and support; _Front-line supervisor training; _Training in mediation and conflict resolution; and _Creating strong community partnerships. Amount and Duration of Funding The Corporation expects to make available approximately $500,000 total for up to 10 grants or cooperative agreements with 18 month durations. The possibility of renewal is subject to performance, continuing need, and availability of funds. Description of T/TA Activities Desired The Corporation would like T/TA providers to provide trainings and/or develop resource materials in the following areas: Excellent service projects: Develop strategies and provide trainings to increase the effectiveness of national service programs at conceiving, planning, and executing excellent service projects, regardless of the area of need addressed by them. Participant training and support: Develop strategies and provide trainings to program staff on the key elements of orienting and training program participants in all types of service programs. Front-line supervisor training: Develop strategies and provide trainings on ways to train and support front-line supervisors_whether team leaders or coordinators of individually-placed participants_to supervise and support participants in all types of national service programs. Activities could include developing ways to help program directors and/or other program supervisors address the professional development needs of their front-line supervisors; designing support structures for front-line supervisors such as peer networks, on-call resources, or resource lists; or preparing flexible designs for training modules for regional conferences or trainings
