FR941004-2-00106 FR941004-2-00068 Fish and Wildlife Service Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora; Ninth Regular Meeting AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice sets forth summaries of the proposed United States negotiating positions on agenda items and resolutions for the ninth regular meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP9) to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Comments or other relevant information concerning these proposed negotiating positions are solicited. Public meetings to discuss these proposed negotiating positions also have been held. DATES: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) will consider information and comments received by October 19, 1994. in formulating its final negotiating positions. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, c/o Marshall P. Jones, Chief, Office of Management Authority, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Room 420&hyph;C, Arlington, VA 22203. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marshall P. Jones or Susan S. Lieberman, Office of Management Authority, at the above address; telephone 703/358-2093; fax 703/358&hyph;2280. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, hereinafter referred to as CITES or the Convention, is an international treaty designed to control international trade in certain animal and plant species which are or may become threatened with extinction, and are listed in Appendices to the treaty. Currently, 123 countries, including the United States, are CITES Parties. CITES calls for biennial meetings of the Conference of the Parties which review its implementation, make provisions enabling the CITES Secretariat (in Switzerland) to carry out its functions, consider amending the list of species in Appendices I and II, consider reports presented by the Secretariat, and make recommendations for the improved effectiveness of the Convention.
