FR940128-2-00176 FR940128-2-00114 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Drug Enforcement Administration Academy of Justice San Diego; Denial of Application On October 5, 1993, the Deputy Assistant Administrator (then-Director), Office of Diversion Control, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), issued an Order to Show Cause to Academy of Justice [San Diego] (Applicant), of San Diego, California proposing to deny its applications, executed on February 19, 1991, for registration as a teaching institution and as a researcher. The statutory basis for the Order to Show Cause was that the Applicant did not have authorization to conduct research with, or otherwise handle, controlled substances under the laws of the State in which it intended to operate, and that its registration would be inconsistent with the public interest under 21 U.S.C. 823(f). The Order to Show Cause was served on the Applicant on October 14, 1993. More than thirty days have passed since the Order to Show Cause was received by the Applicant and the Drug Enforcement Administration has received no response from the Applicant or anyone purporting to represent it. Pursuant to 21 CFR 1301.54(d), the Acting Administrator finds that the Applicant has waived its opportunity for a hearing. The Acting Administrator has carefully considered the investigative file in this matter, and enters his final order under the provisions of 21 CFR 1301.54(e) and 1301.57, based on findings of fact and conclusions of law as hereinafter set forth. The Acting Administrator finds that the Applicant applied for registration as a researcher and as a teaching institution to handle controlled substances in Schedules I through V apparently to engage in providing training to law enforcement personnel in several areas, including those the Applicant identified as drug identification, drug abuse, and psychopharmacology. Neither the Applicant nor its principal holds any California State controlled substance registration as a practitioner, or in any other capacity. The Applicant has not offered any evidence contrary to that stated in the Order To Show Cause, nor has it provided any information that it is otherwise qualified as a teaching institution or researcher under 21 U.S.C. 802(21). The Acting Administrator also finds that although the Applicant proposes to handle such highly abusable controlled substances such as heroin, marijuana, LSD, methamphetamine and methaqualone, it did not outline their proposed use in its instructional activities, nor did it indicate that appropriate security safeguards are in place to ensure against diversion. The Applicant also proposed to have an instructor staff of approximately fifty people who would transport the controlled substances, on their person, to various training sites throughout the state. Furthermore, the Applicant's proposed ``teaching institution'' has had no permanent site from which DEA can judge the adequacy of its security provisions. The Administrator may deny an application for registration if he determines that such registration would be inconsistent with the public interest. Pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(f), ``[i]n determining the public interest, the following factors will be considered: (1) The recommendation of the appropriate State licensing board or disciplinary authority. (2) The applicant's experience in dispensing, or conducting research with respect to controlled substances. (3) The applicant's conviction record under Federal or State laws relating to the manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances. (4) Compliance with applicable State, Federal, or local laws relating to controlled substances. (5) Such other conduct which may threaten the public health and safety.'' It is well established that these factors are to be considered in the disjunctive, i.e., the Administrator may properly rely on any one or a combination of factors, and give each factor the weight he deems appropriate. Henry J. Schwarz, Jr., M.D., Docket No. 88&hyph;42, 54 FR 16422 (1989). The Acting Administrator finds that the Applicant has failed to provide any information to indicate that the institution would be engaged in bona fide research; any recommendations from its State licensing boards; any supporting evidence that it has had experience in dispensing controlled substances or conducting research; any evidence that it or its facility is able to comply with all laws relating to controlled substances; and any research protocol or statement describing its proposed research activities. Furthermore, the Acting Administrator has no statutory authority to register practitioners if they are not licensed in the State in which they practice. 21 U.S.C. 823(f); George P. Gotsis, M.D., 49 FR 33750 (1984); James W. Mitchell, M.D., 44 FR 71466 (1979). Thus, the Administrator must deny an application for a DEA Certificate of Registration if he determines that the applicant is not authorized to dispense, or conduct research with respect to, controlled substances under the laws of the State in which he operates. Based on all of the foregoing, the Acting Administrator concludes that the applications of Academy of Justice San Diego are inconsistent with the public interest and must be denied. Accordingly, the Acing Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, pursuant to the authority vested in him by 21 U.S.C. 823 and 824 and 28 CFR 0.100(b), hereby orders that the applications for registration, executed on February 19, 1991, by Cindy Rawlins, Director, on behalf of Academy of Justice San Diego, be, and they hereby are, denied. This order is effective January 28, 1994. Dated: January 21, 1994. Stephen H. Greene, Acting Administrator of Drug Enforcement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1815 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;09&hyph;M
