FR940628-0-00034 FR940628-0-00017 Changes: Section 682.405(a)(1) of the regulations has been revised to allow the agency to determine if the sale of a loan to another lender is practicable for the purposes of loan rehabilitation. Comments: Some commenters suggested that a loan should be considered rehabilitated at such point that the borrower has met the criteria over which the borrower has control, i.e., when the twelve payments have been made. The commenters believed that the sale of the loan to an eligible lender is an unrelated administrative task. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenters. The Secretary notes that the loan is still in default as long as it is with the guaranty agency, even after the required series of payments are made and the borrower is not eligible for all benefits of the program (e.g., deferment). The Secretary notes that section 428F(a) of the HEA provides that only after the loan has been repurchased by the lender has it been effectively rehabilitated. Changes: None. Comments: Some commenters suggested that the proposed regulations should be clarified to state that the borrower who rehabilitates a loan regains full eligibility for deferments and forbearances, even if the borrower previously received a deferment. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenters that the borrower should regain full eligibility for deferments. The Secretary notes longstanding Department policy that the deferments with which a maximum period is associated apply to the borrower and not to individual sets of loans and that the borrower will only qualify for the balance of deferment eligibility. Changes: Section 682.405(a)(3) of the regulations has been revised to provide that once the loan is rehabilitated, the borrower regains all benefits of the program, including any remaining deferment eligibility the borrower may have under the law from the date of the rehabilitation. Section 682.405(b)(1) Comments: Some commenters suggested that the regulations be revised to define ``voluntary payments'' to include payments made on behalf of the borrower. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the borrower must make a good faith effort in making the required consecutive monthly payments to qualify for loan rehabilitation. The Secretary does not believe that payments made by parents or other individuals on behalf of the borrower for purposes of rehabilitating a defaulted loan constitutes a good faith effort on the part of the borrower. Changes: None. Comments: Some commenters noted that the regulations suggested that a borrower may qualify for loan rehabilitation even if the guaranty agency has obtained a judgment against the borrower for the defaulted loan. The commenters suggested that since the original promissory note is surrendered to the court when there is a judgment on the loan, it would become very difficult to initiate legal proceedings against a rehabilitated borrower who again defaulted on the rehabilitated loan. Discussion: The Secretary shares the concerns raised by the commenters. However, the Secretary also believes that a borrower should not lose the opportunity to rehabilitate a defaulted loan due solely to a judgment. Accordingly, the Secretary has modified the regulations to require a borrower who wishes to rehabilitate a loan on which a judgment has been entered to sign a new promissory note prior to the sale of the loan to an eligible lender. This approach is necessary to make sale of the loan practicable. Changes: The Secretary has amended ยง682.405(a) to add a new paragraph (4) to require a borrower against whom the agency has a judgment to enter into a new promissory note. Section 682.405(b)(1)(i)(A) Comments: Some commenters suggested that the regulations should allow for the inclusion of utilities and work-related expenses in the listing of necessary expenses for the purpose of determining a reasonable and affordable payment. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters. Changes: The regulations have been revised to include utilities and work-related expenses.
