FR940620-2-00068 FR940620-2-00042 In codifying the incremental changes for bids and offers applicable to FLEX Options, 10 the CBOE proposes applicable foreign currency increments. Hence, changes in decimal bids and offers in the designated currencies shall meet or exceed the following minimums: U.S. Dollars_$.01; Canadian Dollars_$.01; Japanese Yen_.01 051Y; Deutsche Marks_.01DM; British Pounds_.010D; Swiss Francs_.01SF; French Frances_.01F; ECU_.01ECU. 11 10 Proposed CBOE Rule 24A.5(g). 11 The CBOE SPX Floor Procedure Committee may set other minimums from time to time to ensure fair and orderly markets. Id. Finally, new definitions, as well as changes to certain existing definitions, are proposed. Specifically, a definition of the term ``Index Multiplier'' is proposed to be added to Rule 24A.1 that would identify the applicable Index Multiplier for each settlement currency. 12 Also, the Exchange proposes amending the term ``Underlying Equivalent Value'' 13 to state that aggregate underlying monetary values will be computed in terms of U.S. Dollars, regardless of the settlement currency involved. Such computations are intended to simplify the administration of FLEX Option rules that refer to Underlying Equivalent Values. 14 In addition, the proposed rule change defines the term ``Series of FLEX Options,'' which is used in the current FLEX Options rules without being specifically defined, to mean all FLEX Option contracts of the same class having the same exercise price, exercise style, exercise settlement value, expiration date, and index multiplier. 12 Proposed CBOE Rule 24A.1(h). The CBOE selected the following Index Multipliers for FLEX Options on domestic Indexes: Candian Dollars_$100; Japanese Yen_10,000 051Y ; Deutsche Marks_200DM; British Pounds_1000D; Swiss Francs_200SF; French Francs_500F, ECU_100EUC. 13 See supra note 9. 14 For example, CBOE Rule 24A.4(e)(ii) requires that the minimum value of an opening transaction in any FLEX series for which there is no open interest be $10 million in Underlying Equivalent Value. Other provisions of the FLEX Rules rely similarly on the term Underlying Equivalent Value. III. Discussion The Commission finds the proposed rule change consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Sections 6(b)(5) and 11A of the Act, 15 because the proposed rule change is designed to provide investors with a tailored or customized product that may be more suitable to their investment needs. As noted by the CBOE, the OTC market in customized index options has developed, in part, to meet the needs of institutional investors who require increased flexibility for the purpose of satisfying particular investment objectives that could not be met by the standardized or exchange markets in options. Accordingly, the Commission believes that the CBOE's proposal to expand the list of variable FLEX Option contract terms to include certain designated foreign currencies is a reasonable response by the Exchange to meet the demands of sophisticated portfolio managers and other institutional investors. These investors increasingly have relied on the OTC market to satisfy their hedging needs; therefore, the CBOE's proposal will promote competition among these markets. 15 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988) and 78k&hyph;1 (1982). See FLEX Options Approval Order, supra note 4, Russell 2000 Approval Order, and Nasdaq 100 Approval Order, supra note 5, for the Commission's findings and discussions relating to the FLEX Options program. These findings are incorporated by reference herein. In addition, the Commission believes that the CBOE's proposal will help to promote the maintenance of a fair and orderly market because the purpose of the proposal is to extend the benefits of a listed exchange market to FLEX Options that trade and settle in certain designated foreign currencies. The benefits of the Exchange's options market versus the OTC market include, but are not limited to, a centralized market center, an auction market with posted transparent market quotations and transaction reporting, standardized contract specifications, parameters and procedures for clearance and settlement, and the guarantee of The Options Clearing Corporation (``OCC'') for all contracts traded on the Exchange. The proposal also should benefit investors by providing them more flexibility by permitting them to designate settlement terms in various foreign currencies while continuing to ensure adequate investor protection in the trading of these products. Each of the designated currencies is a world-wide currency and currently eligible for options trading individually. The potential risks of settling FLEX Options in foreign currencies rather than U.S. Dollars is also disclosed in the recently amended Options Disclosure Document (``ODD'') pursuant to Rule 9b&hyph;1 of the Act. 16 The amended ODD now states that the settlement currency may be a variable term fixed by the parties out of those currencies specified by the options market on which the transaction occurs as being available for flexibly structured options. The ODD also describes certain inherent characteristics and risks associated with transactions that involve foreign currencies. 17 16 17 CFR 240.9b&hyph;1 (1993); Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33582 (February, 1994). 17 See Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options (February, 1994). The Commission finds that the Index Multipliers and the incremental changes for bids and offers selected by the CBOE are reasonable. In each instance, the value of the amount of each foreign currency selected by the CBOE is generally equivalent to the corresponding amount of U.S. Dollars. The Commission also finds that it is appropriate for the Exchange to appoint market markers to FLEX Options with respect to the particular settlement currencies of each eligible FLEX Options index. 18 Distinguishing among the various settlement currencies in this fashion should help ensure that market makers will have the experience and expertise to quote FLEX Options in the particular currency. 18 See proposed CBOE Rule 24A.5(g).
