FR940922-1-00065 FR940922-1-00009 Thursday September 22, 1994 Part IV Department of Health and Human Services Food and Drug Administration 21 CFR Part 54, et al. Financial Disclosure by Clinical Investigators; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 183␣/␣ Thursday, September 22, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration 21 CFR Parts 54, 312, 314, 320, 330, 601, 807, 812, 814, and 860 [Docket No. 93N&hyph;0445] Financial Disclosure by Clinical Investigators AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is proposing to require that the sponsor of any drug, biological product, or device submit certain information concerning the compensation to, and financial interests of, any clinical investigator conducting clinical studies to determine whether that product meets the marketing requirements specified by the agency. This requirement will apply to most clinical studies involving human subjects, as well as any study to establish bioavailability or bioequivalence. The agency is proposing to require that sponsors certify to the absence of certain financial interests of clinical investigators or disclose those financial interests when clinical studies are submitted to FDA in support of product marketing. If the agency adopts this proposal, and the sponsor does not include one of the required submissions with the application for marketing a covered product that contains clinical data, the agency will refuse to file the application. FDA will propose to extend these requirements to submissions for marketing approval related to human foods, animal foods, and animal drugs in a notice to be published in a subsequent issue of the Federal Register . FDA is seeking public comment on these proposed requirements. DATES: Written comments on or before December 21, 1994. The agency is proposing that any final rule that may issue based on this proposed rule become effective 6 months after the date of its publication. ADDRESSEES: Submit written comments and responses to questions to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. Comments should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John S. Ensign, Office of Health Affairs (HFY&hyph;22), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20852, 301&hyph;443&hyph;1382. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background There is a growing recognition in the academic and scientific communities that certain financial arrangements between clinical investigators and product sponsors, or the personal financial interests of clinical investigators, can potentially bias the outcome of clinical trials. Although FDA and other government agencies, in parallel with these communities, are increasingly concerned about the potential for such interests to bias data generated by these studies, the agency currently has no mechanism to collect information concerning specific financial interests of clinical investigators who conduct studies in support of product marketing. The creation of a system to collect and analyze this information will strengthen the product review process. In the Federal Register of June 28, 1994, the Public Health Service published a notice of proposed rulemaking on objectivity in research (59 FR 33242&hyph;33251); and the National Science Foundation published a statement of policy on financial disclosure by scientific investigators (59 FR 33308&hyph;33312). The fact that these other government agencies have developed such policies and regulations reinforces FDA's concerns and its decision to seek an appropriate approach to the issue. Of necessity, such an approach differs in some respects among different agencies, based on differences in their responsibilities and the nature of their relationships with external communities (i.e., the role of a regulatory agency versus a grant-making agency). For example, the PHS and NSF documents are broader in scope than the FDA proposed rule and respond to principles that govern federally funded grants and contracts. The concerns of PHS and NSF include the stewardship of public research funds and the assurance of objectivity in the research supported by these funds. Receipt of Federal funds for research is a privilege, and, just as such funds are granted for all types of research, PHS and NSF are interested in guarding against bias in all research.
