FR941007-0-00005 FR941007-0-00002 In 1985, WHO published its revised Energy and Protein Requirement Report prepared by a Joint Expert Consultation of the FAO/WHO and United Nations University (UNU). This consultation revised amino acid pattern requirements for humans into age groups of 2 to 5 years, 6 to 12 years, and adult, and extensively reviewed the requirements based on amino acid scoring and digestibility. Of the three amino acid patterns established, the 2 to 5 year old child pattern has the highest individual and total requirements. The report stated that protein and diets containing essential amino acids that met the greater needs of young children were also adequate for older children and adults, whereas the reverse may not be true. On this basis, the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Protein Evaluation (1989) concluded that no adequate basis existed for using different scoring patterns for different age groups, with the exception of infants, who have a much greater need for essential amino acids. They recommended that the FAO/WHO/UNU amino acid scoring pattern for preschool children should be used to evaluate protein quality for all age groups, except infants. PDCAAS was recommended for calculating dietary protein intakes. Thus, precise human amino acid requirement patterns are available for all age groups. Both FNS and the FDA have recognized the applicability and usefulness of the PDCAAS method of measuring protein quality. The regulation governing the use of VPP in the Child Nutrition Programs, 7 CFR Parts 210, 225 and 226, Appendix A - Alternate Foods for Meals; Vegetable Protein Products, published January 7, 1983, allowed FNS to approve an alternate test for measuring the biological quality of protein for VPP. This provision was included in the regulation in anticipation of recognition by the scientific community and FDA of the PDCAAS. FNS has since accepted the PDCAAS method in addition to the PER method for determining protein quality of VPP. This acceptance was based on the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Protein Evaluation (1989) and with FDA's concurrence. On July 19, 1990 (55 FR 29487 at 29499), FDA stated that their regulatory requirements to use PER ``inhibit(ed) flexibility in determining protein quality by alternative methodologies.'' At that time, FDA proposed to continue the use of the PER, while also allowing use of alternative acceptable validated procedures as they become available. Subsequently, in response to a petition from Protein Technologies International, Inc., FDA stated in the preamble to the nutrition labeling proposal published on November 27, 1991 (56 FR 60366 at 60369), that permitting PDCAAS to be used as an alternative to PER had merit. In commenting on that petition FDA quoted its earlier comments on the need for a flexible approach to determining protein quality: As new methodologies and new information on amino acid requirements of various age groups become available, the agency believes it must become more flexible in regard to permitted protein quality methodologies. Therefore, while the PER method described in the Official Methods of Analysis of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists may continue to be used as one of the methods for assessing the protein quality of foods, alternative acceptable validated procedures may be used as they become available. (55 FR 29487 at 29499). However, FDA later proposed to require the PDCAAS, stating in the preamble (56 FR 60366 at 60370) that: The agency has reviewed the FAO/WHO report and tentatively accepts its conclusion that the protein digestibility-corrected amino acid score method is more appropriate for assessing protein quality of foods than animal assays and is preferable for regulatory purposes. In October, 1989, the Subcommittee on the 10th Edition of the Recommended Dietary Allowances published the revised Recommended Dietary Allowances. These new allowances confirm and accept the amino acid requirement pattern as published by the WHO, 1985, and recognize PDCAAS as an appropriate method of assessing protein quality of human diets. The amino acid requirements for the 2 to 5 year old suggested by both of these scientific bodies are identical. The Codex Alimentarius Vegetable Protein Committee as well as the Codex Committee on Special Dietary Foods have also recommended amino acid scoring for evaluation of vegetable proteins and special dietary foods. The PDCAAS was considered and accepted by the Joint FAO/WHO Codex Alimentarius Commission which convened in Geneva, Switzerland during July 1989. An Expert Consultation convened at the request of the Codex Alimentarius Commission reviewed the amino acid scoring methodologies and recommended the implementation of the PDCAAS for measuring protein quality. After extensive deliberation, resulting in a comprehensive report, it was reported that, ``. . . the Consultation agreed that the Protein Digestibility-Corrected Amino Acid Score method was the most suitable approach for routine evaluation of protein quality for humans, and recommended the adoption of this method as an official method at the international level.'' (Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Protein Evaluation, Codex Alimentarius, Washington, D.C., 1989). The Expert Consultation's report and recommendations were transmitted to the FAO Secretariat in Rome for final review and dissemination to the Codex Alimentarius Commission membership. The report of the Expert Consultation contains many findings and conclusions, most supportive of the PDCAAS. No conclusions adverse to this method were reported.
