FR941216-1-00151 FR941216-1-00012 §184.195 Destruction chambers and incinerators. (a) General. Small, loaded ammunition components such as primers, fuzes, boosters, detonators, activators, relays, delays and all types of small-arms ammunition, should be destroyed in destruction chambers and deactivation furnaces. Explosives scrap incinerators should be used for burning tracer and igniter compositions, small quantities of solid propellant, magnesium powder, sump cleanings, absorbent cleaning materials, and similar materials. Destruction chambers and incinerators should be equipped with suitable pollution-control devices, such as multiple chamber incinerators with thermal incinerator afterburners. The final incineration should take place at 1400 ○F, minimum. (b) Operation of incinerators. (1) The feeding conveyor shall not be operated until the incinerator temperature is high enough to ensure complete destruction. Temperature recording devices should be installed. (2) To remove accumulated residue, incinerators shall be shut down and thoroughly cooled. Repairs shall be made only during shutdown. Personnel entering the incinerator to clean it shall be provided with respiratory protection, to prevent inhalation of toxic dusts or fumes, such as mercury from tracers and lead from small-arms ammunition. (c) Operation of destruction chambers and deactivation furnaces. (1) Operation shall be by remote control. (2) Operators shall not approach the unprotected side of the concrete barricade to replenish fuel, adjust the oil flame, or for any other reason, until enough time has elapsed for explosives in the chamber to go off. To keep the feedpipe chute or conveyor obstruction-free, regular inspections shall take place. (3) Components shall be fed into the chamber a few at a time. The exact number permitted at one time for each type of component shall be posted in a place easily seen from the operator's working position. (4) Guards shall be installed on conveyor-feeding mechanisms to facilitate feeding and to prevent items from jamming or falling. §184.196 Support in disposal of waste. If Government-owned ammunition items or explosives are declared excess or residual and the contract says nothing about disposition, the contractor shall request instructions from the responsible Contract Administration Office. A contractor having trouble safely disposing of residual (scrap) ammunition items or explosives related to contractual operations may request help from the Contract Administration Office. Subpart P_Manufacturing and Processing Propellants §184.198 General. (a) These requirements are applicable to propellant manufacturing and augment other requirements contained in this part. (b) The safety precautions for fabrication of solid propellants, propellant loaded items, gun ammunition, and rocket motors follow the generally accepted principles used for many types of explosives and energetic materials. Solid propellants can be divided into general categories such as single, double, and triple base, castable composite, and modified double base composite; e.g., castable composite propellant modified with explosive plasticizer such as nitroglycerin. (c) Although processing safety considerations for finished propellant items and loaded rocket motors are similar, each propellant type has its own characteristics for processing of raw materials, intermediate compositions, and final processing. Hazards data testing of intermediate and finished propellant shall be accomplished to define the requirements that ensure safety in processing. Initiation thresholds to such stimuli as impact, friction, heat, and electrostatic discharge shall be known for specific processes and handling situations. Response of the materials in terms of energy input sensitivity and magnitude of energy release shall be considered to evaluate and properly apply the guidelines in this subpart. Safety precautions for ignition system fabrication shall follow the general requirements for manufacturing and processing of pyrotechnics given in subpart H of this part. (An exception to this requirement is the processing of a propellant grain igniter which shall be the same as motor propellant until grain is mated with the initiator assembly.) (d) In addition to generally accepted safety precautions for handling of explosives and other energetic materials, the following paragraphs provide general guidance pertinent to the manufacturing of solid propellants and loaded items and solid propellant rocket motors. §184.199 In-process hazards. (a) During scale up from research and development of new materials to an existing solid propellant manufacturing process, determine the chemical, physical, physiological and explosive hazards of raw materials, intermediate compositions, processing aids, and final solid propellant, both uncured and cured. (b) Testing shall determine thermal stability, chemical compatibility of ingredients, exothermic reactions, and sensitivity to ignition or detonation from friction, impact, and electrostatic discharge. Additionally, deflagration-to-detonation and card-gap test data can be valuable. Applicable tests may be selected TB 700&hyph;2, Explosives Hazard Classification Procedures. (c) Minimum testing may satisfy the classification requirements for several in-process operations. For example: (1) If reliable data exists that indicate that the propellant mixing operations are class/division 1.1 no testing would be needed to adopt this classification. (2) If testing shows that uncured propellant will detonate, the casting and curing operations shall be considered exposed to class/division 1.1 hazards.
