FR941202-2-00169 FR941202-2-00098 (2) Records of each laboratory's performance must be maintained for a period of five years or such time as may be necessary for any legal proceedings; and (3) An annual report must be provided to the primary accreditor and NELAP with, if needed, an interim report, which identifies any previously unrecognized sources of variability in kits, instruments, methods, or PE samples, which may adversely affect the ability of the primary accreditor or NELAP to evaluate laboratory performance. If a PE testing program is determined by NELAP to fail to meet any criteria for acceptance as an approved performance evaluation testing program, NELAP will notify the PE testing program and the primary accreditor. The PE program must notify all laboratories enrolled in their PE program of the nonapproval and the reasons for nonapproval, within 30 days of the notification. 2.3␣Testing of Samples The laboratory must examine or test, as applicable, the PE samples it receives from the PE testing program in the same manner as it tests environmental samples, and return the results by the deadline stated in the sample package. The analyst testing or examining the samples and the laboratory management must attest to the routine integration of the samples into the workload using the laboratory's routine methods. The laboratory must test samples the same number of times that it routinely tests environmental samples. Laboratories that perform tests on PE samples must comply with the following restrictions and limitations on communications and sample transfer: (a) Laboratories must not engage in any interlaboratory communications pertaining to the results of PE sample(s) until after the date by which the laboratory must report the results to the PE program for the PE test event in which the samples were sent; (b) Laboratories with multiple testing sites or separate locations must not participate in any communications or discussions across sites/locations concerning PE sample results until after the date by which the laboratory must report the PE test results to the program; and (c) The laboratory must not send PE samples or portions of samples to another laboratory for any analysis for which they seek accreditation. Any laboratory that the primary accreditor or NELAP determines intentionally referred its PE samples to another laboratory for analysis and submits the other laboratory's results as their own, will have its certification revoked for a minimum period of one year. Any laboratory that receives PE samples from another laboratory for testing must notify the accreditation program of the receipt of those samples. Laboratories not doing so may have their accreditation suspended for a period not to exceed one year. This policy is not intended to prevent interlaboratory testing designed as part of a methods development or evaluation study, and applies only to PE samples. The laboratory shall initiate chain of custody procedures upon receipt of all PE samples. The laboratory must maintain a copy of all records, including analytical worksheets, for a minimum of five years. This record must include a copy of the PE program report forms used by the laboratory to record PE results, and an attestation statement signed by the analyst and the laboratory management stating that PE samples were tested in the same manner as routine samples. 2.4␣Scoring Option I: Pre-established pass/fail range set by calculating 95% confidence interval determined by previous studies.
