FR940407-0-00106 FR940407-0-00015 II. Responses to Public Comments The following is a summary of the comments received by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in response to the proposed rule published on September 30, 1992 (57 FR 45258) and the Department's response to these issues. There were no comments on or objections to the proposed amendment to delete the prohibition against the construction of permanent dwellings and structures on the five in-lieu sites, which was the only subject matter of the proposed rule. However, several comments suggested that the requirement that the sites be used in conformity with applicable health, sanitation and safety standards be changed or deleted on the grounds that the requirement is contrary to the Judgment in Sohappy v. Hodel and illegally recognizes, or might be construed as recognizing, State or local regulatory authority over the in-lieu sites. Although this portion of the regulation was not the subject matter of the proposed rule, we addressed the comment in order to clarify the purpose and intent of the existing provision of the regulation. The regulation, as originally adopted in 1969, provides that the ``sites must be used in a manner that conforms to the health, sanitation, and safety requirements of the State or local law, or, in the absence of appropriate State or local laws, to the health, sanitation, and safety recommendations of the U.S. Public Health Service.'' That portion of the regulation was not challenged by the plaintiffs in Sohappy v. Hodel. Moreover, the final Judgment in Sohappy v. Hodel expressly recognizes the Bureau's continuing authority to manage and maintain the sites consistent ``with the health and safety requirements of 25 CFR part 248 and other applicable laws.'' Therefore, the requirement that the sites be used in conformity with appropriate health, sanitation, and safety laws is not in conflict with the Judgment in Sohappy v. Hodel. The Bureau agrees that the States do not have regulatory jurisdiction or authority over the in-lieu fishing sites. The sites are Federal properties held by the United States for the benefit of the Indian tribes with treaty fishing rights in the Columbia River. The Bureau regulates and manages the sites as a matter of Federal law, but, in the absence of specific Bureau regulations governing health, sanitation, and safety requirements, the regulation provides for the incorporation by reference of State or U.S. Public Health Service standards. There were no comments which documented any instance of attempted State regulatory enforcement. Because it is clear the States lack regulatory authority at the sites, we do not believe there is any need to amend or delete this language from the regulation. Comments from the Yakima Indian Nation and the Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation, suggest that management and regulation of the sites should be governed by the law of the tribe which ceded the territory wherein the sites are located. The sites are owned by the Federal government and are managed by the Bureau for the benefit of all the tribes with treaty fishing rights in the Columbia River, and therefore exclusive management cannot be granted to a single tribe, absent an agreement between all the affected tribes. The suggestion has not been adopted in this final rule. Finally, one comment suggested that the proposed regulation inappropriately affects the tribes' right, title and interests in the sites, restricts the Indians' right to use the sites for fishing and related purposes, and permits unreasonable actions by the agency, all contrary to the final Judgment in Sohappy v. Hodel. There was no documentation regarding any specific impact on the tribes' rights or suggestions of any specific language change. The Judgment in Sohappy v. Hodel declared the regulation invalid insofar as it prohibits permanent occupancy of the five in-lieu sites. The amendment specifically deletes the prohibition against construction of permanent dwellings and structures on the sites. We believe the final rule is consistent with the Judgment and no changes have been made. III. The Final Rule This final rule is published in exercise of the authority delegated by the Secretary of the Interior to the Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs by 209 DM 8. The Department has certified to the Office of Management and Budget that this final regulation meets the applicable standards provided in section 2(a) and section 2(b)(2) of Executive Order 12778.
