FR940405-2-00118 FR940405-2-00043 85. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: Tampa Housing Authority, FL. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made for funding for eleven units approved for non-dwelling use to promote an economic self-sufficiency program. Nature of Requirement: The operating subsidy calculation excludes funding for units removed from the dwelling rental inventory. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: June 16, 1993. Reason Waived: To allow additional subsidy for units approved for non-dwelling use to promote economic self-sufficiency services and anti-drug programs pending publication of a final rule implementing this change to the regulation. 86. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: North Charleston Housing Authority, SC. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made for funding for six units approved for non-dwelling use to promote an economic self-sufficiency (headstart) program. Nature of Requirement: The operating subsidy calculation excludes funding for units removed from the dwelling rental inventory. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: June 16, 1993. Reason Waived: To allow additional subsidy for units approved for non-dwelling use to promote economic self-sufficiency services and anti-drug programs pending publication of a final rule implementing this change to the regulation. 87. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: Mower County Housing and Redevelopment Authority, MN. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made to extend the deadline for submission of a request for adjustment to the Allowable Expense Level. Nature of Requirement: The Final Rule for PFS Allowable Expense Level appeals imposed a sixty day deadline on submission of requests for adjustment. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: June 17, 1993. Reason Waived: The Housing Agency had misunderstood the deadline. This waiver was granted based on the Housing Agency's eligibility for an adjustment and its low reserve level. 88. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: Anderson Housing Authority, SC. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made for funding for one unit approved for non-dwelling use to promote an anti-drug program. Nature of Requirement: The operating subsidy calculation excludes funding for units removed from the dwelling rental inventory. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: July 15, 1993. Reason Waived: To allow additional subsidy for units approved for non-dwelling use to promote economic self-sufficiency services and anti-drug programs pending publication of a final rule implementing this change to the regulation. 89. Regulation: 24 CFR 990.104. Project/Activity: Cookeville Housing Authority, TN. In determining the operating subsidy eligibility, a request was made for funding for one unit approved for non-dwelling use to promote an economic self-sufficiency and anti-drug program. Nature of Requirement: The operating subsidy calculation excludes funding for units removed from the dwelling rental inventory. Granted By: Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary. Date Granted: August 6, 1993. Reason Waived: To allow additional subsidy for units approved for non-dwelling use to promote economic self-sufficiency services and anti-drug programs pending publication of a final rule implementing this change to the regulation.
