FR940920-1-00092 FR940920-1-00008 Selective noncatalytic reduction is currently used by 16 existing MWC units at large plants. Tests conducted by the EPA at the Stanislaus County, California, MWC showed that existing SNCR systems achieve NO X levels of 180 ppmv on a 24-hour average basis. Because postcombustion NO X control is required by the MACT floor, and there is only a small incremental cost to operate an SNCR system to achieve 180 ppmv versus the MACT floor level of 215 ppmv, the proposed guideline level for NO X for large plants (excluding mass burn/refractory MWC's) is 180 ppmv. As discussed in section IV.F.1.c of this preamble, SNCR may not be effective on mass burn/refractory MWC's. Therefore, postcombustion NO X control is not being considered for this type of MWC. The MACT guideline for NO X for mass burn/refractory MWC's at large MWC plants is based on no control. Section VIII of this preamble discusses ``no control'' emission limits for NO X . The EPA recognizes that costs associated with the proposed NO X control requirements for large existing MWC plants are not insignificant. Under the proposal, about 73 percent of current MWC capacity would be expected to retrofit NO X control. On a national basis, the retrofit of NO X controls to existing MWC plants would cost about $56 million/yr and would represent about 13 percent of the $445 million annual cost of the entire proposal. As discussed above, the MACT floor for large MWC plants is 215 ppmv and would require less than 20-percent NO X control (reduction). This could be achieved by application of SNCR technology at a low performance level or, perhaps, by using combustion modification (e.g., excess air) or materials management. The proposal, however, goes beyond MACT floor requirements and would establish MACT at 180 ppmv or about 30- to 40-percent NO X reduction based on the full application of SNCR at an MWC with average baseline emissions of 225 ppmv. The EPA requests comment on the alternative of establishing NO X standards at the level of the MACT floor (215 ppmv) based on the above approach. The EPA also requests comment and data supporting the achievability of a MACT floor level (24-hour arithmetic average, corrected to 7 percent O 2 ) without the use of an SNCR system. Additionally, the EPA requests data and information on alternative NO X control technologies including but not limited to the application of combustion modification techniques to existing MWC's or of other management measures (perhaps separation of yard waste) to comply with either the proposed level or a floor level at a lower cost than an SNCR system. 4. MACT Floor and MACT for Small MWC Plants This section summarizes the MACT floor and presents the EPA's rationale for establishing MACT for each pollutant for MWC's at small MWC facilities. a. Summary of MACT Floor for Small MWC Plants. The proposal determines the MACT floor for existing MWC's based on permit limits. The population of MWC units at small MWC plants consists of about 137 combustor units. Only 88 of the 137 units are facilities that have federally enforceable permit limitations. Therefore, for determining the MACT floor, the emission limitations achieved by the top 11 units in the small MWC plant category represent the top 12 percent of units with federally enforced permit limitations. Many of the smallest MWC's with unit capabilities below 45 Mg/day (i.e., those MWC's not subject to the 1971 subpart E NSPS) do not have federally enforceable permit limitations. For some pollutants, less than 11 permits were identified for the category of small MWC plants (i.e., many small plants with permits have emission limits for only some of the pollutants covered by the proposed guidelines.) In such cases, typical uncontrolled emission levels for that pollutant were used for determining the average of the top 12 percent of emission limitations. Table 5 provides a summary of the MACT floor emission levels for each pollutant for small MWC plants.
