FR940505-1-00237 FR940505-1-00012 c. Test requirements. EPA is proposing to conduct certification and enforcement testing of nonroad heavy-duty engines regulated under this program using the federal nonroad procedures for NO X and hydrocarbon emission measurement expected to be finalized by May 30, 1994, except that test fuels would be based on applicable California specifications. The eight mode steady state duty-cycle and other test procedures that will be finalized in the national rule for CI engines are proposed here to apply to both compression-ignition and spark-ignition engines, regardless of fuel type. Exhaust hydrocarbon measurements would be quantified as nonmethane hydrocarbons (NMHC), or other fuel specific equivalents. Assembly-line testing would be performed under EPA's Selective Enforcement Audit testing program as described in 40 CFR part 89 subpart F. Since the test procedure being proposed today is a steady-state procedure, it may not result in control designs for nonroad engines that produce the degree of in-use emissions reductions expected. For example, spark-ignition engines can exhibit very different emissions characteristics on different test cycles, such as cycles with transient operating conditions. The Agency is also concerned that the 8-mode test may be inadequate for verifying the compliance of CI engines with the NMHC and NO X standards proposed here, as discussed in the May 17, 1993 nationwide nonroad proposal. Because of these concerns, the Agency will monitor engines produced and certified very carefully to be assured that engines do, in fact, yield proportional in-use emissions reductions. The Agency will also remain alert to the possible use of defeat devices or design approaches that result in non-proportional emissions reductions under operating conditions that are outside the test procedure operating conditions. Additionally, the Agency is engaged in a program to characterize the in-use operation of nonroad engines. This program will allow EPA to develop representative duty cycles, evaluate the emissions impact of those cycles and determine which cycle will best ensure engine designs that will yield the expected level of in-use control. The Agency may change the duty cycle used to test nonroad engines in a subsequent rulemaking if the Agency determines that such a change is needed to assure that projected emission reductions actually occur in use. Manufacturers of engines subject to the inherently low evaporative emissions requirement would submit test results or an engineering evaluation to demonstrate that the certified vehicles have inherently low evaporative emissions. Test procedures are described in EPA Clean Fuel Fleet program regulations (58 FR 11888, March 1, 1993). The standards and procedures proposed for enhanced nonroad heavy-duty engines would apply equally to certification and vehicle recall testing. EPA requests comment on these test procedures, especially on the use of the steady-state test for spark ignition engines. 4. Inspection & Maintenance (I/M) Program As mentioned earlier, EPA is not proposing I/M requirements for nonroad engines. Developing a new I/M program for the diverse set of applications involved would be a very difficult and complex undertaking and would present significant testing and administrative burdens. However, an in-use testing program (such as I/M) would allow EPA to reconsider the need to require nonroad engines to be low evaporative and the need for the nonroad engine rebuild requirements. EPA therefore requests comment on the feasibility and desirability of adopting an I/M program for heavy-duty nonroad engines covered under the enhanced in-use compliance program. The I/M program could apply to any or all nonroad engines over 50 hp sold for use in California's designated FIP areas. The reader is referred to the light-duty vehicle I/M discussion (section A.(4) of this appendix) for a detailed discussion of such enhanced vehicle requirements as geographic scope, testing, enhanced I/M threshold, manufacturer liability, tracking of enhanced I/M test results, threshold calculation, data collection, and manufacturer notification of liability. Commenters recommending a nonroad I/M program should comment on the proper I/M test for heavy-duty nonroad engines and whether the capabilities for such tests would be needed at every facility. They should also comment on what the specifications for such a facility would be and whether any such facility could handle all types of nonroad equipment. An I/M program for nonroad engines would apply for the full operating life of the engine.
