FR941028-2-00089 FR941028-2-00066 Availability of a Draft Environmental Assessment and Notice of an Application for an Incidental Take Permit for La Costa Villages, Carlsbad, California, by the City of Carlsbad and Fieldstone/La Costa Associates AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Fieldstone/La Costa Associates and the City of Carlsbad have applied to the Fish and Wildlife Service (Service), Department of the Interior, for an incidental take permit pursuant to section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The application has been assigned permit No. PRT&hyph;795759. The application includes a Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) for a proposed 1,940 acre project (HCP area) in the southeastern corner of the City of Carlsbad, San Diego County, California. Completion of the grading and construction activities associated with the proposed project would result in direct impacts on-site to 30 of 48 known pairs of the threatened coastal California gnatcatcher ( Polioptila californica californica ) (gnatcatcher), 507 of 944 acres of coastal sage scrub, 91 of 120 acres of southern maritime chaparral, 158 of 195 acres of southern mixed chaparral, 254 of 307 acres of grassland, and 69 of 114 acres of riparian scrub/woodland. Approximately 18 pairs of gnatcatchers, 437 acres of coastal sage scrub, and 193 acres of associated habitats on-site will be conserved and managed in perpetuity. In addition, 240 acres of off-site mitigation is proposed. The applicants have requested the issuance of permits (immediately or when a species is listed) under section 10(a) of the Act that would authorize incidental take, in accordance with the terms of the HCP, of the 66 sensitive species listed in the HCP. Of these species, the coastal California gnatcatcher is the only one that is listed as threatened or endangered under the Act and is the only federally listed species observed on-site. In a number of cases, the species named in the HCP have not been observed on-site. This notice advises the public of the availability of a draft Environmental Assessment (EA), HCP, and an Addendum to the HCP. These documents were prepared by the applicants and their consultants. This notice is provided pursuant to section 10(c) of the Act and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) regulations (40 CFR 1506.6(b)). The Service will evaluate the application, associated documents, and comments submitted thereon to determine whether the application meets the requirements of NEPA regulations and section 10(a) of the Act. If it is determined that the requirements are met, a permit will be issued for the incidental take of listed species identified in the application. DATES: Written comments on the permit application and draft EA should be received on or before November 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments regarding the application and adequacy of the draft EA should be addressed to Mr. Gail Kobetich, Field Supervisor, Carlsbad Field Office, 2730 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008. Please refer to permit No. PRT&hyph;795759 when submitting comments. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gail Kobetich or Ken Corey at the above address (619&hyph;431&hyph;9440). Persons may obtain copies of the draft EA, Permit Application, HCP, and Addendum to the HCP by calling the above phone number. These documents also will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under section 9 of the Act, and implementing regulations, taking of federally listed threatened or endangered species is prohibited. Taking, in part, is defined as harm or harassment of federally listed species, including under certain circumstances, the destruction of habitat. Under limited circumstances, the Service may issue section 10(a)(1)(B) permits to take listed animal species if such taking is incidental to, and not the purpose of, otherwise lawful activities. Regulations governing permits for listed species are found at Title 50 Code of Federal Regulations 17.22 and 17.32. Fieldstone/La Costa Associates and the City of Carlsbad have applied for a 30-year permit to authorize incidental take associated with a proposed residential development and re-alignment of Rancho Santa Fe Road in the HCP area. The HCP area contains two geographic subareas: a 1,278 acre subarea identified as ``Rancheros-Southeast II'' and a 662 acre subarea identified as ``Northwest,'' both occurring within the area covered by Carlsbad's citywide Habitat Management Plan (HMP), a subarea plan under the statewide Natural Communities Conservation Program (NCCP). The HCP area also is located within the jurisdiction of the Multiple Habitat Conservation Plan (MHCP), a subregional plan addressing north coastal San Diego County under the NCCP. A concern has been raised regarding the consistency of the HCP with the HMP and MHCP under the NCCP.
