FR940616-2-00161 FR940616-2-00102 For all families that have not previously been on an assisted project's waiting list, the clearinghouse could review for eligibility, perform income and employment verification, secure all information necessary to determine federal or local preferences, and automatically crosslist the applicant for each type of housing project within the program for which he or she is eligible. For example, if a family were to apply for a Section 221(d)(3) unit and were to be found eligible under that program, the family would be crosslisted for all of that program's projects which were participating in the clearinghouse. (B) Conduct testing and other related activities, particularly in the event that an applicant served by the clearinghouse appears to have encountered discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap or familial status or other prohibited conduct that may violate the Fair Housing Act or Executive Order 11063. However, testing for enforcement purposes may be funded only from sources other than this NOFA, and the proposer shall indicate clearly the purpose of any testing and the source and amount of funding devoted to this purpose. Testing, if carried out for educational purposes only, may be funded through this NOFA. (C) Provide escort and other services to families willing to explore housing opportunities in neighborhoods where their race or ethnic group does not predominate and where they would have been least likely to apply without special outreach. (v) The applicant can also propose any of the following activities affecting FHA-insured, VA or conventionally financed single-family housing which is affordable for low-income families. These activities may be funded either exclusively from this NOFA, exclusively from sources other than this NOFA or from both federal and non-federal sources: (A) An areawide affirmative fair housing marketing plan which emphasizes the single-family market; (B) An areawide list of single-family homeownership opportunities generated from financial institutions, realty companies and local governments. These entities may refer prospective home purchasers to the clearinghouse upon request, so that such purchasers can avail themselves of the homeownership opportunities listed by the clearinghouse; and (C) A campaign that targets: ( 1 ) Realty companies and home builders who build, rehabilitate or sell 10 or more new single-family homes annually, and ( 2 ) financial institutions involved in the making of loans on residential property through the outreach program to housing providers contained in the proposed areawide affirmative marketing plan. (2) The second element of the lab consists of an evaluation of the clearinghouse concept. The evaluation shall address: (i) How the clearinghouse concept compares with the present system of HUD review of individual affirmative marketing plans and with the participation by local affiliates of the National Association of Realtors, the National Association of Homebuilders, the National Association of Real Estate Brokers and several other major national real estate industry organizations in the Voluntary Affirmative Marketing Agreement Program, in terms of cost-effectiveness; and (ii) How effective the clearinghouse is in creating greater housing choice and opportunity and in affecting change in a community's housing occupancy and homeownership patterns. The Department has decided that the evaluation of the activities conducted under this NOFA will be conducted by an independent contractor prior to the end of the project. (3) The third element of the lab requires the development of new ways to: (i) Identify groups within the eligible population that are less likely to apply for housing without special outreach; (ii) Encourage those groups to take advantage of housing opportunities in nontraditional areas; (iii) Identify effective advertising methods; (iv) Increase awareness of nondiscriminatory tenant selection and application processing; and (v) Test other ways to implement affirmative fair housing marketing. (f) Selection Criteria/Ranking Factors (1) Selection Criteria for Ranking Applications for Assistance All proposals submitted in response to this NOFA will be ranked on the basis of the following selection criteria: (i) The anticipated impact of the proposal on the concerns identified in the application. (25 points). In determining the anticipated impact of each proposal, HUD will evaluate whether the proposal is well-conceived and likely to be successful if implemented, and will consider the degree to which the proposal addresses the significant fair housing issues affecting the Chicago metropolitan area which had been identified in the fair housing analysis required under this NOFA. Particular emphasis will be placed on how the proposer describes the potential impact of the proposed plan on the fair housing environment. This criterion will be judged on the basis of the applicant's submissions in response to Paragraphs IV (a)(1), (a)(2) and (a)(6) of this NOFA under the heading ``Checklist of Application Submission Requirements''. (ii) The extent to which the proposal will provide benefits in support of fair housing after the lab has been completed. (25 points) In determining the extent to which the proposal will continue providing benefits after funded activities have been completed, HUD will consider the degree to which the concept can be used as a model for similar metropolitan areawide affirmative marketing clearinghouses in other parts of the country. HUD will also evaluate how the applicant plans to insure the long-term financial viability of the clearinghouse fundraising from public and private sources or other means. This criterion will be judged on the basis of the applicant's submissions in response to Paragraphs IV (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(5), and (a)(8) of this NOFA under the heading ``Checklist of Application Submission Requirements''.
