FR940223-1-00003 FR940223-1-00001 1. One paragraph is added at the conclusion of the discussion of Issue No. 1, and paragraphs 41&hyph;42 are modified. 2. One paragraph is added at the conclusion of the discussion of Issue No. 2. 3. One paragraph is added at the conclusion of the discussion of Issue No. 3. 4. Under Issue No. 4, the sixth-to-last, third-to-last, and last paragraphs are revised, the second-to-last paragraph is deleted, and a new paragraph is added at the conclusion of the discussion. The material issues on the record of the hearing relate to: 1. Multiple component pricing of milk under both orders. 2. Performance standards for supply plants under the Pacific Northwest order. 3. Status of a milk plant operated by a state institution under the Pacific Northwest order. 4. Plant location adjustments for Yakima County, Washington, under the Pacific Northwest order. Findings and Conclusions The following findings and conclusions on the material issues are based on evidence presented at the hearing and the record thereof: 1. Multiple component pricing of milk under the Pacific Northwest and Southwestern Idaho-Eastern Oregon orders. The Pacific Northwest and Southwestern Idaho-Eastern Oregon orders should be amended to provide for multiple component pricing of Class II and Class III (including Class III&hyph;A) milk to handlers and for establishing minimum pay prices to producers. Under the Pacific Northwest order, the components to be priced will be nonfat milk solids and butterfat. Under the Southwestern Idaho-Eastern Oregon order, the components to be priced will be protein and butterfat. Multiple component pricing for both orders was proposed by Darigold Farms, and Western Dairymen Cooperative, Inc., joined as a co-proponent for the Southwestern Idaho-Eastern Oregon proposal. The basic thrust of the proposal was that it was time to change the way milk is priced under both orders such that the pricing system would send a clear economic signal to producers as to which milk components are in the greatest demand and which ones have the greatest economic value in the marketplace. Two witnesses testified on behalf of Darigold. One witness testified extensively on the general concept of multiple component pricing. He stated that the current pricing system, which is based on the value of butterfat and skim milk, does not reflect changes that have occurred over time in the value of certain milk components. In his view, the current system is based on market conditions that prevailed more than 50 years ago. The current system, in his opinion, simply encourages producers to increase the volume of skim milk produced without regard to the content of such milk. The Darigold witness indicated that under the current pricing system, given the current levels of milk prices and fat differentials, one pound of protein, lactose, other solids, or even milk water is now valued at somewhere between nine and ten cents per pound. Thus, the price of one pound of butterfat is about equal to the value attributed to one gallon of milk water. He also indicated that one pound of butterfat is said to be worth seven to eight times as much as one pound of milk protein, even though that appears to be unreasonable. He maintained that these unrealistic price comparisons are nonetheless actual measurements of the incentives that dairymen are expected to respond to under present regulations when they plan their breeding and production activities. He further indicated his strong belief that the present system stands in the way of achieving optimum efficiency. Thus, he urged the adoption of multiple component pricing wherein the marketplace values of various milk components will be reflected in pricing milk to handlers and to producers. In this way, consumers' demands and preferences for milk and other dairy products can be translated into real signals that indicate to producers the milk components consumers want and are willing to pay for.
