FR941007-1-00062 FR941007-1-00009 Strategic Plan Assessment The December proposal would have provided that, as an alternative to being rated under the lending, service, and investment tests, or the small institution assessment standards, an institution could submit to its supervisory agency for approval a strategic plan detailing how the institution proposed to meet its CRA obligation. The December proposal would have required that the plan be submitted three months in advance of its effective date, and that the institution solicit public comment on the plan at the time the plan is submitted to the agency. No plan would have been approved unless it provided measurable goals for proposed performance and those goals constituted at least satisfactory performance under the standards of the regulation. No plan could have had a term beyond two years, and the institution could have petitioned the agency to amend the plan on the grounds that a material change of circumstances made the plan no longer appropriate. The agency would have assessed the CRA performance of the institution under the plan. If the institution failed to meet or exceed the preponderance of its goals, its performance would have been evaluated against the lending, service and investment tests or the small institution assessment method, as applicable. The preamble to the December proposal stated that an institution operating under an approved strategic plan would not be relieved of its obligation to report data under the regulation. The concerns regarding the strategic plan option most consistently raised by the comments were the December proposal's lack of details concerning important aspects of how the plan option would operate and the nature of public input into the process. The revised proposal would provide substantially more detail about the operation of the plan option than the December proposal, and would modify the December proposal in other respects as well. In the revised proposal, the agencies have attempted to provide a real alternative to the standard lending, investment, and service tests through the strategic plan option, while assuring that those operating under a plan are subject to a CRA assessment that is no less stringent and performance-based than the proposed standard tests. The revised proposal would substantially revise the provisions in the December proposal regarding public participation in the plan process. An institution would be required to informally seek suggestions from the public while developing the plan. Once the institution had developed the plan, the institution would be required to formally solicit public comment on the plan for at least 30 days. The agencies have decided not to extend the minimum comment period to avoid unduly lengthening the plan process. After the comment period, the institution would submit the plan to its regulator, along with any comments received, and, if the plan was revised in light of the comments received, the plan in the form released for public comment. Under the revised proposal, a submitted plan would be approved if the agency fails to act on the plan within 60 days after submission, unless the agency extended the review period for good cause. Until a plan was approved, an institution would be subject to the standard performance tests. These changes would increase the opportunity for productive community input in the plan process. By requiring an institution to seek informal suggestions in formulating a plan, and then to solicit formal comment before submitting a plan to the agency, this process will encourage consultation between an institution and its community, including local government, community leaders, and the public. There would not be a further comment period after the institution submits its proposed plan to the agency because such a comment period could undermine the direct communication and consultation between an institution and its community that is most beneficial to the process. The revised proposal would provide that, in evaluating a plan, the agency would consider the public's involvement in formulating the plan and any response by the institution to public comment on the plan. Several comments appeared to misunderstand why the strategic plan would provide for input from the public. The plan option would provide institutions an opportunity to tailor their CRA objectives to the needs of their community and their capacity and expertise. Few comments suggested that an institution would be able to determine the needs of its community without consulting in some fashion with those in the community. Several industry comments were concerned that under the strategic plan option, community organizations would play an inappropriate role in an institution's operations. However, the purpose of the consultation would be for the institution to develop information about the needs of its community and how they might be met so that it can make better judgments when formulating its plan objectives. The decision regarding how the institution is to meet those needs would remain with the institution. In reviewing the public participation, the agencies would not consider whether community organizations unanimously supported the plan, but whether the institution made an appropriate investigation to determine the needs of its community, and whether, considering the information about community credit needs that the institution received in the comments, the plan goals are appropriate. The agencies would evaluate strategic plans and their proposed measurable goals in the assessment context against which the tests and standards of the proposed regulation would be applied.
