FR940620-2-00034 FR940620-2-00020 D. The extent to which the applicant describes how the study will be administered, including the size, qualifications, duties and responsibilities, and time allocation of the proposed staff; the availability of the facilities to be used, and a schedule for accomplishing the activities, including time frames. If a contract with a hospital is proposed, a letter of support must be included. (30 Points) In addition, consideration will be given to the extent to which the budget is reasonable, clearly justifiable, and consistent with the intended use of funds. Funding Priority Study on Hospitalization of TB Patients Funding preference may be given to applicants with the highest number of TB cases. Priority may also be given to ensure geographic balance, urban and rural balance, high prevalence of HIV-infection, and high prevalence of MDR&hyph;TB. Tuberculin Skin Testing Demonstration Projects Funding preference may be given to applicants that have established tuberculin skin testing programs for employees and include TB clinics and field workers in the project. Priority may also be given to ensure geographic balance, urban and rural balance, high and low prevalence of HIV infection. Interested persons are invited to comment on the proposed funding priority. All comments received on or before July 20, 1994, will be considered before the final funding priority is established. If the funding priority should change as a result of any comments received, a revised Announcement will be published in the Federal Register prior to the final selection of awards. Written comments should be addressed to: Elizabeth M. Taylor, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 300, Mailstop E&hyph;16, Atlanta, GA 30305. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should send them to Elizabeth M. Taylor, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Atlanta, GA 30305, not later than 60 days after due date for receipt of applications. The Program Announcement Number and Program Title should be referenced on the document. CDC does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.116. Other Requirements Paperwork Reduction Act Projects that involve the collection of information from 10 or more individuals and funded by the cooperative agreement will be subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Confidentiality Applicants must have in place systems to ensure the confidentiality of all patient records.
