FR941125-2-00123 FR941125-2-00081 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dawn Zattau at the Jacksonville, Florida, Field Office, or Rick G. Gooch at the Atlanta, Georgia, Regional Office. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Choctawhatchee Beach Mouse (CBM), Peromyscus polionotus allophrys, is a subspecies of the common old field mouse Peromyscus polionotus and is restricted to the dune systems of the Gulf Coast of Florida. The known current range of CBM extends from Choctawhatchee Bay to St. Andrew Bay. The sand dune systems inhabited by this species are not uniform; several habitat types are distinguishable. The depth of the habitat from the beach inland varies depending on the configuration of the sand dune system and the vegetation. Generally, these habitat zones are considered as primary dune (dunes immediately fronting the beach) supporting sea oats and other widely scattered grasses, and interdune area consisting of other grasses, and sedges, and a secondary dune zone supporting small trees and shrubs. The Applicant proposes to construct a planned unit development on approximately 7 acres, a portion of which is CBM habitat. A portion of the Applicant's property is within 152.5 meters (500 feet) inland from the mean high tide line of the Gulf of Mexico, designated critical habitat of the CBM (See Code of Federal Regulations Title 50, ยง17.95(a)). Initial construction of roads and utilities and subsequent development of individual homesites may result in death of or injury to CBM incidental to the carrying out of these otherwise lawful activities. Habitat alternation associated with property development may reduce the availability of feeding, shelter, and nesting habitat. The EA considers the environmental consequences of three alternatives, including acceptance of the HCP as submitted, no action, or public purchase of the subject property. Dated: November 17, 1994. Jerome M. Butler, Acting Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29052 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
