FR940412-1-00098 FR940412-1-00012 The requirements of this subpart apply only to the shipment or loading of a material listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to a section or paragraph of this subpart. §148.405 Sources of ignition. (a) Except in an emergency, no welding, burning, cutting, chipping or other operations involving the use of fire, open flame, spark or arc producing equipment, may be performed in a cargo hold containing a material to which this paragraph applies under table 148.10 or in an adjacent space. (b) Welding, burning, cutting, chipping or other operations involving the use of fire, open flame, spark or arc producing equipment, may be performed in a cargo hold containing a material to which this paragraph applies under table 148.10 of this part or in an adjacent space when approved by the master of the vessel after the hold or adjacent space has been tested to ensure that the concentration of any flammable gas that may be present does not exceed 10 percent of the LFL. §148.407 Smoking. When a material that is listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to this section is being loaded or unloaded, smoking is prohibited anywhere on board the vessel. While such a material is on board the vessel, smoking is prohibited in spaces adjacent to the cargo hold and on the vessel's deck in the vicinity of cargo hatches, ventilator outlets and other accesses to the hold containing the material. ``NO SMOKING'' signs must be displayed in conspicuous locations in the areas where smoking is prohibited. §148.410 Fire hoses. A fire hose, supplied with fresh water from a shore supply source, must be available at each hatch through which a material that is listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to this section is being loaded. When the material is being transferred between vessels, the hoses may be supplied with salt water if no fresh water is available. §148.415 Toxic gas analyzers. When transporting a material that is listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to a paragraph of this section, a gas analyzer appropriate for the toxic gas listed in that paragraph must be on board the vessel, except for unmanned barges. At least two members of the crew must be knowledgeable in the use of the equipment, which must be maintained in a condition ready for use. The atmosphere in the cargo hold and adjacent spaces must be tested before a person is allowed to enter these spaces. If toxic gases are detected, the space must be ventilated and retested prior to entry. The toxic gases for which the requirements of this section must be met when a paragraph of this section is referenced in table 148.10 of this part are as follows: (a) Arsine. (b) Carbon monoxide. (c) Hydrogen cyanide. (d) Hydrogen sulfide. (e) Phosphine. (f) Sulfur dioxide. §148.420 Flammable gas analyzers. When transporting a material listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to a paragraph of this section, a gas analyzer appropriate for the flammable gas listed in that paragraph must be on board the vessel, except for unmanned barges. At least two members of the crew must be knowledgeable in the use of the equipment, which must be maintained in a condition ready for use and capable of measuring 0&hyph;100% LFL for the gas indicated. The atmosphere in the cargo hold must be tested before any person is allowed to enter. If flammable gases are detected, the space must be ventilated and retested prior to entry. The flammable gases for which the requirements of this section must be met when a paragraph of this section is referenced in table 148.10 of this part are as follows: (a) Carbon monoxide. (b) Hydrogen. (c) Methane. §148.425 Oxygen analyzers. When transporting material that is listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to this section, equipment capable of measuring atmospheric oxygen must be carried on board the vessel, except for unmanned barges. At least two members of the crew must be knowledgeable in the use of the equipment, which must be maintained in a condition ready for use. Before any person is allowed to enter the cargo space, the atmosphere in the space must be tested to ensure that there is sufficient oxygen to support life. If the oxygen content is below 19.5% the space must be ventilated and retested prior to entry. §148.430 Self-contained breathing apparatus. When transporting a material that is listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to this section, each U.S. flag vessel, except an unmanned barge, must have on board at least two self-contained, pressure-demand-type, air breathing apparatus approved by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) or the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH), each having at least a thirty minute air supply. Each foreign flag vessel must have on board at least two such apparatus that are approved by the flag state administration. This apparatus must be in addition to that required to be part of the vessel's firemen's outfit under 46 CFR part 96, subpart 96.35 or by the flag state administration. The master shall ensure that the breathing apparatus is used only by persons trained in its use. §148.435 Electrical circuits in cargo holds. When transporting a material that is listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to this section, each electrical circuit terminating in a cargo hold containing the material must be electrically disconnected from the power source at a point outside of the cargo hold. The point of disconnection must be marked to prevent the circuit from being reenergized while the material is on board. §148.440 Stowage precautions. When transporting a material listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to a paragraph of this section, the following precautions contained in the referenced paragraph must be taken: (a) The material must be stowed in a mechanically ventilated hold. (b) Precautions must be taken to minimize exposure of persons to dust generated by the cargo. (c) Suspension of the cargo dust in the air constitutes an explosive atmosphere; precautions must be taken to prevent ignition of the cargo dust. §148.445 Adjacent spaces. When transporting a material listed in table 148.10 of this part with a reference to this section the following requirements must be met: (a) Each space adjacent to a cargo hold must be ventilated by natural ventilation or by ventilation equipment safe for use in an explosive gas atmosphere.
