FR940613-0-00127 FR940613-0-00016 3. Section 552.20 is revised to read as follows: §552.20 Purpose and scope. The Bureau of Prisons authorizes staff to use force only as a last alternative after all other reasonable efforts to resolve a situation have failed. When authorized, staff must use only that amount of force necessary to gain control of the inmate, to protect and ensure the safety of inmates, staff, and others, to prevent serious property damage and to ensure institution security and good order. Staff are authorized to apply physical restraints necessary to gain control of an inmate who appears to be dangerous because: (a) The inmate assaults another individual; (b) The inmate destroys government property; (c) The inmate attempts suicide; (d) The inmate inflicts injury upon self; or (e) The inmate becomes violent or displays signs of imminent violence. This rule on application of restraints does not restrict the use of restraints in situations requiring precautionary restraints, particularly in the movement or transfer of inmates (e.g., the use of handcuffs in moving inmates to and from a cell in detention, escorting an inmate to a Special Housing Unit pending investigation, etc.). 4. A new §552.21 is added to read as follows: §552.21 Types of force. (a) Immediate use of force. Staff may immediately use force and/or apply restraints when the behavior described in §552.20 constitutes an immediate, serious threat to the inmate, staff, others, property, or to institution security and good order. (b) Calculated use of force and/or application of restraints. This occurs in situations where an inmate is in an area that can be isolated (e.g., a locked cell, a range) and where there is no immediate, direct threat to the inmate or others. When there is time for the calculated use of force or application of restraints, staff must first determine if the situation can be resolved without resorting to force (see §552.23). (c) Use of Force Team Technique. If use of force is determined to be necessary, and other means of gaining control of an inmate are deemed inappropriate or ineffective, then the Use of Force Team Technique shall be used to control the inmate and to apply soft restraints, to include ambulatory leg restraints. The Use of Force Team Technique ordinarily involves trained staff, clothed in protective gear, who enter the inmate's area in tandem, each with a coordinated responsibility for helping achieve immediate control of the inmate. (d) Exceptions. Any exception to this rule is prohibited, except where the facts and circumstances known to the staff member would warrant a person with correctional experience to reasonably believe other action is necessary (as a last resort) to prevent serious physical injury, or serious property damage which would immediately endanger the safety of staff, inmates, or others. 5. In newly designated §552.22, paragraphs (a), (g), (h) introductory text, (h)(2), (h)(4), and (j) are revised to read as follows: §552.22 Principles governing the use of force and application of restraints. (a) Staff ordinarily shall first attempt to gain the inmate's voluntary cooperation before using force. * * * * * (g) Except where the immediate use of restraints is required for control of the inmate, staff may apply restraints to, or continue the use of progressive restraints on, an inmate while in a cell in administrative detention or disciplinary segregation only with approval of the Warden or designee. (h) Restraint equipment or devices (e.g., handcuffs) may not be used in any of the following ways: * * * * * (2) About an inmate's neck or face, or in any manner which restricts blood circulation or obstructs the inmate's airways. * * * * *
