FR941202-1-00015 FR941202-1-00002 (1) Notices. The following statement: ``You are not required to complete this agreement merely because you have received these disclosures or have signed a loan application. If you obtain this loan, the lender will have a mortgage on your home. You could lose your home, and any money you have put into it, if you do not meet your obligations under the loan.'' (2) Annual percentage rate. The annual percentage rate. (3) Monthly payment. The amount of the regular monthly payment. (4) Variable-rate. For variable-rate transactions, a statement that the interest rate and monthly payment may increase, and the amount of the maximum monthly payment, based on the maximum interest rate required to be disclosed under ยง226.30. (d) Limitations. A high-rate, high-fee mortgage transaction may not provide for the following terms: (1) Balloon payment. A payment schedule with regular periodic payments that do not repay the full amount of interest. (2) Negative amortization. A payment schedule with regular periodic payments that when aggregated, do not fully amortize the outstanding principal balance. (3) Advance payments. A payment schedule that consolidates more than two periodic payments and pays them in advance from the proceeds. (4) Increased interest rate. An increase in the interest rate after default. (5) Rebates. A refund calculation by a method less favorable than the actuarial method (as defined under section 933(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992), for rebates arising from a loan acceleration due to default. (6) Prepayment penalties. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(7) of this section, a penalty for paying all or part of the principal before the date on which the principal is due. A prepayment penalty includes computing a refund of unearned interest less favorable to the consumer than the actuarial method, as defined under section 933(d) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992. (7) Exception. A high-rate, high-fee mortgage transaction may contain a prepayment penalty otherwise permitted by law (including a refund calculated according to the rule of 78s) if: (i) The penalty can be exercised only for the first five years following consummation; (ii) The source of the prepayment funds is not a refinancing by the creditor or an affiliate of the creditor; and (iii) At consummation, the consumer's total monthly debts (including amounts owed under the high-rate, high-fee mortgage) do not exceed 50 percent of the consumer's monthly gross income, as verified by the consumer's signed financial statement, a credit report, and payment records for employment income. (e) Prohibited acts and practices. A creditor extending high-rate, high-fee mortgage credit may not: (1) Repayment ability. Engage in a pattern or practice of extending such credit to a consumer based on the consumer's collateral if, considering the consumer's current and expected income, current obligations, and employment, the consumer is unable to make the scheduled payments. (2) Home improvement contracts. Pay a contractor under a home improvement contract from the proceeds of a high-rate, high-fee mortgage, other than: (i) By an instrument payable to the consumer or jointly to the consumer and the contractor; or (ii) At the election of the consumer, through a third-party escrow agent in accordance with terms established in a written agreement signed by the consumer, the creditor, and the contractor prior to the disbursement. (3) Notice to assignee. Sell or otherwise assign a high-rate, high-fee mortgage without furnishing the following statement to the purchaser or assignee: ``Notice: Purchasers or assignees of this mortgage could be liable for all claims and defenses with respect to the mortgage that the borrower could assert against the creditor.'' ยง226.33 Reverse mortgages. (a) Definition. For purposes of this subpart, reverse mortgage transaction means a nonrecourse consumer credit obligation in which: (1) A mortgage, deed of trust, or equivalent consensual security interest securing one or more advances is created in the consumer's principal dwelling; and (2) Any principal, interest, or shared appreciation or equity is due and payable (other than in the case of default) only after: (i) The consumer dies; (ii) The dwelling is transferred; or (iii) The consumer ceases to occupy the dwelling as a principal dwelling.
