FR941011-2-00123 FR941011-2-00082 The Exchange continues to believe that it is also appropriate to impose As-of-Add fees on clearing firms that exceed the nominal monthly level of As-of-Adds. In the Exchange's experience, clearing firms are sometimes the direct or contributing cause of late submissions. The Exchange, therefore, believes that a fee imposed on such firms is therefore appropriate, in general, as it is for individual members. Moreover, the Exchange believes that clearing firms are in the best position to identify late-submitting individual members and to prompt such members to process trade information on time. In that regard, the Exchange represents that the fee to clearing members not only helps promote their operational vigilance, but also that of the individual members for whom they clear trades. In the Continuation Order, the Commission expressed some concern about the differing fee levels for individual members as compared to clearing firms and requested the Exchange to review the equities associated with the fee structure. 8 The Exchange has reviewed the Pilot Program and continues to believe that the levels set in the current rule are appropriate for each membership class, for several reasons. First, those few clearing firms who have been assessed a fee under rule 2.26 have paid substantial amounts. 9 Fee levels higher than those in the current rule would, the Exchange believes, be disproportionately severe. Second, clearing firms incur personnel and systems costs, which the Exchange estimates to be about $5.00 per As-of-Add, for the extra work that As-of-Add processing creates. Those costs are not incurred by individual members. Accordingly, when the $5.00 cost per As-of-Add is added to the $3.00 fine imposed on clearing firms for each excessive monthly As-of-Add, the disparity between the $10.00 paid by individual members and the $8.00 incurred by clearing members is, in the Exchange's opinion, de minimis. Third, the Exchange believes that the fee structure places a greater share of the fee burden on the members primarily responsible for the excess costs the Exchange incurs. The Exchange, therefore, believes that the fee differential reflected in the current rule is both appropriate and equitable. 8 See supra note 4. 9 See supra note 7. Finally, the Exchange believes that the Pilot Program has been, and will continue to be, effective in promoting a reduced volume of As-of-Adds. Individual members' use of As-of-Adds has declined since the program was initiated, as have the number of Exchange members that have exceeded the allowable monthly levels. 10 For that reason, the Exchange continues to believe that the Pilot Program is effective in covering Exchange costs and in improving member behavior. Nonetheless, the Exchange believes that As-of-Add processing continues to impose burdens on the Exchange and its members, and chronic problems may not be fully addressed by fees alone. Accordingly, to the extent that any member exceeds the nominal level for six consecutive months, or by a significant percentage in any one month without clear justification, the Department of Market Operations will refer that member to the Division of Regulatory Services for investigation and appropriate disciplinary action. 11 On approval of this proposed rule change, the Exchange will issue a Regulatory Circular to members reviewing the operation of the program and underscoring the foregoing compliance policy. 10 See Pilot Report, supra note 6. 11 To date, the Exchange has not initiated any investigations or disciplinary actions concerning members' post-trade date submission of trade data. Telephone conversation between Daniel Schneider, Schiff Hardin & Waite, and Brad Ritter, Senior Counsel, OMS, Division, Commission, on October 3, 1994 (``October 3 Conversation'').
