FR940513-1-00047 FR940513-1-00012 After consideration, these suggestions have not been adopted. Instead, the proposed regulations require an activity that is engaged in for both lobbying and non-lobbying purposes to be treated as engaged in partially for a lobbying purpose and partially for a non-lobbying purpose. This division of the activity must result in a reasonable allocation of costs to influencing legislation under ยง1.162&hyph;28. This allocation approach was adopted rather than a principal or primary purpose test because a principal/primary purpose test does not avoid the necessity of determining the various purposes for engaging in an activity and weighing the relative importance of those purposes, and because it has a substantial ``cliff'' effect that an allocation approach does not. In those situations where the taxpayer has substantial lobbying and non-lobbying purposes, the results under a principal/primary purpose test would differ dramatically depending on one's views as to which of the purposes is dominant. As a result, Treasury and the IRS have serious concerns whether that test could be administered responsibly and fairly. Finally, nothing in section 162(e) or its legislative history indicates that Congress intended to treat activities engaged in for a substantial lobbying purpose as outside the scope of 162(e). Consideration was also given to treating an activity as influencing legislation if any substantial purpose for the activity is lobbying. Treasury and the IRS believe it generally would be easier to establish a substantial purpose for engaging in an activity, rather than examining all of the purposes to establish a principal/primary purpose. As a result, this approach would be easier to administer than a principal/primary purpose test. Moreover, a substantial purpose test would appear to be more consistent with Congressional intent to treat as influencing legislation those activities that in fact support a lobbying communication than would a principal/primary purpose test. However, Treasury and the IRS are concerned that this approach could be considerably over-inclusive, in that some activities engaged in predominantly for non-lobbying purposes would be treated entirely as non-deductible lobbying activities. The IRS invites comments, however, whether this approach would be more appropriate than the rule in the proposed regulations. Finally, to provide taxpayers greater certainty and relief from burdensome recordkeeping regarding certain relatively minor, recurring activities, the proposed regulations treat certain activities as engaged in solely for non-lobbying purposes. Explanation of Provisions Under the proposed regulations, as under section 162(e)(4)(A), ``influencing legislation'' means any attempt to influence any legislation through a lobbying communication with any member or employee of a legislative body or any government official or employee (other than a member or employee of a legislative body) who may participate in the formulation of the legislation that the taxpayer desires to influence. A lobbying communication is a communication that either (i) refers to specific legislation and reflects a view on that legislation, or (ii) clarifies, amplifies, modifies, or provides support for views reflected in a prior lobbying communication. Specific legislation includes both legislation that has already been introduced in a legislative body and a specific legislative proposal that the taxpayer either supports or opposes. An attempt to ``influence legislation'' means the lobbying communication and all activities, such as research, preparation, and other background activities, engaged in for a purpose of making or supporting the lobbying communication. Whether an activity is engaged in for this purpose is determined based on all the facts and circumstances. If a taxpayer engages in an activity both for a lobbying purpose and for some non-lobbying purpose, the taxpayer must treat the activity as engaged in partially for a lobbying purpose and partially for a non-lobbying purpose. This division of the activity must result in a reasonable allocation of costs to influencing legislation under ยง1.162&hyph;28. A taxpayer's allocation to influencing legislation of only the incremental amount of costs that would not have been incurred but for the lobbying purpose generally is not reasonable. Similarly, an allocation based on the number of purposes for engaging in an activity without regard to their relative importance also generally is not reasonable.
