FR940104-0-00089 FR940104-0-00016 (ii) Six months under either of the following circumstances: (A) The school is not a correspondence school and the school's next period of enrollment after the start of the leave of absence would begin more than 60 days after the first day of the leave of absence. (B) The leave of absence is requested because of the student's medically determinable condition, in which case the student must provide the school with a written recommendation from a physician for a leave of absence longer than 60 days. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) §685.305 Payment of a refund to the Secretary. (a) General. By applying for a Direct Loan, a borrower authorizes the school to pay directly to the Secretary that portion of a refund from the school that is allocable to the loan. A school_ (1) Shall pay that portion of the student's refund that is allocable to a Direct Loan to the Secretary; and (2) Shall provide simultaneous written notice to the borrower if the school pays a refund to the Secretary on behalf of that student. (b) Allocation of refund. In determining the portion of a student's refund for an academic period that is allocable to a Direct Loan received by the borrower for that academic period, the school shall follow the procedures established in 34 CFR Part 668 for allocating a refund that is payable. (c) Timely payment. A school shall pay a refund that is due_ (1) Within 60 days after the student's withdrawal as determined under §685.304(b)(1)&hyph;(3); or (2) In the case of a student who does not return to school at the expiration of an approved leave of absence under §685.304(c), within 30 days after the last day of that leave of absence. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) §685.306 Withdrawal procedure for schools participating in the Direct Loan Program. (a) A school participating in the Direct Loan Program may submit a written request to the Secretary to withdraw from participation in the Direct Loan Program explaining why it seeks to withdraw. (b) The Secretary reviews the school's request to determine if the school has the ability to administer the Direct Loan Program properly and notifies the school of his decision to approve or disapprove the request within 30 days of receiving the school's request. (c) In reviewing a school's request, the Secretary considers whether the reasons for the request apply only to participation in the Direct Loan Program or to participation in either the Direct Loan Program or the FFEL Program. (d) If a school's request is approved by the Secretary, the withdrawal becomes effective on the first of July following the school's request. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) §685.307 Remedial actions. (a) General. The Secretary requires a school to purchase that portion of a Direct Loan that is unenforceable, or that the borrower was ineligible to receive. The Secretary requires the repayment of funds and the purchase of loans if the Secretary determines that the unenforceability of a loan or loans, or the disbursement of loan amounts for which the borrower was ineligible resulted in whole or in part from_ (1) The school's violation of a Federal statute or regulation; or (2) The school's negligent or willful false certification. (b) In requiring a school to repay funds to the Secretary or to purchase loans from the Secretary in connection with an audit or program review, the Secretary follows the procedures described in 34 CFR part 668, subpart H. (c) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Secretary may waive the right to require repayment of funds or purchasing of loans by a school if, in the Secretary's judgment, the best interest of the United States so requires. (d) The Secretary may impose a fine or take an emergency action against a school or limit, suspend, or terminate a school's participation in the Direct Loan Program in accordance with 34 CFR part 668, subpart G. (e) The Secretary may take any other action necessary to enforce the Secretary's rights under the agreement specified in §685.300. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq. ) §685.308 Administrative and fiscal control and fund accounting requirements for schools participating in the Direct Loan Program. (a) General. Each school shall_ (1) Establish and maintain proper administrative and fiscal procedures and all necessary records as set forth in the regulations in this part and in 34 CFR part 668 in order to_ (i) Protect the rights of student and parent borrowers; (ii) Protect the United States from unreasonable risk of loss; and (iii) Comply with specific requirements in those regulations; and (2) Submit all reports required by this part and 34 CFR part 668 to the Secretary. (b) Student status confirmation reports. A school shall_ (1) Upon receipt of a student status confirmation report from the Secretary, complete and return that report to the Secretary within 30 days of receipt; and
