FR941117-0-00069 FR941117-0-00011 Occupied bandwidth. The measured spectral width of an emission. The measurement determines occupied bandwidth as the difference between upper and lower frequencies where 0.5% of the emission power is above the upper frequency and 0.5% of the emission power is below the lower frequency. Offshore central transmitter. A fixed transmitter in the Offshore Radiotelephone Service that provides service to offshore subscriber stations. Offshore Radiotelephone Service. A radio service in which common carriers are authorized to offer and provide radio telecommunication services for hire to subscribers on structures in the offshore coastal waters of the Gulf of Mexico. Offshore subscriber station. One or more fixed and/or mobile transmitters in the Offshore Radiotelephone Service that receive service from offshore central transmitters. Pager. A small radio receiver designed to be carried by a person and to give an aural, visual or tactile indication when activated by the reception of a radio signal containing its specific code. It may also reproduce sounds and/or display messages that were also transmitted. Some pagers also transmit a radio signal acknowledging that a message has been received. Paging and Radiotelephone Service. A radio service in which common carriers are authorized to offer and provide paging and radiotelephone service for hire to the general public. This service was formerly titled Public Land Mobile Service. Paging service. Transmission of coded radio signals for the purpose of activating specific pagers; such transmissions may include messages and/or sounds. Partitioned cellular market. A cellular market with two or more authorized cellular systems on the same channel block during the five year build-out period, as a result of settlements during initial licensing or contract(s) between the licensee of the first cellular system and the licensee(s) of the subsequent systems. See ยง22.947(b). Public Mobile Services. Radio services in which common carriers are authorized to offer and provide mobile and related fixed radio telecommunication services for hire to the public. Radio common carrier. A telecommunications common carrier that provides radio communications services but is not engaged in the business of providing landline local exchange telephone service. Radio telecommunication services. Communication services provided by the use of radio, including radiotelephone, radiotelegraph, paging and facsimile service. Radiotelegraph service. Transmission of messages from one place to another by means of radio. Radiotelephone service. Transmission of sound from one place to another by means of radio. Repeater. A fixed transmitter that retransmits the signals of other stations. Roamer. A mobile station receiving service from a station or system in the Public Mobile Services other than one to which it is a subscriber. Rural Radiotelephone Service. A radio service in which common carriers are authorized to offer and provide radio telecommunication services for hire to subscribers in areas where it is not feasible to provide communication services by wire or other means. Rural subscriber station. One or more fixed transmitters in the Rural Radiotelephone Service that receive service from central office transmitters. Service area. The geographic area considered by the FCC to be reliably served by a station in the Public Mobile Services. Service contour. The locus of points surrounding a transmitter where the predicted median field strength of the signal from that transmitter is the minimum field strength that is considered sufficient to provide reliable service to mobile stations. Service to subscribers. Service to at least one subscriber that is not affiliated with, controlled by or related to the providing carrier. Station. A station equipped to engage in radio communication or radio transmission of energy (47 U.S.C. 153(k)). Telecommunications common carrier. An individual, partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust or corporation engaged in rendering radio telecommunications services to the general public for hire. Temporary fixed station. One or more fixed transmitters that normally do not remain at any particular location for longer than 6 months. Transfer of control. A transfer of the controlling interest in a Public Mobile Services licensee from one party to another. Unserved areas. In the Cellular Radiotelephone Service, areas outside of all existing CGSAs (on either of the channel blocks), to which the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, is applicable. Wireline common carrier. A telecommunications common carrier that is also engaged in the business of providing landline local exchange telephone service.
