FR941110-0-00078 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We are retaining this provision as written. Sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(iii)(II) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(iii)(II) of the Act use the word ``may,'' thus permitting the State survey agency discretion in deciding to conduct a standard survey or an abbreviated standard survey within 60 days of any of the above stated changes to determine whether these changes have caused a decline in the quality of care furnished by the facility. Comment: A few other commenters recommended that the regulation specify that other surveys (ยง488.308(c)) must be conducted as frequently as necessary to determine compliance with participation requirements and to confirm the correction of previously cited deficiencies. Response: We are retaining this provision in which the decision to conduct other surveys under the circumstances specified at ยง488.308(c) be at the State survey agency's discretion. We expect the survey agency to base its decision on the individuals and facilities involved and the State's concern that the quality of care may have declined, and to conduct a survey in those cases where one is necessary to confirm compliance with participation requirements. The correction of noncompliance will be monitored and verified by some type of follow up activity which may or may not be a survey. Section 488.332 states that the State survey agency conducts on-site monitoring as needed when: a facility is not in substantial compliance with the requirements and is in the process of correcting deficiencies; verification of continued substantial compliance is needed after deficiencies have been corrected; or, the survey agency has reason to question the substantial compliance of the facility with the requirements of participation. (Please refer to the discussion at ยง488.332, Investigation of complaints of violations and monitoring of compliance.) Comment: The proposed regulation indicates that the survey agency may conduct a standard or an abbreviated standard survey to determine whether certain changes have caused a decline in the quality of care furnished by a facility. The commenter recommended that the phrase ``decline in the quality of care furnished by'' be modified to allow special surveys for the purpose of determining whether the facility is out of compliance with any conditions of participation. Response: Since the language of concern to the commenter simply reiterates the Act, at sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(iii)(II) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(iii)(II), we are not free to modify the language as suggested. However, we believe the Act gives States ample authority to conduct surveys any time they suspect that conditions at a facility may be declining. Comment: A commenter proposed amending the regulation to expressly permit the survey agency to screen complaints to decide if they merit an on-site investigation. Another commenter wrote that this rule goes beyond the Act and requires a standard or abbreviated survey in every instance, including those which may be an isolated complaint or abuse. One commenter proposed revising ยง488.308(e)(2) to read, ``The survey agency must conduct a standard or an abbreviated standard survey to investigate complaints of violations of the requirements by SNFs and NFs that the agency has reviewed and determined to provide a reasonable basis for investigation.'' Response: We are clarifying the wording of this provision to say the survey agency must review all complaint allegations and conduct a standard or an abbreviated standard survey to investigate complaints of deficiencies in requirements by SNFs and NFs if after reviewing the allegation, the survey agency concludes that a violation of one or more of the requirements may have occurred and only a survey can confirm that a deficiency or deficiencies exist. A survey will not be conducted if the complaint raises issues that are outside the purview of Federal participation requirements.
