FR940317-0-00060 FR940317-0-00022 To address disclosure issues involving conduit financings in a comprehensive fashion, however, legislation addressing the exempt status of conduit securities under the federal securities laws is necessary. Bonds used to finance a project to be used in the trade or business of a private corporation are, from an investment standpoint, equivalent to corporate debt securities issued directly by the underlying corporate obligor. 78 Payments on these types of conduit securities are derived solely from revenues received by the governmental entity under the terms of a contractual agreement, typically a lease or a note, from a private enterprise, rather than from the general credit and taxing power of the governmental issuer. The tax-exempt status of interest payments does not alter the fundamental analysis that these are private obligations, in which the investor looks, and can look, only to a private entity for repayment. 78 See Money Market Fund Release, 58 FR at 68588 (proposal to subject tax exempt money market fund investments in conduit securities to restrictions similar to those applicable to securities of comparable obligors offered to taxable funds). The private nature of many conduit enterprises distinguishes them from traditional municipal financings. The incidence of bond default appears to be inversely related to the degree a financed project represents an essential public service. 79 A study conducted by the PSA on non-rated issues that defaulted found that 75% were issued by local authorities in the areas of health care and industrial related sectors such as energy, chemical, pollution control and industrial development. 80 79 Kenny Default Report at 2. 80 PSA Default Report at 12. Given the essentially private nature of non-governmental industrial development financings, investors need the same disclosure regarding the underlying non-municipal corporate obligor as they would receive regarding any corporate obligor, and the same regulatory and liability scheme should apply. Accordingly, the Commission has consistently supported legislative proposals to amend Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act 81 and Section 3(a)(29) 82 of the Exchange Act to remove the registration exemption for the corporate credit underlying municipal conduit securities involving non-governmental industrial development (private activity) financings. 83 The Commission today renews that legislative recommendation. 81 15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(2). 82 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29). 83 See Remarks of David S. Ruder, Chairman, SEC, ``Disclosure in the Municipal Securities Markets,'' Before the Public Securities Association (Oct. 23, 1987) at 17&hyph;18; Letter from John S.R. Shad, Chairman, SEC to Representative Timothy E. Wirth, Chairman, House Subcommittee on Telecommunications, Consumer Protection, and Finance (March 12, 1985); 124 Cong. Rec. 21, 639 (1978) (letter from SEC Chairman Harold M. Williams to Senator Harrison A. Williams). There were two bills introduced, one in 1975 and one in 1978, that would have repealed the exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933. The 1978 bill would have subjected certain industrial development bonds to the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, the filing and qualification provisions of the Trust Indenture Act and the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Neither bill was enacted. See also ``Municipal Securities Full Disclosure Act of 1976,'' S. 2969, 94th Cong., 2d. Sess. (Feb. 17, 1976). Governmental industrial development financings, which would have retained their exempt status under prior proposals, include those financings in which the bonds are repaid from the general revenues of the governmental unit or the project or facility is a public facility (or part of a public facility) and owned and operated by or on behalf of the governmental unit. The prior proposals to register conduit financings would not have affected the separate exemption for securities issued by non-profit charitable organizations in Section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(4)). Pending amendment to the securities laws to eliminate the registration exemption, the disclosure provided by such non-governmental conduit borrowers should be substantially the same as if such conduit borrower were subject to the information requirements of the federal securities laws applicable to the particular conduit borrower. For example, financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles prescribed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board should be provided. IV. Disclosure in the Secondary Market for Municipal Securities While significant progress has been made in primary market disclosure practices in recent years, the same development has not taken place with respect to secondary market disclosure. The GFOA issued separate secondary market disclosure guidelines in 1979, but they have not yet achieved the broad acceptance accorded its primary offering guidance. In the last five years, the NFMA, the National Council of State Housing Agencies, and the Association of Local Housing Authorities have published sector specific guidelines for secondary market disclosure; the National Advisory Council of the National Association of State Auditors, Comptrollers and Treasurers (``NASACT'') is in the process of preparing such guidelines for adoption by the states. 84 The GFOA's longstanding Certificate of Achievement program recognizes issuers that have prepared comprehensive annual financial reports meeting its guidelines. The NFMA's Award of Recognition Program likewise recognizes issuers that have committed to provide continuous disclosure. 84 See Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies, Guidelines for Information Disclosure to the Secondary Market (1992) (``Local Housing Guidelines''); National Council of State Housing Agencies, Quarterly Reporting Format for State Housing Finance Agency Single Family Housing Bonds (1989) and Multi-family Disclosure Format (1991) collectively (``State Housing Guidelines''); NFMA Handbook. See also Healthcare Financial Management Association, Statement of Principles of Public Disclosure of Financial and Operating Information by Healthcare Providers (Exposure Draft dated Aug. 1, 1993) (``Healthcare Disclosure Principles'').
