FR941110-0-00170 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: One commenter wondered how availability of temporary managers would affect the use of this remedy. Response: In cases of immediate jeopardy, if a temporary manager cannot be located within 10 days of the last day of the survey, HCFA or the State is required to proceed with action to terminate the facility's program participation in order to protect the health or safety of the residents. To safeguard residents when this takes place, we will allow a State monitor to be imposed who will notify HCFA or the State if residents are being subjected to substantial risks and need to be transferred from the facility. If a temporary manager cannot be located for a situation which does not immediately jeopardize the health or safety of the residents, HCFA or the State has the flexibility to impose another type of remedy which it believes will best motivate the facility to achieve substantial compliance. However, if temporary management is the most logical alternative remedy, and a temporary manager cannot be located, HCFA or the State has the authority to terminate the provider agreement. We do not believe that the imposition of temporary management in lieu of termination is a provider right. Rather, it is an accommodation to the provider if, in the judgment of HCFA or the State, it will lead to substantial compliance and there are competent temporary managers available in the given geographic area. Comment: A few commenters requested that States be able to appoint a trustee or a receiver in lieu of a temporary manager if they have State laws that provide for these enforcement actions. Response: Many States have developed laws in accordance with State licensure authority that provide for sanctions similar to temporary management. The States use these sanctions, such as receivership and trusteeship, to enforce compliance with State licensure requirements. Section 1919(h)(2)(B)(ii) of the Act also gives the State the authority to use these measures when enforcing compliance with Federal Medicaid participation requirements, if the State can demonstrate to HCFA's satisfaction through a State plan amendment that trusteeship or receivership is as effective in deterring noncompliance and correcting deficiencies as the remedy of temporary management. Therefore, if HCFA approves the State plan amendment establishing trusteeship or receivership as a remedy, a trustee or receiver may be used by a State as an acceptable alternative to a temporary manager when the State takes the enforcement action. The State may use the alternative remedy both when a temporary manager is required in cases of immediate jeopardy, and when one is selected as the most appropriate enforcement response in non-jeopardy cases. Comment: One commenter asked that we state the conditions under which temporary management will be imposed. Response: Other than the provisions in the law requiring temporary management in situations that immediately jeopardize the health or safety of residents, specific criteria for imposing temporary management in other types of situations would be impossible to develop. The decision of HCFA or the State to impose a temporary manager will be based on the deficiencies found at the time of survey coupled with other factors that exist at the facility at that particular point in time. For example, a facility might identify a deficiency before the State survey agency does and attempt to correct it. Although we could not dismiss the facility's failure to prevent the deficiency, neither would we ignore the administrative competence that the facility demonstrated by identifying and attempting to address the deficiency on its own initiative. We would consider both factors when selecting the appropriate remedy. Section 488.417␣Denial of Payment for All New Admissions Upon our review of comments and evaluation of the underlying statute, we noted that we did not make it clear in the proposed rule that the authority of the Secretary to deny payment to a facility is limited to Medicare facilities. In the case of Medicaid facilities, the State may deny payment to the facility and HCFA may deny payment to the State for all Medicaid residents in the facility. A related issue is the question of who must be satisfied that a facility has achieved and will remain in substantial compliance after the facility has been cited for repeated instances of substandard quality of care so that payments may resume. Section 1819(h)(2)(E) says that it is the Secretary for Medicare, and section 1919(h)(2)(D) says that it is the State for Medicaid. Comment: One commenter said that this remedy should be imposed only in cases posing a hazard to the residents or in cases when their rights are compromised. Response: We consider this remedy to be appropriate for both the cases in which we have designated it may be used and the cases in which we designate it must be used. We believe that it will be one of our most effective remedies because it will strongly motivate facilities to come into and remain in compliance.
