FR941117-1-00037 FR941117-1-00004 (c) Standard: Drug therapy. The facility must not use drugs in doses that interfere with the resident's daily living activities. (1) When drugs are used for control of inappropriate behavior, they must be used only as an integral part of the resident's plan of care that is directed specifically toward the reduction of and eventual elimination of the behaviors for which the drugs are employed. (2) Drugs used for control of inappropriate behavior must not be used unless it is evident that the harmful effects of the behavior clearly outweigh the potentially harmful effects of the drugs. (d) Standard: Resident work. The facility must ensure that residents are not compelled to perform services for the facility. If a resident chooses to perform work for the facility, compensation for the services must be made at prevailing wage levels. ยง483.218 Condition of participation: Safety provisions. The facility must be designed, constructed, equipped, and maintained to protect the health and safety of the residents. If a circumstance develops that poses a significant threat to the health or safety of facility residents, the facility must address the problem immediately and promptly advise the State survey agency of the problem and the action taken to remove the threat. (a) Standard: Fire protection _(1) General. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the facility must meet the applicable provisions of either the Health Care Occupancies Chapter or the Residential Board and Care Occupancies Chapter of the Life Safety Code (LSC) of the National Fire Protection Association, 1991 edition, which is incorporated herein by reference. (2) Exceptions. For facilities that meet the LSC definition of a health care occupancy, the State survey agency may waive, for a period considered appropriate, specific provisions of the LSC if_ (i) The waiver would not adversely affect the health and safety of the residents; and (ii) Rigid application of specific provisions would result in an unreasonable hardship for the facility. (b) Standard: Emergency procedures. The facility must develop and implement written procedures to meet all potential emergencies, such as fire, severe weather, and missing residents. The facility must train all new employees in emergency procedures and periodically review the procedures. All staff members must demonstrate ability to follow the procedures. Staff emergency procedure drills must be held at least quarterly on each shift. (c) Standard: Infection control. The facility must implement an infection control program which prevents, controls, and investigates the development and transmission of communicable disease and infection. This program must ensure that appropriate immunizations are done, according to State law. (1) When a resident needs isolation to prevent the spread of infection, the facility must isolate the resident and, if necessary, transfer the resident to a hospital for diagnostic testing. (2) The facility must prohibit employees with symptoms or signs of a communicable disease or infected skin lesions from direct contact with residents or their food if direct contact will transmit the disease. (3) Personnel must handle, store, process, and transport linens so as to prevent the spread of infection. (d) Standard: Waste disposal. The facility must dispose of garbage and refuse, including any toxic waste generated at the facility, in accordance with Federal, State and local laws.
