FR940118-1-00012 FR940118-1-00006 Qualifications of the Arbitrators. Section 251.5 describes the qualifications a person must have to serve as an arbitrator. We have deliberately avoided adopting an extensive and specific list of qualifications on the theory that the results of a long, overly-particularized list of qualifications would likely result in a homogeneous Panel, and that the Librarian should be able to choose from persons of diverse backgrounds and skills. The Reform Act requires that an arbitrator have experience in conducting arbitration proceedings, and experience in settling disputes. The only two qualifications the Office has added are membership in a bar association and ten or more years of legal practice. Since the arbitration process contemplated by the Reform Act often resembles an adjudicatory procedure more than a traditional arbitration, the Office felt that it was necessary for arbitrators to be lawyers with a fair amount of experience as practitioners. The area of practice is not specified; we believe that a background in copyright, though helpful, is not necessarily indispensable to serving as an arbitrator. Keeping the number of qualifications to a minimum should produce a diversified group of individuals to serve as arbitrators with the necessary legal training and experience to accomplish the task efficiently and effectively. Selection Process. Section 251.6 describes the selection process for an arbitration panel, restating the process described in the Reform Act. See 17 U.S.C. 802(b). The section requires the chairperson to act according to the majority wishes of the panel. There is also a provision regarding substitution of arbitrators who, after selection, for some reason become unable to continue service. In that event, the Librarian is directed to select a replacement promptly unless hearings have already begun in the proceeding. If hearings have begun, the remaining arbitrators or arbitrator would constitute the quorum necessary to render a determination. Division of Authority between Librarian and CARP. Section 251.7 underscores the division of authority between the Librarian and the Royalty Panels. The Panels are limited by the statute to making determinations in individual and separate proceedings necessary to settling a controversy over royalty rates or distributions. Although given authority to issue orders governing the conduct of the proceedings, the Panels do not have rulemaking authority to amend or otherwise alter these rules and regulations when they are issued in final form. 3 Furthermore, since the Panels are not independent agencies, they have no authority to publish materials in the Federal Register . Because the Panels are considered a part of the Copyright Office and the Library of Congress, any orders and rulings of the Panels that are to be published must be issued under the auspices of the Office and the Library. 3 Section 251.42 allows an individual Panel to waive or suspend the rules of subchapter B for purposes of the proceeding. In the cases where Subchapter B does not prescribe a rule governing a particular question, the Panel, in accordance with 17 U.S.C. 802(c), may adopt its own rule for purposes of that proceeding. This provision is designed to give a Panel some flexibility in executing its duties with respect to the facts of its case. It is not, however, a grant of rulemaking authority, and any waiver, suspension or adoption of a rule has effect only on the course of that proceeding and in no way affects the rules and regulations of this subchapter or their application to other proceedings. It is expected that each Panel will follow these rules and apply them in a way that produces a just and equitable proceeding. 2. Subpart B_Public Access to Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel Meetings Although the Government in the Sunshine Act, Public Law No. 94&hyph;409, 90 Stat. 1241, does not apply to Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels, since CARPs are not an ``agency or agencies,'' the Copyright Office believes that the provisions of the Act should apply to the conduct of meetings held by the arbitrators. This Subpart, therefore, tracks the procedures governing open and closed meetings which the former Tribunal adopted and followed with only a few changes. Section 251.11 states that all meetings of a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel shall be open to the public unless otherwise specified. Notice of the anticipated schedule of the hearings will be placed in the Federal Register at least 7 days before the meeting. As amendments to the schedule are made, every practicable effort will be made to keep the public informed. Section 251.12 provides for public and media access to open meetings, adopting the former Tribunal's rules in toto.
