FR940930-2-00246 FR940930-2-00085 D. Applicability The requirements described in this Section IV are not applicable to securities that GNMA guarantees under the program described in Section III. E. Inclusion in Guide This policy on minority participation is included in the GNMA Multiclass Securities Guide. V. Delegations of Authority The President, each Vice President and each Assistant Vice President of GNMA have been given general signing authority on behalf of GNMA pursuant to the existing GNMA Bylaws, found at 24 CFR Part 310. In addition, the Vice President in charge of multiclass securities has delegated authority to sign all contracts and other documents, instruments and writings that call for execution by GNMA in order to affix the GNMA guaranty on a multiclass securities transaction, to the Director of Multiclass Securities. Further, the Vice President in charge of multiclass securities has delegated authority to execute the Transaction Initiation Letter in the form specified by the Multiclass Securities Guide to the Senior Multiclass Securities Specialist. VI. Waiver Section 300.13 of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations permits GNMA to waive or alter any of its requirements, to impose additional requirements, to amend or rescind any or all of its regulations. GNMA considers this regulation applicable to the May 26, 1994 Notice, this Notice, the GNMA Multiclass Securities Guide and its multiclass regulations when issued, as well as the existing MBS regulations. The operation of a securities guaranty program requires that GNMA have the ability to revise its requirements and operations in accordance with program objectives and the needs and fluctuations of the financial markets. VII. Terms and Conditions for Participants As a condition of participation in the program, each participant must agree to the conditions set out below. A. Participant Certifications Each Sponsor, Co-sponsor, all participating trust counsel and accounting firms, and other persons or entities designated by GNMA from time to time in the Multiclass Securities Guide, must certify as of January 1 each year that neither the corporate nor partnership entity, nor any officer, partner or professional presently employed and who will work on the subject matter of this Notice, has been convicted of, or found liable in a civil action for, fraud, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements or any other offense indicating a lack of business integrity that seriously and directly affects the present responsibility of the officer, partner or professional, and no entity or individual to which this certification is applicable is currently suspended or debarred by a State or the Federal government. Participants must report any event which would necessitate a change in this certification to GNMA within 60 days of its occurrence.
