FR941007-2-00082 FR941007-2-00050 •Execute ACC amendments or Administrative Use Agreements •Sign refund request and recommendation with package to OFA •Approve amendments to Administrative Use Agreements Authority Redelegated_Turnkey III Return to Rental •Sign request to Headquarters for approval based on compliance with checklist •Sign request to field office counsel to prepare ACC amendments (f) HOPE VI (Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1993, Pub. L. 102&hyph;389, 106 Stat. 1571); Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing (Section 120 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, Pub. L. 102&hyph;550, 42 U.S.C. 1437(v)); and implementing regulations: Since this program is a demonstration and the Department is seeking to experiment with different approaches to revitalizing these severely distressed developments, the Assistant Secretary for PIH will not be delegating to field offices the authority to make fundamental decisions regarding the HOPE VI developments. The Department anticipates publishing a HOPE VI Processing Notice that will articulate the method in which all HOPE VI grants will be administered and the respective roles of the Field Office staffs and Headquarters staff, Office of Distressed and Troubled Housing Recovery, HOPE VI Division. One or more of the following public housing program areas may be involved at the HOPE VI site: Public Housing Development; Demolition, Disposition, and Replacement Housing Plans; Section 8 Certificates and Vouchers; Operating Subsidy; and Line of Credit Control. Authority Redelegated •Conduct environmental review and determine compliance with National Environmental Policy Act and related laws, orders and regulations •Make recommendations on various actions requiring HUD involvement •Monitor for basic compliance with procurement, contract administration, and compliance with the ACC •Acknowledge receipt of grantee performance report •Review substance of grantee performance report •Make recommendations on Demolition, Disposition, and Replacement Housing issues related to HOPE VI sites •Review and recommend to the Office of Distressed and Troubled Housing Recovery, HOPE VI Division approval/disapproval of various contract and bid documents in accordance with the thresholds established under the Comprehensive Grant Program Authority Specifically Excepted From Redelegation •Sign program grant agreements and amendments •Sign SF 718 Fund Reservation •Sign grant award letter •Sign Congressional Correspondence •Disbursement of funds through LOCCS/VRS (This function should be redelegated to each Field Office once the grants are spread in LOCCS/VRS by Headquarters) •Sign correspondence to the grantee related to HOPE VI •Waive handbooks, notices, or other Departmental directives related to the operation of HOPE VI or any other public housing program involved in the HOPE VI initiative •All Demolition, Disposition, and Replacement Housing issues related to the HOPE VI site will be handled by Headquarters (g) Public Housing Management Assessment Program (42 U.S.C. 1437 1 , authorized by Section 502 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;625)); and implementing regulations: Authority Redelegated •Complete the PHMAP assessment for each HA within its jurisdiction •Notify HAs of their PHMAP scores •Conduct confirmatory reviews •Maintain PHMAP file as open record
