FR940314-2-00112 FR940314-2-00059 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;286] Power Authority of the State of New York; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR part 50, Appendix R, ``Fire Protection Program for Nuclear Power Facilities Operating Prior To January 1, 1979,'' section III.G.2, to the Power Authority of the State of New York the (licensee) for the Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit No. 3 (IP3), located at the licensee's site in Westchester County, New York. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action Section III.G.2 of 10 CFR part 50, Appendix R, specifies measures to be taken to ensure that one train of redundant equipment necessary to achieve and maintain hot shutdown conditions remains free of fire damage. During a programmatic review of IP3's Fire Protection Program and Appendix R compliance strategy, the licensee identified that safe shutdown instrument sensing lines inside containment do not meet the separation requirements of section III.G.2 of 10 CFR part 50, Appendix R. Specifically, in some areas the wide-range steam generator (SG) water level and pressurizer level sensing lines are not separated by a horizontal distance of 20 feet, nor are they separated by a radiant energy shield. In addition, fire detection and suppression in the area is limited. The licensee has, therefore, requested exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR part 50, Appendix R, section III.G.2, for the wide-range SG water level and pressurizer level sensing lines within the IP3 containment structure. Need for the Proposed Action The proposed exemption is needed to permit the licensee to operate the plant without being in violation of the Commission's regulations and to obviate the need for extensive modifications. Physical modification of the plant to achieve literal compliance with 10 CFR part 50, Appendix R, section III.G.2, would require many design changes, for example: rerouting portions of the sensing lines, installing additional barriers, and the installation of additional fire suppression and detection. Given the location of the sensing lines, the implementation of these changes would entail extensive scaffolding, as well as engineering and financial resources. In addition, since these modifications were not anticipated in the current outage scope, the detailed development and implementation of such design changes could significantly delay restart from the current outage, resulting in lost revenue. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action Section III.G.2 of 10 CFR part 50, Appendix R, requires that where redundant trains of systems necessary to achieve and maintain hot shutdown conditions are located within the same fire area inside containment, fire protection must be provided by separation of cables and equipment by a horizontal distance of 20 feet, noncombustible radiant energy shields, or by installation of fire detectors and an automatic fire suppression system in the fire area. The licensee has determined that certain sections of the wide-range SG water level and pressurizer level sensing lines within containment do not meet these requirements. Therefore, the licensee has requested an exemption from the requirement of 10 CFR part 50, Appendix R, section III.G.2, for these sensing lines within the containment. The likely result of a fire affecting the sensing lines would be erroneous signals. The erroneous signals would not initiate until the fluid inside the lines is heated by the fire and would terminate after the fire was extinguished. The lines themselves would not experience fire damage. The capability to safely shutdown the unit would not be jeopardized in the event that a fire results in erroneous wide-range SG water level or pressurizer level indications. Specifically, a fire inside containment would not necessitate control room evacuation (i.e., alternate shutdown), so operations personnel would have access to numerous and diverse plant status indications. In addition, plant operating procedures advise personnel that a fire may cause anomalous equipment behavior. Erroneous wide-range SG water level or pressurizer level indications resulting from a fire would be of short duration due to low combustion loadings inside containment. The fixed combustible loading in containment is very small and the locations of the redundant sensing lines are remote from fixed combustibles. The largest fixed combustible load, reactor coolant pump oil, is contained in a collection system in accordance with 10 CFR part 50, Appendix R, section III.O, and automatic smoke detectors are installed above each reactor coolant pump. Personnel access to the containment is restricted during power operation. As such, the potential for transient combustible materials to accumulate in the containment is very low. The containment is inspected by operations personnel prior to plant startup.
