FR940722-0-00023 FR940722-0-00003 Summary Compensation Table 1Name of individual or No. in group 1Year 1Annual 2Salary 2Bonus 2Deferred/perquisites 1Other 1Total (a) (b) (c) (d) (e) (f) (g) s CEO 199X ␣ 199X ␣ 199X Aggregate No. of Senior Officers (X) 199X (X) 199X (X) 199X (A) Report the total amount of compensation paid and the amount of each component of compensation paid to the institution's chief executive officer (CEO) for each of the last 3 completed fiscal years, naming the individual. If more than one person served in the capacity of CEO during any given fiscal year, individual compensation disclosures must be provided for each CEO. Except that, no disclosure need be provided for any CEO whose salary and bonus (or annualized salary and bonus, if the CEO served in that capacity less than a year) do not exceed $150,000, adjusted annually to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for all urban consumers, as published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The threshold for individually disclosing CEO compensation information shall be adjusted in the following manner: Current year's compensation disclosure threshold = Prior year's compensation disclosure threshold adjusted by the prior year's annual average percent change in the CPI for all urban consumers. The 1994 calendar year shall serve as the base year for making subsequent CPI adjustments to the $150,000 compensation disclosure threshold. (B) Report the aggregate amount of compensation paid and the components of compensation paid during each of the last 3 completed fiscal years to all senior officers as a group, stating the number of officers in the group without naming them. At a minimum, disclose the aggregate amount of compensation paid to the five most highly compensated officers, whether or not designated as a senior officer by the board. (C) Amounts shown as ``Salary'' (column (c)) and ``Bonus'' (column (d)) shall reflect the dollar value of salary and bonus earned by the senior officer during the fiscal year. Amounts contributed during the fiscal year by the senior officer pursuant to a plan established under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, or similar plan, shall be included in the salary column or bonus column, as appropriate. If the amount of salary or bonus earned during the fiscal year is not calculable by the time the report is prepared, the reporting institution shall provide its best estimate of the compensation amount(s) and disclose that fact in a footnote to the table. (D) Amounts shown as ``deferred/perquisites'' (column (e)) shall reflect the dollar value of other annual compensation not properly categorized as salary or bonus, including but not limited to: ( 1 ) Deferred compensation earned during the fiscal year, whether or not paid in cash; or ( 2 ) Perquisites and other personal benefits unless the aggregate value of such compensation is the lesser of either $25,000 or 10 percent of the total of annual salary and bonus reported for the senior officer in columns (c) and (d). (E) Compensation amounts reported under the category ``Other'' (column (f)) shall reflect the dollar value of all other compensation not properly reportable in any other column. Items reported in this column shall be specifically identified and described in a footnote to the table. Such compensation includes, but is not limited to: ( 1 ) The amount paid to the senior officer pursuant to a plan or arrangement in connection with the resignation, retirement, or termination of such officer's employment with the institution; or ( 2 ) The amount of contributions by the institution on behalf of the senior officer to a vested or unvested defined contribution plan unless the plan is made available to all employees on the same basis.
