FR940804-2-00140 FR940804-2-00079 Comment Letter The CBOE believes that the Phlx proposal raises implications regarding the multiple listing of options which should be dealt with on a uniform basis by the options exchanges. 9 Specifically, the CBOE believes that the proposal would allow Phlx specialists and ROTs, who enter transactions from the Phlx options floor, to obtain ``good faith'' margin treatment for options transactions executed on other exchanges even if there is little or no activity in those options on the Phlx and the transactions have no relationship to the specialists' and ROTs' performance at the Phlx. As a result, the CBOE believes that multiple listing could be used as a means of giving the floor members of options exchanges preferred access to options traded on other exchanges without regard to whether there is any meaningful competition in those options between the exchanges. 10 The CBOE suggests that specialists and ROTs should be required to effect a certain percentage ( e.g. , 75%) of their contract volume in a class of options on the exchange on which they act as a specialist or ROT before being entitled to effect transactions on other exchanges in that options class through their market functions accounts. 11 9 The CBOE acknowledges, however, that the proposal is a logical extension of the Phlx's existing rules because it accords the same treatment to all transactions initiated from off the Phlx floor without regard to whether the transactions are executed on the Phlx or another exchange. See CBOE Comment Letter, supra note 4. 10 Id. 11 Id. Phlx Response The Phlx refutes the arguments raised by the CBOE. 12 The Phlx states that by seeking to ensure that Phlx floor traders conduct their market making functions from the Phlx equity options floor where they can best meet their affirmative and negative market making obligations, the proposal merely brings the Phlx's rules into line with the existing rules of the other options exchanges, including the CBOE's. As a result, the Phlx contends that the proposal does not raise the implications contemplated by the CBOE of ``disparate, competitive treatment by the different options exchanges.'' 13 12 See Phlx Response Letter, supra note 5. 13 Id. Additionally, the Phlx argues that it has rules in place addressing the competitive concerns raised by the CBOE. Pursuant to Phlx Advice B&hyph;3, ROTs are required to trade in person, and not through the use of orders, the greater of 1,000 contracts or 50% of their contract volume on the Exchange in each quarter. 14 Additionally, at least 50% of a ROT's trading activity in each quarter must be in assigned options classes. Proposed Advice B&hyph;12 does not alter the application of Advice B&hyph;3. As a result, the Phlx argues that specialists and ROTs would not be able to obtain good faith margin treatment for a significant number of transactions executed on other markets relative to the number of trades that they must execute on the Phlx equity options floor, regardless of the level of trading activity in their assigned options classes at the Phlx. 15 14 These trades must actually be executed on the Exchange. Trades that are announced on the Exchange floor, clear the crowd, and are subsequently executed on another market, are not counted as Exchange trades for purposes of this requirement. Telephone conversation between Gerald O'Connell, Vice President, Market Regulation, Phlx, and Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, Office of Market Supervision, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, on July 18, 1994. 15 Id. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) 16 in that the proposal is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to protect investors and the public interest. Specifically, the Commission finds that the proposal is a reasonable extension of the Phlx's existing rules by according the same treatment to all transactions initiated from off the Phlx floor, without regard to whether the transactions are executed on the Phlx or another exchange. The Commission agrees with the Exchange that this restriction should serve to ensure that Phlx floor traders are conducting their market making activities from on the floor where they can best meet their affirmative and negative market making obligations. 16 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988).
