FR940513-1-00068 FR940513-1-00017 E. Format for the Proposed Standards The chosen format for the standards for product loading is a percentage of mass emissions reduction. An alternative format for gasoline vapor recovery, a maximum allowable concentration for the vapor processor exhaust is also proposed. Emissions are prohibited from ballasting operations and from regeneration of carbon adsorber beds. F. Compliance Deadline The compliance deadline for existing sources affected by the RACT standards is 2 years after the date of promulgation. The compliance deadline for existing sources affected by the MACT standards is 2 years after the date of promulgation. An existing source that subsequently exceeds a RACT throughput cutoff will have 2 years to comply once the source exceeds a throughput cutoff. Similarly, any source that exists as of the effective date of the standards and subsequently exceeds the MACT applicability thresholds would have 2 years to comply with the existing source MACT standards. All other new or reconstructed facilities will have to comply upon startup, with the exceptions noted in ยง63.6 of the part 63 General Provisions. G. Initial Performance Tests Owners or operators must perform initial performance tests as required by ยง63.7 of the General Provisions for all combustion or recovery devices except devices such as boilers or process heaters where the emissions stream is the primary fuel or boilers and process heaters having a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or more. The test method for compliance for combustion devices is the EPA Method 25 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60. The test method for compliance for recovery devices is the EPA Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60. Flares are not subject to the same tests as other control devices, but must pass a visible emissions test according to the requirements of Method 22 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60. The performance tests must be conducted to include the loading of the last 20 percent of a compartment, and may be spread out over multiple compartments. H. Vessel Tightness Testing Three alternatives to ensure vessel tightness are proposed: (1) Pressure test the vessel, (2) perform a leak test on all components using Method 21 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60, or (3) load the vessel at less than atmospheric pressure. I. Monitoring Owners or operators using a vent system that contains valves that could divert a vent stream from a control device must either monitor vent stream flow to ensure that it is not diverted from a control device or secure the bypass line valve in the closed position. Monitoring criteria have been established for combustion devices (except flares), carbon adsorbers, condensers and adsorbers. In general, facilities would be required to establish operating parameters during the initial performance test and then monitor combustion temperature for combustion devices, VOC concentration in the exhaust stream outlet for carbon adsorbers, exhaust stream temperature for condensers, and VOC outlet concentration for adsorbers. In the case of flares, owners or operators would be required to monitor for the continuous presence of a flame and to monitor vent stream flow. Owners or operators seeking to use other types of control devices may develop enhanced monitoring criteria for these devices and submit the criteria to the Administrator for approval. J. Recordkeeping and Reporting Sources required to install controls would have to fulfill the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of the part 63 General Provisions including submittal of the following reports: (1) Compliance notification report, (2) notification of initial performance test, (3) report of initial performance test, (4) quarterly parameter exceedance report, and (5) quarterly emissions estimation report. These sources must also maintain documentation that vessels loaded at the facility are vapor tight. All information will be made readily available to the Administrator or delegated State authority for a minimum of 5 years. III. Rationale A. Selection of Affected Sources The primary release of vapors during the marine tank vessel loading process occurs at the tank vessel through hatches, vents, and vent systems. However, it is impractical for marine tank vessels to carry their own vapor processing systems given the limited space on individual vessels. It is also much more economical for terminals to install and operate control devices that are capable of controlling emissions from multiple vessels than for each vessel to control its own emissions. Furthermore, section 183(f) requires that ``to the extent practicable such standards shall apply to loading and unloading facilities and not to tank vessels.'' Therefore, these regulations require that terminals install an air pollution control device and a means of routing the air/vapor mixture from the vessel to the air pollution control device. Vessels will not be allowed to load or unload product unless they are compatible with terminal air pollution control systems or have a self contained emissions control system on board. Therefore, vessels loading at a controlled terminal will need to have their own vapor collection systems (i.e., pipes which allow for connection to terminal air pollution control system) in order to route vapors to shore. However, vessels are not required to load at controlled terminals. As a result, the affected source is limited to the terminal, which is in turn required to capture and control all loading emissions, with the exception of ballasting and off-shore terminal emissions which are discussed elsewhere in this preamble. Emissions from off shore vessel-to-vessel bulk liquid transfer operations (i.e., lightering operations) are also not included as a source affected by these standards because these operations do not take place at onshore terminals.
