FR940603-1-00046 FR940603-1-00009 (a) Contract forms. (1) The borrower shall use REA Form 198, Equipment Contract, for purchases of equipment where the total cost of the contract is in excess of $500,000. (2) The borrower may, in its discretion, use REA Form 173, Materials Contract, REA Form 198, Equipment Contract, or a purchase order for purchases of equipment of less than $500,000 and for all materials. (b) Standards and specifications. Distribution line materials and equipment must meet the minimum requirements of REA standards as determined in accordance with the provisions of part 1728 of this chapter, Electric Standards and Specifications for Materials and Construction. The borrower must obtain REA approval prior to purchasing any unlisted distribution line material or equipment of the types listed in accordance with the provisions of part 1728 of this chapter. (c) Procurement procedures. It is the responsibility of each borrower to determine the procurement method that best meets its needs for the purchase of material and equipment to be used in distribution line construction. (d) Contract approval. Contracts for purchases of distribution line materials and equipment are not subject to REA approval and need not be submitted to REA unless specifically requested by REA on a case by case basis. §1726.51 Distribution line construction. (a) Contract forms. The borrower must use REA Form 201, 790, 792, or 830, as outlined in this paragraph (a), for distribution line construction, except for minor modifications or improvements. (1) The borrower may use REA Form 790, Distribution Line Extension Construction Contract (Labor and Materials), or REA Form 792, Distribution Line Extension Construction Contract (Labor only) under the following circumstances: (i) For contracts for which the borrower supplies all materials and equipment; or (ii) For non-site specific construction contracts accounted for under the work order procedure; or (iii) If neither paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section are applicable, the borrower may use REA Form 790 or 792 for contracts, up to a cumulative total of $250,000 or one percent of Net Utility Plant, whichever is greater, per calendar year of distribution line construction, exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials and equipment. (2) The borrower must use REA Form 830, Electric System Construction Contract (Labor and Materials), for all other distribution line construction. Where distribution lines are being constructed incidental to transmission line construction, the borrower must use REA Form 831, Electric Transmission Construction Contract. (3) The borrower must use REA Form 201, Right-of-Way Clearing Contract, for new distribution line construction right-of-way clearing when done separately from work performed under REA Form 830. (b) Procurement procedures. It is the responsibility of each borrower to determine the procurement method that best meets its needs to award contracts for up to a cumulative total of $250,000 or one percent of NUP, whichever is greater, per calendar year of distribution line construction, exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials and equipment. In addition, a borrower may use Multiparty Unit Price Quotations to award contracts for up to a cumulative total of $350,000 or 1.5 percent of NUP, whichever is greater, per calendar year of distribution line construction, exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials and equipment. The borrower shall use formal competitive bidding for all other distribution line contract construction. (c) Contract approval. Contracts for distribution line construction are not subject to REA approval and need not be submitted to REA unless specifically requested by REA on a case by case basis. §§1726.52&hyph;1726.74 [Reserved] Subpart C_Substation and Transmission Facilities §1726.75 General. As used in this part, ``substations'' includes substations, switching stations, metering points, and similar facilities. §1726.76 Substation and transmission line materials and equipment. (a) Contract forms. (1) The borrower must use REA Form 198, Equipment Contract, for purchases of equipment where the total cost of the contract is in excess of $500,000. (2) The borrower may, in its discretion, use REA Form 173, Materials Contract, REA Form 198, Equipment Contract, or a purchase order for purchases of equipment of less than $500,000 and for all materials. (b) Standards and specifications. Substation and transmission line materials and equipment must meet the minimum requirements of REA standards as determined in accordance with the provisions of part 1728 of this chapter, Electric Standards and Specifications for Materials and Construction. The borrower must obtain REA approval prior to the purchasing of any unlisted substation or transmission line material or equipment of the types listed in accordance with the provisions of part 1728 of this chapter. (c) Procurement procedures. It is the responsibility of each borrower to determine the procurement method that best meets its needs for purchase of material and equipment to be used in substation and transmission line construction. (d) Contract approval. Contracts for purchases of substation and transmission line materials and equipment are not subject to REA approval and need not be submitted to REA unless specifically requested by REA on a case by case basis. §1726.77 Substation and transmission line construction. (a) Contract forms. (1) The borrower must use REA Form 764, Substation Erection Contract, for construction of substations, except for minor modifications or improvements. The borrower must use REA Form 831, Electric Transmission Construction Contract for projects where substations are incidental to transmission line construction and are to be constructed under the same contract.
