FR941128-2-00006 FR941128-2-00004 3. Eliminating insignificant issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental process. 4. Exploring additional alternatives. 5. Identifying potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e. direct, indirect, and cumulative effects and connected actions). 6. Determining potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. The District has identified the following issues. These are internal issues the District has identified and would now like the public to review them and add anymore they feel worthy of note. Soil Compaction_ Past activities have caused soil compaction. The Proposed Action could cause additional soil compaction. Roadless Area_ The Proposed Action could impact roadless area attributes. Old-Growth Fragmentation_ The Proposed Action could increase timber stand fragmentation. Forest Health_ Timber stand health is declining due to fire exclusion and drought. This has resulted in overstocked conditions, increased insect and disease infestations, heavy forest fuel levels, and an increase in dead and dying timber. Water Quality_ Vegetation treatment and grazing in and adjacent to riparian zones may effect stream channel stability and water quality. Habitat for red band trout and Malheur mottled sculpin may be affected by vegetation treatment in and adjacent to riparian zones. Big Game Cover_ Timber harvest could adversely affect big game habitat and populations in the analysis area. Socioeconomic_ Timber harvesting could enhance local and regional economies by providing revenues and jobs. Livestock Grazing_ The Proposed Action could have an effect on the number of livestock and the timing and location of where livestock graze. The draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and to be available for public review by May 1995. At that time, copies of the draft EIS will be distributed to interested and affected agencies, organizations, and members of the public for their review and comment. EPA will publish a notice of availability of the draft EIS in the Fedeal Register. The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register. The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft EIS's must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft EIS stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final EIS may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 f. 2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir, 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final EIS. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the Proposed Action, comments on the draft EIS should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft EIS. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft EIS or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. (Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.13 in addressing these points). The final EIS is scheduled to be completed by January 1996. In the final EIS, The Forest Service is required to respond to comments and responses received during the comment period that pertain to the environmental consequences discussed in the draft EIS and applicable laws, regulations, and policies considered in making the decision regarding this proposal. Thomas A. Schmidt, Forest Supervisor, Ochoco National Forest, is the Responsible Official. As the responsible official he will document the decision and reasons for the decision in the Board of Decision. That decision will be subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 215. Dated: November 18, 1994. Rodney D. Collins, Acting Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29161 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
