FR941005-1-00014 FR941005-1-00004 The insurance premiums paid by an insured depository institution to the FDIC are calculated by multiplying the institution's assessment base by its assessment rate. At present, an institution's assessment base equals its total domestic deposits, as adjusted for certain elements. 12 CFR 327.4(b). Prior to January 1, 1994, the assessment base was defined by section 7(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act), 12 U.S.C. 1817(b). In amending section 7(b) to require the establishment of a risk-based deposit insurance system, section 302 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA) (Pub. L. 102&hyph;242, 105 Stat. 2236, 2345) removed the statutory assessment-base provisions. As a result, effective January 1, 1994, the assessment base is now governed by the FDIC by regulation. At present, the FDIC's assessment-base regulations continue to be based on the former statutory provisions. In light of the recent transition to a risk-based deposit insurance system, the FDIC believes that it is desirable to review the existing assessment base. In the Board's view, it is important to determine whether the existing definition or some alternative definition more effectively furthers the purposes of the new deposit insurance system. In addition, a number of other significant developments in the financial services industry in recent years_including substantially higher deposit insurance rates and the resulting heightened awareness of insurance assessments, significant changes in the activities of insured depository institutions, adjustments in federal failure-resolution policies, and Congressional adoption of ``depositor preference'' requirements_also support the desirability of such a review. Through this Notice, the FDIC seeks comment from all interested persons as to whether the assessment base should be redefined and, if so, how. The FDIC believes that it is important to review the definition of the assessment base from as many different perspectives as possible. Accordingly, this Notice poses various specific questions on which comment is sought. Commenters are requested to identify the question number to which their respective responses correspond. Questions need not be repeated, and interested persons are invited to respond to as many questions as they wish. Further, comment is requested on issues not specifically addressed in this Notice but which a prospective commenter considers pertinent to the definition of the assessment base. The FDIC will carefully review and consider the comments received in response to this Notice in determining whether to propose a regulatory amendment redefining the assessment base. Should the Board decide that such an amendment is warranted, it will issue a proposal to adopt specific changes to the assessments regulations and seek public comment on that proposal. II. Background The assessment base has remained substantially unchanged since 1935. Historically, the assessment base for banks and thrift institutions has been defined, broadly stated, as total domestic deposits. The existing assessment base, as defined in 12 CFR 327.4(b), begins with the amount of the ``demand deposits'' and ``time and savings deposits'' reported by an insured institution in its quarterly Report of Condition. 1 From these amounts, the regulations provide for additions and subtractions. 1 For banks, this report is called the Report of Income and Condition; for thrift institutions, the Thrift Financial Report; and for insured branches of foreign banks, the Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks. Among the additions to ``demand deposits'' and ``time and savings deposits'' are adjustments for unposted credits. Among the subtractions are adjustments for unposted debits; pass-through reserve balances; a 162/3 percent ``float'' allowance for demand deposits and a 1 percent ``float'' allowance for time and savings deposits; and the amount of any liabilities arising from depository institution investment contracts under section 11(a)(8) of the FDI Act. 2 2 Subtraction for the last item, or certain so-called ``BIC'' liabilities, was included by an amendment to 12 CFR 327.4(b) effective July 11, 1994. See 59 FR 29714 (June 9, 1994). The remaining adjustments provided for in 12 CFR 327.4(b) (such as additions for demand deposits that represent uninvested trust funds) are technical in nature and are included to adapt certain elements of the Reports of Condition for assessment purposes. Until 1993, the premium rate by which an institution's assessment base was multiplied to determine its assessment payment was the same for all banks and the same for all thrifts. Beginning in January 1993, each institution is now assigned an assessment rate based on the risk that institution poses to its deposit insurance fund. As assessment rates have risen over the past few years, deposit insurance premiums have become a significant expense item for insured depository institutions. The expense factor has resulted in institutions and their depositors questioning the relevance of the existing assessment base in the current environment. In addition, increased rates have caused some institutions to take deliberate steps to decrease their assessments by temporarily reducing their deposits at quarter end.
