FR940927-0-00019 FR940927-0-00002 The contract change date is November 30 preceding the cancellation date (see the provisions of section 4 (Contract Changes) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8)). 5. Cancellation and Termination Dates In accordance with subsection 2.(f) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), the cancellation and termination dates are: ␣ 1State and county 1Cancellation and termination dates l(a) For corn and grain sorghum: Val Verde, Edwards, Kerr, Kendall, Bexar, Wilson, Karnes, Goliad, Victoria, and Jackson Counties, Texas, and all Texas counties lying south thereof January 15. El Paso, Hudspeth, Culberson, Reeves, Loving, Winkler, Ector, Upton, Reagan, Sterling, Coke, Tom Green, Concho, McCulloch, San Saba, Mills, Hamilton, Bosque, Johnson, Tarrant, Wise, Cooke Counties, Texas, and all Texas counties lying south and east thereof to and including Terrell, Crockett, Sutton, Kimble, Gillespie, Blanco, Comal, Guadalupe, Gonzales, De Witt, Lavaca, Colorado, Wharton, and Matagorda Counties, Texas February 15. Alabama; Arizona; Arkansas; California; Florida; Georgia; Louisiana; Mississippi; Nevada; North Carolina; and South Carolina February 28. All other Texas counties and all other states March 15. (b) For soybeans: Jackson, Victoria, Goliad, Bee, Live Oak, McMullen, LaSalle, and Dimmit Counties, Texas and all Texas counties lying south thereof February 15. Alabama; Arizona; Arkansas; California; Florida; Georgia; Louisiana; Mississippi; Nevada; North Carolina; and South Carolina; and El Paso, Hudspeth, Culberson, Reeves, Loving, Winkler, Ector, Upton, Reagan, Sterling, Coke, Tom Green, Concho, McCulloch, San Saba, Mills, Hamilton, Bosque, Johnson, Tarrant, Wise, Cooke Counties, Texas, and all Texas counties lying south and east thereof to and including Maverick, Zavala, Frio, Atascosa, Karnes, De Witt, Lavaca, Colorado, Wharton, and Matagorda Counties, Texas February 28. All other Texas counties and all other states March 15. 6. Insured Crop (a) In accordance with section 8 (Insured Crop) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), the crop insured will be each coarse grain crop you elect to insure for which premium rates are provided by the actuarial table: (1) In which you have a share; (2) That is adapted to the area based on days to maturity and is compatible with agronomic and weather conditions in the area; and
