FR940930-2-00065 FR940930-2-00035 2. The adequacy of existing and proposed facilities and resources for conducting conference activities. 3. The degree to which the applicant has established and used critical linkages with health and education agencies with the mandate for HIV prevention (letters of support from such agencies should demonstrate the linkages specific to the conference). C. Qualifications of Program Personnel: (25 Points) Evaluation will be based on: 1. The qualifications, experience, and commitment of the principal staff person, and his/her ability to devote adequate time and effort to provide effective leadership. 2. The competence of associate staff persons, discussion leaders, and speakers to accomplish conference objectives. 3. The degree to which the application demonstrates an appropriate knowledge level of all key personnel about the transmission of HIV, as well as nationwide information and education efforts currently underway that may affect, and be affected by, the proposed conference. D. Budget Justification and Adequacy of Facilities: (Not Scored) The proposed budget will be evaluated on the basis of its reasonableness, concise and clear justification, consistency with the intended use of cooperative agreement funds, and the extent to which the applicant documents financial support from other sources. Funding Priorities Funding priorities are established to ensure a balance of CDC HIV prevention funding and to address at risk populations that are underserved. CDC is especially interested in supporting meetings and conferences on the following topics: 1. Prevention of HIV infection among: (A) underserved populations (e.g., women of reproductive age, racial and ethnic minorities), (B) high risk populations, including both in-and out-of-school youth, or (C) populations in special settings (e.g., racial and ethnic minorities, out-of-school youth, incarcerated persons, men who have sex with men, and migrant workers). Particular interest will be given to populations who may be affiliated with multiple groups (e.g., gay men of color). 2. HIV prevention in health-care settings. 3. Development of HIV prevention strategies with a broad range of community partners including those who have not traditionally been involved with public health programs (e.g., business, religious leaders). 4. Development of prevention marketing strategies, including various behavior modification messages related to sexual practices (e.g., abstinence, condom use). Public comments are not being solicited regarding funding priority because time does not permit solicitation and review prior to the funding date. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are not subject to review as governed by Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.118, Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) activities. Other Requirements HIV/AIDS Requirements Recipients must comply with the document entitled ``Content of HIV/AIDS-Related Written Materials, Pictorials, Audiovisuals, Questionnaires, Survey Instruments, and Education Sessions in Centers for Disease Control Assistance Programs (June 15, 1992),'' a copy is included in the application kit. In complying with the Program Review Panel requirements contained in this document, recipients are encouraged to use an existing Program Review Panel such as the one created by the State health department's AIDS/HIV prevention program. If the recipient forms its own Program Review Panel, at least one member must also be an employee (or a designated representative) of an appropriate health or education agency, consistent with the revised Content Guidelines. The names of review panel members must be listed on the Assurance of Compliance form (CDC Form 0.1113) which is also included in the application kit. Letter of Intent and Application Submission and Deadline The original and two copies of the LOI must be postmarked by the November 1, 1994, deadline date to be considered. Following submission of a LOI, applications may be submitted only after CDC staff have reviewed the LOI and the applicant has received a written invitation to submit an application for funding. An invitation to submit an application does not constitute a commitment to fund the applicant. Availability of funds may limit the number of LOIs, regardless of merit, that receive an invitation to submit an application.
