FR940930-0-00216 FR940930-0-00029 The labor/management group suggested replacing the reference to ``motorist'' with ``highway user'' inasmuch as highway traffic is not limited to motorists. FRA agrees, and has changed the rule accordingly. The labor/management group also recommended that the phrase ``at a minimum'' be eliminated from this section and §234.107. The group believed that the phrase is unnecessary and that it could be misinterpreted as implying that additional action could be necessary in response to a report of a malfunction. As stated in the discussion of §234.1, FRA intends that the rule issued today specifies the minimum actions a railroad must take in certain circumstances. Section 234.1 has been revised to make clear that this part does not restrict a railroad from adopting and enforcing additional or more stringent requirements not inconsistent with this part. Thus, given the revision to §234.1, references in §234.105 and 234.107 to minimum actions to be taken by a railroad have been deleted as unnecessarily repetitive. The labor/management group also noted that manual operation of defective warning devices was not addressed in the NPRM and suggested that such operation should be considered to be an ``alternative means'' of giving warning, with the result that a train could proceed through the crossing at normal speed. FRA agrees that if a warning system is manually activated, a train can proceed through the crossing at normal speed. §234.105(b) FRA received a number of comments pertaining to the proposed requirement of §234.105(b) that ``the highway traffic control authority having jurisdiction over the crossing'' be notified of the crossing system malfunction. The Southern Pacific Transportation Company and related railroads recommended deletion of this requirement because it ``would be very difficult for the railroads to determine who to call, and to maintain such a database.'' The railroad further stated that ``it is not likely that highway traffic authority will respond due to their own shortages of staff, and even if they do respond, they may be unable to properly staff the crossing *␣*␣* .'' West Virginia Department of Transportation (WVDOT) commented that notifying the highway traffic authority would only be appropriate during normal business hours. WVDOT suggested that it would be better to notify the appropriate law enforcement agency. We fully agree. FRA always intended that notification be given to the public agency charged with traffic enforcement on the road, whether that be the local police, sheriff's department or state police. FRA's use of the term ``highway traffic authority'' was misleading and FRA is therefore replacing that term with ``law enforcement agency.'' The LIRR, which presently uses its own railroad police extensively in situations of grade crossing warning malfunctions, notifies the local police only when its own uniformed police are unable to respond or due to high volume of traffic flow at the crossing. FRA considers notification of railroad police who are capable of responding and controlling vehicular traffic to be equivalent to notification of the appropriate ``law enforcement agency.'' The final rule is being modified accordingly. §234.105(c) In response to a commenter's suggestion, this subsection is rearranged to be consistent with the arrangement of §234.107(c). Both subsections begin with the flagging requirements which permit train operations at normal speed. The subsections then address those situations which are progressively more restrictive on train operations. References in the following discussion are to the subsection numbers as proposed. The revised section number as it appears in the final rule follows in parentheses. As proposed, subsection 105(c) requires that upon receipt of a credible report of malfunction, a railroad must provide or arrange for alternative means of actively warning motorists of approaching trains, consistent with requirements detailed in paragraphs (1) through (4). FRA is deleting the phrase ``or arrange for'' in the first sentence of this subsection. A railroad may provide for alternative means of warning highway users by providing its own flaggers, or it may contract with another entity to provide that warning. FRA is deleting the above phrase to avoid the impression that merely arranging for such activities is an adequate response. A railroad's responsibilities under this provision are fulfilled only when the alternative means of warning highway users is actually provided. Paragraph 105(c)(1) (final rule_105(c)(3)) generated many comments. As proposed, it requires a train to stop before entering a crossing until an appropriately equipped flagger or law enforcement officer was stationed at the crossing. The proposal further requires that once the train was stopped, a crewmember must dismount to flag highway traffic to a stop. When safe to do so, the locomotive would proceed through the crossing, with the crewmember then reboarding. The LIRR noted that the proposed regulation does not cover the situation of trains being operated by one person. The LIRR stated ``it would not be in the best interest of our customers if the engine could not be moved until an appropriately equipped person arrived.'' The labor/management group also commented that in unusual situations there may be occasions where a train has only the engineer available to flag traffic: ``In those cases, we believe that under §234.105, the train would be permitted to proceed through the crossing after the train was stopped and it was determined that it was safe to do so.'' That interpretation is incorrect. FRA notes that nothing in the proposed language of §234.105(c)(1) permits a locomotive to proceed through the crossing without being flagged through that crossing by someone on the ground, nor does the labor/management group provide any basis for their contrary conclusion.
