FR940902-1-00045 FR940902-1-00008 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 1-Year Finding for a Petition To List the Pacific Coast Population of the Cactus Wren Under the Endangered Species Act AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of 1-year petition finding. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service), pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act), announces a 1-year finding on a petition to add the Pacific coast population of the cactus wren ( Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus couesi ) to the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife. After a review of all available scientific and commercial information, the Service determines that listing is not warranted at this time and hereby transfers the petitioned entity from category 2 to category 3B of the Candidate Notice of Review. The Service concludes that the cactus wrens occupying coastal southern California do not constitute a distinct population segment. Therefore, the Service concludes that the Pacific coast population of the cactus wren is not a listable entity. DATES: The finding announced in this document was made on August 29, 1994. Comments and information may be submitted until further notice. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials regarding this petition finding may be submitted to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Carlsbad Field Office, 2730 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008. The complete file for this notice, including the petitions, administrative finding, supporting data, and comments, is available for inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Gail C. Kobetich, Field Supervisor, at the address listed above (telephone 619/431&hyph;9440). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Pursuant to section 4(b)(3)(B) of the Act, the Service is required to make a finding within 12 months of the date of the receipt of a petition to revise the Lists of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants on whether the petition is (a) not warranted, (b) warranted, or (c) warranted but precluded for immediate proposal by other proposals of higher priority. Section 4(b)(3)(C) requires that petitions for which the requested action is found to be ``warranted but precluded'' should be treated as though resubmitted on the date of such finding. Therefore, a subsequent finding should be made within 12 months. On September 21, 1990, the Service received petitions from the San Diego Biodiversity Project and Palomar Audubon Society to list the ``San Diego cactus wren'', Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus sandiegensis , as an endangered species pursuant to section 4 of the Act. The San Diego cactus wren, as described, occurs from San Juan Creek in southern Orange County through western San Diego County southward to Valle de las Palmas in Baja California, which is just south of the U.S.-Mexico border. The American Ornithologists' Union Committee on Classification and Nomenclature (Committee) did not recognize the San Diego cactus wren ( C. b. sandiegensis ) as a subspecies of the cactus wren ( Campylorhynchus brunneicapillus ). The Committee has concluded that C. b. sandiegensis is intermediate between C. b. couesi , a widespread subspecies found in southwestern United States and northern, mainland Mexico, and C. b. bryanti , a suspecies recognized as occurring from San Diego County, California, to northern Baja California, Mexico (B. Monroe, in litt. , 1990; R. Banks, in litt , 1994). The Service considers the Committee to be the recognized authority on the taxonomy of the birds of North America. Since the conclusion of the committee is that C. b. sandiegensis likely only represents an intermediate form between two recognized subspecies of cactus wren, it is not currently under consideration for addition to the Federal List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants. On March 22, 1991, the Service announced its 90-day finding on the petitions (56 FR 12146), and indicated that we would treat the petitions to list C. b. sandiegensis as a petition to list the coastal population of C. b. couesi , because the cactus wrens residing in coastal California may be disjunct from other cactus wrens, and may constitute a distinct vertebrate population segment that could qualify for listing under the Act. Under section 3(15) of the Act the term ``species'' includes any distinct population segment of any species of vertebrate fish and wildlife which interbreeds when mature. Thus, we indicated that the petition had presented substantial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted. Based upon our reevaluation of information received, the Service concludes that the coastal population of cactus wren consists of Pacific coastal portions of C. b couesi and C. b. bryanti . However, Congressional intent indicates that the Service is to list populations only ``sparingly''. In determining the appropriateness of listing a vertebrate population segment under the Act, the Service considers available scientific evidence regarding the population's discreetness or distinctiveness and regarding the population's significance to the species as a whole.
