FR940822-1-00024 FR940822-1-00006 In the absence of convincing evidence that there is a dose threshold or that low levels of radiation are beneficial, the staff believes that the assumptions regarding a linear nonthreshold dose-effect model for cancers and genetic effects and the existence of thresholds only for certain nonstochastic effects are prudent for formulating radiation protection standards and planning radiation protection programs. The NRC staff believes the dose limits and ALARA requirements of the proposed radiological criteria for decommissioning provide a reasonable basis for protection of public health and safety and the environment. However, the staff has also determined that decommissioning activities should not be allowed the entire dose limit of 100 mrem/y for members of the public. The staff has selected a value which is a relatively small fraction of the limit, consistent with other decisions of both the EPA and NRC for unrestricted access to areas. Comment. Many commenters recommended that the NRC establish a risk/dose limit on the order of the variability of natural background radiation occurring across the United States as its decommissioning standard. The reasons given were that no health risks are attributable to background radiation variations and studies show that there is no increase in cancer incidence over a wide range of background radiation in the U.S. Response. The NRC staff believes that the overall objective for decommissioning should be the return of the facility to levels approximating background. However, the NRC staff recognizes that demonstrating that radioisotope levels at a site are indistinguishable from background will be a complex task involving sophisticated sampling, measuring, and statistical analysis techniques. The NRC staff also recognizes that the difficulty of the task can vary substantially depending on a number of factors including the radionuclide in question, the background level for that and other radionuclides at the site, and the temporal and spatial variations in background radiation at the site. Therefore, in the draft rule, the NRC staff proposed as a goal of the ALARA process that the Total Effective Dose Equivalent (TEDE) to the average member of the Critical Group from all radionuclides that could contribute to residual radioactivity and are distinguishable from background not exceed 3 mrem (0.03 mSv) per year. Demonstration of achieving this dose criterion would be considered as the only demonstration necessary to meet the proposed ALARA requirements of the rule. One of the reasons 3 millirem per year was selected is because variations of this magnitude typically are not distinguishable from the variation of dose from background radiation. Three mrem/y is well within the variability of natural background radiation across the U.S. and also within those variations experienced seasonally at particular sites. Based upon comments received on the NRC staff draft, the Commission has decided to remove the 3 millirem per year value from the proposed rule (see discussion under ``Comments on NRC Staff Draft''). 3. Individual vs Collective Doses. Comment. Several comments were made concerning how risk standards should be applied to the population who may be exposed to residual radioactivity at a released site. Most commenters favored applying a risk limit to individuals and believed it unnecessary to specify a collective dose limit (i.e., a limit on the cumulative dose in person-rem/y to the entire exposed population). One commenter remarked that if collective dose is used, it should be applied in a comprehensive manner. For example, in evaluating an appropriate cleanup standard, the doses to the public from transporting material off site for disposal should be evaluated against the doses received by the public around the site if the material is left in place. Response. The NRC has considered both the collective doses to populations and the individual doses to the average member of the most highly exposed group of individuals (Critical Group). These considerations are reflected in the calculations presented in the GEIS prepared in support of this rulemaking. In the scenarios considered, the annual collective dose is quite small. Therefore, the staff concludes that limiting individual dose to the levels specified in the criteria will assure that collective doses will be small and that the public health will be adequately protected. This is consistent with past Commission practice in establishing radiological criteria.
