FR940805-1-00167 FR940805-1-00017 Section 13.233(j), regarding the FAA decisionmaker's decision on appeal, would be modified to remove the language that touches upon the standard of review. The existing regulation states that the FAA decisionmaker will review the record, briefs, and oral argument ``to determine if the administrative law judge committed prejudicial error in the proceedings or that the initial decision should be affirmed, modified, or reversed.'' The proposed change would provide that the FAA decisionmaker will review the record, briefs, and oral argument ``when considering the issues on appeal.'' In this way, the proposed rule will refer back to the standard of review set forth in §13.233(b). The FAA decisionmaker retains the authority to affirm, modify, or reverse an initial decision specified in §13.233(j); this would not be changed by these proposed amendments. In §13.233(b)(1) there is a typographical error. The word ``filing'' would be corrected to read ``finding.'' Other Amendments As discussed in the preamble for §13.18, above, the FAA has experienced problems with §13.16(l)(1), regarding compromise orders. For the reasons explained above, the FAA proposes to amend that section to provide that no compromise order will be issued unless the civil penalty is paid or a promissory note providing for installment payments is signed by the person charged. Section 13.16(k) indicates when a party may petition for review of a civil penalty assessment to the United States Courts of Appeals. That section states that an initial decision or order issued by an ALJ that has not been appealed to the FAA decisionmaker, and an order compromising a civil penalty action, do not constitute final orders of the Administrator for the purposes of judicial review under section 1006 of the FAAct. A petition for review from these orders is not appropriate, because available administrative remedies were not exhausted. They are considered to be final orders of the Administrator, however, for such purposes as closing out the enforcement action in FAA records and collecting the civil penalty as a debt to the United States. In the case of an initial decision in which the person has been found to have violated the FAR, the finding of violation becomes part of the FAA enforcement history of the person. Accordingly, the FAA proposes to amend that section to delete the characterization of these orders as not final. Limitation Period for Commencing Civil Penalty Assessments Section 2462 of title 28 of the United States Code prescribes a general 5-year limit within which the United States must commence an action for the assessment of a civil penalty. This statute of limitations recently has been held to be applicable to the entire federal government in civil penalty cases, unless Congress specifically provides otherwise. In 1990, the FAA, as the prosecuting and regulating agency, self-imposed a 2-year regulatory limit on the initiation of its civil penalty assessment cases, except where good cause exists. See, 55 FR at 27552 to 27557 (July 3, 1990). In adopting this regulatory limitation period, the FAA attempted to carefully balance the needs of the agency for sufficient time to investigate, review, and initiate a case; the interest of respondents in timely notice and adjudication; and the public interest in promoting compliance with the regulations.
