FR940506-1-00063 FR940506-1-00014 (C) State that payment of the principal has been received, including the date of receipt. (ii) Demands must be postmarked on or before the 40th day after payment was made, except that_ (A) If the postmark is illegible or nonexistent, the demand must have been received and annotated with the date of receipt by the designated payment office on or before the 40th day after payment was made, or (B) If the postmark is illegible or nonexistent and the designated payment office fails to make the required annotation, the demand's validity will be determined by the date the contractor has placed on the demand; provided , such date is no later than the 40th day after payment was made. (3)(i) The additional penalty shall be equal to 100 percent of any original late payment interest penalty that is due on or after January 22, 1990, except_ (A) For additional penalties due on or before January 22, 1992, such penalties shall not exceed $2,500; (B) After January 22, 1992, the additional penalty shall not exceed $5,000; (C) The additional penalty shall never be less than $25. (ii) If the interest penalty ceases to accrue in accordance with the limits stated in paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section, the amount of the additional penalty shall be calculated on the amount of interest penalty that would have accrued in the absence of these limits, but shall not exceed the limits specified in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section. (iii) For determining the maximum and minimum additional penalties, the test shall be the interest penalty due on each separate payment made for each separate contract. The maximum and minimum additional penalty shall not be based upon individual invoices unless the invoices are paid separately. Where payments are consolidated for disbursing purposes, the maximum and minimum additional penalty determination shall be made separately for each contract therein. (iv) The additional penalty does not apply to payments regulated by other Government regulations (for example, payments under utility contracts subject to tariffs and regulation). 9. Section 32.910 is added to read as follows: §32.910 Additional Construction Policies. (a) The Payments under Fixed-Price Construction clause (52.232&hyph;5), paragraph (d), and Prompt Payment for Construction Contracts clause (52.232&hyph;27), subparagraph (e)(6), provide for the contractor to pay interest on unearned amounts in certain circumstances. This interest shall be recovered from subsequent payments to the contractor. Therefore, no demand for payment shall normally be made. Contracting officers shall_ (1) Compute the amount in accordance with the clause; (2) Provide the contractor with a final decision; and (3) Notify the payment office of the amount to be withheld. (b) The payment office shall be responsible for making the deduction of interest. Amounts collected in accordance with these provisions shall revert to the Treasury of the United States. PART 52_SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES 10. Section 52.232&hyph;5 is amended by revising paragraphs (b), (c), and (d)(2); adding paragraph (j); and adding paragraph headings to paragraphs (a), and (d) through (i) to read as follows: 52.232&hyph;5 Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts. * * * * * Payments Under Fixed-Price Construction Contracts (Date) (a) Payment of price . *␣*␣* (b) Progress payments . The Government shall make progress payments monthly as the work proceeds, or at more frequent intervals as determined by the Contracting Officer, on estimates of work accomplished which meets the standards of quality established under the contract, as approved by the Contracting Officer. (1) The Contractor's request for progress payment shall include the following substantiation: (i) An itemization of the amounts requested related to the various elements of work required by the contract covered by the payment request. (ii) A listing of the amount included for work performed by each subcontractor under the contract. (iii) A listing of the total amount of each subcontract under the contract.
