FR940825-2-00151 FR940825-2-00096 G. Position and Exercise Limits, Margin Requirements, and Trading Halts Because the Index is classified as an ``industry index'' under Phlx rules, 12 Exchange rules that are applicable to the trading of options on narrow-based indexes will apply to the trading of Semiconductor Index options and Index LEAPS. Specifically, Exchange rules governing margin requirements, 13 position and exercise limits, 14 and trading halt procedures 15 that are applicable to the trading of narrow-based index options will apply to options traded on the Index. Positions in Index LEAPS will be aggregated with positions in regular Index options on a one-for-one basis for purposes of position and exercise limits. 12 See Phlx Rule 1000A(11). 13 Pursuant to Phlx Rule 722, the margin requirements for the Index options will be: (1) for short options positions, 100% of the current market value of the options contract plus 20% of the underlying aggregate Index value, less any out-of-the-money amount, with a minimum requirement of the options premium plus 10% of the underlying Index value; and (2) for long options positions, 100% of the options premium paid. 14 Pursuant to Phlx Rules 1001A and 1002A, respectively, the position and exercise limits for the Index options will be 7,500 contracts, unless the Exchange determines, pursuant to those rules that a higher or lower limit is warranted. 15 Pursuant to Phlx Rule 1047A, the trading on the Phlx of Index options may be halted or suspended whenever trading in underlying securities whose weighted value represents more than 20% of the Index value are halted or suspended. H. Surveillance Surveillance procedures currently used to monitor trading in each of the Exchange's other index options will also be used to monitor trading in Index options and Index LEAPS. These procedures include complete access to trading activity in the underlying securities. Further, the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, dated July 14, 1983, as amended on January 29, 1990, will be applicable to the trading of options on the Index. 16 16 The Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The members of the ISG are: the Amex; the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc.; the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD''); the NYSE; the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; and the Phlx. Because of potential opportunities for trading abuses involving stock index futures, stock options, and the underlying stock and the need for greater sharing of surveillance information for these potential intermarket trading abuses, the major stock index futures exchanges ( e.g. , the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade) joined the ISG as affiliate members in 1990. III. Findings and Conclusions The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 17 Specifically, the Commission finds that the trading of Semiconductor Index options, including Index LEAPS, will serve to promote the public interest and help to remove impediments to a free and open securities market by providing investors with a means of hedging exposure to market risk associated with securities representing the semiconductor industry. 18 17 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). 18 Pursuant to Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, the Commission must predicate approval of any new option proposal upon a finding that the introduction of such new derivative instrument is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult for a derivative instrument that served no hedging or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants likely would be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns. In this regard, the trading of listed Index options and Index LEAPS will provide investors with a hedging vehicle that should reflect the overall movement of stocks representing the semiconductor industry. The trading of options of LEAPS on the Semiconductor Index, however, raises several concerns, namely issues related to index design, customer protection, surveillance, and market impact. The Commission believes, however, for the reasons discussed below, that the Phlx adequately has addressed these concerns. A. Index Design and Structure The Commission finds that the Semiconductor Index is a narrow-based index. The Index is composed of only sixteen securities, all of which represent the semiconductor industry. Accordingly, in light of the limited number of stocks in the Index and that the Index represents one industry sector, the Commission believes it is proper to classify the Semiconductor Index as narrow-based and apply Phlx's rules governing narrow-based index options to trading in the Index options and Index LEAPS. 19 19 See supra notes 12 through 15, and accompanying text.
