FR941220-0-00071 FR941220-0-00012 C. Age of Financial Statements of Significant Foreign Equity Investees or Foreign Acquirees Under the amendments adopted today, the financial statements of significant foreign equity investees and acquired foreign businesses furnished in filings by domestic issuers can be updated on the same time schedule as foreign private issuers. 33 Registration statements of foreign private issuers need not include audited financial statements of the most recently completed fiscal year until six months after the year-end; unaudited interim financial statements are required only to the extent necessary to bring the most recent financial statements included in the filing to a date within ten months of effectiveness. 34 33 If the acquired business or investee does not meet the definition of a foreign business, financial statements would need to be updated pursuant to Rule 3&hyph;12 of Regulation S&hyph;X. 34 17 CFR 210.3&hyph;19. Although two commenters doubted that there was significant additional cost or difficulty associated with updating foreign investees and acquiree financial statements on the same basis as domestic issuers, most commenters felt that financial reporting practices outside the U.S. varied to such a degree as to present significant obstacles to the preparation of separate financial statements on as timely a basis as is required for U.S. companies. III. Streamlining of Required Financial Statement Schedules The amendments adopted today eliminate the following six schedules that had previously been eliminated for foreign private issuers: (1) Rule 12&hyph;02_Marketable Securities_Other Investments including Schedule XIII (2) Rule 12&hyph;03_Amounts Receivable from Related Parties and Underwriters, Promoters and Employees Other Than Related Parties (3) Rule 12&hyph;05_Indebtedness of and to Related Parties_Not Current. (4) Rule 12&hyph;06_Property, Plant and Equipment (5) Rule 12&hyph;07_Accumulated Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization of Property, Plant and Equipment (6) Rule 12&hyph;08_Guarantees of Securities of Other Issuers Two additional schedules previously required for both foreign and domestic issuers also will be eliminated: (1) Rule 12&hyph;10_Short-term Borrowings (2) Rule 12&hyph;11_Supplementary Income Statement Information A. Schedules Previously Eliminated From Foreign Issuer Filings 1. Marketable Securities_Other Investments The rules adopted today eliminate this schedule. All of the issuers and accountants supported elimination of this schedule, but several financial analyst commenters did not favor elimination because they believed that the schedule provided information facilitating comparisons among companies whose accounting is affected by the classification of investments as either current or noncurrent. Elimination of this schedule was proposed because much of its information is required to be disclosed in financial statements by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, ``Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities'' (``SFAS 115''), issued in May 1993 by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (``FASB'') and effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1993. Under SFAS 115, the designation as current or noncurrent no longer affects the carrying value of a security. Some commenters favored retention of the schedule's requirement for identification of securities of individual issuers exceeding 2% of the registrant's total assets. The Commission believes retention of the specific disclosure is unnecessary because other rules applicable to filings by public companies should lead to appropriate disclosure if a particular investment is material. Disclosures required by Item 303 of Regulation S&hyph;K, ``Management's Discussion and Analysis,'' include discussion of the material effects and uncertainties associated with concentrations and risks in the investment portfolio. 35 In addition, Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 105, ``Disclosure of Information about Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk and Financial Instruments with Concentrations of Credit Risk,'' (``SFAS 105'') requires disclosure of all significant concentrations of credit risk arising from an individual counterparty or groups of counterparties that would be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions. 35 See Securities Act Release No. 6835 (May 18, 1989). 2. Amounts Receivable From Related Parties and Underwriters, Promoters and Employees Other Than Related Parties and Indebtedness of and to Related Parties The Commission has eliminated these schedules as proposed. None of the commenters cited the need to retain these schedules, as similar information is required to be furnished pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 57, ``Related Party Transactions'' (``SFAS 57'') and Regulation S&hyph;K, Item 404 ``Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.''
