FR940303-2-00187 FR940303-2-00093 C . Electronics Applications of electronics components in vehicles continues to rise. Some of the applications include 4-wheel steering, tire-pressure sensing, instrumentation, and in-car entertainment grouping, but the main concentration is in engine management, powertrain managment, antilock braking systems, air bags, air conditioning and, increasingly, suspension control. Electronically controlled automatic transmissions now account for 33.9 percent of United States cars produced. The automobile manufacturers have advanced toward more sophisticated fuel injection systems. Sequential fuel injection installation rates rose to 43.3 percent in MY 1992, from 28.2 percent in MY 1991. Traction control systems are featured on 2.3 percent of United States-built passenger cars (Ward's Automotive Reports, April 19, 1993). The role of sensors and sensing systems is becoming increasingly important in the automotive industry. Since the electronics market is growing in the safety and the information fields, the object of sensing will be expanding further in the future. Sensors and sensing technologies for future automotive systems can be categorized into three fields of applications_engine and powertrain control, safety and suspension control, and information exchange. In engine and powertrain systems, sensors are required for combustion and engine output detection and control. Exhaust emissions and fuel consumption will be reduced simultaneously over the next decade. The primary objective of the sensors is to control engine and transmission paramenters, but sensing technology improvements are needed to determine limit conditions. Combustion sensing will be an essential technology for engine control. Emissions are strongly dependent on the air/fuel (A/F) ratio, and the best fuel consumption is obtained when engine operation is in the lean burn fuel range. Except for oxides of nitrogen reduction, the lean fuel condition is best for both emissions and fuel consumption reductions. Since the engine's output and emissions are the results of combustion, direct monitoring of combustion is the key for controlling them. D. Materials For MY 1993, manufacturers selected sheet molding compound (SMC), plastics, aluminum, high-strength steel, powdered metal (P/M), and magnesium for a number of significant new component applications in their cars, vans, and pickup trucks. The reduced weight of these components contributed to improved fuel economy of the models using them.
