FR940526-1-00023 FR940526-1-00012 Thursday May 26, 1994 Part II Office of Personnel Management 5 CFR Part 591 Cost-of-Living Allowances (Nonforeign Areas) and Report on Summer 1993 Surveys Used To Determine Cost-of-Living Allowances in Selecting Nonforeign Areas; Proposed Rule and Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 101␣/␣Thursday, May 26, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Part 591 RIN 3206&hyph;AF88 Cost-of-Living Allowances (Nonforeign Areas) AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) proposes to increase certain cost-of-living allowance (COLA) rates paid to General Schedule, U.S. Postal Service, and certain other Federal employees in Kauai County, Hawaii; the City and County of Honolulu, Hawaii; Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; and the U.S. Virgin Islands. OPM also proposes to consolidate the two nonforeign COLA areas in the U.S. Virgin Islands into a single allowance area. In addition, OPM proposes to remove from regulations three locations listed as places where nonforeign post differentials are paid. These three locations are no longer territories or possessions of the United States and, therefore, are not covered by the nonforeign area post differential program. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send or deliver comments to Allan G. Hearne, Methodology Development Branch, Office of Compensation Policy, Personnel Systems and Oversight Group, Office of Personnel Management, room 6H31, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20415. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Allan G. Hearne, (202) 606&hyph;2838. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under section 5941 of title 5, United States Code, certain Federal employees in nonforeign areas outside the 48 contiguous States are eligible for cost-of-living allowances (COLA's) when local living costs are substantially higher than those in Washington, DC. Nonforeign area COLA's are currently paid in the following locations: Alaska, Hawaii, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. OPM contracts with Runzheimer International to conduct living-cost surveys in all of the nonforeign allowance areas. During the summer of 1993, Runzheimer surveyed Hawaii, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. At that time, Runzheimer also surveyed the Washington, DC, area, which is the base or reference area for living-cost comparisons. As background to this notice of proposed rulemaking, OPM is publishing a separate Federal Register notice immediately following this notice. The separate notice provides the complete ``Report to OPM on Living Costs in Hawaii, Guam and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, United States Virgin Islands, and in the Washington, DC, Area, March 1994,'' produced by Runzheimer International. This report explains the methodology, procedures, and results of the summer 1993 living-cost surveys. This notice of proposed rulemaking and the notice immediately following are based only on the results of the summer 1993 surveys. OPM is publishing the proposed rate adjustments and survey results at this time to expedite the implementation of proposed COLA rate adjustments. These notices do not cover the winter 1994 living-cost surveys conducted in Alaska. Any proposed COLA rate adjustments and the results of the winter 1994 surveys will be published in separate notices later this year after OPM has fully analyzed the results of the Alaska surveys.
