FR940513-2-00055 FR940513-2-00031 (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice or the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such records by the Department of Justice or the use of such records in the proceeding is deemed by the agency to be relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case, the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice or the disclosure of such records in the proceeding is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. (6) In the event that information in this record system is needed in the course of presenting evidence to a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal, the relevant records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate person to use as evidence. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are maintained in file folders. Retrievability: Records are arranged alphabetically by name. Safeguards: Records are maintained in a locked safe in an area that is secured after business hours. Access to records is restricted to those employees whose official duties require access. Retention and disposal: Files are transferred to OPM when employee leaves the agency. System manager(s) and address: Chief Operating Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Notification procedure: All inquiries about this system of records shall be addressed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Record access procedures: Requests for access to a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.3. Contesting record procedures: Requests for amendments of a record shall be directed to: Privacy Act Officer, Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826, as provided in 12 CFR 1403.7. Record Source Categories: Information in this system of records comes from the individual to whom it applies, credit bureaus, police, neighbors, former supervisors and coworkers, etc. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the act: This system is subjected to a specific exemption pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), to the extent there is included in the system investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes. FCSIC&hyph;8 System name: Correspondence Files_FCSIC. System location: Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;0826. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Current and former Corporation employees. Categories of records in the system:
