FR940617-2-00005 FR940617-2-00003 6. Competitive proposals for restoration projects will be encouraged. 7. Restoration projects will be subject to independent scientific review before Trustee Council approval. 8. Meaningful public participation in restoration decisions will be actively solicited. 9. Government agencies will be funded only for restoration work that they do not normally conduct. Four types of restoration actions are identified and discussed in the Draft Restoration Plan: General restoration, habitat protection and acquisition, monitoring and research, and public information and administration. Alternatives to the proposed action place different emphases on each of these categories of restoration actions. General Restoration consists of activities that fall within manipulation of the environment, management of human use for reduction of marine pollution. Decisions about conducting general restoration projects would look at the following factors: Extent of natural recovery, the value of an injured resource to the ecosystem and to the public, the duration of benefits, the technical feasibility of the project, the likelihood of success, the relationship of costs to expected benefits, potential for harmful side effects, benefits to more than one resource, effects on health and human safety, consistency with applicable laws, and policies, and duplication with other actions. Habitat Protection and Acquisition is a category that includes purchase of private land or interests in land such as conservation easements, mineral rights, or timber rights. It also includes recommendations for changing public agency management practices. Specific policies that relate to habitat protection and acquisition are proposed. These policies deal with ranking potential lands to determine potential benefits, the need for a willing seller, purchasing at fair market value, post acquisition management of the acquired lands and involving the public in the prioritization process. Monitoring and Research consists of recovery monitoring, restoration monitoring and ecological monitoring and research. Specific policies governing the selecting and performance of monitoring activities are discussed in the Draft Restoration Plan. Public Information and Administration is the last category of restoration actions. It consists of all necessary administrative actions that are not attributable to a particular project. The Draft Restoration Plan goal for this category is for administrative costs to average no more than 5% of overall restoration expenditures for the remainder of the settlement period. General restoration objectives have been developed for resources that are recovering, resources not recovering, resources where the recovery is unknown, resources such as archaeological resources and wilderness, and services. These broad objectives will guide in the development of annual work plans. Further information regarding the proposed action and possible restoration alternatives is included in the Draft Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Restoration Plan, Summary of Alternatives for Public Comment, April 1993; the Supplement to Draft Exxon Valdez Oil spill Restoration Plan, Summary of Alternatives for Public Comment, June 1993; the Summary of Public Comment on Alternatives of the Draft Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Restoration Plan, September 1993; and the Draft Exxon Valdez Oil Spill Restoration Plan, November 1993. Copies of these documents may be requested from the Oil Spill Public Information Office, 645 G. Street, Anchorage, Alaska, 99501. Phone number 907 278&hyph;8008 or within Alaska 800 478&hyph;7745, outside Alaska 800 283&hyph;7745. C. Public Meetings During the comment period for the DEIS public meetings will be held on the following dates at the locations shown: June 27, 1994_EVOS Trustee Council Restoration Office, 645 G. Street, suite 100, Anchorage, AK June 29, 1994_Kenai Fjords National Park Visitor's Center, 1212 4th Avenue, Small Boat Harbor, Seward, AK July 1, 1994_City Council Chambers, 491 E Pioneer Avenue, Homer, AK July 5, 1994_Alaska Dept. of Fish and Game Conference Room, 211 Mission Road, Kodiak, AK July 7, 1994_U.S. Forest Service Third Floor Conference Room, 612 Second Street, Cordova, AK July 19, 1994_City Council Chambers, 212 Chenega Avenue, Valdez, AK
