FR940407-2-00030 FR940407-2-00020 Department of the Army Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Middle Wabash River Area, Greenfield Bayou Project in Vigo and Sullivan Counties, IN AGENCY: U.S. Army Engineer District, Louisville, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The U.S. Army Engineer District, Louisville is initiating the preparation of a DEIS for the Middle Wabash River Area, Greenfield Bayou Project in Vigo and Sullivan Counties, Indiana. The proposed action is the partial reconstruction of an existing levee, the construction of additional levee, and the restoration of the fish and wildlife habitat of a significant portion of the previously forstated floodplain. The study area consists of over 12,000 acres of both cropland and bottomland forest. ADDRESSES: Questions or comments concerning the preparation of this DEIS should be addressed to: U.S. Army Engineer District, Louisville, Corps of Engineers, ATTN: CEORL&hyph;PD&hyph;R, P.O. Box 59, Louisville, Kentucky 40201&hyph;0059. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Terry Siemsen, (502) 582&hyph;5550. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Five alternative levee alignments were developed during reconnaissance stage study, providing flood protection to a wide range of acreage of agricultural land. Additional alternative levee locations may be investigated during the current feasibility stage study. The potential effects of the reconstruction of the existing levee, the addition of new levee, and the restoration of areas to offset previous losses of wetlands (including bottomland hardwood forest) will be reviewed in the DEIS. Significant issues to be addressed will include, but not be limited to, terrestrial and aquatic vegetation, terrestrial and aquatic wildlife, surface and ground water resources, geological and crude oil production, soils, agricultural production, local population and residences, and roadways and local travel patterns. All Federal, state, and local agencies, organized groups, and individuals are invited to participate by providing their concerns in writing to the point of contact. An interagency (Federal, state, and local government agencies) scoping meeting will be held in the near future. No public scoping meeting is planned at this time. It is estimated that the DEIS will be made available for comment on or about October 1995. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8345 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
