FR940706-0-00058 FR940706-0-00014 49 CFR Part 393 [FHWA Docket No. MC&hyph;93&hyph;21] RIN 2125&hyph;AD18 Parts and Accessories Necessary for Safe Operation; Protection Against Shifting or Falling Cargo AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The FHWA is amending the cargo securement requirements of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations (FMCSRs) to adopt the use of working load limits in specifying the minimum strength of cargo securement devices. The amendment requires that the aggregate working load limit of the tiedown assemblies used to secure an article against movement in any direction be at least 1/2 times the weight of the article secured. In addition, a table of working load limits is being included in the FMCSRs to provide motor carriers with a means of determining the number of tiedown assemblies required. It is the intent of this final rule to make the tiedown requirements easier to understand, use, and enforce. This action is in response to a petition from the Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA). DATES: Effective August 5, 1994. The incorporation by reference of the publications listed in §393.102(b) of this final rule is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of August 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Larry W. Minor, Office of Motor Carrier Standards, HCS&hyph;10, (202) 366&hyph;2981; or Mr. Charles E. Medalen, Office of the Chief Counsel, HCC&hyph;20, (202) 366&hyph;1354, Federal Highway Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, D. C. 20590. Office hours are from 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., e.t., Monday through Friday, except legal Federal holidays. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On October 29, 1990, the CVSA petitioned the FHWA to change the criterion for cargo tiedown assemblies from ``static breaking strength'' to ``working load limit.'' The CVSA contends the static breaking strength of a tiedown assembly is a rating that incorporates no safety factor, though the rule itself does include such a factor. The CVSA also believes the use of working load limits will make the tiedown regulations easier to understand, use, and enforce. The petitioner asserts that working load limit is the strength criterion commonly used by the chain, cordage, wire rope, and web sling industries and that the term is widely known in the trucking industry. The use of the working load limits would thus promote direct correlation between the rule and the capabilities labeled on or indicated by load securement equipment. The CVSA proposed that the first sentence of §393.102(b) be amended to read ``Except for integral securement devices *␣*␣* the aggregate working load limit of the tiedown assemblies used to secure an article against movement in any direction must be at least 1/2 times the weight of that article.'' The CVSA also proposed that chain, webbing, wire rope, and cordage meet certain manufacturing specifications or standards. On September 17, 1993, the FHWA published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) (58 FR 48624) to adopt the use of working load limits and the incorporation by reference of chain, webbing, wire rope, and cordage manufacturing standards. Although the CVSA petition did not discuss standards for steel strapping, the FHWA proposed that Federal Specification No. A&hyph;A&hyph;880, Strapping, Steel Flat and Seals (May 13, 1980), be incorporated by reference because §393.102 had referenced Federal Specification No. QQ&hyph;S&hyph;781 which has been cancelled. The FHWA believed it was necessary to retain specific requirements for steel strapping and that Federal Specification No. A&hyph;A&hyph;880 was an appropriate replacement. The FHWA also proposed to create a new section, §393.7, Matter incorporated by reference, to provide the language of incorporation required by 1 CFR 51, as well as to include information on the availability of documents incorporated by reference. Discussion of Comments The FHWA received 23 comments to the NPRM. Several commenters provided more than one docket submission. The commenters were: Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety (Advocates); American Trucking Associations, Inc. (ATA); Department of California Highway Patrol (CHP); Commercial Vehicle Safety Alliance (CVSA); Connecticut Department of Motor Vehicles (Connecticut); Cooper Tools; The Cordage Institute; The Crosby Group, Inc.; Great American Lines, Inc.; Illinois Department of Transportation (Illinois); Kinedyne Corporation; Maine State Police (Maine); The National Industrial Transportation League; New York Department of Transportation (New York); Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association, Inc. (OOIDA); United States Representative Jack Quinn, 30th District, New York; Steel Service Center Institute; Truck Trailer Manufacturers Association (TTMA); and Mrs. Richard B. Wilson. Use of Working Load Limits The commenters were generally in favor of amending §393.102(b) to incorporate the use of working load limits. The CHP and Great American Lines were both opposed to the use of working load limits. The CHP stated: [Static breaking strength (SBS)] is a readily determined physical parameter. Conversely, the WLL, according to the NPRM is generally between 1/4 and 1/3 of the static breaking strength of the tiedown. The CHP is not aware of any regulation which defines WLL. Instead, each manufacturer makes this determination for its own products. In many cases this may be based on industry standard practice, but since these practices are voluntary, no means is available to assure conformance.
