FR940621-2-00057 FR940621-2-00039 National Institutes of Health Uniform Biological Material Transfer Agreement: Request for Comments AGENCY: National Institutes of Health (NIH), Public Health Service, DHHS. BACKGROUND: Open access to the results of federally-funded research is a cornerstone of NIH's research policy. In the case of many research projects, this includes not only access to information as can be provided in publications, but also access to biological research materials necessary to replicate or build on the initial results. Frequently, the exchange of research materials between scientists and separate institutions involves case-by-case negotiation of material transfer agreements (MTAs). In order to guide and facilitate the increasing number of such transfers, the Public Health Service (PHS) issued in 1988, a ``Policy Relating to Distribution of Unique Research Resources Produced with PHS Funding'' (NIH GUIDE FOR GRANTS AND CONTRACTS, Vol. 17, No. 29, September 16, 1988: pg. 1), that was followed in 1989 by adoption of a standard Material Transfer Agreement form for use by NIH scientists. Such agreements are important because they require the recipient to use care in the handling of the materials, to maintain control over the distribution of the materials, to acknowledge the provider in publications, and to follow relevant Public Health Service (PHS) guidelines relating to recombinant DNA, human subjects research, use of animals, etc. However, while most institutions have adopted some standard material transfer agreement form, they are not all consistent. ISSUE: Several concerns have affected the sharing of research materials. These include delays in sharing of materials while conducting negotiations on individual MTAs, required grants of invention rights to improvements to the materials or to inventions made using the materials, and required approval prior to publication. Such problems have resulted in significant delays in sharing materials, undue administrative barriers to sharing, and in some cases, lack of availability of materials for further research by federal grantees. (For reports and discussion of these issues, please refer to The New Biologist, Vol. 2, No. 6, June 1990: pp. 495&hyph;497; and Science, Vol. 248, 25 May, 1990: pp. 952&hyph;957). In addition, there is a desire to have a uniform agreement for the sharing of non-proprietary materials. PROPOSAL: The NIH, in participation with representatives of academia and industry, has coordinated the development of a proposed uniform biological material transfer agreement (UBMTA) to address concerns about contractual obligations imposed by some MTAs and to simplify the process of sharing proprietary materials between non-profit institutions. The Association of University Technology Managers, particularly Ms. Joyce Brinton, Harvard University; Ms. Lita Nelsen, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; and Dr. Sandra Shotwell, Oregon Health Sciences University, have played leadership roles in furthering the development of common materials sharing practices. The consistent use of this agreement by grantee institutions could reduce the administrative burden of sharing materials as investigators come to rely on common acceptance of the terms of the UBMTA by cooperating institutions. The NIH proposes that the UBMTA be considered for general use in the exchange of materials for research purposes between non-profit institutions. While use of the UBMTA may not be appropriate for every material transfer, if used for the majority of transfers, it could set standards for materials sharing that would be of long term benefit to the research enterprise and to the public health. As a further suggestion to simplify the process of materials sharing, it is proposed that the UBMTA be approved at the institutional level, and handled in a treaty format, so that individual transfers could be made with reference to the UBMTA, without the need for separate negotiation of an individual document to cover each transfer. As a result, transfers of biological materials would be accomplished by an implementing letter (see sample) containing a description of the material, a statement indicating that the material was being transferred in accordance with the terms of the UBMTA and signed by the Provider Scientist and the Recipient Scientist. Thus, sharing of materials between institutions, each of which had signed the UBMTA, would be significantly simplified. At the same time, any institution would retain the option to handle a specific material on a customized basis, i.e., the use of the UBMTA would not be mandatory, even for signatory institutions. For non-proprietary materials, a Simple Letter Agreement has also been developed, which incorporates many of the same principles as the UBMTA. This Letter Agreement could be used where the institutions have not agreed to the UBMTA. The full text of the treaty version of the UBMTA, the implementing letter, and a simple one-page letter agreement for non-proprietary material follows. The NIH welcomes public comment on the documents themselves, as well as their proposed use. Comments should be addressed to: UBMTA Project, c/o Office of Technology Transfer, Box 13, 6011 Executive Boulevard, Rockville, MD 20852&hyph;3804. Comments may also be sent by facsimile transmission to: UBMTA Project at (301) 402&hyph;0220. DATES: Comments must be received by NIH on or before July 21, 1994. Dated: May 26, 1994 Donald P. Christoferson, Acting Director, Office of Technology Transfer.
