FR940819-2-00125 FR940819-2-00074 Other NRC Licensees (Industrial Radiographers, Medical Institutions, Industrial Users, etc.) 94&hyph;2␣Medical Brachytherapy Misadministration at Hospital Metropolitano in Río Piedras, Puerto Rico One of the AO reporting guidelines notes that a therapeutic exposure to any part of the body not scheduled to receive radiation can be considered an abnormal occurrence. Date and Place _December 11, 1993; Hospital Metropolitano; Río Piedras, Puerto Rico. Nature and Probable Consequences _On December 9, 1993, at 5:20 p.m., a patient began a gynecological low-dose-rate brachytherapy treatment. The patient was prescribed a treatment of 3000 centigray (cGy) (3000 rad) by a 48-hours exposure to approximately 2.3 gigabecquerel (61.3 millicurie [mCi]) of cesium&hyph;137 (Cs&hyph;137). On December 11, 1993, at approximately 7:30 a.m. (about 10 hours before the end of the prescribed treatment), the patient intervened with the procedure by removing the implant containing three Cs&hyph;137 sources of approximately 730 megabecquerel (20.4 mCi) each, and placed it next to her thigh. Shortly after removing the implant, the patient showed the device to the floor nurse. The nurse recognized the implant and understood the need for concern. She did not take the device from the patient but reported the situation to her supervisor. The patient apparently returned the device next to her thigh beneath the bed linen. At the time of being informed, the nursing supervisor was experiencing difficulty with another patient, and was involved in shift turnover. Due to these distractions, the supervisor failed to realize the urgent nature of the situation and did not make required notifications. On several occasions that morning, other licensee personnel entered the patient's room without realizing that the radioactive source was exposed because it was covered by bed linen; the patient did not notify any additional staff members that she had removed the implant. Approximately 21/2 hours after the estimated time of the source removal, the attending physician attempted to perform a routine check of the implant and discovered that it had been removed and placed next to the patient's thigh. After properly accounting for and storing the sources, the physician examined and interviewed the patient. Based on discussions with the patient and review of the exposure received, the attending physician terminated the treatment. This decision was based on the physician's determination that the treatment received was clinically adequate and his concern that the patient was a threat to herself and others. The actual dose delivered to the intended treatment site was calculated to be 2270 cGy (2270 rad). The written directive was revised to reflect the lower dose delivered. The licensee's evaluation of the incident indicated that assuming the implant remained in the same location for three hours, the maximum dose to the skin of the patient's thigh (the wrong treatment site) was 572 cGy (572 rad). The licensee reported that no adverse effects to the patient are expected. The patient was notified verbally at the time the misadministration was discovered and then notified in writing on January 13, 1994. Cause or Causes The initial cause of the misadministration was the patient's removal of the implant which was compounded by the failure of the two nurses to follow emergency procedures. The nurses' failure to respond to the emergency resulted in approximately 21/2 hours of unnecessary exposure. Actions Taken to Prevent Recurrence Licensee _The licensee determined that the nursing supervisor's failure to make the required notifications was due to the lack of familiarity with established radiation safety procedures to which he/she had been trained. The licensee's investigation of the event revealed that the lack of familiarity with radiation safety procedures was caused by the infrequent handling of patients undergoing therapy with licensed materials (Letter from Hospital Metropolitano, to Héctor Bermúdez, Senior Inspector, NMI Section, NRC Region II, Forwarding a Misadministration Report dated December 29, 1993, and an Addendum to the Misadministration Report dated January 11, 1994, Docket No. 030&hyph;11155, Licensee No. 52&hyph;16033&hyph;01). The licensee held a Radiation Safety Committee meeting in which the incident and corrective actions to prevent recurrence were discussed. The licensee decided to dedicate one floor of the hospital for all therapies involving NRC-licensed materials. This will provide additional controls to allow the licensee to better ensure that nurses assigned to the floor are kept current and familiar with operating and emergency procedures. The licensee is also evaluating the need to increase patient awareness regarding non-intervention of procedures. The licensee is revising its procedures for responding to radiological emergencies involving patients undergoing radiopharmaceutical or sealed source therapy. As a minimum, the procedures will define what is a radiological emergency and will provide examples of situations which must be considered radiological emergencies or which could result in misadministrations. The licensee also committed to developing and implementing a retraining program based on the revised emergency procedures for all hospital employees who may be involved in handling patients receiving radiation therapy. NRC _A special inspection was conducted on December 15 and 17, 1993, to review the circumstances surrounding the misadministration and the licensee's Quality Management program. A Confirmatory Action Letter (CAL) was issued to the licensee on December 30, 1993 (Letter from J. Philip Stohr, Director, Division of Radiation Safety and Safeguards, NRC Region II, to Hospital Metropolitano, Attn: Mr. Víctor Marrero, Administrator, forwarding a Confirmatory Action Letter, CAL No. 2&hyph;93&hyph;14, Docket No. 030&hyph;11155, License No. 52&hyph;16033&hyph;01, dated December 30, 1993). The CAL confirmed that the licensee would revise its emergency procedures and implement a training program, based on new procedures, for all licensee employees who may handle patients undergoing radiation therapy. An NRC medical consultant has been retained to perform a clinical assessment of this misadministration. The medical consultant's report is expected to be available in time to discuss his findings in the second quarter AO Report. As of the issuance of this report, NRC is pursuing escalated enforcement action against the licensee. * * * * * 94&hyph;3␣Teletherapy Misadministration at Triangle Radiation Oncology Associates in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania One of the AO reporting guidelines notes that a therapeutic misadministration that affects two or more patients at the same facility, regardless of any health effects, can be considered an abnormal occurrence. Date and Place _December 20, 1993; Triangle Radiation Oncology Associates; Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Nature and Probable Consequences _On December 20, 1993, Triangle Radiation Oncology Associates in Beaver, Pennsylvania, notified NRC of two potential teletherapy misadministrations that occurred between December 13 and 17, 1993, at the licensee's Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, facility. The potential misadministrations were identified during a review of patient records on December 17, 1993, when the licensee observed calculation errors involving the depth of the dose given to each of the two patients. Both cases involved breast treatments where the original treatment plan prescribed 28 treatments of 180 centigray (cGy) (180 rad) from a cobalt-60 teletherapy source (using 2 parallel opposed fields) for a total absorbed dose of 5040 cGy (5040 rad). The primary breast treatments were concluded on December 10, 1993. The physician wrote separate written directives for each patient to receive an additional 1000 cGy (1000 rad) to the scar in 5 treatments of 200 cGy (200 rad) per day. One of the written directives indicated that the absorbed dose was to be delivered at d max , the maximum extension of the teletherapy unit, which, as stated by the physicist, is typically a depth of 0.5 centimeter (cm) (0.2 inch). The other written directive did not indicate a depth; however, the physician stated that the intended depth was d max . As described above, such a treatment plan would typically have been calculated by the teletherapy technologist at the Pittsburgh facility and communicated by telephone to the teletherapy physicist at the Beaver facility to be checked. However, this procedure changed when the computer at the Pittsburgh facility was taken out of service on December 1, 1993. On December 9, 1993, the teletherapy technologist hand wrote a paraphrased request of the written directive for the two breast-treatment patients needing scar booster dose calculations. Rather than writing d max , the technologist stated the tumor dose at a depth of 5 cm (2 inch) and sent the request, via facsimile transmission, to the teletherapy physicist at the Beaver facility. Hand calculations were performed for 200 cGy (200 rad) treatments at a 5 cm (2 inch) depth, checked by a certified physicist, and sent back to the technologist, via facsimile transmission, on December 9, 1993.
