FR940826-2-00067 FR940826-2-00055 Antitrust Division Proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement; United States of America v. AT&T Corp. and McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc. Notice is hereby given pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), that a proposed Final Judgment, Stipulation and Competitive Impact Statement have been filed with the United District Court for the District of Columbia in United States of America v. AT&T Corp. and McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc. Civil Action No. 94&hyph;01555 (HHG). The proposed Final Judgment is subject to approval by the Court after the expiration of the statutory 60-day public comment period and compliance with the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h). The Complaint alleges that the propose acquisition by AT&T Corp. (``AT&T'') of McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc. (``McCaw'') violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 18, in the markets for cellular service, cellular infrastructure equipment and interexchange service to cellular subscribers. The proposed Final Judgment contains substantive obligations and restrictions that should substantially mitigate the incentive and ability of the merged AT&T-McCaw to constrain the actions of McCaw's cellular service competitors. The proposed Final Judgment provides for separate subsidiary requirements and restrictions on the flow of certain confidential information within the combined AT&T/McCaw entity; obligates AT&T to continue to deal with its customers on terms in place prior to the merger, and on terms not less favorable than those offered to McCaw; obligates AT&T to assist, and not to interfere, with an incumbent customer's decision to change infrastructure suppliers; and requires a buy-back provision that would reduce the lock-in effect by lowering the cost for a competitor/customer to switch suppliers in the event that AT&T fails to comply with its obligations to its customers under the judgment. Next, the proposed Final Judgment requires McCaw cellular systems to provide equal access to interexchange competitors of AT&T, which is not now provided in most McCaw systems, thereby increasing competition in the provision of interexchange services to cellular customers. Finally, the proposed Final Judgment restrains McCaw from providing certain confidential information of other cellular infrastructure equipment suppliers to AT&T's manufacturing division to prevent anticompetitive harm to the cellular infrastructure equipment market. Public comment is invited within the statutory 60-day comment period. Such comments, and responses thereto, will be published in the Federal Register and filed with the Court. Comments should be directed to Richard Liebeskind, Assistant Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Room 8104, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, 555 4th Street, NW Washington, DC 20001. Copies of the Complaint, proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement are available for inspection in Room 3229, Department of Justice, Washington, DC and at the Office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Washington, DC. Copies of any of these materials may be obtained upon request and payment of a copying fee. Steven C. Sunshine, Deputy Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division.
