FR940822-2-00092 FR940822-2-00058 The NASD is proposing to amend Part I and III to Schedule D to the NASD By-Laws to establish listing standards for Nasdaq/NM securities resulting from a limited partnership rollup transaction, as required by new Section 15A(b)(13) of the Exchange Act. The rule language is the same as that proposed for inclusion in Subsection (b) of Article III, Section 34 of the Rules of Fair Practice with two minor exceptions. When the term ``direct participation program'' is used in the definition section, a cross-reference is provided to the definition of that term in Article III, Section 34 of the Rules of Fair Practice. In addition, the term ``management fee'' is modified to refer only to such fees related to a ``limited partnership.'' In comparison, the definition in Article III, Section 34(b) of the Rules of Fair Practice substituted the term ``direct participation program'' because the term ``management fee'' is used elsewhere in Article III, Section 34(b) of the Rules of Fair Practice and the definition, therefore, should be applicable to any DPP. 48 48 The new listing criteria for limited partnership rollups are included in new Section 3 to Part III of Schedule D. Current Sections 3 through 7 are redesignated to reflect the addition of new Section 3 and are amended to reference the limited partnership rollup criteria. Proposed Section 8 is amended to permit the NASD to terminate an issue's designation if it no longer complies with the requirements in redesignated Sections 5 and 6 or 7. Application of Proposed Rule Change to UPREITs UPREIT transactions have certain general characteristics. A limited partnership or partnerships are consolidated into an operating limited partnership. The consolidation is generally conducted as a private placement. In order to effect a non-taxable exchange, the individual limited partnership interests or the properties are exchanged for the operating limited partnership units. 49 The general partner of the operating limited partnership, a real estate investment trust (``REIT''), issues beneficial interests to investors in exchange for cash to raise capital that will purchase some of the operating partnership units. The operating partnership, in turn, may use the proceeds to pay the debts of the limited partnerships included in the operating partnership. It may use the proceeds for other purposes, such as buying additional properties. The REIT shares may be listed on a national securities exchange or Nasdaq/NM and, thus, reported under a transaction reporting plan. As part of the transaction, the unitholders of the new operating partnership are generally given an open-ended option after one year to redeem their operating partnership units for cash from the REIT. Instead of offering cash, the typical REIT may, at its option, offer unitholders REIT units for the operating partnership units pursuant to a private exchange offering or a registered exchange offering, depending on how the offering is structured. It is, however, optional to the operating partnership unitholders as to whether to exercise the redemption right. 49 Built-in gain is deferred, not eliminated. Also, the exchange of old partnership interests for operating partnership units is not necessarily tax-free under all circumstances. After the proceeds of the public REIT offering are used to pay down debt, if a partner's share of liabilities of the operating partnership is less than the same partner's share of liabilities of the old partnership, the partner will be treated as having received a cash distribution. If the distribution exceeds the adjusted basis in the partner's operating units, the partner will recognize taxable gain. If the old partnerships partly sell and partly contribute property to the operating partnership, partners in the operating partnership may realize phantom income. A. UPREIT Structures UPREIT transactions have varying structures. The NASD is currently aware of at least three structures. First, UPREITs can be structured so that both the consolidation of limited partnership interests into the operating partnership and the issuance of REIT shares to investors are effected pursuant to bona fide private placement exemptions under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act (``private placement exemption''), after which the operating partnership units may be redeemed for cash or, at the REIT's option, exchanged for REIT shares in a private exchange offering. A second structure involves the consolidation of limited partners' interests into the operating limited partnership in a registered transaction, with a simultaneous public offering of REIT units. The REIT shares are listed on a national securities exchange or authorized for quotation on Nasdaq/NM and are reported under a transaction reporting plan. The offer by the REIT to the limited partners in the operating partnership to exchange their operating partnership units for REIT shares is effected as a registered exchange offer. A third structure involves the consolidation of limited partners' interests into the operating limited partnership pursuant to a bona fide private placement exemption, along with a public offering of units by the REIT general partner. The REIT is listed on a national securities exchange or Nasdaq/NM. The REIT is thus a reporting company prior to any exchange offer of REIT shares for operating partnership units. The offer by the REIT to the limited partners in the operating partnership to exchange their operating partnership units for REIT shares is effected as a separate bona fide private placement with the shares then registered by the REIT for the benefit of new holders through a shelf-registration statement or as a registered exchange offer. B. Applicability of the Proposed Rule Change to UPREIT Transactions As a result of an understanding reached between the staffs of the NASD and the SEC, the NASD's Corporate Financing Department intends to work closely with the SEC's Division of Corporation Finance to review all direct, indirect and multi-step limited partnership rollup transactions in their entirety, including UPREIT transactions, for an initial determination of whether a transaction constitutes a ``limited partnership rollup transaction.'' The NASD believes that the first type of UPREIT transaction described above is not ® subject to the proposed rule change where the claim of a private placement exemption for the exchange offer is bona fide. Such a transaction does not meet the definition of ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' because the original limited partners are receiving securities in the operating partnership that are not required to be registered under the Securities Act. The NASD believes that the second type of UPREIT transaction described above is subject to the coverage of the proposed rule change because the transaction viewed in its entirety meets the definition of ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' and does not qualify for any of the exemptions from the definition. Regarding the third type of UPREIT transaction described above, the NASD will conduct its review of applicability of the proposed rule change in conjunction with the SEC's review for an initial determination of whether the entire transaction should be reviewed as a roll-up because it is a step transaction that indirectly involves a roll-up. 50 In the case of a valid private placement of operating partnership units followed by a registered exchange of units for REIT shares in a short period of time, the two transactions may be stepped together and therefore subject to full review under the proposed rule change. Another situation where the proposed rule change might be applicable to the third type of UPREIT transaction is if the claim of a private placement for the consolidation into the operating partnership is not bona fide and the operating partnership transaction is required to be registered with the Commission and conducted as a public offering at the same time that the public REIT offering occurs. In this instance also, the NASD would review the transaction for compliance with the terms of the proposed rule change. 50 See supra n. 32 and accompanying text. Comments Received on Proposed Rule Change The Commission received seven comment letters. The comment letters from the IPA, DeMott, and the ABA expressed support for the proposed rule change. One comment letter, from Kelley, stated that the NASD rules should not be adopted ``in the absence of a legislative mandate.'' The comment letters from Baker & Botts, Kutak Rock, and Hogan & Hartson neither supported nor opposed the proposed rules but offered suggestions on how to enhance the NASD's rule.
