FR941128-1-00045 FR941128-1-00009 337.3␣Purpose 337.4␣Applicability and scope 337.5␣Definitions 337.6␣Implementation 337.7␣Criteria 337.8␣Reserve membership 337.9␣Reporting Appendix A to Part 337_National Defense Executive Reserve Application Appendix B to Part 337_National Defense Executive Reserve Statement of Understanding Authority: National Security Act of 1947, 50 U.S.C. 404; Defense Production Act of 1950, 50 U.S.C. App. 2061, et seq.; The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.; E.O. 12148 of July 20, 1979, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 412; E.O. 12656 of November 18, 1988, 3 CFR, 1988 Comp., p. 585; and E.O. 12919 of June 3, 1994 (59 FR 29525, June 7, 1994). PART 337_NATIONAL DEFENSE EXECUTIVE RESERVE GUIDANCE §337.1 Introduction. Section 710(e) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2160(e)) authorizes the President to establish and train a nucleus Executive Reserve. The President by Executive Order 10660 of February 15, 1956 established the National Defense Executive Reserve (NDER). The Executive Order authorized the heads of departments or agencies designated by the Director of the Office of Defense Mobilization (predecessor to the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)) to establish units of the Executive Reserve. Executive Order 12919 of June 3, 1994, superseded Executive Order 11179 which superseded Executive Order 10660 but continued the NDER program. The NDER is part of the national security emergency preparedness program and provides for a standby reserve of highly qualified individuals who are trained as volunteers until they are activated by the President, or the head of a department or agency during periods of emergency. The program facilitates the employment of Reservists in executive positions in government during an emergency requiring such activation. In addition, the Executive Reserve may be used for emergency preparedness activities as defined under Title VI of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act. §337.2 Policy. (a) lt is the policy of the President that there shall be in the Executive Branch of the Government an NDER composed of persons of recognized expertise from various segments of the private sector and from government (other than fulltime Federal employees) to be trained for employment in the Federal Government in the event of an emergency that requires such employment. (b) As part of the President's national security emergency preparedness policy under Executive Order 12656, Federal departments and agencies shall develop plans and programs to mobilize personnel (including reservist programs) as appropriate within their assigned areas of responsibility and to assess essential emergency requirements and plan for possible use of such resources to meet essential demands during and following national emergencies. §337.3 Purpose. This part establishes policy and program guidance to assist those Federal departments and agencies authorized to establish Executive Reserve units in the NDER. This guidance is to aid in the establishment and administration of such reserve units and in the recruitment and training of its members. The purpose of this part is to improve the ability of departments and agencies to mobilize its manpower requirements in times of emergencies. The NDER is a mechanism that allows the Federal Government to enlist the best and most talented personnel in the private sector to fill both defense and essential civilian needs in time of emergencies. §337.4 Applicability and scope. This part is applicable to all Federal departments and agencies that sponsor or that may wish to sponsor a reserve unit under the NDER program. It provides the standards and procedural guidance for establishing and administering reserve units and for the recruitment and training of its members. §337.5 Definitions. National Defense Executive Reserve is a program that provides for standby Executive Reserve units sponsored by Federal departments and agencies that are composed of individuals of recognized expertise from various segments of the private sector and from government (except full-time Federal employees) who are trained to serve in executive positions in the Federal Government in time of an emergency that requires such employment. §337.6 Implementation. (a) General. The Director of FEMA is responsible for the development of appropriate guidance for the NDER and for the coordination of the program activities of the departments and agencies in establishing units of the Executive Reserve. The Director is responsible for providing appropriate standards and procedural guidance for recruitment, training and activation of the reserve unit members. The Director shall issue necessary rules and guidance in connection with the program and may request the services of participating departments and agencies and private sector organizations, institutions, and enterprises in the development of training programs and materials and in keeping of a centralized roster of Executive Reserve members. (b) Interagency NDER Committee. An Interagency NDER Committee, composed of representatives of the departments and agencies sponsoring Executive Reserve units and chaired by a representative from FEMA, will advise the Director of FEMA on matters concerning the NDER program. (c) Federal departments and agencies. The head of any department and agency, subject to the guidance of the Director of FEMA may establish a unit of the Executive Reserve in that department or agency. It is the responsibility of each department and agency that establishes a unit to obtain the necessary funding for the unit, to recruit their own members, to set their own qualifications for membership in addition to the requirements set forth in this part, to obtain the necessary security clearances and to conduct training and annual exercises for such members. FEMA will assist the departments and agencies in their recruitment efforts through referrals. §337.7 Criteria. (a) The following criteria shall be used in establishing and maintaining a unit of the Executive Reserve: (1) The purpose of establishing a reserve unit shall be to augment the department's or agency's requirements for trained highly-qualified executive personnel as determined by that department or agency, for use in time of emergencies. (2) The functional assignments of members of the reserve unit shall be described in an organization chart for use in time of an emergency, accompanied by position descriptions and staffing patterns related to the organization chart and augmentation plans. These plans must be approved by the head of the department or agency, and a copy of such plans is to be provided to the Director, FEMA. A reservist shall not be assigned to a position that is already filled by a regular government employee. (3) Each reserve unit shall be directed by an agency official designated by the head thereof. The name of the official designated shall be furnished to the Director, FEMA. (b) The administration and maintenance of a reserve unit is the responsibility of the sponsoring agency. Recruitment, security clearances, training, travel, pay, personnel records, and other administrative matters shall be accomplished in accordance with the standards and procedures set forth in this part, the Ethics Reform Act of 1989, and 5 CFR part 2635, Executive Order 12674, and in the Federal Personnel Manual to the extent such matters are covered, otherwise, the sponsoring department or agency is responsible for implementing its own standards and procedures for that purpose. (c) Funding the training, travel, and administrative support of the reserve members shall be the responsibility of the sponsoring department or agency. (d) The disestablishment of a reserve unit by the head of a department or agency shall be reported to the Director, FEMA. (e) All documents and communications directed to FEMA shall be addressed to Associate Director, Preparedness, Training and Exercises Directorate, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 500 C Street SW., Washington, DC 20472, Attn: NDER Program.
