FR940228-1-00065 FR940228-1-00010 •This NPRM proposes, in §668.16 (currently §§668.14 and 668.15) to strengthen and expand the standards of administrative capability for participating institutions, addressing areas previously not regulated or for which there were only guidelines, such as: The maximum time frame allowed in the standards for satisfactory academic progress for completion of a student's educational program and the expansion of standards to include those general areas that will be reviewed by State postsecondary review entities (SPREs). The SPRE review areas are included because these areas may have a significant bearing on an institution's administrative capability and thus should be considered as the Secretary reviews the administrative capability of an institution. However, the NPRM does solicit comments on whether these additional proposed standards should be implemented across the board or be made applicable only to institutions that meet specific criteria or thresholds, e.g., institutions with short-term programs and institutions with a history of administrative problems. For example, this section of the NPRM includes the proposed requirement that an institution that offers a vocational program of less than two years in length that prepares students to enter recognized occupations must demonstrate that the borrower's increased annual expected earnings, based on completion of the training, will exceed the annual amount of Title IV, HEA program assistance received for the programs. •The provisions in proposed §668.17 (currently §668.15) governing default reduction measures reflect statutory changes made by the Amendments of 1992 and current departmental practices. The provisions in the Technical Amendments of 1993 that address institutional appeals of cohort default rates are not included in this NPRM and will be addressed separately. •As mandated by statute, all participating institutions are required to implement a fair and equitable refund policy. This statutory provision is similar to the requirement for fair and equitable refunds prescribed by the FFEL program regulations for institutions that participate in the FFEL programs. Section 668.22 proposes to clarify the terms used in the statutory definition of a fair and equitable refund policy. The NPRM also proposes to mandate a refund policy (Appendix A) that an institution must use to calculate a student's refund if the student is not entitled to a pro rata refund and an institution's State and accrediting agency do not have specific refund standards. In addition, because of a new statutory provision that specifies the order of return of refunds to the Title IV, HEA programs and other sources of aid without regard to the amount of aid received from State or private sources, this NPRM proposes to remove the fraction that is currently used to determine the portion of the refund attributable to the Title IV, HEA programs and that attributable to other sources of aid. •In accordance with the statute, institutions will now be required to have compliance audits every year rather than every two years, as required by current regulations. Section 668.23 proposes to allow institutions that do not pose a great financial risk to the Title IV, HEA programs (i.e., institutions that received less than $100,000 in total annual funding under the Title IV, HEA programs or have not had deficiencies identified in their most recently submitted audit reports) to submit audits biennially. Further, under this proposal, an institution would not be required to submit a compliance audit for any year in which the total Title IV, HEA program funds it received were less than $25,000. This section also proposes to extend audit requirements to foreign institutions. This NPRM also contains a proposed change to the Federal Pell Grant Program regulations. This NPRM proposes to implement section 487(c)(7) of the HEA that provides that an institution may offset the amount of Title IV, HEA program disbursements against liabilities or may receive reimbursement from the Department for those amounts if, in the course of any audit conducted after December 31, 1988, the Department discovers or is informed of any Title IV, HEA program assistance (specifically, Federal Pell Grant Program funds) that an institution has provided to its students in accordance with program requirements, but the institution has not previously received credit or reimbursement for these disbursements. Although this provision relates directly to the Federal Pell Grant Program and is proposed to be included in the Federal Pell Grant Program regulations, it is contained in Part G of the HEA and is subject to the negotiated rulemaking process explained below. Therefore, it has been included in this NPRM instead of the Federal Pell Grant Program NPRM, which was not subject to the negotiated rulemaking process.
