FR940303-2-00210 FR940303-2-00099 Applications must demonstrate substantial cost-sharing (dollar and in-kind) in both program and administrative expenses, including overseas partner contributions. No grants funded under this program will include profit or fee. Institutional Commitment In making award decisions, USIA will focus especially on evidence of an ongoing commitment by the U.S. partner to internationalizing its educational programs as well as a commitment by both partner institutions to the success of the particular exchange program. Each proposal must include documentation of institutional support for the proposed program in the form of signed letters of endorsement from the president, chancellor, or director of the U.S. and foreign institution(s) involved. The documentation may also be submitted in the form of a signed agreement by the same persons. Each agreement or letter of endorsement must describe the institution's commitment to an on-going partnership and make specific reference to the proposed program and how it will fit into and be supported by the institution's current activities in internationalizing its educational programs. Proposals must comment on how the partnership might be continued beyond the period of the grant award. If not submitted with original proposal, documentation of support from foreign institutions must be received by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on May 13, 1994, addressed to Robin Kline or Deborah Trent, E/ASU, room 349, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street SW., Washington, DC 20547. Applicant institutions are expected to make their own arrangements with the appropriate foreign institutions regarding institutional commitment and visas. All programs and foreign participants must be in compliance with J&hyph;1 visa regulations and the proposal must make reference to this requirement. Review Process Proposals will be deemed technically eligible only if they adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. All eligible proposals will be reviewed at USIA by the Office of Academic Programs, appropriate geographic area office, and budget and contracts offices. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting office. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria:
