FR941012-2-00005 FR941012-2-00002 In addition, where certain sales to the first unrelated purchaser took place after importation into the United States, we based USP on ESP, in accordance with section 772(c) of the Act. We made company-specific adjustments, as follows: A. Grupo Andes For Grupo Andes, we calculated purchase price based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. Customs duties, U.S. and Colombian indirect selling expenses including inventory carrying costs, and U.S. direct selling expenses including credit expenses. For roses that were further manufactured into bouquets after importation, we adjusted for all value added in the United States, including the proportional amount of profit or loss attributable to the value added, pursuant to section 772(e)(3) of the Act. We added packing to reported U.S. prices. For the cost of merchandise subject to further manufacturing, in addition to the adjustments cited in the section on FMV, below, for constructed value, we (1) corrected the U.S. general expenses to reflect a percentage of cost of goods sold, and (2) recalculated interest expense to exclude the CV offset. B. Grupo Benilda For Grupo Benilda, we calculated purchase price based on packed, f.o.b. prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight. We calculated ESP based on packed prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight, air freight, U.S. customs duties, U.S. brokerage and handling expenses, credit expenses, Colombian Flower Council expenses, the greater of U.S. commissions to the related reseller or U.S. indirect selling expenses incurred, Colombian indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs and other indirect selling expenses. For those ESP sales where Grupo Benilda did not report airfreight, U.S. duty, and U.S. brokerage and handling expenses, we applied, as BIA, the highest reported value for each such expense (see the Department's September 9, 1994, concurrence memorandum.) Foreign Market Value In order to determine whether there were sufficient sales of fresh cut roses in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating FMV, we compared the volume of home market sales of roses to the volume of third country sales of roses in accordance with section 773(a)(1)(B) of the Act. Based on this comparison, we determined that Grupo Benilda had a viable home market with respect to sales of roses during the POI and, therefore, we based FMV for Grupo Benilda on home market sales where those sales were above the cost of production. For Grupo Andes, we based FMV on constructed value (CV). We based FMV for Grupo Benilda on two six-month periods. Period one is January 1993 through June 1993, and period two is July 1993 through December 1993. For a further discussion of these periods, see the September 12, 1994, concurrence memorandum. A. Grupo Andes For Grupo Andes, we calculated FMV based on CV, in accordance with section 773(e) of the Act. We calculated CV based on Grupo Andes' cost of cultivation, plus general expenses, profit and packing in the United States. For total general expenses, including selling and financial expenses (SG&A), we used the greater of reported general expenses or the statutory minimum of ten percent of the cost of cultivation. For CV profit, we used the greater of the weighted-average reported profit during the POI or statutory minimum of eight percent of the cost of cultivation and general expenses, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.50(a)(2) and section 773(e)(B) of the Act. We adjusted Grupo Andes' CV data (1) to correct the export quantity sold to agree to information reported in the supplemental section A; and (2) to base selling and packing expenses on information provided in the sales response.
