FR940802-2-00037 FR940802-2-00031 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [5026&hyph;3] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden; where appropriate, it includes the actual data collection instrument. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before September 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information, or to obtain a copy of this ICR, contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics Title: National Survey of Management Accounting Professionals (EPA ICR # 1705.01). This ICR requests approval of a new information collection activity. Abstract: EPA's Design for the Environment (DfE) Program encourages industry to identify and adopt product and process designs and production operations that pose the least possible risk to the environment. A part of these efforts is to determine whether and how the true costs of environmental protection and pollution prevention are factored into industry's corporate cost accounting and capital budgeting activities, and to encourage the consideration of such costs when and if they are not currently reflected in corporate financial calculations. The information collected in this ICR will assist DfE's Accounting and Capital Budgeting Program to baseline typical and best accounting and budgeting practices among management accountants, measure the effectiveness of its various program elements, and set priorities for future DfE initiatives aimed at the professional accounting community. The information collection will describe the practices and perspectives of management accountants in U.S. manufacturing firms concerning pollution prevention project investments. The survey contains five sections: Section 1 requests background information on the respondent and his/her firm; Section 2 looks at the firm's capital budgeting process, focusing on how, when, and by whom requests for capital appropriations for environmental projects are developed and approved; Section 3 asks for information on cost inventory to identify the scope of direct and indirect costs typically included in project financial analysis, and whether such costs are assessed quantitatively or qualitatively; Section 4 requests information on approaches to cost allocation_if and how costs are assigned to specific processes and/or products, versus lumped into overhead accounts; finally, Section 5 examines the firm's choice of financial indicators and time horizons for project profitability analysis. The raw data will be analyzed for statistical purposes only, and will be presented in summary form without identifying individual respondents. OPPT, in cooperation with the Institute for Management Accountants, a professional society that is cooperating in the project, will determine the use and disposition of the final report. Burden Statement: The estimated public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to require 1 hour per respondent. This estimate includes time to review the instructions, gather existing information, and prepare and submit the survey form. There are no recordkeeping requirements. Respondents: A subset of the Institute for Management Accountants membership who identify their job function as either budgeting/planning or cost accounting, and who are associated with manufacturing firms included in SIC codes 20_39. Estimated Number of Respondents: 900. Estimated Number of Responses Per Respondent: 1. Frequency of Collection: One time survey response. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 900 hours. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460 Matt Mitchell, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20530. Dated: July 28, 1994. Jane Stewart, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18753 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
