FR940812-0-00028 FR940812-0-00008 (10) Proposed agreement between applicant and ultimate recipient as required in ยง4284.528(a)(2)(xiv) of this subpart (if applicable). (11) Class II Environmental Assessment (if applicable). (12) Finding of No Significant Impact (if applicable). (13) Form FmHA 400&hyph;8, ``Compliance Review (Nondiscrimination by Recipients of Financial Assistance through Farmers Home Administration.)'' (b) The RDA representative will prepare a Letter of Conditions outlining the conditions under which the grant will be made. It will include those matters necessary to ensure that the proposed grant is completed in accordance with the terms of the scope of work and budget, that the grant funds are expended for authorized purposes, and that the requirements prescribed in parts 3015, 3016, 3017, and 3018 of this title are complied with. Each Letter of Conditions will contain the following paragraphs: (1) ``This letter establishes conditions which must be understood and agreed to by you before further consideration may be given to the application.'' (2) ``This letter is not to be considered as grant approval nor as a representation as to the availability of funds. The docket may be completed on the basis of a grant not to exceed $ XXXXXXXX and a matching share by the applicant in the amount of $ XXXXXXXX .'' (3) ``Please complete and return the attached Form FmHA 1942&hyph;46, `Letter of Intent to Meet Conditions,' if you desire further consideration be given your application.'' (4) ``You must certify that the activities provided under the grant will benefit a rural area.'' (5) ``You must certify that at least 25 percent of the total funds for this project are provided as the grantee's share and meet the matching fund requirements of 7 CFR parts 3015 and 3016.'' (6) ``You must certify that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid for lobbying activities in accordance with 7 CFR part 3018, Appendix A, and execute Form LLL.'' (7) ``You must execute Form AD&hyph;1047, `Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters_Primary Covered Transactions,' to certify that your organization is not debarred or suspended from Government assistance. You also must obtain a certification on Form AD&hyph;1048, `Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion_Lower Tier Covered Transactions,' from any person or entity you do business with as a result of this Government assistance that they are not debarred or suspended from Government assistance.'' (8) ``You must execute Form AD&hyph;1049, `Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (Grants) Alternative I_For Grantees Other Than Individuals,' to certify that you will provide a drug-free awareness program for employees.'' (9) ``You must obtain prior approval for any change to the scope or objectives of the approved project. Failure to obtain prior approval of changes to the scope of work or budget can result in suspension/termination of grant funds.'' (10) Other items in the Letter of Conditions should include those appropriate items relative to: maximum amount of grant; contributions; required project audit; evidence of compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local requirements; closing instructions; DOL certifications; compliance with any required environmental mitigation measures; and other requirements. ยง4284.557 Fund disbursement. Grantees will be reimbursed as follows: (a) An SF&hyph;270, ``Request for Advance or Reimbursement,'' will be completed by the applicant and submitted to RDA not more frequently than monthly. (b) Upon receipt of a properly completed SF&hyph;270, the funds will be requested through the field office terminal system. Ordinarily, payment will be made within 30 days after receipt of a proper request for reimbursement. (c) Grantees are encouraged to use minority banks (a bank which is owned by at least 50 percent minority group members) for the deposit and disbursement of funds. A list of minority owned banks can be obtained from the Office of Minority Business Enterprise, Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230. (d) The grantee's share in the cost of the project will be disbursed in advance of grant funds or on a pro-rata distribution basis with grant funds during the disbursement period. The grantee will not be permitted to provide its contribution at the end of the grant period. ยง4284.558 Reporting. An SF&hyph;269, ``Financial Status Report,'' and a project performance activity report will be required of all grantees on a quarterly basis. A final project performance report will be required with the last SF&hyph;269. The final report may serve as the last quarterly report. The final report must include a final evaluation of the project. Grantees shall constantly monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met, projected work by time periods is being accomplished, and other performance objectives are being achieved. Grantees are to submit an original of each report to RDA. The project performance reports shall include, but not be limited to, the following: (a) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period; (b) Reasons why established objectives were not met; (c) Problems, delays, or adverse conditions which will affect attainment of overall project objectives, prevent meeting time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation; and (d) Objectives and timetable established for the next reporting period.
