FR940118-0-00080 FR940118-0-00015 Subpart D_Designation Process §597.300 HUD action and review of nominations for designation. (a) Establishment of submission procedures. HUD will establish a time period and procedures for the submission of nominations for designation as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities, including submission deadlines and addresses, in a Notice Inviting Applications, to be published in the Federal Register . (b) Acceptance for processing. (1) HUD will accept for processing those nominations for designation as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities which HUD determines have met the criteria required by this part. HUD will notify the State(s) and local government(s) whether or not the nomination has been accepted for processing. The criteria for acceptance for processing are as follows: (2) The nomination for designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community must be received by HUD on or before the time on the date established by the Notice Inviting Applications published in the Federal Register . The nomination for designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community must be complete and must be accompanied by a strategic plan, as required by §597.200(c) of this part, and the certifications required by §597.202(b) of this part. (c) Evaluation of nominations. In the process of reviewing each nomination accepted for processing, HUD may undertake a site visit(s) to any nominated area to aid in the process of evaluation. (d) Modification of the strategic plan, boundaries of nominated urban areas, and/or period during which designation is in effect. Subject to the limitations imposed by §597.100 of this part, HUD may negotiate reasonable modifications of the strategic plan, the proposed boundaries of a nominated urban area, or the term for which a designation is to remain in full effect, to ensure maximum efficiency and fairness in the provision of assistance to such areas. (e) Publication of designations. Announcements of those nominated urban areas designated as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities will be made by publication of a Notice in the Federal Register . §597.301 Selection factors for designation of nominated urban areas. (a) Selection factors. In choosing among nominated urban areas eligible for designation, the Secretary shall consider: (1) The effectiveness of the strategic plan in accordance with the key principles and evaluative criteria set out in §597.201. (2) The effectiveness of the assurances made pursuant to §597.200(a)(2) that the strategic plan will be implemented. (3) The extent to which an application proposes activities that are creative and innovative in comparison to other applications. (4) Such other factors established by HUD. Such factors include, but are not limited to, the degree of need demonstrated by the nominated area for assistance under this part. If other factors are established by HUD, a Federal Register Notice will be published identifying such factors, along with an extension of the application due date if necessary. (b) Geographic diversity. HUD, in its discretion, may choose to select for designation a lower rated approvable application over a higher rated application in order to increase the level of geographic diversity of designations approved under this part. §597.302 Number of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities designated. (a) Empowerment Zones. HUD will designate up to six of the nominated urban areas as Empowerment Zones, provided: That if six such zones are so designated, no less than one shall be designated in an urban area the most populous city of which has a population of 500,000 or less and no less than one shall be a nominated urban area which includes areas in two States and which has a population of 50,000 or less.
