FR940328-2-00072 FR940328-2-00048 [EA 93&hyph;236] Order Requiring the Removal of An Individual From NRC-Licensed or Regulated Activities and Order Directing Review of Personnel Security Files (Effective Immediately) In the matter of: Nuclear Support Services, Inc. Hershey, PA. I Nuclear Support Services, Inc. (NSSI) of Hershey, Pennsylvania, provides health physics personnel and support to various nuclear power plants. To perform these services, these NSSI personnel require unescorted access authorization to NRC-licensed or regulated nuclear power plants. As of January 3, 1990, the provisions of the NRC Fitness-For-Duty (FFD) rule (10 CFR part 26) became effective for personnel (including contractors) granted unescorted access authorization to nuclear power plants. II Mr. Robert C. Dailey was the NSSI Security Officer from November 1989 to May 1991. While in that position, Mr. Dailey provided letters to NRC reactor licensees requesting unescorted access authorization for NSSI personnel and certifying that these personnel met all applicable FFD and access authorization requirements. A licensee's granting of unescorted access authorization to NSSI personnel who did not meet the FFD requirements would constitute a violation of 10 CFR part 26 requirements. On August 14, 1991, two NRC licensees (Northern States Power Company (NSP) and Wisconsin Electric Power Company (WEPC)) submitted Licensee Event Reports to the Commission because an NSSI employee had been improperly granted unescorted access to the NSP Prairie Island plant and the WEPC Point Beach plant based on written requests for such access from Mr. Dailey. These requests stated that the employee met all of the FFD requirements for unescorted access. However, in fact, the employee had four past drug-related access denials at other nuclear power plants since 1987. Both Licensee Event Reports noted that NSSI was aware of the past denials. An NSSI letter dated August 8, 1991, from Fred H. Ershine, NSSI Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, to Mr. Thomas R. Eells, Security Representative for WEPC, stated that the incident that required WEPC to submit a report to the NRC was caused by the former NSSI Security Officer not properly documenting or following up on the report of derogatory information and/or materials concerning prior FFD violations with the appropriate individuals at each nuclear plant. An investigation was initiated by the NRC Office of Investigations (OI). The OI investigation concluded that Mr. Dailey had sent on three occasions to Point Beach, and one occasion to Prairie Island, letters stating that the person for whom he was requesting unescorted access had met all applicable FFD requirements and had no previous positive drug or alcohol use test results within the previous five years. The OI investigation concluded that the letters sent by Mr. Dailey were inaccurate because the person did have positive drug or alcohol use test results. Despite what was contained in the access authorization request letters, Mr. Dailey told the OI investigator during a January 1993 interview that he had verbally advised the appropriate NSP and WEPC security personnel of the past positive test results. These licensee representatives denied being advised of such information. In Mr. Dailey's statement to the OI investigator, which was subsequently determined to be false, Mr. Dailey deliberately provided to the NRC investigator material information that he knew was inaccurate. This constitutes a violation of 10 CFR 50.5(a)(2). In addition, WEPC and NSP notified NRC in LERs dated August 14, 1991 that several individuals were recommended by NSSI for unescorted access without revealing their past access denials or past positive drug/alcohol tests. III Mr. Dailey, as the NSSI security manager, was responsible for the administration of the NSSI security screening program including determining the qualifications of applicants for unescorted access into the protected and vital areas of NSSI's client-owned nuclear power plants and for requesting such access from NSSI's clients. In the matters described in section II of this Order, Mr. Dailey was acting for and on behalf of NSSI. As such, his actions are imputed to NSSI since a corporation can only act through its agents and employees. Therefore, Mr. Dailey and NSSI violated 10 CFR 50.5. The NRC must be able to rely on licensee contractors and contractor personnel, in addition to licensees, to comply with NRC requirements including the requirement to provide information and maintain records that are complete and accurate in all material respects. Mr. Dailey's violation of 10 CFR 50.5 has raised serious doubt as to whether he can be relied upon to comply with NRC requirements and to provide complete and accurate information to the NRC, an employer, or a licensee with regard to NRC-licensed or regulated activities. Consequently, I lack the requisite assurance that NRC-licensed and regulated activities can be conducted by Mr. Dailey in compliance with the Commission's requirements. Therefore, I find that the significance of the conduct described above is such that the public health, safety, and interest require that NSSI be directed to remove Mr. Dailey from participation in NRC-licensed or regulated activities for a period of five years from the date of this Order, effective immediately.
