FR941007-1-00154 FR941007-1-00009 (a) Affiliate means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company. For purposes of this part, the term ``control'' has the meaning given to that term in 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2), and a company is under common control with another company if both companies are directly or indirectly controlled by the same company. (b) Area median income means the median family income for the MSA in which a person or geography is located or, in the case of a person or geography located outside an MSA, the higher of the county median family income or the statewide nonmetropolitan median family income. (c) Automated teller machine (ATM) means an automated, unstaffed banking facility with a fixed site owned or operated by or operated exclusively for the savings association at which deposits are received, cash dispersed, or money lent. (d) Branch means a staffed banking facility (shared or unshared) licensed as a branch with a fixed site at which deposits are received, checks paid, or money lent, including a mini-branch in a grocery store or a branch operated in conjunction with any other local business or nonprofit organization. (e) Community development loan means a loan (including a line of credit, commitment, or letter of credit) that addresses affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs not being met by the private market; provided the loan: (1) Primarily benefits low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program; (2) Has not been reported or collected by the savings association or one of its affiliates as a home mortgage loan, small business loan, small farm loan, or a consumer loan pursuant to ยง563e.42 of this part, unless it is a multifamily dwelling loan (as described in Appendix A to 12 CFR Part 203); and (3) Except in the case of a wholesale or limited purpose savings association, benefits the savings association's service area(s) or a broader statewide or regional area that includes the savings association's service area(s). (f) Consumer loan means a loan extended to one or more individuals for household, family, or other personal expenditures; provided the loan is not secured by real estate and is not used for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities. (g) Geography means a census tract delineated by the United States Bureau of the Census in the most recent decennial census, or a block numbering area delineating a small statistical subdivision where a census tract has not been established. (h) HMDA means the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (12 U.S.C. 2801 et seq.). (i) Home mortgage loan means a mortgage loan as defined in section 303(1) of HMDA (12 U.S.C. 2802(1)) and implementing regulations. (j) Income level _(1) Low-income means, in the case of a person, an individual income, or in the case of a geography, a median family income, that is less than 50 percent of the adjusted area median income, with adjustments to take into account family size and the prevailing levels of residential housing construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. (2) Moderate-income means, in the case of a person, an individual income, or in the case of a geography, a median family income, that is at least 50 percent and less than 80 percent of the adjusted area median income, with adjustments to take into account family size and the prevailing levels of residential housing construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. (3) Middle-income means, in the case of a person, an individual income, or in the case of a geography, a median family income, that is at least 80 percent and less than 120 percent of the adjusted area median income, with adjustments to take into account family size and the prevailing levels of residential housing construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. (4) Upper-income means, in the case of a person, an individual income or, in the case of a geography, a median family income, that is 120 percent or more of the adjusted area median income, with adjustments to take into account family size and the prevailing levels of residential housing construction costs or unusually high or low family incomes. (k) Limited purpose savings association means a savings association that offers only a narrow product line (such as credit cards or automobile loans) to a national or regional market and has, pursuant to a written request, been designated by the OTS as a limited purpose savings association, as provided in ยง563e.25 of this part. (l) Loan location . A loan is located in a geography as follows:
