FR940505-2-00112 FR940505-2-00082 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;33980; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;11] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by American Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Floor Official Zone System April 28, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on April 18, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange is proposing to amend Amex Rule 22 to delete its references to the Floor Official zone system, and provide that matters which currently require the approval of a majority of the Floor Officials in a zone may be determined by a Floor Official with the concurrence of a Senior Floor Official. 1 The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, Amex, and at the Commission. 1 The Amex has clarified that the proposed rule change will affect both its equity and options trading floors. Telephone conversation between Claudia Crowley, Special Counsel, Legal and Regulatory Policy, Amex, and Beth Stekler, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, on April 20, 1994. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of an basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The Trading Floor has historically been divided into zones comprised of designated trading posts. Pursuant to Rule 22, the Senior Supervisory Officer assigns Floor Officials to each zone and they are expected to exercise their authority in their assigned zones. In addition, Rule 22(c) provides that a majority of the available Floor Officials in each zone may (i) restrict or ban trading by Registered Traders, (ii) restrict or ban transactions pursuant to off-Floor orders for accounts in which members or member organizations have an interest, (iii) prohibit specialists from accepting stop or stop limit orders, or (iv) restrict or ban the use of hand signals with respect to any or all of the securities in their zone. Rule 22 was adopted in 1965 at a time when all of the trading posts were located on one main Trading Floor, the Exchange was not trading options, and new types of trading products were not frequently added. Although the zone system was useful when implemented, it is not appropriate in today's environment. As a result of improved technology and the faster pace of trading generally (and particularly in options and other derivatives), members typically require quick resolution of trading questions from Floor Officials. With the expansion of the Trading Floor and changes in its configuration, it is unduly time-consuming and burdensome to attempt to deal only with Floor Officials assigned to a particular zone. The Exchange is therefore proposing that Rule 22 be amended to (i) delete the references to the zone system and permit Floor Officials to make determinations anywhere on the Floor, and (ii) provide that matters which currently require the approval of a majority of the Floor Officials in a zone may be determined by a Floor Official with the concurrence of one of the Senior Floor Officials. 2 2 Pursuant to Exchange Rule 21(a), Senior Floor Officials include the Floor Governors and those Exchange Officials who were previously Floor Governors and continue to be active on the Floor. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) in particular in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition
