FR940721-1-00031 FR940721-1-00010 III. Deletion Procedures The NCP provides that EPA shall not delete a site from the NPL until the State in which the release was located has concurred, and the public has been afforded an opportunity to comment on the proposed deletion. Deletion of a site from the NPL does not affect responsible party liability or impede agency efforts to recover costs associated with response efforts. The NPL is designed primarily for informational purposes and to assist agency management. The following procedures were used for the intended deletion of the C&J Disposal site: 1. EPA Region II has recommended deletion and has prepared the relevant documents. 2. The State of New York has concurred with the deletion decision. 3. Concurrent with this Notice of Intent to Delete, a notice has been published in local newspapers and has been distributed to appropriate federal, state and local officials, and other interested parties. This notice announces a thirty (30) day public comment period on the deletion package starting on July 20, 1994 and concluding on August 19, 1994. 4. The Region has made all relevant documents available in the regional office and the local site information repository. EPA Region II will accept and evaluate public comments and prepare a Responsiveness Summary which will address the comments received, before a final decision is made. The Agency believes that deletion procedures should focus on notice and comment at the local level. Comments from the local community may be most pertinent to deletion decisions. If, after consideration of these comments, EPA decides to proceed with deletion, the EPA Regional Administrator will place a Notice of Deletion in the Federal Register . The NPL will reflect any deletions in the next update. Public notices and copies of the Responsiveness Summary will be made available to local residents by EPA Region II. IV. Basis for Intended Site Deletion Site History and Background The C&J Disposal site, located in the Town of Eaton, Madison County, New York, included a rectangular disposal trench which measured approximately 140 feet by 40 feet. The disposal trench was situated between a former railroad bed and an active agricultural field, and was on property immediately adjacent to residential property owned by C&J Leasing of Paterson, New Jersey. Approximately 100 feet south of where the trench was located is a small pond and adjacent wetlands which drain to Woodman Pond, a back-up water supply for the Village of Hamilton. There are twelve residences in the vicinity and downgradient of the site which use private wells as their source of drinking water. During the 1970s, the trench area was used for the disposal of industrial wastes, although never licensed or permitted for that purpose. In March 1976, C&J Leasing was observed dumping what appeared to be paint sludges and other liquid industrial waste materials into the trench. An inspection of the site by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (NYSDEC) and the Village of Hamilton engineer revealed 75&hyph;100 drums lying in a pool of liquid waste. The trench was subsequently covered with fill, reportedly by C&J Leasing, apparently burying the drums observed in March 1976. Sampling was conducted at the site by NYSDEC in 1985 and by EPA in 1986. Surficial soil samples obtained from the site revealed the presence of phenolic compounds, phthalates, various volatile organic compounds (VOCs), polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and lead. One of the phthalates, bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, and elevated levels of lead were detected in the sediments of the small pond. The sampling of local residential wells in 1986 and later in 1988, by the New York State Department of Health (NYSDOH), did not detect any contaminants from the site.
