FR940407-2-00151 FR940407-2-00081 The creation of a revolving loan fund with funds received under this program is an allowable activity. However, OCS encourages the use of funds from other sources for this purpose. Points will be awarded in the review process to those applicants who leverage funds from other sources. (See Part IV, Criterion VI.) Loans made to eligible beneficiaries for business development activities must be at or below market rate. ( Note: Interest accrued on revolving loan funds may be used to continue or expand the activities of the approved project.) Grant funds received under this program may not be used for construction. A formal, cooperative relationship between the applicant and the agency responsible for administering the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills (JOBS) training program (as provided for under title IV&hyph;A of the Social Security Act) in the area served by the project is a requirement for funding. The application must include a signed, written agreement between the applicant and the local JOBS agency, or a letter of commitment (contingent only on receipt of OCS funds). The agreement must describe the cooperative relationship, including specific activities and/or actions each of these entities propose to carry out over the course of the grant period in support of the project. The agreement, at a minimum, must cover activities that will be provided to the target population and which are related to one or more of the mandatory or optional components offered by the appropriate State's JOBS program. The mandatory activities offered by the States' JOBS programs consist of the following components: Basic education activities, job skills training, job readiness activities, job development and job placement. The optional components offered by the States' JOBS programs include: Group and individual job search counseling and training on job seeking skills; on-the-job-training; work supplementation; and community work experience. (See Attachment I for a list of the State JOBS agencies.) Projects also must include an independent, methodologically sound evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities carried out with the grant funds in creating new jobs and business opportunities. (See Part IV, Criterion V). Applications should include a plan for disseminating the results of the project after expiration of the grant period. Applicants may budget up to $1,000 for dissemination purposes. Priority will be given to applications proposing to serve those areas containing the highest percentage of individuals receiving Aid to Families with Dependent Children under Title IV&hyph;A of the Social Security Act. (See Part IV, Criterion II.) B. Community Development Corporations Set-Aside 2.0 For Fiscal Year 1994, a set-aside fund of $1 million will be included for community development corporations. A community development corporation for purposes of this set-aside fund is a private, non-profit entity which has a record of implementing economic development projects or, whose Articles of Incorporation and/or By-Laws indicate that it has a focus in the area of economic development, and which has a tax exempt determination under Section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by reason of paragraph (3) or (4) of Section 501(c) of such code. Such projects must conform to the purposes, requirements, and prohibitions applicable to those submitted under Part II, General Projects 1.0. Applications for these set-aside funds which are not funded due to the limited amount of funds available will also be considered competitively within the larger pool of eligible applicants. Part III_Application Requirements A. Background Information 1. Availability of Funds and Grant Amounts The Office of Community Services expects to award approximately $5,500,000 by September 30, 1994 for new grants under this program. A maximum of $500,000 for the entire multi-year project period will be awarded to selected organizations under this program in FY 94. OCS will award no less than 5 and no more than 10 grants under this program. Due to the limited number of grants available under this program, only one grant will be allowed to any organization. 2. Project and Budgets Periods Project and budget periods will be 36 months. Full funding of the three-year project and budget periods in FY 94 assures stability for these 36 months. 3. Mobilization of Resources OCS will give favorable consideration in the review process to applicants who mobilize cash and/or third-party in-kind contributions for direct use in the project. (See Part IV, Criterion VI.) 4. Program Participants/Beneficiaries
