FR940426-1-00065 FR940426-1-00007 PART 50_INDEBTEDNESS OF MILITARY PERSONNEL Sec. 50.1␣Purpose. 50.2␣Applicability and scope. 50.3␣Definitions. 50.4␣Responsibilities. 50.5␣General policies. 50.6␣Full disclosure and standards of fairness by creditors. Appendix A to part 50-Processing Procedures Appendix B to Part 50-Certificate of Compliance Appendix C to Part 50-Standards of Fairness Authority: Pub. L. 103&hyph;94 and 10 U.S.C. 113(d). §50.1 Purpose. This part (a) Sets established Department of Defense policy governing delinquent indebtedness of members of the Military Services, and establishes policy for involuntary allotments from the disposable pay of military members to satisfy judgment indebtedness in accordance with Public Law 103&hyph;94. (b) Sets forth procedures for processing claims of such indebtedness and applications for involuntary allotments from the disposable pay of military members. (c) Incorporates the provisions of Public Law 90&hyph;321, Public Law 95&hyph;109 and Public Law 103&hyph;94. §50.2 Applicability and scope. (a) The provisions of this part apply to the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Staff, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Agencies (hereafter referred to as ``DoD Components''). The term ``Military Services,'' as used herein, refers to the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps. (b) The provisions of this part do not apply to: (1) Indebtedness of a member of the Military Services to the Federal Government. (2) Processing of indebtedness claims to enforce judgments against military members for alimony or child support. (3) Claims by State or municipal governments under the processing procedures for complaints. Note, a State or municipal government must comply with Appendix A to this part when seeking an involuntary allotment. §50.3 Definitions. (a) Absence. Is a member's lack of an ``appearance,'' at any stage of the judicial process, as evidenced by failing to physically attend court proceedings, be represented at court proceedings by counsel of the member's choosing, or to timely respond to pleadings, orders or motions. (b) Appearance. Is the presence and participation of a member of the military services throughout the judicial proceeding from which the judgment was issued that is the basis for a request for enforcement through involuntary allotment. (c) Applicant. The original judgment creditor, a successor in interest, or attorney or agent thereof who requests an involuntary allotment from a member of the Military Services pursuant to procedures described in appendix A to this part. (d) Court. A court of competent jurisdiction within any State, territory, or possession of the United States. (e) Debt collector. An agency or agent engaged in the collection of debts described under Public Law 95&hyph;109. (f) Disposable pay. In determining the amount of disposable pay due to a member and subject to involuntary allotment under the provisions of Public Law 103&hyph;94 and this part: (1) Include basic pay and compensation payable under 37 U.S.C. chapter 3. (2) Exclude: (i) Amounts awarded for suggestions.
