FR940621-2-00068 FR940621-2-00046 Record of Decision Black-footed Ferret Reintroduction Conata Basin/Badlands, SD Introduction Pursuant to regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR ยง1505.2) and the implementing procedures of the National Park Service for the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (40 U.S.C. ยง1501 et seq. ), the Department of the Interior has prepared this draft record of decision on the Final Environmental Impact Statement, Black-footed Ferret Reintroduction, Conata Basin/Badlands, South Dakota, March, 1994. This record of decision is a concise statement of decisions that were made, alternatives that were considered, and mitigating measures that were developed to avoid or minimize environmental impacts. Decision The National Park Service will accept as approved for implementation, Alternative C, Reintroduce Black-footed Ferrets into the Badlands National Park and the Buffalo Gap National Grassland with Initial Releases in the Badlands National Park, as described in the above-referenced Final Environmental Impact Statement. Working with its cooperators to achieve this alternative, the National Park Service will implement a cooperative management plan and reintroduction protocol for restoration of black-footed ferrets into the Conata Basin/Badlands Area of South Dakota. The National Park Service considered and evaluated the alternatives for the reintroduction of a non-essential experimental population of black-footed ferrets into the Conata Basin/Badlands area of South Dakota as presented in the FEIS, including a no action alternative, and thoroughly reviewed and considered public and agency comments in formulating this determination. The Selected Plan The selected plan reintroduces black-footed ferrets into a black-tailed prairie dog colony complex on the Badlands National Park (BNP) and the Buffalo Gap National Grassland (BGNG). A non-essential experimental population area of approximately 1,182,200 acres is delineated within which the legal status of the black-footed ferret is changed from endangered to non-essential experimental to allow for greater management flexibility. A reintroduction area of approximately 42,000 acres which currently contains about 8,000 acres of prairie dog colonies on federally managed land becomes the focus of releases and black-footed ferret management activities. Initial releases occur in the BNP, and habitat for black-footed ferret movement and dispersal is identified. Short-term constraints on a few activities may be implemented at specific release sites and in the reintroduction area to increase the chances for survival of released animals. The immediate purpose of the proposed action is to use experimental techniques to reintroduce and establish a free ranging, cooperatively managed wild population of black-footed ferrets (Mustela nigripes ) in the Conata Basin/Badlands experimental population area near Wall, South Dakota, as part of the national recovery effort. The reintroduced black-footed ferrets and their progeny will be classified a nonessential experimental population under federal rulemaking procedures. Alternatives Considered Five alternatives, including the selected plan, were analyzed in the final environmental impact statement: Alternative A_No Action: Black-footed ferrets would not be reintroduced into the BNP or the BGNG. Alternative B_Reintroduce black-footed ferrets only in the BNP on approximately 3,200 acres of prairie dog colonies within a reintroduction area of approximately 25,000 acres, with approximately 3,175 acres of prairie dog colonies. Alternative C (Selected Plan)_Reintroduce black-footed ferrets in the BNP and the BGNG on approximately 8,000 acres of prairie dog colonies within a reintroduction area of approximately 42,000 acres, with initial releases in the BNP. Alternative D_Reintroduce black-footed ferrets in the BNP and the BGNG on approximately 8,000 acres of prairie dog colonies within a reintroduction area of approximately 42,000 acres, with initial releases on the BGNG. Alternative E_Reintroduce black-footed ferrets in the BNP and the BGNG on approximately 8,000 acres of prairie dog colonies within a reintroduction area of approximately 172,000 acres, with initial releases occurring in the most biologically suitable habitat within the reintroduction area. Although prairie dog management remains unchanged under all alternatives, management options to further protect black-footed ferrets could occur within a larger reintroduction area in situations where conflict with other land uses arise. Environmentally Preferable Alternative The environmentally preferred alternative is Alternative E. Although prairie dog management and levels of prairie dog habitat would not increase under this alternative, some additional protection of black-footed ferrets could occur if management options favoring black-footed ferrets were exercised across a larger reintroduction area, reducing the risks to black-footed ferrets from competing activities and/or uses. Within a socioeconomic context, however, the public perception that protecting each individual black-footed ferret with overly restrictive measures in an expanded reintroduction area outweighed any environmental benefit to black-footed ferret population recovery efforts. Alternative C was chosen to reintroduce and establish a population of black-footed ferrets in the Conata Basin/Badlands area of South Dakota within the context of existing recreational and agricultural land uses. Mitigation Potential project impacts, public concerns, and methods to be used to mitigate those impacts and concerns are addressed in the FEIS. The National Park Service considers that Alternative C, reintroduction of black-footed ferrets in BNP and BGNG with initial releases in BNP, provides the best means to establish and perpetuate a free-ranging population of black-footed ferrets into the Conata Basin/Badlands area of South Dakota with the fewest environmental effects. All practical solutions to avoid or minimize environmental harm from selecting this action alternative have been identified and considered acceptable. Conclusion After careful evaluation of each alternative and considering black-footed ferret biology, management objectives, environmental effects, costs, socioeconomics, legislative intent, National Park Service policies, and public response, the National Park Service believes that Alternative C provides the best balanced course of action to establish and manage a population of black-footed ferrets into a portion of its historical range within southwestern South Dakota. Dated: June 14, 1994. R. Everhart, Acting Regional Director, Rocky Mountain Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14975 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;P
