FR940830-2-00128 FR940830-2-00057 While ATMs have traditionally been owned by depository institutions, a growing number of non-depository institutions are entering the ATM market. For example, the 1993 Card Industry Directory boasted among its list of the ``Top 300 ATM Owners'' two supermarket chains, Publix Super Markets, Inc. and Wegmans Food and Pharmacy, which, obviously, lack the demand deposit accounts necessary to constitute a ``depository institution'' within the meaning of the first sentence of section II.H. (See Exh. E., which ranks Publix as the 21st largest ATM owner in the United States with 483 ATMs, and Wegmans as number 106 with 91 ATMs.) The 1994 Debit Card Directory showed a marked increase in the number of non-depository institutions owning ATMs and the number of ATMs owned by those institutions: the number of non-depository institutions owning ATMs increased from two to six, and the number of ATMs owned by such non-depository institutions increased from 574 ATMs (in 1992) to 3343 (in 1993). (See Exh. F, listing Electronic Data Systems Inc. as number 7, with 1,200 ATMs; Affiliated Computer Systems as number 10, with 950 ATMs; Publix as number 28 with 497 ATMs; FIserv as number 29, with 496 ATMs; Delchamps Supermarkets as number 98, with 100 ATMs; and Wegmans as number 100, with 100 ATMs.) In light of the rapidly changing identity of the ATM owners, the failure to expressly include in the Final Judgment ATMs owned and deployed by non-depository institutions creates a substantial potential loophole in the judgment. As the judgment will remain in effect for the next 10 years, such a possible loophole could have an adverse effect on competition. Unless the judgment is clarified to include ATMs owned and deployed by non-depository institutions, the goals of the judgment_to open up the ATM network and ATM processing markets to competition by prohibiting MAC from discriminating against third party processors in terms of pricing and access_will not be effectuated in this growing segment of the ATM market. Comment No. 2 The Final Judgment should apply not only to Us, which perform the traditional functions of dispensing cash, account inquiry, payment authorization, transfer or deposit, but also to retail point-of-sale (``POS'') card acceptor machines that perform debit transactions, that is, POS terminals that allow consumers to use bank cards linked to demand accounts to pay for services or merchandise and, often, receive cash back from the merchant, and contemporaneously debit the customer's depository account. Discussion Cash (ATM) and debit (POS) terminals provide the same service. They are sufficiently interchangeable that consumers view them as substitutes for one another and utilize them for many of the same transactions. 3 ( See United States Department of Justice Horizontal Merger Guidelines (1992) at ¶1.1, Trade Reg. Rep. (CCH) ¶13,104 at p. 20,572 (1992).) MAC has a significant presence in both the ATM and POS terminal markets, as set forth below. Accordingly, all card acceptor machines, and not merely ATMs, should be included within the terms of the Final Judgment. 3 Among some industry specialists, cards are beginning to be known simply as ``access devices'' and the terminals that accept them, whether for an ATM, debit or credit transaction, as acceptors of access devices. Debit transactions at U.S. merchants utilizing POS terminals with PIN-pads have risen substantially over the last few years. The June 1993 issue of The Nilson Report (Issue 549) (the leading news and advisory service for credit/debit-card executives) reports that, in 1992, debit card transactions at U.S. merchants with PIN-pad POS terminals were up 30% from 1991, sales volume was up 47%, and the number of POS terminals with PIN pads was up 77%. (See Exh. G.) As the 1993 Card Industry Directory indicates (at p. 193), the debit card is positioning itself to ``rival the credit card as a payment system.'' ``With MasterCard and Visa busily wooing card issuers to joint their respective Maestro and Interlink national on-line point-of-sale programs, the debit card finally is reaching a position to be more than an ATM access device. Consequently, debit card issuers have shifted their attention away from simply getting more cards into account-holders hands and toward activating the cards already out there. The objective is to position debit as a revenue generator that could someday rival the credit card as a payment system.'' 4 4 The national debit networks operated by VISA and MasterCard under the ``Interlink'' and ``Maestro'' logos, respectively, differ from the previously existing VISA and MasterCard debit cards. Interlink and Maestro transactions must be generated on POS PIN-pad terminals and, once approved, result in an automatic hold on the customer's deposit account. Traditional VISA and MasterCard debit transactions do not incorporate PIN security and do not place a hold on the cardholder's account. In addition to its dominance in the ATM market, MAC has a significant, and growing, presence in the debit POS market. At year-end 1992, MAC operated the third largest PIN-based debit system in the United States (ranked by transaction volume). (See Exh. G.) In that year, MAC showed the strongest growth of the top 5 PIN-based debit systems (with the top 5 systems switching 84% of all transactions) and offered the largest terminal base. (See id .) 5 5 The numbers attributable to MAC in The Nilson Report did not include the ninth rank Owl system, which at that time was in the process of reissuing all of its cards to carry the MAC name. (See Exh. G.) MAC's position in debit POS continued to grow and strengthen. According to the 1994 Card Industry Directory, the four institutions that own defendant EPS_Banc One Corp., PNC Financial Corp., Key Corp. a/n/a Society Corp. and CoreStates_rank 7th, 13th, 22nd and 27th among the ``100 Most Active Debit Card Bases.'' (See Exh. H.) Moreover, the 1994 Debit Card Directory shows that EPS is the second largest Electronic Funds Transfer Network (ATMs and POS terminals combined) (see Exh. I) and the third largest POS network, with MAC doubling the number of its on-line terminals from 15,000 in 1992 to 32,000 in 1993 (see Exh. J. 1994 Debit Card Directory at pp. 25&hyph;26). Indeed, of the top 50 EFT networks in 1993, MAC was the fastest growing EFT Network in the country, with a 78% increase in transactions. (See Exh. I, p. 33.) To the ultimate consumer, ATM and POS are interchangeable because they meet the same needs. MAC is a major factor in both segments of the market. As POS terminals increasingly rival ATMs and credit cards as payment mechanisms, the interests of the United States in opening both the network and the processing markets now dominated by MAC to competition could be frustrated unless the Final Judgment is extended to encompass POS. Because the Final Judgment is to remain in effect for 10 years, the failure to make that judgment applicable to point-of-sale debit networks could leave that substantial, fast-growing segment of the market subject to the same abuses by MAC that the ATM system has been and allow MAC to evade the purpose and intent of the order. Comment No. 3 The Final Judgment should (a) provide for a comprehensive review by the Department of Justice of the MAC operating procedures to determine that the existing operating procedures and associated technical financial requirements do not impose requirements on third party processors, or give MAC control over unnecessary devices or equipment, that could give MAC the ability to, effectively, exclude competitive processors; and (b) require MAC, in the future, to publish and circulate to third party processors all proposed changes in the operating regulations at the same time that such changes are circulated to intercept processors. Discussion The goal of the Final Judgment is to open up the processing market to competition. Section IV.E of the Final Judgment requires defendant EPS to permit third party processors to access the MAC network on the same terms as intercept processors so long as the third party processor meets the technical, financial and operating criteria for intercept processors. It also permits MAC to impose such additional technical criteria, regarding information transmitted and the format for transmission of such information, as is ``reasonably appropriate for third party ATM processing for unaffiliated multiple banks.'' In the abstract, requiring MAC to give third party processors access to the MAC network on the same terms as intercept processors is, potentially, an adequate means to achieve the United States' goal. However, the existing technical, financial and operating rules and procedures applicable to intercept processors should not be endorsed by entry of a consent decree unless and until they have been thoroughly reviewed by persons with the requisite expertise. Experience in numerous industries has shown that, where a dominant service provider controls access to a network with which competitors must interconnect, the standards and protocol set for interconnection are ripe with potential for abuse by the dominant network owner. Probably the best known example of such abuse comes from the conduct of AT&T during the existence of the Bell system monopoly. For example, as discussed in Litton Systems, Inc. v. American Telephone & Telegraph Company , 487 F. Supp. 942 (S.D.N.Y. 1982), aff'd . 700 F.2d 785 (2d Cir. 1983), AT&T required all telephone systems using non-Western Electric/Bell equipment to purchase a protective coupling device from AT&T, and to pay AT&T to install and maintain the device. It was ultimately determined that the device was not, in fact, needed to protect the AT&T network from harm, but was designed for anticompetitive reasons. See also United States v. American Tel. & Tel. Co. , 524 F. Supp. 1336 (D.D.C. 1981). Similar findings were made as to the technical requirements imposed on competitors such as MCI and Sprint. See, e.g., MCI Communications v. American Tel. & Tel. Co. , 708 F.2d 1081 (7th Cir. 1983).
