FR941013-1-00067 FR941013-1-00010 IV. Development of Regulatory Alternatives A. Selection of Source Category and Pollutants for Control Off-site waste and recovery operations were included as a source category on the EPA's initial list of HAP source categories (refer to section II.B of this notice). As previously explained, the EPA intends this source category to address HAP emissions only from those waste and recovery operations that are not included in another separate NESHAP source category or are being addressed by other EPA regulatory actions. Consequently, the following waste and recovery operations that receive materials from other facilities are specifically excluded from the off-site waste and recovery operations source category because these operations have been listed by the EPA as separate NESHAP source categories: hazardous waste incineration, municipal solid waste landfills, publicly-owned treatment works, sewage sludge incinerators, site remediation activities, and industrial boilers and process heaters. Wastes and recoverable materials sent to the facilities selected for regulation under the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP are generated by a wide variety of manufacturing and production processes as well as other recycling, reprocessing, or waste management operations. Consequently, many of the organic chemicals or groups of chemicals listed as HAP under CAA section 112(b) may be present in the wastes or recoverable materials sent to off-site waste and recovery operations facilities. It is not appropriate to select all organic HAP listed under CAA section 112(b) for regulation under the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. Some specific organic chemicals that are designated as HAP have no or minimal potential to be emitted to the atmosphere from off-site waste and recovery operations. For other organic HAP chemicals that may be emitted from off-site waste and recovery operations, there are limits to the detectability of some of these chemicals in wastes by the test methods currently available to implement the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP because of properties inherent in the sampling and analysis protocol. Consequently, the EPA decided it is appropriate to develop a list of the specific organic HAP chemicals to be regulated by this rulemaking. To select which organic HAP chemicals would be regulated under the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP, the EPA evaluated all chemicals or groups of chemicals listed as HAP in CAA section 112(b). Among the factors included in the EPA's evaluation was an assessment of the aqueous and organic volatility characteristics of each HAP chemical, the ability of the analytical test methods to quantitate a HAP chemical, and the aqueous solubility of a HAP chemical. Based on the evaluation, the EPA selected the specific organic HAP chemicals listed in Table 1 to the proposed rule (to obtain a copy of this table in the regulatory text of the proposed rule refer to the beginning of the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION section of this notice). The EPA requests comment on the list of HAP chemicals that the Agency is proposing to be regulated under the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. The list of organic HAP selected for regulation under the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP contains many different types of organic chemicals. The EPA decided to develop a single set of regulatory alternatives for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category to control organic HAP emissions as a class as opposed to attempting to develop a series of regulatory alternatives to control emissions of each individual organic HAP chemicals on the list. Consequently, the control technologies considered for the regulatory alternatives are directed towards the control total organic HAP emissions. It is EPA's intent that the NESHAP address waste and recovery operations receiving from other facilities those materials that potentially can emit significant quantities of the organic chemicals on the HAP list for the rule. As explained in section II.D.2.a of this notice, the EPA has developed definitions for different types of wastes to implement the Agency's waste management rules promulgated under authority of RCRA. However, certain wastes and recoverable materials that have been specifically excluded from the definitions of waste adopted for these RCRA rules may still contain organics listed as HAP under CAA section 112(b). Consequently, simply adopting the definitions already used by the EPA for wastes under the RCRA rules could allow certain off-site waste and recovery operations that emit organic HAP to remain unregulated. Therefore, the EPA decided that to fulfill the congressional directives of CAA section 112, it is necessary to define the types of materials to be regulated under this CAA rulemaking in a broader context than the EPA has historically used for the RCRA rules.
