FR941121-0-00012 FR941121-0-00001 (b) Content of Account Disclosures (b)(1) Rate Information (b)(1)(ii) Variable Rates Comments 4(b)(1)(ii)(B)&hyph;1 and 4(b)(1)(ii)(C)&hyph;1, dealing with rate changes within the institution's discretion, have been modified. FRB commenters believed rates derived from formulas based on an institution's cost of funds, for example, are not ``solely'' in the institution's discretion. In response to FRB commenters' requests, both comments were revised in Regulation DD for clarity and consistency. A national trade association commenter has also made the request that NCUA conform to the Regulation DD commentary. For the reasons stated by the FRB, and for uniformity, the NCUA Board has done so. (b)(2) Compounding and Crediting (b)(2)(i) Frequency Three commenters believed that proposed comment 4(b)(2)(i)&hyph;2 was confusing in that readers might be misled to not disclose dividend periods for dividend-bearing accounts. To allay such fears, the comment has been revised to clarify that a dividend period should be disclosed on all dividend-bearing accounts. (b)(2)(ii) Effect of Closing an Account As requested by one commenter, comment 4(b)(2)(ii)&hyph;1 is modified from the proposal to reflect that state or other law may affect an institution's ability to include in its contract specific member actions considered by the institution to be a request to close the account. Five commenters failed to understand the necessity of mentioning the FCU bylaw restrictions on closing member's accounts in proposed comment 4(b)(2)(ii)&hyph;1. Unlike banks and thrifts which can contractually close accounts for non activity, an FCU cannot close a member's account when it drops below the par value of one share. Instead, the FCU must give the member at least six months to bring the account back up to par value. To highlight this very important membership distinction, the bylaw requirement is mentioned in the comment. The NCUA believes that it is a critical distinction of the member of FCUs, and some state-chartered credit unions, and declines to remove the comment from the final commentary. (b)(3) Balance Information (b)(3)(i) Minimum Balance Requirements Three commenters requested that the Board not require the par value of a share to be disclosed, arguing that it is a membership, not a minimum balance, requirement. The NCUA Board disagrees with this approach. A member is generally not entitled to membership rights, including transacting on accounts, until the par value of a membership share is fully paid-in. Therefore, the payment of a full par value share is a minimum balance requirement, as is stated in comment 4(b)(3)(i)&hyph;1.
