FR941019-0-00010 FR941019-0-00003 m. Enforcement of outstanding orders (§303.9(n)). This section has been amended to include consultation by the General Counsel or designee with the Director, an associate director or regional manager of the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs prior to the initiation of any action to enforce certain outstanding orders. 3. Applications and Enforcement Matters Where Authority Is Not Delegated (§303.10) Authority not specifically delegated is retained by the Board of Directors (§303.10(a)(2)). This section has been amended to include references to the Director, associate director and regional manager in the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs. 4. Confirmation, Limitations, Rescissions, and Special Cases (§303.11) Action under delegated authority not mandated (§303.11(b)). This section has been amended to include references to the Director, associate director and regional manager in the Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs. B. Amendment to Part 338 Part 338 is amended by changing the address on the Equal Housing Lender Poster contained in §338.4(b) of the FDIC's regulations, 12 CFR 338.4(b), to reflect the name of the new Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs. Exemption From Public Comment Rules of agency organization, procedure or practice are exempt from public comment requirements of section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553(b)(A)). The FDIC believes that it is unnecessary to seek public comment in this case because these amendments concern rules of agency organization, procedure or practice which fall within this exemption. Therefore, the amendments are being issued as a final, rather than proposed, rule. Effective Date of Amendments Section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) generally requires that a final rule be published 30 days prior to its effective date, subject to certain exceptions. One such exception is that if an agency finds good cause for making a rule immediately effective and publishes the basis for such finding, then the rule need not be published 30 days prior to its effective date. 5 U.S.C. 553(d)(3). These amendments merely concern internal delegations of authority and do not affect any substantive rights. Therefore, the FDIC Board of Directors finds good cause to waive the 30-day delayed effective date in order to quickly effectuate the corporate reorganization and to provide the new Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs with appropriate legal authority to carry out its functions and duties. Paperwork Reduction Act This rulemaking does not require any collections of information pursuant to section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. Accordingly, no information has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review. Authority These amendments are promulgated under the FDIC's general authority to prescribe, through its Board of Directors, such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary to carry out the provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or any other law which the FDIC has the responsibility of administering or enforcing (except to the extent that authority to issue such rules and regulations has been expressly and exclusively granted to any other regulatory agency). 12 U.S.C. 1819(a) (Tenth). List of Subjects 12 CFR Part 303 Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (Government agencies), Bank deposit insurance, Banks, banking, Insured depository institutions, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations. 12 CFR Part 338 Advertising, Banks, banking, Civil rights, Credit, Fair housing, Mortgages, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Signs and symbols. The Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation hereby amends parts 303 and 338 of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 303_APPLICATIONS, REQUESTS, SUBMITTALS, DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY, AND NOTICES REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY STATUTE OR REGULATION
