FR940407-2-00077 FR940407-2-00038 •Core administration functions, or other activities, that essentially support only the applicant's on-going administrative functions. •Proposals from consortia of tribes that are not specific with regard to support from, and roles of, member tribes. The Administration for Native Americans expects an application from a consortium to have goals and objectives that will create positive impacts and outcomes in the communities of its members. In situations where both consortia of tribes and individual consortia tribal members receive ANA funding, ANA expects that consortia groups will not seek funding that duplicates what their member tribes are doing. •Projects which should be supported by other Federal funding sources that are appropriate, and available, for the proposed activity. •Projects that will not be completed, self-sustaining, or supported by other than ANA funds, at the end of the project period. •The purchase of real estate (see 45 CFR 1336.50 (e)) or construction. •Projects originated and designed by consultants who provide a major role for themselves in the proposed project and are not members of the applicant organization, tribe or village. The Administration for Native Americans will critically evaluate applications in which the acquisition of major capital equipment is a major component of the Federal share of the budget. During negotiation, such expenditures may be deleted from the budget of an otherwise approvable application, if not fully justified by the applicant and not deemed appropriate to the needs of the project by ANA. K. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96&hyph;511, the Department is required to submit to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and approval any reporting and record keeping requirements in regulations including program announcements. This program announcement does not contain information collection requirements beyond those approved for ANA grant applications under the Program Narrative Statement by OMB. L. Due Date for Receipt of Applications The closing date for applications submitted in response to this program announcement is June 17, 1994. M. Receipt of Applications Applications must either be hand delivered, or postmarked by the closing date, to the address in Section H, The Application Process: Application Submission. The Administration for Native Americans will not accept applications submitted via facsimile (FAX) equipment. Deadlines. Applications mailed through the U.S. Postal Service or a commercial delivery service shall be considered as meeting an announced closing date if they are either: (1) Received on or before the deadline date at the address specified in Section H, Application Submission, or (2) postmarked by the deadline date and received in time for the ANA independent review. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legible postmark date from the U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) Late applications. Applications which do not meet the criteria in the above paragraph of this section are considered late applications and will be returned to the applicant. The Administration for Native Americans shall notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in the current competition. Extension of deadlines. The Administration for Native Americans may extend the deadline for all applicants because of acts of God such as floods, hurricanes, etc., or when there is a widespread disruption of the mails. However, if ANA does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicant. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 93.612) Dated: January 24, 1994. Dominic Mastrapasqua, (Acting) Commissioner, Administration for Native Americans. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8273 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
