FR941227-0-00069 FR941227-0-00013 In addition, the final regulations provide that if a transferee acquires an interest in a nuclear power plant in a transaction to which §1.468A&hyph;6 (dispositions of an interest in a nuclear power plant) applies, the transferee's qualifying percentage for the interest acquired generally is the transferor's qualifying percentage with respect to that interest immediately before the disposition. Fourth, although the final regulations make no specific mention of corporate reorganizations, they apply to all dispositions described in the regulations, including those that occur in the context of corporate reorganizations. Self-Dealing The proposed regulations also make a change to the rules prohibiting a trustee or other disqualified person from engaging in an act of self-dealing with a Fund. The change excepts deposits in trustee institutions from the self- dealing rules if the deposits are made to facilitate temporary investments or the payment of reasonable administrative expenses. The change was intended to reduce administrative costs associated with establishing an account with a different institution for these purposes. Commentators criticized the rule on the ground that it called into question the permissibility of using Fund assets to pay investment advisory and trustee fees. In response to these comments, the final regulations provide that the proposed exception to the self-dealing rules is an addition to, rather than a substitution for, the existing exception for payment of fees. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, the notice of proposed rulemaking preceding these regulations was submitted to the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Peter C. Friedman, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Passthroughs and Special Industries). However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 602 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR parts 1 and 602 are amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805␣*␣*␣* Par. 2. Section 1.468A&hyph;0 is amended by: 1. Adding an entry for §1.468A&hyph;1, paragraph (d). 2. Adding an entry for §1.468A&hyph;5, paragraph (a)(4). 3. Revising the heading for §1.468A&hyph;6 and adding entries for paragraphs (a) through (h).
