FR940505-1-00174 FR940505-1-00012 ( a ) Retarded Injection Timing. A feasible and simple means of reducing NO X from diesel engines is by retarding injection timing. This method lowers the peak combustion temperature and pressure in the cylinder, resulting in lower levels of NO X . This strategy has been estimated to reduce NO X emissions by 10&hyph;30 percent. However, disadvantages include higher specific fuel consumption, lower power, harder startability, and higher levels of HC, CO, particulate matter and smoke emissions. To recover the lost fuel economy and performance or to reduce the amount of injection timing retard, additional technologies that improve fuel atomization have been employed. Fuel atomization can be improved by increasing fuel pump pressure, improving fuel pump advance strategies, and incorporating smaller injector nozzle tip holes. ( b ) Engine Fine Tuning. Engine fine tuning includes modification of essential engine components and could result in 20&hyph;40 percent reduction in NO X emissions. More specifically, engine fine tuning could include modifications in the injection system, charge air system, and combustion chamber design. Such changes on new onhighway engines have already achieved more than 50 percent NO X reductions. However, retrofitting such changes on existing engines makes equally large reductions for marine vessels unlikely. ( c ) Exhaust Gas Recirculation. Exhaust gas recirculation involves recirculating some of the exhaust gas back into the intake manifold. This lowers the combustion temperature and therefore can lower NO X emissions by as much as 20&hyph;50 percent. For marine engines, the applicability of EGR is complicated by the quality of the fuel. Sulfur and soot from combustion gases can cause increased wear of piston rings, valves, and other components. Therefore, EGR is more likely to be used with engines running on cleaner distillate fuels. ( d ) Water Emulsified Fuel. Water emulsification of the fuel is a technique which also lowers maximum combustion temperature, reducing NO X by 20&hyph;50 percent without an increase in fuel consumption. There are at least two ways to accomplish the emulsification during combustion: in the combustion chamber or in the fuel tank. Combining water and fuel for the first time in the chamber requires significant changes to the cylinder head to add an injector. Combining water with fuel in the tank may introduce combustion problems due to unstable emulsion. Also, this technique requires a significantly redesigned fuel handling system to overcome the potential risk of corrosion and to maintain power output. In any event, extra liquid storage availability is necessary to retain similar range. ( e ) Selective Catalytic Reduction (SCR). One of the most effective, but also most complex and expensive, means of reducing NO X from large diesel engines is with the use of selective catalytic reduction (SCR). Emission reductions in excess of 90 percent can be achieved using SCR. In SCR systems, a reducing agent, such as ammonia, is injected into the exhaust and both are channelled through a catalyst where NO X emissions are reduced. These systems are being successfully used for large stationary source applications which operate under constant, high load conditions. A number of disadvantages are apparent for the use of current technology SCR systems on ships. The SCR system is effective only over a narrow range of exhaust temperatures. The effectiveness of the system is decreased at reduced temperatures exhibited during engine operation at partial loads. Also, excess ammonia in the exhaust (referred to as ``ammonia slip'') can occur during transient operation, where control of optimum ammonia injection is difficult. However, non-toxic urea can be used in place of toxic ammonia. SCR is currently being used in the South Coast region on three new ships built with the technology incorporated (not retrofitted). Retrofitting ships with this technology is problematic and raises significant space and cost concerns. The SCR systems are very bulky and require high investment, operational, and maintenance costs. ( f ) Speed Reduction. A potential operational method for reducing NO X is speed reduction. By reducing speed, the load requirements on the engine are reduced. Speed reduction cannot be applied to all different ship types and sizes in the same manner, and may be beneficial only for certain types and sizes. Also, speed reduction does not address emissions from auxiliary engines. In addition, many coastal areas already have factors that limit vessel speed; for example, amount of traffic, distance to the shore and port, and water depth. Since speed reduction will affect the amount of cargo transported within a specified time, additional transport capacity or travel time must be accounted for when calculating emission benefits from such a strategy. EPA requests comments on how speed reduction could be figured into the fee scheme. The technologies listed above are not intended to be an all- inclusive list of potential emission reduction technologies. EPA requests comments on other technologies that may be employed to reduce emission of NO X from diesel marine engines. Comments should address the emission reduction potential, technological feasibility, cost, and safety issues of additional NO X reduction methods.
