FR941125-1-00043 FR941125-1-00008 9.2␣Design Specification Test Results. a. Peak spectral response, nm. b. Mean spectral response, nm. c. Response above 700 nm, percent of peak. d. Response below 400 nm, percent of peak. e. Total angle of view, degrees. f. Total angle of projection, degrees. g. Serial number, month/year of manufacturer for unit actually tested to show design conformance. 9.3␣Performance Specification Test Results. a. Results of optical alignment sight test (if required; see section 7.1.1.3). The owner and operator shall, in the testing report, include diagrams indicating the operator's view through the optical alignment system as depicted during the alignment tests specified in section 7.1.1.3. b. Attenuator Calibration. Provide documentation demonstrating compliance with the requirements for the calibration of primary attenuators (see section 7.1.3.1). If secondary attenuators (see section 7.1.3.2) are used, provide documentation listing the calibration results for the laboratory-based transmissometer, dates of the latest secondary filter calibrations, and the results of the secondary filter calibrations. When the primary filter calibration of section 7.1.3.1. is conducted by the filter manufacturer or by an independent laboratory, the owner or operator shall include in the report a statement, from the filter calibration laboratory or manufacturer, certifying the filter luminous transmittance values and that the procedures of section 7.1.3.1 have been followed. c. Calibration Error Test. (1) Report the required upscale opacity range and indicated upscale opacity calibration value, as determined in section 7.1.1.4. (2) Identify the low-, mid-, and high-level calibration opacities, as determined in section 7.1.2.1. (3) Present the data and results of the calibration error test in the format of figure 1&hyph;6; all information required by figure 1&hyph;6 shall be supplied. d. System Response Test. Present the data and results of the system response test in the format of figure 1&hyph;7. e. Zero and Calibration Drift (CD) Tests. In the format of figure 1&hyph;8: i. Identify the 24-hour zero drift, percent opacity, ii. Identify the 24-hour CD, percent opacity, iii. Identify any lens cleaning, clock time, iv. Identify all optical alignment adjustments, clock time. 9.4␣Statements Provide a statement that the operational test period was completed according to the requirements of section 7.2. In this statement, include the time periods during which the operational test period was conducted.
