FR940930-2-00210 FR940930-2-00071 (d) 15% or more of all the CTA stocks eligible for trading on the BSE where the Free List contains fewer than 100 issues. 5 5 The Free List is made up of securities which are not registered to certain specialists and can be traded by any specialist. The Executive Committee shall approve or disapprove the proposed combination based on its assessment of the following considerations: (a) Specialist performance and market quality in the stocks subjects to the proposed combination; (b) The effects of proposed combination in terms of the following criteria: (i) Strengthening the capital base of the resulting specialist organization; (ii) Minimizing both the potential for financial failure and the negative consequences of any such failure on the specialist system as a whole; and (iii) Maintaining or increasing operational efficiencies; (c) Commitment to the Exchange market, focusing on whether the constituent specialist organizations engage in business activities that might detract from the resulting specialist organization's willingness or ability to act to strengthen the Exchange agency/auction market and its competitiveness in relation to other markets; and (d) The effect of the proposed combination on overall concentration of specific organizations. With respect to the criteria relating to the ``commitment to the Exchange market'', the Executive Committee would look to a variety of factors that extend beyond compliance with the Exchange's requirements for providing sufficient capital, talent and order handling services. For example, the Committee would review and assess each constituent unit's past performance on the Exchange relating to such matters as: •Acceptance and cooperation in the development, implementation and enhancement to the Boston Exchange Automated Communications and Order-routing Network (``BEACON''); •Efforts at resolving problems concerning customer orders; •Willingness to facilitate early openings in order to compete effectively with other exchanges; and •Willingness to voluntarily provide Execution Guarantees beyond the minimum required under Rule 2039A. 6 6 See BSE Rule 2039A. The Rule states that the BSE Execution Guarantee shall be available to each member firm in all issues traded through the Intermarket Trading System (ITS) registered to a member specialist of the Exchange. For example, the rule imposes an obligation upon specialists to guarantee executions on all agency orders from 100 up to and including 1,299 shares. 2. Statutory Basis The Exchange believes that the basis under the Act for the proposed policy is Section 6(b)(5) in that the policy enables the Exchange to monitor the tendencies toward concentration in the specialist community and to intervene to prevent undue concentration. As such, it is designed to protect investors and the public interest, and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers, or to regulate by virtue of any authority conferred by this title matters not related to the purpose of this title or the administration of the Exchange. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed policy will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others Comments have neither been solicited nor received. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the BSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;10 and should be submitted by October 21, 1994.
