FR941206-0-00190 FR941206-0-00019 Cover means a device or system which is placed on or over a hazardous waste such that the entire hazardous waste surface area is enclosed and sealed to reduce air emissions to the atmosphere. A cover may have openings such as access hatches, sampling ports, and gauge wells that are necessary for operation, inspection, maintenance, or repair of the unit on which the cover is installed provided that each opening is closed and sealed when not in use. Examples of covers include a fixed roof installed on a tank, a floating membrane cover installed on a surface impoundment, a lid installed on a drum, and an enclosure in which an open container is placed during waste treatment. External floating roof means a pontoon or double-deck type floating roof that rests on the surface of a hazardous waste being managed in a tank that has no fixed roof. Fixed roof means a rigid cover that is installed in a stationary position so that it does not move with fluctuations in the level of the hazardous waste placed in a tank. Floating membrane cover means a cover consisting of a synthetic flexible membrane material that rests upon and is supported by the hazardous waste being managed in a surface impoundment. Floating roof means a pontoon-type or double-deck type cover that rests upon and is supported by the hazardous waste being managed in a tank, and is equipped with a closure seal or seals to close the space between the cover edge and the tank wall. Internal floating roof means a floating roof that rests or floats on the surface (but not necessarily in complete contact with it) of a hazardous waste being managed in a tank that has a fixed roof. Liquid-mounted seal means a foam or liquid-filled primary seal mounted in contact with the hazardous waste between the tank wall and the floating roof continuously around the circumference of the tank. Maximum organic vapor pressure means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by the hazardous waste contained in a tank determined at the temperature equal to either: (1) the local maximum monthly average temperature as reported by the National Weather Service when the hazardous waste is stored or treated at ambient temperature; or (2) the highest calendar-month average temperature of the hazardous waste when the hazardous waste is stored at temperatures above the ambient temperature or when the hazardous waste is stored or treated at temperatures below the ambient temperature. No detectable organic emissions means no escape of organics from a device or system to the atmosphere as determined by an instrument reading less than 500 parts per million by volume (ppmv) above the background level at each joint, fitting, and seal when measured in accordance with the requirements of Method 21 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, and by no visible openings or defects in the device or system such as rips, tears, or gaps. Point of waste origination means as follows: (1) When the facility owner or operator is the generator of the hazardous waste, the point of waste origination means the point where a solid waste produced by a system, process, or waste management unit is determined to be a hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261. [ Note: In this case, this term is being used in a manner similar to the use of the term ``point of generation'' in air standards established for waste management operations under authority of the Clean Air Act in 40 CFR parts 60, 61, and 63]. (2) When the facility owner and operator are not the generator of the hazardous waste, point of waste origination means the point where the owner or operator accepts delivery or takes possession of the hazardous waste. Point of waste treatment means the point where a hazardous waste exits a waste management unit used to destroy, degrade, or remove organics in the hazardous waste. Vapor-mounted seal means a foam-filled primary seal mounted continuously around the circumference of the tank so that there is an annular vapor space underneath the seal. The annular vapor space is bounded by the bottom of the primary seal, the tank wall, the hazardous waste surface, and the floating roof.
