FR940621-1-00003 FR940621-1-00001 We are proposing to establish additional standards in ยง91.14(c) for export inspection facilities. We propose to require the following: 1. Export inspection facilities that examine horses must have ceilings at least 12 feet high in any areas where horses will be. This is the minimum height necessary to accommodate horses, which may rear up. 2. Every export inspection facility must have running water and a water drainage system. The drainage system must be able to control surface drainage into or from the facility in a manner that prevents any significant risk of livestock diseases being spread into or from the facility. While current regulations in ยง91.14(c)(5) require that facilities have only ``an ample supply of potable water,'' we believe that running water and a drainage system are necessary to adequately water the animals, to clean and disinfect the facility, and to prevent the spread of disease. We have determined that not all currently approved export inspection facilities have water drainage systems and that these proposed requirements could thus compel these facilities to make structural changes. Therefore, we would allow these facilities 2 years from the effective date of the final version of this rule to install a water drainage system that prevents any significant risk of livestock diseases being spread into or from the facility. However, all facilities would be required to have running water upon the effective date of the final version of this rule. 3. Every export inspection facility must have a storage area for equipment that may accompany horses and other export animals. The area must be able to protect equipment from weather conditions. 4. Every export inspection facility must have a telephone. A telephone is necessary to notify an Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) representative, an accredited veterinarian, or the exporter in the event of an emergency, such as sudden onset of illness among animals to be exported. A telephone is also necessary to make reservations, cancellations, or changes regarding the arrival time of animals. 5. Export inspection facilities for examining horses must have walkways in front of the animal stalls. Walkways must be wide enough that APHIS personnel can monitor and inspect animals without having to enter animal stalls. This requirement is essential for safety reasons, as horses may kick while being inspected. Miscellaneous The regulations in ยง91.3(a) require that certain animals intended for export to Mexico or Canada be accompanied from the State of origin to the United States border by an origin health certificate. In addition to other requirements, this certificate must certify that the animals were inspected within the 30 days prior to their movement for export and that they ``were found to be sound, healthy, and free from evidence of communicable disease and exposure thereto.'' We are proposing to remove the word ``sound'' from this section, as it is too vague to be enforceable. We are also proposing to amend the regulations in ยง91.15(a). The regulations in 91.15(a) require that animals be inspected by an APHIS veterinarian prior to export, but do not specify a time frame prior to export during which animals must be inspected. We are proposing to require that all animals intended for export be inspected by an APHIS veterinarian within 24 hours of embarkation. Because animals may become ill shortly before embarkation, and because we do not want sick or diseased animals to be exported from the United States, we believe it is imperative that animals be inspected by an APHIS veterinarian within 24 hours of embarkation. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This proposed rule, if adopted, would establish additional standards for animal export inspection facilities by requiring all facilities to have adequate running water and water drainage systems, storage areas, and a telephone. This action would also require facilities where horses are inspected to have walkways in front of stalls and ceiling height adequate for horses. Though a small number of facilities do not have water drainage systems, all of the facilities currently approved for export inspection already meet all of the other additional standards proposed here. We are proposing, therefore, only to codify existing industry practices. We anticipate that this proposal will have an economic impact on the few existing export inspection facilities without drainage systems. Information was not available to us for determining the economic impact of requiring that water drainage systems be installed in facilities not already so equipped. However, we have tried to minimize any economic impact by proposing to allow these facilities 2 years from the effective date of the final version of this rule to install water drainage systems. Allowing these facilities 2 years to install the water drainage systems would ease the economic impact of this new standard, as affected facilities would have additional time to shop for different drainage system options and would be able to spread out the costs of installation. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.) Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. If this proposed rule is adopted: (1) All State and local laws and regulations that are inconsistent with this rule will be preempted; (2) no retroactive effect will be given to this rule; and (3) administrative proceedings will not be required before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act This document contains no information collection or recordkeeping requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 91 Animal diseases, Animal welfare, Exports, Livestock, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation. Accordingly, 9 CFR part 91 would be amended as follows: PART 91_INSPECTION AND HANDLING OF LIVESTOCK FOR EXPORTATION 1. The authority citation for part 91 would be revised to read as follows:
