FR940803-1-00022 FR940803-1-00004 4. Early compliance. Credit unions that provide the notice of existing members prior to the compliance date of part 707, must be prepared to provide accurate and timely disclosures when, following receipt of the notice, members ask for account disclosures. Such disclosures must be provided even if they are requested before the compliance date of part 707. Credit unions who provide early notice to existing members need to comply with all other aspects of part 707. Section 707.5_Subsequent disclosures. (a) Change in terms (a)(1) Advance notice required 1. Form of notice. Credit unions may provide a change-in-term notice on or with a regular periodic statement or in another mailing. If a credit union provides notice through revised account disclosures, the changed term must be highlighted in some manner. For example, credit unions may state that a particular fee has been changed (also specifying the new amount) or use an accompanying letter that refers to the changed term. 2. Effective date. An example of a disclosure that complies is: Effective as of May 11, 1995'' 3. Terms that change upon the occurrence of an event. Credit unions that offer terms such as a fee waiver for employee account holders during their employment or for students enrolled at a local university need not send advance notice of a change resulting from termination of employment or enrollment if: The account-opening disclosures given (to the employee, for example) describe the term and the event that would cause the term to change (such as the member's leaving the credit union's employment), and Notices are sent when the term is changed for other account holders, even though the term remains unchanged for the member while employment or enrollment continues. (a)(2) No notice required (a)(2)(ii) Check printing fees 1. Increase in fees. A notice is not required even if an increase in check printing fees includes an amount added by the credit union to the price charged by a vendor. (b) Notice before maturity for term share accounts longer than one month that renew automatically 1. Maturity dates on nonbusiness days. For determining the term, credit unions may ignore the fact that the disclosed maturity falls on a nonbusiness day and the term is extended beyond the disclosed number of days. For example, a holiday or weekend may cause a ``one-year'' term share account to extend beyond 365 days (or 366, in a leap year), or a ``one-month'' term share account to extend beyond 31 days. 2. Disclosing when rates will be determined. Disclosures that illustrate when the annual percentage yield will be available include: A specific date, such as ``October 28'' A date that is easily discernible, such as ``the Tuesday prior to the maturity date stated on the notice`' or ``as of the maturity date stated on this notice'' Credit unions must indicate when the rate will be available if the date falls on a nonbusiness day. 3. Alternative timing rule. To illustrate the alternative timing rule: a credit union that offers a 10-day grace period must provide the disclosures at least 10 calendar days prior to the scheduled maturity date. 4. Club accounts. Club accounts that are term share accounts are covered by this paragraph, even though funds may be withdrawn at the end of the current club period. For example, if the member has agreed to the transfer of payments from another account to the term share account for the next club period, the credit union must comply with the requirements for automatically renewable term share accounts. 5. Renewal of a term share account. The following applies to a change in a term that becomes effective if a rollover term share account is subsequently renewed. If the change is initiated by the credit union, the disclosure requirements of this paragraph. (Paragraph 5(a) applies if the change becomes effective prior to the maturity of the existing term share account.) If initiated by the member, the account-opening disclosure requirements of ยง707.4(b). (If the notice required by this paragraph has been provided, credit unions may give new account disclosures or disclosures that reflect the new term.) For example, if a member who receives a prematurity notice on a one-year term share account requests a rollover to a six-month account, the credit union must provide either account-opening disclosures that reflect the new maturity date or, if all other terms previously disclosed in the prematurity notice remain the same, only the new maturity date. (b)(1) Maturities of longer than one year 1. Highlighting changed terms. Credit unions need not highlight terms that have changed since the last account disclosures were provided. (c) Notice for term share accounts one month or less that renew automatically 1. Providing disclosures within a reasonable time. Generally, 20 calendar days after an account renews is a reasonable time for providing disclosures. For term share accounts shorter than 20 days, disclosures should be given prior to the next scheduled renewal date. (d) Notice before maturity for term share accounts longer than one year that do not renew automatically 1. Subsequent account. When funds are transferred following maturity of a nonrollover term share account, credit unions need not provide account disclosures unless a new account is established.
