FR940418-2-00115 FR940418-2-00067 The estimated additional volume of low-level radioactive waste (LLRW) that would be generated and would require disposal during the approximately 11.25 additional reactor-years of operation is a small fraction of the volume of LLRW that will be produced by the facility during the current authorized operating period. The staff, therefore, concluded that conditions of 10 CFR 51.52(c) will be met and that no new analysis of the environmental effects of transportation of fuel and waste to and from the reactor is necessary. Non-Radiological Impacts The FES evaluated the non-radiological impacts associated with 40-year facility operation. The assumptions and bases for the FES assessments have not changed and have remained valid throughout the operating period of the facility. The licensee will continue to submit annual non-radiological environmental reports concerning unusual or important events impacting the environment and comply with applicable Federal, State and local agency requirements relating to environmental protection. Compliance with these requirements will preclude any significant non-radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternative to the Proposed Action As an alternative to the proposed action, the staff considered denial of the proposed action. The denial alternative is, in effect, the same as the ``no-action'' alternative. Denial of the application would result in no change in current environmental impacts since the environmental impacts of the proposed action are insignificant. Alternative Use of Resources This action did not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the FES dated July 1972, related to operation of the facility. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the State of Florida regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State of Florida had no comments on the proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has reviewed the FES and the additional information provided by the licensee to determine the environmental impact of operation of the facility for the proposed additional 11.25 reactor-years. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Therefore, the Commission has determined, pursuant to 10 CFR 51.31, not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed action. For further details with respect to this action, see (1) the application for amendments dated February 25, 1992, and additional information provided by the licensee's letters of June 22, and July 13, 1993, (2) ``Final Environmental Statement Related to the Operation of Turkey Point,'' Florida Power and Light Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;250 and 50&hyph;251 dated July 1972, and (3) the Environmental Assessment dated April 7, 1994. These documents are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC and at the local public document rooms located at Florida International University, University Park, Miami, Florida 33199 and at Indian River Community College, Ft. Pierce, Florida. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 7th day of April 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Herbert N. Berkow, Director, Project Directorate II&hyph;2, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9254 Filed 4&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
