FR940819-0-00078 FR940819-0-00018 15. Coordination with vessel response plans (VRPs). Five comments suggested coordination of the escort regulations with the special vessel response plan (VRP) requirements for tank vessels operating in Prince William Sound, as required by section 5005 of OPA 90 and the Interim Final Rule for vessel response plans (58 FR 7376, February 5, 1993). One of these special VRP requirements is to provide ``escort vessels with skimming capability.'' The concern of the comments is that there will be two Federal definitions of ``escort vessel:'' one definition in the VRP regulations (which would include skimming requirements), and the other definition in the escort vessel regulations (without any skimming requirements). This could lead to confusion or unnecessary expense. The Coast Guard agrees that there should be a single, consistent definition of ``escort vessel'' throughout all the OPA 90 rulemakings. The intent of the special VRP requirement is for a vessel with skimming (response) capability to accompany a laden tanker across Prince William Sound. The Coast Guard has determined that this is a spill response capability that is separate from the emergency control measures that the escort vessels are intended to provide under this rulemaking. Accordingly, the final rule for the VRP rulemaking will be revised by eliminating the term ``escort vessel'' and substituting in its place the term ``escorting response vessel.'' As previously noted, this does not preclude a single, appropriately-equipped vessel from fulfilling both requirements (escorting and skimming) in Prince William Sound. 16. Prince William Sound Disabled Tanker Towing Study. Nine comments were received suggesting that the escort regulations should be postponed until completion of the Prince William Sound Disabled Tanker Towing Study (DTTS), in order to benefit from the findings of that study. At this time the Coast Guard has reviewed Part 1 of the DTTS, as well as several other technical studies concerning escorting and control of disabled tankers, and expects that the regulations will be supported by the final DTTS results. Therefore, the Coast Guard believes that it can now move ahead with this rulemaking. 17. Discussion of other comments. Two comments suggested that the Vessel Traffic Systems (VTS) be expanded instead of requiring escort vessels. One comment, however, disagreed with the usage of the VTS system, saying that such a system failed in the EXXON VALDEZ disaster; this comment suggested using another emergency towing arrangement. Two comments recommended that VTS control be employed for small tallow tankers. Further, one of these comments suggested that when such employment is not feasible, a single escort should be used. The Coast Guard does not agree that a VTS can substitute for the immediate, on-site assistance that an escort vessel can provide. It should be noted that the VTS and escort vessel requirements of OPA 90 are separate, and the use of one does not obviate the need for the other. One comment recommended that the Coast Guard should ensure construction of double hull U.S. flag vessels which have a redundant propulsion system. The Coast Guard has determined that this is beyond the scope of the escort vessel rulemaking. Assessment Because of substantial public interest, this rule is a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It requires an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It is significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). A final Assessment is available in the docket for inspection or copying where indicated under ADDRESSES. Summary of Final Assessment Certain oil tankers transiting through both Prince William Sound and Puget Sound are already subject to state-level escort requirements. The final Assessment for this rulemaking evaluates the economic impact of the proposed Federal regulations by analyzing the incremental cost increases beyond the costs already incurred due to the state regulations. In Prince William Sound, the crude oil tankers operating out of Port Valdez are already escorted in accordance with the Alyeska Pipeline Service Company contingency plan which was approved by the State of Alaska. Therefore, there is not much incremental impact from the Federal regulations: only approximately six tankers per year deliver refined products to the Navy fuel depot at Whittier (these tankers are not required to be escorted under Alaska regulations). In Puget Sound, an estimated 1,256 tanker transits per year are affected: approximately 879 transits where one escort vessel is already engaged (under Washington state regulations) will now require at least one additional escort vessel to meet the Federal regulations. Also, because the Federal regulations encompass tankers down to 5,000 GT (approximately 10,000 DWT), an estimated 377 additional tanker transits per year will now require at least two escort vessels (these tankers presently do not require any escorts because the Washington state regulations only extend down to 40,000 DWT). Therefore, the regulations are estimated to initially increase vessel traffic by 12 escort vessel transits per year in Prince William Sound and 1,633 escort vessel transits per year in Puget Sound. However, these numbers will decline as single hull tankers are phased out of service. The OPA 90 phase-out schedule requires single hull tankers to be removed from service by 2010, but allows certain tankers with double sides or double bottoms to remain in service until 2015. Because it was not possible to project how many tankers of each design (single-hulled, double-bottomed, or double-sided) will be in service over the next 20 years, the Assessment assumes that all tankers subject to this rulemaking are single-hulled (i.e., will be removed from service by 2010). Therefore, the incremental escort vessel cost to the oil tanker industry will decrease to zero by that year. The Assessment conservatively assumes the same phase out schedule as used for the Regulatory Evaluation of the double hull rulemaking, although tanker owners or operators in these waters may choose to replace their single hull tankers at an earlier time. As a result of comments to the NPRM, the regulations have been revised in certain respects. These revisions also affect some of the economic assumptions and calculations in the original preliminary Regulatory Evaluation. Accordingly, the final Assessment has been revised as follows: (1) Certain costs have been recalculated, using new cost data for escort vessel services. The Assessment assumes the average cost of an escort vessel is $1,350 per hour; (2) New costs have been added, recognizing that tanker owners or operators may have to conduct various sea trials and computer simulation studies (in order to determine the maneuvering and control characteristics of their tankers). Even though this information is not directly required by regulation, it is still an indirect cost that will be borne by industry; (3) The benefit analysis has been significantly revised (discussed later); (4) Costs and benefits have been recalculated at a 7 percent discount rate, in order to be consistent with current OMB directives and other OPA 90 regulatory assessments (the original preliminary Regulatory Evaluation discounted all costs at 10 percent).
