FR941110-0-00300 FR941110-0-00018 Black-tailed deer ( Odocoileus hemionus ) were first introduced to Kauai in 1961 for the purpose of sport hunting and today probably number well over 500 animals. The deer are presently confined to the western side of the island, where they feed on a variety of native and alien plants (van Riper and van Riper 1982). On Kauai, one population of Bonamia menziesii in Paaiki Valley and the population of Flueggea neowawraea in Paaiki and Mahanaloa valleys are threatened by black-tailed deer (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). Large-scale ranching of cattle ( Bos taurus ) in the Hawaiian Islands began in the middle of the 19th century on the islands of Kauai, Oahu, Maui, and Hawaii. Large ranches, tens of thousands of acres in size, developed on East Maui and Hawaii (Cuddihy and Stone 1990) where most of the State's large ranches still exist today. Degradation of native forests used for ranching activities became evident soon after full-scale ranching began. The negative impact of cattle on Hawaii's ecosystem is similar to that described for goats and deer (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Stone 1985). Cattle grazing continues in several lowland regions in the northern portion of the Waianae Mountains of Oahu: in Lualualei, where one population of Bonamia menziesii exists, and in Kaumoku Gulch, where one population of Hibiscus brackenridgei ssp. mokuleianus remains (HHP 1992b30; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). On Molokai, cattle ranching is slowly recovering from setbacks caused by recent herd reductions enforced in an effort to eliminate bovine tuberculosis from domestic and feral stock. As cattle ranching becomes reestablished on Molokai and the number of cattle increases, the threat to the rare plant species that remain in those ranching areas will also likely increase. One population of Sesbania tomentosa located east of Moomomi Preserve grows in a grazing area. On Maui, cattle ranching is the primary agricultural activity on the west and southwest slopes of East Maui and in lowland regions of West Maui. On both East and West Maui, one or more populations of Bonamia menziesii, Diellia erecta, and Hibiscus brackenridgei ssp. brackenridgei and the only Maui population of Flueggea neowawraea continue to be threatened by grazing cattle (HHP 1992c13; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). The Flueggea neowawraea population and one of the Bonamia menziesii populations grow within a fenced exclosure. Although probably minimal, the possibility of cattle entering the exclosure poses a potential threat. In the Kamaoa-Puueo and South Point regions of the island of Hawaii, cattle continue to graze in habitat currently occupied by most of the populations of Sesbania tomentosa on that island (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). In addition, one population of Hibiscus brackenridgei ssp. brackenridgei and the only known population of Bonamia menziesii on that island grow in regions currently used for cattle ranching (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). Habitat disturbance caused by human activities threatens two of the taxa. On West Maui, all-terrain vehicles have driven over Sesbania tomentosa plants growing west of Nakalele Point lighthouse (HHP 1992j43). Continued off-road activity threatens to destroy a significant portion of that population. On the island of Hawaii, a dirt road runs through a population of Sesbania tomentosa located in the Kamaoa-Puueo region (HHP 1992j50). Off-road activity could damage a significant portion of that population as well. In the Puu Anahulu region on that island, a ranch road was bulldozed close to a plant of Hibiscus brackenridgei ssp. brackenridgei in 1989 (HHP 1992e6). Continued road development threatens to destroy the only known population of that taxon in the area. B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Overutilization is not known to be a factor, but unrestricted collecting for scientific or horticultural purposes would seriously impact the six species whose low numbers make them especially vulnerable to disturbances ( Diellia erecta, Hibiscus brackenridgei, Mariscus pennatiformis, Neraudia sericea, Solanum incompletum, and Vigna o-wahuensis ).
