FR941207-2-00106 FR941207-2-00072 (c) If applicable, a copy of a Section 108 loan guarantee approval document with grant number and date of approval (which was approved after the date of this NOFA, except in conjunction with a previous EDI award); or (d) A request for a Section 108 loan guarantee amendment (analogous to subparagraph (a) or (b) above) that proposes to increase the amount of a previously approved application. However, any amount of Section 108 loan guarantee authority approved before the date of this NOFA is not eligible to be used in conjunction with an EDI grant under this NOFA. Further, a Section 108 loan guarantee application that is the subject of a prior EDI grant award, whether or not the Section 108 loan guarantee has been approved as of the date of this NOFA, is not eligible for an EDI award under this NOFA. For example, if a community has a previously approved Section 108 loan guarantee of $12 million, even if none of the funds have been utilized, or if the community had previously been awarded an EDI grant of $1 million and had certified that it will submit a Section 108 loan application for $10 million in support of that EDI grant, the community's application under this NOFA must propose to increase the amount of its total Section 108 loan guarantee commitments beyond those amounts (the $12 million or $10 million in this example) it has previously committed. (2) In addition, for EDI grant assistance, the public entity/entities shall submit the following: (a) SF 424, Application for Federal Assistance. (b) The certification regarding lobbying required under 24 CFR part 87 (Appendix A). (c) A brief narrative statement describing the activities that will be carried out with the EDI grant funds and explaining how the use of EDI grant funds meets the selection criteria in paragraph II.(C) below. (3) The application shall be deemed to include a copy of the strategic plan for community revitalization previously submitted to HUD as part of a Federal Empowerment Zone application pursuant to a Notice inviting applications, published on January 18, 1994 at 59 FR 2711. (C) Award Criteria All applications will be considered for awards under this NOFA based upon the following criteria that demonstrate the quality of the proposed project, and the applicant's capacity and commitment to use EDI funds, in accordance with the purposes of EDI. HUD reserves the right to determine a minimum and maximum amount of any EDI award per application or project and to modify requests accordingly. (1) Threshold _Only applications that address these threshold factors will be considered: (a) Quality of the Section 108/EDI plan. HUD must determine that the applicant's proposed plan for the EDI grant/Section 108 loan guarantee project(s) or activities will address economic needs in the applicant's qualifying Empowerment Zone area, and the plan for such project(s) or activities is logically, feasibly, and substantially likely to achieve its stated purpose. (b) The capacity or potential of the public entity to successfully carry out the Section 108/EDI plan. HUD must determine that the public entity's performance in the administration of its CDBG program; its previous experience, if any, in administering a section 108 loan guarantee; its performance and capacity in carrying out economic development projects; its ability to conduct prudent underwriting; and its capacity to manage and service loans made with the guaranteed loan funds or EDI grant funds demonstrate that it is substantially likely to carry out the approved projects or activities in a satisfactory manner. (c) Distress. HUD must determine that the level of distress in the immediate community to be served and/or the jurisdiction applying for assistance meets the test of general distress set forth in 24 CFR 597.102 (see January 18, 1994 interim rule, at 59 FR 2704&hyph;2705). (d) Extent of need for assistance. HUD must determine that there is a lack of financial resources to carry out the project without EDI assistance. In making this determination, HUD will consider: (i) Projects costs and financial requirements; (ii) The amount of any debt service or operating reserve accounts to be established in connection with the economic development project; (iii) The reasonableness of the costs of any credit enhancement paid with EDI grant funds; (iv) The amount of program income (if any) to be received each year during the repayment period for the guaranteed loan; (v) Interest rates on those loans to third parties (other than subrecipients) (either as an absolute rate or as a plus/minus spread to the Section 108 rate); (vi) Underwriting guidelines used (or expected to be used) in determining project feasibility; and (vii) Other relevant information. (2) Other award factors. _The Secretary has determined that the following additional factors are appropriate to this NOFA: (a) The applicant submitted an application for urban Empowerment Zone designation pursuant to the Notice inviting Empowerment Zone applications published January 18, 1994 at 59 FR 2711 (see also paragraph (d) below). (b) The applicant has remaining Section 108 loan guarantee authority of at least $40 million or in the case of an urban Empowerment Zone application from joint entities an aggregate Section 108 loan authority for all of the entities that submitted the Empowerment Zone application of at least $40 million;
