FR940202-2-00129 FR940202-2-00071 Appendix B_Maintenance Procedures to Decrease Survival and Multiplication of Legionella SPP. In Potable-Water Distribution Systems I. Providing water at "50 ○C at all points in the heated water system, including the taps This requires that water in calorifiers (water heaters) be maintained at "60 ○C. In the United Kingdom, where maintenance of water temperatures at "50 ○C in hospitals has been mandated, installation of blending or mixing valves at or near taps to reduce the water temperature to >43 ○C has been recommended in certain settings to reduce the risk of scald injury to patients, visitors, and health care workers. 400 However, Legionella spp. can multiply even in short segments of pipe containing water at this temperature. Increasing the flow rate from the hot-water-circulation system may help lessen the likelihood of water stagnation and cooling. 403,676 Insulation of plumbing to ensure delivery of cold (<20 ○C) water to water heaters (and to cold-water outlets) may diminish the opportunity for bacterial multiplication.345 ``Dead legs'' or capped spurs within the plumbing system provide areas of stagnation and cooling to <50 ○C regardless of the circulating-water temperature; these segments may need to be removed to prevent colonization. 677 Rubber fittings within plumbing systems have been associated with persistent colonization, and replacement of these fittings may be required for Legionella spp. eradication. 678 II. Continuous chlorination that maintains concentrations of free residual chlorine at 1&hyph;2 mg/L at the tap This requires flow-adjusted, continuous injectors of chlorine throughout the water distribution system. Adverse effects of continuous chlorination include accelerated corrosion of plumbing resulting in system leaks and production of potentially carcinogenic trihalomethanes. However, when levels of free residual chlorine are below 3 mg/L, trihalomethane levels are kept below the maximum ``safety level'' recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency. 401,679,680 Appendix C_Culturing Environmental Specimens for Legionella SPP I. Recommended procedure for collecting and processing environmental specimens for Legionella spp. A. Collect water (if possible, one-liter samples) in sterile, screw-top bottles, preferably containing sodium thiosulfate at a concentration of 0.5 cc of 0.1N solution/liter of sample water. (Sodium thiosulfate inactivates any residual halogen biocide). B. Collect culture-swabs of the internal surfaces of faucets, aerators, and showerheads; in a sterile, screw-top container such as a 50 cc plastic centrifuge tube, submerge each swab in 5&hyph;10 cc of sample water taken from the same device from which the sample was obtained. C. As soon as possible after collection, water samples and swabs should be transported to and processed in a laboratory proficient at culturing water specimens for Legionella spp. Samples may be transported at room temperature but must be protected from temperature extremes. D. Test samples for the presence of Legionella spp. by culture onto semi-selective media. Use standard laboratory procedures. (Detection of Legionella spp. antigen by the direct fluorescent antibody technique is not suitable for environmental samples. 681&hyph;683 In addition, the use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for identification of Legionella spp. is not recommended until more data on the sensitivity and specificity of this procedure are available. 684 ) II. Possible samples and sampling sites for Legionella spp. in the hospital Water Samples Potable Water System Incoming water main Water softener Holding tanks/cisterns Water heater tanks (inflow and outflow sites) Potable water outlets (faucets or taps, showers) especially outlets located in or near case-patients' rooms Cooling Tower/Evaporative Condenser Make-up water (water added to system to replace water lost by evaporation, drift, and leakage) Basin (area under tower for collection of cooled water) Sump (section of basin from which cooled water returns to heat source) Heat source (e.g., chillers) Other Sources Humidifiers Bubblers for oxygen Water used for respiratory therapy equipment Decorative fountains Irrigation equipment Fire sprinkler system (if recently used) Whirlpools/spas Swabs Potable Water System Faucets (proximal to aerators) Faucet aerators Shower heads Cooling Towers Internal components (e.g., splash bars and other fill surfaces) Areas with visible biofilm accumulation
