FR940912-2-00007 FR940912-2-00005 Business Development Center Applications: Phoenix, AZ AGENCY: Minority Business Development Agency, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In accordance with Executive Order 11625 and 15 U.S.C. 1512, the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) is soliciting competitive applications for its Phoenix, Arizona Minority Business Development Center (MBDC). The purpose of the MBDC Program is to provide business development services to the minority business community to help establish and maintain viable minority businesses. To this end, MBDA funds organizations to identify and coordinate public and private sector resources on behalf of minority individuals and firms; to offer a full range of client services to minority entrepreneurs; and to serve as a conduit of information and assistance regarding minority business. The MBDC will provide service in the Phoenix, Arizona Metropolitan Area. The award number of the MBDC will be 09&hyph;10&hyph;95006&hyph;01. DATES: The closing date for applications is October 17, 1994 . Applications must be post-marked on or before October 17, 1994 . A pre-application conference will be held on October 3, 1994, at 10:00 a.m., at the Phoenix City Hall, Conference Room B, 1st Floor, 200 West Washington Street, Phoenix, Arizona 85003. ADDRESSES: U.S. Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency, San Francisco Regional Office, 221 Main Street, Room 1280, San Francisco, California 94105. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Steve Saho at (415) 744&hyph;3001. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Contingent upon the availability of Federal funds, the cost of performance of the first budget period (12 months) from February 1, 1995 to January 31, 1996, is estimated at $222,196. The total Federal amount is $188,867 and is composed of $184,260 plus the Audit Fee amount of $4,607. The application must include a minimum cost share 15% $33,329 in non-federal (cost-sharing) contributions for a total project cost of $222,196. Cost-sharing contributions may be in the form of cash, client fees, third party in-kind contributions, non-cash applicant contributions or combinations thereof. The funding instrument for this project will be a cooperative agreement. Competition is open to individuals, non-profit and for-profit organizations, state and local governments, American Indian tribes and educational institutions. Applications will be evaluated on the following criteria: the knowledge, background and/or capabilities of the firm and its staff in addressing the needs of the business community in general and, specifically, the special needs of minority businesses, individuals and organizations (45 points), the resources available to the firm in providing business development services (10 points); the firm's approach (techniques and methodologies) to performing the work requirements included in the application (25 points); and the firm's estimated cost for providing such assistance (20 points). An application must receive at least 70% of the points assigned to each evaluation criteria category to be considered programmatically acceptable and responsive. Those applications determined to be acceptable and responsive will then be evaluated by the Director of MBDA. Final award selections shall be based on the number of points received, the demonstrated responsibility of the applicant, and the determination of those most likely to further the purpose of the MBDA program. Negative audit findings and recommendations and unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for award. The applicant with the highest point score will not necessarily receive the award. Periodic reviews culminating in year-to-date evaluations will be conducted to determine if funding for the project should continue. Continued funding will be at the total discretion of MBDA based on such factors as the MBDC's performance, the availability of funds and Agency priorities. The MBDC shall be required to contribute at least 15% of the total project cost through non-Federal contributions. To assist in this effort, the MBDC may charge client fees for services rendered. Fees may range from $10 to $60 per hour based on the gross receipts of the client's business. Anticipated processing time of this award is 120 days. Executive order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' is not applicable to this program. Federal funds for this project include audit funds for non-CPA recipients. In event that a CPA firm wins the competition, the funds allocated for audits are not applicable. Questions concerning the preceding information can be answered by the contact person indicated above, and copies of application kits and applicable regulations can be obtained at the above address. The collection of information requirements for this project have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0640&hyph;0006. Awards under this program shall be subject to all Federal laws, and Federal and Departmental regulations, policies, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. Pre-Award Costs _Applicants are hereby notified that if they incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that an applicant may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award costs. Outstanding Account Receivable _No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either the delinquent account is paid in full, repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. Name Check Policy _All non-profit and for-profit applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Award Termination _The Departmental Grants Officer may terminate any grant/cooperative agreement in whole or in part at any time before the date of completion whenever it is determined that the award recipient has failed to comply with the conditions of the grant/cooperative agreement. Examples of some of the conditions which can cause termination are failure to meet cost-sharing requirements; unsatisfactory performance of the MBDC work requirements; and reporting inaccurate or inflated claims of client assistance. Such inaccurate or inflated claims may be deemed illegal and punishable by law. False Statements _A false statement on an application for Federal financial assistance is grounds for denial or termination of funds, and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. Primary Applicant Certifications _All primary applicants must submit a completed form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying.'' Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension _Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR part 26, section 105) are subject to 15 CFR part 26, ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies.
