FR940513-1-00002 FR940513-1-00001 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Part 213 RIN 3206&hyph;AG00 Student Educational Employment Program AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management is proposing to consolidate existing Federal student employment programs into one streamlined, flexible program that: adapts to changing market conditions and occupational demands, encourages greater participation and partnerships between Federal agencies and educational institutions in developing effective programs, and serves as a critical tool to assist agencies in building a diverse workforce. The program would consist of two components: work-study and temporary student positions. Over the years, a number of different student employment programs and appointing authorities have often impeded Federal agencies from meeting critical employment challenges with innovative solutions. This new framework will substitute complex regulatory guidance with a flexible approach to developing student educational and employment programs. DATES: Comments must be received on or before June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed regulations should be addressed to Patricia Paige, Director Paige, Director, Staffing Reinvention Office, U.S. Office of Personnel Management, 1900 E. Street, NW., room 6332, Attention: Staffing Reinvention Office, Washington, DC 20415. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ellie Miller, Staffing Reinvention Office, at (202) 606&hyph;0830. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under this authority, agencies can develop innovative work-study or temporary programs to attract students. For instance, agencies could create internship programs with a tuition assistance option for students attending college (associate, undergraduate, and graduate), and vocational and technical institutions. Students in these agency/academic tailored programs can be employed in professional, scientific, administrative, technical, clerical, and trades/crafts occupations.
