FR940504-1-00043 FR940504-1-00017 Attainment of a seasonal (quarterly) bycatch allowance by a fishery complex would result in directed fishing closures for each species within that fishery complex for the remainder of the quarter, except that when the halibut bycatch allowance, or seasonal apportionment thereof, specified for the shallow-water complex is reached, directed fishing for pollock with pelagic trawl gear may continue subject to other regulatory provisions under §672.20(f). Any overages or shortfalls of a quarterly bycatch allowance would be accounted for in the subsequent quarterly allowance. A detailed justification for the fishery and seasonal apportionments of the 1994 halibut PSC limit is described in the EA prepared for this management measure (see ADDRESSES ). These apportionments are intended to accommodate seasonal bycatch requirements in a manner that optimizes the 1994 halibut PSC limit established for trawl gear relative to anticipated trawl fishing patterns and 1994 groundfish TACs. Revision of the Methodology Used To Calculate Retainable Amounts of Groundfish Under Directed Fishing Standards The proposed rule amends §672.20(h) and §675.20(i) to address problems with the current regulatory provisions for calculation of ``retainable'' bycatch amounts of groundfish species for which directed fishing is closed. Current regulations provide for an overly liberal computation of retainable amounts of groundfish bycatch species, because the basis for bycatch retention inappropriately includes species not open for directed fishing. This compromises the purpose of using directed fishing standards to restrict bycatch of species after directed fishery closures. This also creates a circular process, effectively allowing excessive bycatch retention. An associated concern exists that operators of some vessels deliberately target on arrowtooth flounder merely to provide a basis for retaining allowable amounts of highly valued groundfish species for which directed fishing is closed. In this case, arrowtooth flounder is harvested solely for the purpose of providing ``directed catch'' against which ``retainable bycatch'' quantities may be calculated and accumulated. The arrowtooth flounder directed catch is discarded and only the economically valuable bycatch, authorized on the basis of the quantity of the arrowtooth harvest, is actually retained for processing. This practice effectively subverts the ``bycatch only'' intent of fishery closures and associated directed fishing standards at §672.20(g) and §675.20(h). Furthermore, trawl operations for arrowtooth flounder experience relatively high bycatch rates of halibut and, thus, contribute to premature attainment of the halibut PSC limit, further aggravating the competition for the halibut PSC limit in the GOA trawl fisheries and increasing the potential for costly trawl fishery closures. Adjustment of Season Opening Dates for the BSAI Flatfish Fisheries The proposed rule would adjust the opening date for the yellowfin sole and ``other flatfish'' fisheries from May 1 to January 1. The purpose of this season adjustment is to provide the BSAI trawl industry with viable fishing alternatives; reduce the need for, and likelihood of, significant movement of fishing capacity from the BSAI to the GOA; reduce competition for the halibut PSC limit established for the GOA trawl fisheries; and reduce the likelihood that displacement of Bering Sea trawl effort into the GOA may preempt fishing opportunities for GOA operations later in the fishing year by exhausting the GOA trawl halibut PSC limit, thus necessitating GOA-wide trawl closures. The original purpose for delaying directed fishing for yellowfin sole and ``other flatfish'' species until May 1 was to prevent the joint venture processing (JVP) and domestic annual processing (DAP) fisheries from taking a disproportionate share of their respective red king crab or halibut bycatch allowances established for Bycatch Limitation Zones 1 or 2H (defined at §675.2), before available amounts of yellowfin sole and other groundfish species were harvested. Early attainment of red king crab or halibut bycatch allowances due to of high bycatch rates experienced in the early spring flatfish fisheries resulted in premature fishery closures that prevented available amounts of flatfish and other groundfish species from being harvested. Delaying the opening of the yellowfin sole and ``other flatfish'' fisheries until May 1 allowed the DAP fisheries to utilize the bulk of the available Zone 1 PSC limits in the rock sole and Pacific cod fisheries from January through April, optimizing their catch of allocated groundfish species. The flatfish fisheries have changed substantially since the May 1 starting date was implemented. JVP fisheries no longer operate in the EEZ off Alaska. The domestic industry has developed profitable new markets for products from the ``other flatfish'' complex. In addition, the yellowfin sole and rock sole/''other flatfish'' fisheries are allocated separate bycatch allowances that may be seasonally apportioned to optimize the groundfish harvest within the established prohibited species bycatch restrictions.
