FR940602-2-00146 FR940602-2-00090 2. Applications shall include a program narrative statement which addresses the following: a. The objectives, goals, and anticipated outcomes of the proposed research effort; b. The method or methods that will be used; c. The source of the human surrogates to be used; d. The number, quality, and anticipated ages at death (Because NHTSA has interest in obtaining knowledge of the impact injury process and its effect on the total automotive-population-at-risk, an experimental human subject pool with ages representative of this population is highly desirable.) of the human surrogates (viz human cadavers) the applicant expects to use for this research effort along with documentation (retrospective or prospective) that provides evidence that the applicant has access to the proposed quantity, quality, and projected ages of the experimental material; e. The proposed program director and other key personnel identified for participation in the proposed research effort, including a description of their qualifications and their respective organizational responsibilities; f. A description of the general, as well as specialized impact simulation, test facilities and equipment currently available or to be obtained for use in the conduct of the proposed research effort; and g. A description of the applicant's previous experience or on-going research program that is related to this proposed research effort. Review Process and Criteria Initially, all applications will be reviewed to confirm that the applicant is an eligible recipient and to assure that the application contains all of the information required by the Application Contents section of this notice. Each complete application from an eligible recipient will then be evaluated by a Technical Evaluation Committee. The applications will be evaluated using the following criteria: 1. The applicant's understanding of the purpose and unique problems represented by the research objectives of this cooperative agreement program as evidenced in the description of their proposed research effort. Specific attention shall be placed upon the applicant's stated means for obtaining the quantity of experimental material necessary to conduct the proposed research effort. 2. The potential of the proposed research effort accomplishments to make an innovative and/or significant contribution to the base of biomechanical knowledge as it may be applied to saving lives and reducing injuries resulting from motor vehicle crashes. 3. The technical merit of the proposed research effort, including the feasibility of the approach, planned methodology, and anticipated results. 4. The adequacy of test facilities and equipment identified to accomplish the proposed research effort, including impact simulation. 5. The adequacy of the organizational plan for accomplishing the proposed research effort, including the qualifications and experience of the research team, the various disciplines represented, and the relative level of effort proposed for professional, technical, and support staff. Award Selection Factors The award selection may not be based solely on the evaluation results. Award preference may be given to an innovative or creative approach that offers a potentially significant contribution to achieve the specific objectives of this cooperative research effort. Award preference may be given to a proposal with a larger percentage of cost sharing. Terms and Conditions of the Award 1. The protection of the rights and welfare of human subjects in NHTSA-sponsored experiments is established in Department of Transportation 49 CFR Part 11 and in NHTSA Orders 700&hyph;1, 700&hyph;3, and 700&hyph;4. Any recipient must satisfy the requirements and guidelines of 49 CFR part 101 and the NHTSA Orders 700 series prior to award of the cooperative agreement. A copy of 49 CFR part 11 and the NHTSA 700 series may be obtained from the programmatic information contact designated in this notice. 2. Prior to award, each recipient must comply with the certification requirements of 49 CFR part 29_Department of Transportation Government-wide Department and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants), as well as 49 CFR part 20_ Department of Transportation New Restrictions on Lobbying. 3. During the effective period of the cooperative agreement(s) awarded as a result of this notice, each agreement shall be subject to the general administrative requirements of OMB Circular A&hyph;110, the cost principles of OMB Circular A&hyph;21, A&hyph;122, or FAR 31.2 as applicable to the recipient, the requirements of 49 CFR parts 20 and 29, and the NHTSA General Provisions for Assistance Agreements. Issued on: May 20, 1994. George L. Parker, Associate Administrator for Research and Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13457 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
