FR941012-2-00030 FR941012-2-00015 Golden Field Office; Solicitation for Financial Assistance Applications AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Solicitation for financial assistance applications, Biomass Power for Rural Development. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), pursuant to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, 10 CFR 600.7, is announcing its intention to solicit responses for Federally cost shared collaborative projects that integrate electricity generation and rural development through biomass based renewable energy. ADDRESSES: Questions regarding this announcement may be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden, Colorado 80401, Attention: Ruth E. Adams, Contract Specialist. The telephone number is 303&hyph;275&hyph;4722. The Contracting Officer for this action is John W. Meeker. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Through Cooperative Agreements, DOE is proposing to undertake renewable energy commercialization projects through biomass based renewable energy technologies under provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct): Public Law 102&hyph;486. It is the mutual goal of the DOE and USDA to promote opportunities for rural development and sustainable power generating capacity by establishing a market infrastructure that integrates dedicated feedstock supply systems and advanced biomass power production. DOE and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) are working to accelerate the establishment of integrated biomass power production systems through Federally cost shared, vertically integrated, economically sustainable closed-loop biomass power generation systems. Respondents are encouraged to form partnership with the agriculture community, industry, power producers, educational institutions, State and local governments, and other interested parties, to pursue deployment of integrated biomass systems. The partnerships shall demonstrate how cooperative efforts can lead to sustaining, economically viable, closed-loop biomass power generation. The projects selected should focus primarily on the production of power from energy crops, however, projects proposing coproduction will also be considered if power is the primary output. Projects proposing the utilization of biomass wastes or residue will also be considered, as long as dedicated energy crops are the primary fuel source. Projects selected under this solicitation may be eligible for Federal funds through DOE cost sharing and may also be eligible for funds through existing USDA authorities and programs. As such, respondents are encouraged to identify USDA authorities and programs and their applicability to this project. The required end-goal of the program is for sustaining operations without Federal assistance. Respondents will be required to submit a feasibility study which addresses technical, environmental and economic aspects of project implementation and a business plan indicating project sustainability following Federal assistance. Eleven studies are currently funded through the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) to evaluate economic development through biomass technologies and systems. The integrated biomass systems being studied are inclusive of feedstock production and commercial scale conversion technologies for the production of electric power and liquid biofuels. Additional information regarding these studies is available upon request through DOE. Solicitation number DE&hyph;RP36&hyph;95G010052 will include complete information on the program including technical aspects, funding, application preparation, and selection and proposal evaluation criteria. Multiple awards are anticipated, subject to the availability of appropriations on or before September 30, 1995. Issuance of the solicitation is planned for December 1, 1994 with responses due 120 days following solicitation release. Requests for the solicitation must be in writing and directed to Ruth E. Adams. Facsimiles are acceptable and can be transmitted to (303) 275&hyph;4790. Issued in Golden, Colorado, on October 3, 1994. John W. Meeker, Chief, Procurement, GO. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25209 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
