FR940628-0-00061 FR940628-0-00018 A. The Guidelines provide that a minimum of two percent of the parking spaces serving covered dwelling units be made accessible and located on an accessible route to wheelchair users. Also, if a resident requests an accessible space, additional accessible parking spaces would be necessary if the two percent are already reserved. (b) Q. If both open and covered parking spaces are provided, how many of each type must be accessible? A. The Guidelines require that accessible parking be provided for residents with disabilities on the same terms and with the full range of choices, e.g. , surface parking or garage, that are provided for other residents of the project. Thus, if a project provides different types of parking such as surface parking, garage, or covered spaces, some of each must be made accessible. While the total parking spaces required to be accessible is only two percent, at least one space for each type of parking should be made accessible even if this number exceeds two percent. (c) Q. If a project having covered multifamily dwellings provides parking garages where there are several individual garages grouped together either in a separate area of the building (such as at one end of the building, or in a detached building), for assignment or rental to residents, are there any requirements for the inside dimensions of these individual parking garages? A. Yes. These garages would be public and common use space, even though the individual garages may be assigned to a particular dwelling unit. Therefore, at least two percent of the garages should be at least 14 ’ 2 ’ ’ wide and the vehicular door should be at least 10 ’&hyph;0 ’ ’ wide. (d) Q. If a covered multifamily dwelling has a below grade common use parking garage, is there a requirement for a vertical clearance to allow vans to park? A. This issue was addressed in the preamble to the Guidelines, but continues to be a frequently asked question. ( See the preamble to the Guidelines under the discussion of ``Section 5_Guidelines for Requirement 2'' at 56 FR 9486, March 6, 1991, or 24 CFR Ch. I, Subch. A, App. III.) In response to comments from the public that the Guidelines for parking specify minimum vertical clearance for garage parking, the Department responded: No national accessibility standards, including UFAS, require particular vertical clearances in parking garages. The Department did not consider it appropriate to exceed commonly accepted standards by including a minimum vertical clearance in the Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines, in view of the minimal accessibility requirements of the Fair Housing Act. Since the Guidelines refer to ANSI A117.1 1986 for the standards to follow for public and common use areas, and since the ANSI does not include a vertical clearance for garage parking, the Guidelines likewise do not. (Note: UFAS is the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standard.) 15. Public Telephones Q. If a covered multifamily dwelling has public telephones in the lobby, what are the requirements for accessibility for these telephones? A. The requirements governing public telephones are found in Item # 14, ``Common use spaces and facilities,'' in the chart under Requirement 2 of the Guidelines. While the chart does not address the quantity of accessible public telephones, at a minimum, at least one accessible telephone per bank of telephones would be required. The specifications at ANSI 4.29 would apply. Requirement 3_Usable Doors 16. Required Width Q. Will a standard hung 32-inch door provide sufficient clear width to meet the requirements of the Fair Housing Act? A. No, a 32-inch door would not provide a sufficient clear opening to meet the requirement for usable doors. A notation in the Guidelines for Requirement 3 indicates that a 34-inch door, hung in the standard manner, provides an acceptable nominal 32-inch clear opening.
