FR940705-2-00073 FR940705-2-00052 FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION Policy Statement Concerning Errors and Omissions Clauses in Consent Decrees AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Statement of policy. SUMMARY: The Commission has determined that it is unnecessary and inappropriate to include in any of its consent decrees any provision establishing as a defense to an action brought to enforce the consent decree that the defendant's errors and omissions were inadvertent and unintentional and that the causes and consequences of these errors and omissions were quickly remedied. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joel N. Brewer, Division of Enforcement, Bureau of Consumer Protection, Federal Trade Commission, Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326&hyph;2967. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In each of two previous Consent Decrees, Damark International, Inc., Civ. No. 4&hyph;91&hyph;275 (D. Minn. 1991), and Lillian Vernon Co., 92 Civ. 7537 (CLB) (S.D.N.Y. 1992), the Commission included a provision that provided a defense against an enforcement action if the defendant could establish that (1) any order violations arose from inadvertent and unintentional errors that may have occurred despite the defendant's good faith maintenance of records and procedures to prevent such errors, and (2) the defendant took prompt action to remedy any cause of, or injury resulting from, those errors. The Commission now has decided that such provisions are unnecessary in light of the Commission's inherent prosecutorial discretion. The Commission initiates law enforcement actions under Section 5 of the FTC Act, 15 U.S.C. 45, only when it has reason to believe both that the law has been violated and that an action is in the public interest. In deciding whether an action is in the public interest, the Commission considers, among other things, the scope of the alleged violation, the circumstances in which it occurred and the extent of any resulting injury. Accordingly, the Commission believes that the inclusion of the language referred to above from the decisions and orders in Damark and Lillian Vernon is redundant to its public interest considerations and could cause confusion concerning the Commission's exercise of prosecutorial discretion within the terms of Section 5. Therefore, the Commission's policy will be to refuse to approve proposed consent decrees containing provisions designed to circumscribe liability for inadvertent and promptly remedied errors, or otherwise to delineate the Commission's discretion in initiating law enforcement proceedings. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 41&hyph;58. List of Subjects Trade practices. By direction of the Commission. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. Dissenting statement of Commissioner Deborah K. Owen, regarding the Commission's policy statement concerning errors and omissions clauses in consent decrees. I have voted against the proposed change in Commission policy, which would preclude a defense in consent decrees relating to inadvertent and unintentional errors by defendants. In my view, such language is harmless with respect to any legitimate Commission interest, and may serve to reassure parties as to the judicious exercise of our prosecutorial discretion. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16181 Filed 7&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
