FR940208-2-00103 FR940208-2-00073 II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item III below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to reduce the capital requirement of the DPM for the CXM, and clarify that the excess capital 4 required to be maintained by the DPM is not excess net capital 5 and therefore does not include haircuts. Specifically, the proposed rule change would reduce the DPM's excess capital requirement to $150,000 from $250,000. Because of the low trading volume in the CXM, the Exchange believes that the current capital requirement is too burdensome and not commensurate with the risk involved. 4 The text of the proposed rule would specify that this capital is to be maintained in excess of the DPM's required regulatory capital levels, i.e., as set forth in SEC Rule 15c3&hyph;1 and Article XI, Rule 3(b) (Specialist Capital Requirement) of the CHX rules. 5 Under SEC Rule 15c3&hyph;1, the term ``net capital'' typically is deemed to mean the net worth of a broker-dealer adjusted by, among other things, deducting a specified percentage of the value of each securities position (i.e., the ``haircut''). 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it is designated to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others No comments were solicited or received. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CHX. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;94&hyph;01 and should be submitted by March 1, 1994. IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b). 6 In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. 6 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). In its order approving the CXM, 7 the Commission found that, in comparison to other methods of portfolio trading, basket products, such as the CXM, are an efficient means to make investment decisions based on the direction of standardized measures of stock market performance, and may enhance the market's ability to absorb program trading. As part of its review, the Commission evaluated, among other things, the trading structure for market basket contracts and, in particular, the responsibilities assigned to the DPM 8 and Exchange oversight of the DPM's performance. The Commission concluded that the CHX's financial standards, including the requirement that the DPM set aside an extra cushion of capital above that otherwise required for a specialist under relevant Commission and Exchange rules, 9 should help to ensure that the DPM has sufficient resources to perform his or her market making obligations effectively. 7 See CXM Approval Order, supra, note 3. 8 See supra, note 3. 9 See supra, note 4.
