FR941216-2-00013 FR941216-2-00006 We adjusted USP for taxes in accordance with our practice, pursuant to the U.S. Court of International Trade (CIT) decision in Federal-Mogul Corp. v. United States, 834 F. Supp. 1391 (CIT 1993). ( See Notice of Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Calcium Aluminate Cement, Cement Clinker and Flux from France, 59 FR 14136 (March 25, 1994).) Foreign Market Value In order to determine whether there was a sufficient volume of sales in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating FMV, we compared the volume of home market sales of the subject merchandise to the volume of third country sales of subject merchandise, in accordance with section 773(a)(1)(B) of the Act. Since the total volume of subject merchandise sold by ISL in South Africa during the POI was greater than five percent of the aggregate volume of third country sales for such or similar merchandise, we determined that the home market was viable within the meaning of 19 CFR 353.48(a). Therefore, we based FMV on home market sales. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.46, we calculated FMV based on FOB storage or delivered prices to unrelated customers. We treated both pre-sale home market movement expenses and pre-sale home market warehousing expenses as indirect expenses and adjusted for these expenses under the exporter's sales price offset provision set forth in 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2), as appropriate. We treated post-sale home market inland freight as a direct expense and deducted this expense from FMV. Pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we made circumstance-of-sale adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in credit expenses. We recalculated home market credit expenses based on gross prices exclusive of imputed value added tax expenses. We also deducted from FMV rebates and the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses including, where appropriate, inventory carrying costs, pre-sale warehousing expenses and certain home market inland freight expenses. The deduction for home market indirect selling expenses was capped by the sum of U.S. indirect selling expenses, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(1) and (2). We deducted home market packing and added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. We adjusted for taxes in accordance with our practice. (See the ``United States Price'' section of this notice, above.) Although we allowed a discount, we did not deduct an amount for quantity discounts because ISL failed to place adequate information on the record to demonstrate that the discount met the criteria for quantity discounts set forth in 19 CFR 353.55(b) ( see concurrence memorandum). We did not exclude home market sales of furfuryl alcohol packed in drums from the base of home market sales used for comparison to U.S. sales, as requested by ISL, because ISL did not demonstrate that these sales were outside its ordinary course of business. Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify all information that we determine is acceptable for use in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of furfuryl alcohol from South Africa that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated preliminary dumping margins, as shown below. This suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The less than fair value margins are as follows: ␣ 1Producer/manufacturer/exporter 1Weighted-average margin percentage Illovo Sugar Limited 10.84 All others 10.84 ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. If our final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine whether these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, the U.S. industry before the later of 120 days after the date of this preliminary determination or 45 days after our final determination.
