FR940414-1-00037 FR940414-1-00010 As will be described in greater detail in Section VII of today's notice, Water Use and Wastewater Characteristics, wastewater is generated by pesticide formulating, packaging or repackaging facilities in relatively small volumes and on an intermittent basis. Furthermore, the source of virtually all wastewater is from cleaning something that has been in contact with the pesticide product. These characteristics afford considerable opportunities for pollution prevention and water conservation. As described in section VII of this preamble, EPA has studied and observed a number of pollution-preventing and/or wastewater conserving practices at a wide range of pesticide formulating, packaging or repackaging facilities. Because of the pollution prevention opportunities demonstrated by this industry, the Agency has included this rule in the SRRP. Some of the research on wastewater treatment described in the next section focuses on wastewater treatment that also allows for product recovery. This research was funded through the inclusion of this rule in the SRRP. The SRRP designation for the PFPR effluent guidelines has prompted EPA to look more closely at what some of the likely outcomes would be of applying the identified candidate BAT technologies. For example, the Agency has looked beyond the usual estimation of the cost expected to be incurred by the industry to comply with this rule and the pollutants expected to be removed from the wastewater stream. EPA also has estimated the savings that might be realized due to the water conservation and product recovery practices that are part of the best available technology (See section XIV, Economic Considerations ). EPA is also attempting to track the destinations of all wastes from the formulating, packaging or repackaging industry. Particular focus is, of course, placed on the wastewater, because it is the waste source for which there is the most data. EPA has attempted to anticipate the ultimate destination of wastewater pollutants to consider whether the proposed regulatory approach, and the expected action taken by the industry in response to the regulatory approach, will truly result in net environmental benefit or will merely result in transfer of pollutants to another medium. This will be discussed in more detail in Section XVI, Non-Water Quality Considerations. EPA believes that both of the SRRP-related studies (evaluating the savings and the pollutant destinations) will help to expand EPA's knowledge of sources of waste and opportunities for real pollution prevention and savings. This effort also points out data gaps that EPA may be able to fill during future data collection efforts. Such information could improve EPA's ability to carry out its mission to identify and control the more significant environmental problems. EPA believes that source reduction and application of the Pollution Prevention Act's environmental management hierarchy is achieved in today's proposed rulemaking through the proposal's recognition of the following: •At Pesticide Formulating, Packaging and Repackaging Facilities: _ Source reduction is accomplished by rinsing raw material containers and adding the rinsate directly into the product as it is formulated. _ Recycle and reuse can be applied to other interior wastewater streams that are held until they can be added to product when it is next formulated. _ Treat and recycle can apply to other wastewater sources. •At Refilling Establishments: _ Source reduction can be accomplished by putting bulk tank storage areas and loading pads under roof, thus avoiding the creation of contaminated precipitation. _ Recycle and reuse can apply to minibulk and other equipment rinsates in an application mixture. EPA recognizes that source reduction in the context of pesticide use generally has other important components. These include improving efficiency in pesticide production and formulating processes, improving application efficiencies, encouraging integrated pest management and low input sustainable agricultural practices, and encouraging the use of safer pesticides when pesticides are necessary. Currently, the Agency is pursuing efforts in these other areas, such as the pesticide containers and containment standards proposed rule, which is intended to reduce the numbers of pesticide containers needing disposal by setting standards and guidelines for the use of refillable containers. V. Data Gathering Efforts A. Technical Data The technical data gathering efforts for this rulemaking involved several activities which are summarized in this section and in the technical Development Document for today's proposed rule. In general, EPA's data gathering efforts were conducted by six principal means: (1) Reviewing existing information from past rulemaking records and other Agency files pertaining to the pesticide chemicals formulating and packaging industry; (2) obtaining new information through a questionnaire sent to a stratified random sample of the industry; (3) conducting numerous site visits to observe pollution prevent practices; (4) implementing a wastewater sampling and analysis program; (5) implementing bench-scale treatability studies; and (6) transferring data from the pesticide manufacturing subcategories and other sources. These are described further below:
