FR941017-1-00042 FR941017-1-00009 The law requires SSA to establish one or more RMAs in each State. One function of the RMA will be to monitor progress and compliance with the treatment program. Currently, SSA's contracts with RMAs require monitoring weekly for the 1st month; bi-weekly for the 2nd and 3rd months; then monthly for the 4th through 12th months of treatment. SSA is considering a requirement that, initially, each client be monitored bi-weekly for the first 3 months and monthly thereafter. Ongoing monthly monitoring is consistent with legislative requirements that benefits can be suspended on a monthly basis. Monthly monitoring results in considerable administrative cost to the Agency. If reliable monitoring can be accomplished on a quarterly or semi-annual basis, the net administrative cost would be reduced. Questions: SSA would appreciate receiving views on whether a monitoring schedule other than monthly could be more effective. In other words, how frequently should the average DA&A beneficiary be monitored by SSA's RMA to assure the beneficiary is in compliance with the terms and conditions for treatment, including measuring progress in treatment? Should frequency of monitoring change in the course of the treatment program? If so, under what circumstances? F. Defining ``Good Cause'' for Failure To Comply Currently, payments are suspended if a title XVI beneficiary entitled to disability based on DA&A fails to comply with available treatment. When benefits are suspended for noncompliance, the suspension continues until the individual undergoes the required treatment and compliance is verified or the benefits are terminated (see ยง416.1326). There are no current title II provisions requiring treatment for DA&A or sanctioning noncompliance with treatment. There also are no rules for establishing ``good cause'' for not complying with treatment. However, ``good cause'' is an established concept that is applied in other contexts in evaluating the fulfillment of program requirements in both the Social Security and SSI benefits programs. The legislation extends the requirement for suspension of benefits for noncompliance to title II beneficiaries. Individuals entitled to a benefit based on DA&A are required to comply with substance abuse treatment requirements. A beneficiary who fails to comply with treatment requirements will have his/her benefits suspended beginning with the first month after he/she has been notified of the determination of noncompliance. SSA is considering implementing regulations which would provide a ``good cause'' exception to this requirement and which could set forth examples of ``good cause'' for not complying with the treatment requirement. There are a multitude of possible definitions of ``good cause,'' ranging from hospitalization or other health-related events to personal emergencies such as a death in the family or illness of a family member. On the other hand, inability to comply due to ramifications resulting from the abuse of drugs or alcohol should not be ``good cause.'' Questions: What should constitute ``good cause'' for failing to comply with prescribed substance abuse treatment? What should not constitute ``good cause?'' Are there certain obstacles to complying with treatment that these individuals should be able to overcome? G. Costs and Benefits SSA is not now in a position to assess the societal costs and benefits of the provisions in a manner that would produce specific quantitative estimates for public comment. At this time, we cannot predict the future effect of encouraging treatment and rewarding compliance versus noncompliance with the program requirements and the resulting suspension or termination. For example, it is possible that significantly more beneficiaries will successfully complete treatment as a result of the new requirements. Because of the limitation of existing data and analytic models as well as limited Agency resources, SSA cannot provide a quantitative estimate of such effects. We intend to publish in the Federal Register at the time of promulgation of the interim final rule, an evaluation of the prospective quantifiable and non-quantifiable costs and benefits of the rule and of reasonable alternative approaches considered in the development of the rules. At this time, we are limited to a description of some of the potential costs and benefits that will need to be considered.
