FR940324-2-00072 FR940324-2-00043 The applicant should include a plan to train at least 1,000 mental health care providers and students in training programs for each of the 3 years of the grant. None of the training offerings may exceed 180 days. Applicants must include a plan to recruit gay and bisexual men, women and minorities as trainers and trainees. The applicant should demonstrate specialized mental health expertise, e.g., a psychiatry, psychology or social work department in an academic institution, a mental health professional organization, or another mental health organization. The following are activities that a Mental Health Care Provider Education in HIV/AIDS project must include: Training Activities •The incorporation of emerging research knowledge of neuropsychiatric and psychosocial aspects of HIV/AIDS into the curriculum. •Training for providers on aspects of the needs of individuals at risk, including gay and bisexual men, racial and ethnic minorities, injecting drug users and their sex partners, sex workers, women, infants, children, adolescents, and sex partners of people with HIV/AIDS. •Training for mental health professionals and personnel who serve people with serious mental illness, both in inpatient and outpatient settings. •The recruitment of gay and bisexual men, women and individuals from minority populations as trainers and trainees. •Training for providers in prevention strategies and risk reduction to decrease the transmission of HIV infection. •Training for providers to recognize, treat, or refer individuals with the psychiatric and neuropsychiatric complications of HIV infection and their clinical manifestation such as delirium, dementia, organic mood disorder, depression, and adjustment disorders. •Training for providers about pre- and post-HIV antibody testing counseling. Integration of Mental Health and Health Training •Evidence of collaboration with relevant community-based AIDS organizations, medical and health professions schools, mental health professional organizations, hospitals, substance abuse treatment providers, and other health professions organizations, and local training programs, such as the HRSA AETC Program. •An integrated biopsychosocial approach to understanding HIV/AIDS. Mental Health Expertise •Mental health HIV/AIDS expertise demonstrated by key staff trained in the core mental health disciplines (psychiatry, psychology, marriage and family therapy/counseling, social work, nursing) and experienced with HIV/AIDS. •Inclusion of at least five (5) provider groups in the training project (psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, medical students, primary care residents, psychiatry residents, nurses, counselors, the clergy and other spiritual providers, etc.).
