FR940406-0-00155 FR940406-0-00011 11. A new §86.155&hyph;98 is added to subpart B to read as follows: §86.155&hyph;98 Records required; refueling test. The following information shall be recorded with respect to each test: (a) Test number. (b) System or device tested (brief description). (c) Date and time of day. (d) Instrument operated. (e) Operator. (f) Vehicle: ID number, manufacturer, model year, engine family, evaporative/refueling emission family, refueling emission control system, refueling emissions canister continuous drive purge miles and number of UDDSs driven for non-integrated systems, fuel system (including fuel tank(s) capacity and location), basic engine description (including displacement, number of cylinders, turbocharger (if used), and catalyst usage), engine code, and odometer reading. (g) All pertinent instrument information including nozzle and fuel delivery system description. As an alternative, a reference to a vehicle test cell number may be used, with advance approval of the Administrator, provided test cell calibration records show the pertinent instrument information. (h) Recorder charts: Identify zero, span, and enclosure gas sample traces. (i) Enclosure barometric pressure and ambient temperature: a central laboratory barometer may be used, provided that individual test cell barometric pressures are shown to be within # 0.1 percent of the barometric pressure at the central barometer location. (j) Temperatures: Soak area; dispensed fuel, initial and final. (k) Fuel dispensing rate(s). (l) Dispensed fuel volume. (m) For methanol-fueled vehicles: (1) Volume of sample passed through the methanol sampling system and the volume of deionized water in each impinger. (2) The methanol concentration in the reference sample and the peak area from the GC analysis of the reference sample. (3) The peak area of the GC analyses of the test samples (methanol). (n) All additional information necessary for the calculations specified in §86.156&hyph;98. 12. A new §86.156&hyph;98 is added to subpart B to read as follows: §86.156&hyph;98 Calculations; refueling test. (a) The calculation of the net hydrocarbon mass change and methanol mass change (if applicable) in the enclosure is used to determine refueling mass emissions. The mass is calculated from initial and final hydrocarbon and methanol (if applicable) concentrations in ppm carbon, initial and final enclosure ambient temperatures, initial and final barometric pressures, and net enclosure volume using the equations of §86.143&hyph;96. For vehicles with multiple tanks, the results for each tank shall be calculated and then summed to determine overall refueling emissions. (b) The final results for comparison with the refueling control emission standard shall be computed by dividing the total refueling mass emissions by the total gallons of fuel dispensed in the refueling test (see §86.154&hyph;98(e)(7)(ii)). (c) The results of all emission tests shall be rounded, in accordance with ASTM E 29&hyph;67 (reapproved 1980) (as referenced in §86.094&hyph;28(a)(4)(i)(B)( 2 )( ii )) to the number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard expressed to one additional significant figure.
