FR941004-1-00090 FR941004-1-00018 Given the differing organizational structure, contacts, and resources available to each Indian tribe, the tribal consultation process will vary from the State process. If an Indian tribe has another planning process in place, we encourage it to build on the existing process rather than duplicating efforts. Depending on the circumstances, including availability of resources, Indian tribes may choose to include other interested individuals and organizations, as appropriate. Federal and federally assisted programs operated by the Tribe should be involved, e.g., Family Violence Prevention and Services, Community Services block grant, the JOBS program, Head Start. Additionally, if the Indian Health Service and/or the Bureau of Indian Affairs is providing services within the Tribes' area of jurisdiction, representatives from these agencies also should be involved in the tribal consultation process. The Department of Education provides supplemental funds for tutoring, home/school liaison, and cultural activities to both public and BIA schools serving Indian children. Representatives of this program may also be an appropriate participant. Indian tribes also may wish to involve representatives from other Indian tribes, especially those with experience in child welfare, family support, and family preservation services. Paragraph (l)(4) requires a description of the ongoing consultation process. Progress on goals and objectives in the CFSP will need to be reviewed annually and revisions made to reflect changed circumstances, if necessary. Participants can offer updated information, suggestions regarding revisions in the goals and/or objectives, and advice regarding funding of services for the upcoming fiscal year. These activities will be part of the annual progress reviews and services reports described in ยง1357.16. In summary, from consultation with these internal and external sources, the States and tribes could learn the current status of child and family well-being in a variety of areas; gain insight on needs, existing services, and gaps; receive advice on controversial or challenging issues; gain support for their own efforts to improve child and family services; and cultivate activities to coordinate services. This wealth of expertise from a collection of individuals and organizations, in conjunction with an analysis of baseline information, is needed to develop and fully implement the comprehensive child and family services plan.
