FR940620-1-00112 FR940620-1-00012 The ADA Standards set out in the Access Board's interim rule supplement the original ADA Standards by adding specific requirements applicable to public entities. These requirements are set out in sections 11 through 14 of the Access Board's interim guidelines, which are special application sections for facilities covered by title II. Section 11 would apply to Judicial, Legislative, and Regulatory Facilities; section 12 to Detention and Correctional Facilities; section 13 to Accessible Residential Housing subject to title II; and section 14 to Public Rights-of-Way. For a section-by-section analysis of these requirements, see the Access Board's preamble to its interim rule published in today's Federal Register . In addition to purely editorial changes, the Access Board's interim rule contains several substantive changes that needed to be made to §§3, 4, 7, and 10 of ADAAG, either as a result of the addition of new sections 11&hyph;14 or to make certain provisions of ADAAG specifically applicable to title II facilities. These changes are discussed below. In §3.5, the definition of ``alteration'' is revised to explicitly cover pedestrian facilities in the public right-of-way and to include resurfacing. This change is consistent with the decision in Kinney v. Yerusalim, 812 F. Supp. 547 (E.D.Pa. 1993), aff'd, 9 F.3d 1067 (3d Cir. 1993), cert. denied, 114 S. Ct. 1545 (1994), holding that resurfacing of a street constitutes an alteration under the ADA. Also in §3.5, definitions are being added for the following terms: continuous passage, public right-of-way, public sidewalk, public sidewalk curb ramp, principal public entrance, site infeasibility, and technically infeasible; and the term text telephone is being replaced with the term TTY. Finally, the definition of ``transient lodging'' is revised to include residential facilities rather than facilities that contain one or more dwelling units. The general exception in §4.1.1(5)(b)(i) is expanded to include all raised areas used primarily for purposes of security or life or fire safety; several more examples are added to the non-occupiable spaces listed in §4.1.1(5)(b)(ii); and §4.1.1(5)(b)(iii) is added to exempt single-occupant structures accessed only by passageways below grade or elevated above grade, such as certain toll booths. Exception 1 to §4.1.3(5) is expanded to exempt the upper level of drawbridge towers, boat traffic towers, lock and dam control stations, train dispatching towers, and similar structures less than three stories and not open to the general public if the upper level houses no more than five persons and is less than 500 square feet. Exception 4 to §4.1.3(5) is expanded to allow platform lifts to provide access to raised judges' benches, clerks' stations, speakers' rostrums, raised daises, jury boxes, and witness stands, and to connect levels within an individual dwelling unit. Exception 5 is added to §4.1.3(5) to exempt the cab level and, in some instances, the penultimate floor of air traffic control towers. Language is added to §4.1.3(8)(a)(i) to require that, in facilities subject to title II, all planned principal public entrances shall be included within the 50% of public entrances required to be accessible. Section 4.1.3(17)(c)(ii) is expanded to require that, in stadiums, arenas, and convention centers subject to title II, at least one public TTY shall be provided on each floor level having a public pay telephone. Sections 4.1.3(17)(c) (iv) and (v) are added to require that if an interior public pay telephone is provided in a public use area of a facility covered by title II, at least one interior public TTY shall be provided in at least one public use area, and if an interior public pay telephone is provided in the secured area of a detention or correctional facility subject to section 12, then at least one public TTY shall also be provided in at least one secured area. An exception is added to §4.1.3(17)(d) to exempt the secured areas of detention or correctional facilities where shelves and outlets are prohibited for purposes of security or safety. Section 4.1.3(22) is added to require that permanently-installed swimming pools subject to title II shall be designed so as to provide at least one means of access into the water, if such swimming pools are intended for recreational purposes and not intended solely for diving or wading.
