FR940912-1-00021 FR940912-1-00010 A third regulation that may affect the chemical industry is the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) air emission standards for hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities. That rule will establish standards for controlling emissions from wastes that are identified as hazardous under RCRA at facilities subject to subtitle C permitting requirements. Under that rule, hazardous wastes would have to be managed in controlled units until the waste is treated to remove or destroy certain hazardous components. The rule only applies to units and facilities that are permitted under RCRA subtitle C. However, under RCRA, wastewater treatment units are not subject to subtitle C hazardous waste management standards provided the unit is part of a wastewater treatment facility that is subject to regulation under either section 402 or 307(b) of the Clean Water Act. Thus, hazardous waste tank systems that are used to store or treat wastewater that is managed at an on-site wastewater treatment facility with a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit or that discharges to a publicly- owned treatment works would generally be exempt from the RCRA regulations. In addition to the HON, the benzene waste NESHAP, and the RCRA air standards, section 182(b)(2) of the Act requires that State implementation plans (SIP's) for certain ozone nonattainment areas be revised to require the implementation of reasonably available control technology (RACT) for control of VOC emissions. The EPA has defined RACT generally as the lowest emission limitation that a particular source is capable of meeting by the application of control technology that is reasonably available, considering technological and economic feasibility. In some cases, the EPA has, or will, issue guidance relative to RACT in the form of a control techniques guidelines (CTG) document. A draft of the Industrial Wastewater (IWW) CTG was released for public comment on December 29, 1993. The SOCMI is a subset of the industry group which is covered by the IWW CTG. The CTG is intended to provide State and local air pollution authorities with an information base for proceeding with their own analysis of RACT to meet statutory requirements. Due to time and budget constraints, the IWW CTG has not been finalized. An alternative control technology (ACT) document has been prepared and provided to the States as interim guidance to aid in development of rules in the absence of the final IWW CTG. In spite of the guidance and the three separate rules to regulate emissions from wastewater streams at SOCMI facilities, there are substantial gaps in the extent to which these rules control emissions from SOCMI wastewater streams with the potential to emit VOC. The HON applies to only a segment of the industry that produces a specified set of products, which does not include all SOCMI installations. In addition, the HON only regulates streams that contain HAP at concentrations above a trigger level. Consequently, the HON does not regulate wastewater streams that emit VOC that are not HAP. The benzene waste NESHAP applies to all SOCMI installations but is very limited in scope regarding the waste streams regulated, i.e., only those streams that contain benzene are subject to the rule. Many of the wastewater streams at SOCMI plants do not contain benzene but do contain other VOC that are emitted to the atmosphere if left uncontrolled. The RCRA air standards for hazardous waste toxic storage and disposal facilities are not expected to impact a significant number of wastewater streams at SOCMI plants because of the wastewater exemption under RCRA that was discussed above. The EPA analysis of SOCMI wastewater data submitted by industry shows a significant number of wastewater streams generated by SOCMI process units will not be regulated by the HON or other wastewater related rules. This is in large part a result of the fact that the source category coverage for the SOCMI Wastewater NSPS is considerably broader than that of the HON. For example, the chemical list defining the affected SOCMI process units is nearly twice as large for the NSPS as for the HON. For many of the SOCMI industries, VOC-containing wastewater streams do not contain HAP and therefore controlling only HAP-containing streams, as is required under the HON, would not substantially reduce VOC emissions. It is estimated that 68 percent of all new SOCMI chemical production process units will have wastewater streams that would require control under the proposed NSPS but will not require control under the HON. This NSPS for SOCMI wastewater sources is needed to fill the gaps in the coverage of VOC emissions from wastewater streams left uncovered by other regulations. In addition, the benzene waste NESHAP and the RCRA air standards are risk-based standards. Risk-based standards are designed to reduce emissions to a level that will protect human health and the environment with an ample margin of safety. The goal of an NSPS, on the other hand, is to improve ambient air quality over time by application of best demonstrated technology (BDT) on all new, modified, or reconstructed sources. The goal of the CTG is to provide guidance to States in revising their SIP's and to help bring their nonattainment areas into compliance with the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The SIP rules do not apply at facilities that are in ozone attainment areas. Furthermore, NSPS require installation of BDT rather than RACT, which in some cases may achieve a higher level of emission reduction. The NSPS would impose consistent, nationwide regulatory requirements, which would ensure that waste streams and wastewater streams at all new, modified, and reconstructed SOCMI process units are controlled in a consistent manner using the best emission controls. In summary, although a portion of waste streams and wastewater streams at SOCMI sites are already controlled as a result of existing and planned regulations, none of these regulations cover all SOCMI waste streams with the potential to emit VOC. These other regulations are limited in scope and leave some wastewater streams uncontrolled for air emissions. These uncontrolled wastewater streams are the subject of the NSPS for SOCMI wastewater sources. It is possible that there may be some overlap among those regulations affecting wastes and wastewater at SOCMI facilities, leading to possibly duplicative requirements. In order to avoid the burden of such duplication, the EPA is proposing in the SOCMI NSPS that the owner or operator of waste management units, treatment processes, or control devices affected by the proposed rule may comply with the control requirements of the proposed rule by demonstrating compliance with the benzene waste operations NESHAP, the HON, or the RCRA air emission standards for hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities. The owner or operator would also be required to maintain records documenting which regulation is being used to demonstrate compliance with the proposed NSPS. An owner or operator who chooses to demonstrate compliance in this manner would be exempted from the inspection, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements of the proposed rule that relate to the affected waste management unit, treatment process, or control device. The Agency is soliciting comments on the proposed approach to reducing the regulatory burden for these sources. In addition, the Agency is interested in receiving information on the level of burden that would be imposed by the possible duplication of requirements.
