FR940228-1-00062 FR940228-1-00010 Monday February 28, 1994 Part II Department of Education 34 CFR Parts 668 and 690 Student Assistance General Provisions and Federal Pell Grant Program; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 39␣/␣Monday, February 28, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 34 CFR Parts 668 and 690 RIN 1840&hyph;AB85 Student Assistance General Provisions and Federal Pell Grant Program AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes to amend Subparts A and B of the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations and the Federal Pell Grant Program regulations to reflect changes made by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992 and the Higher Education Technical Amendments of 1993 to the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA). These proposed regulations would seek to improve the efficiency of Federal student aid programs and, by so doing, to improve their capacity to enhance opportunities for postsecondary education. DATES: Comments must be received on or before March 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed regulations should be addressed to Wendy L. Macias, Program Specialist, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW. (Regional Office Building 3, room 4318), Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5346. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wendy L. Macias. Telephone (202) 708&hyph;7888. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 6 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In order to approve a postsecondary education institution to participate in the student financial assistance programs authorized by Title IV of the HEA (Title IV, HEA programs) and many other Federal programs, the Secretary must determine, in part, that the institution satisfies the statutory definition of an ``institution of higher education.'' Under the HEA and other Federal statutes, one element of that definition requires an eligible institution of higher education to be accredited or preaccredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary as a reliable authority as to the quality of the education or training provided by the institution. Another element requires an eligible institution to be legally authorized to provide an educational program beyond the secondary level in the State in which it is located. Thus, the statutory definition of an institution of higher education provides the framework for a shared responsibility among accrediting agencies, States, and the Federal government to ensure that the ``gate'' to the Title IV, HEA programs is opened to only those institutions that provide students with quality education or training worth the time, energy, and money they invest in it. The three ``gatekeepers'' sharing this responsibility have traditionally been referred to as ``the triad.'' While the concept of a triad of entities responsible for gatekeeping has had a long history, the triad has not always worked as effectively as it should to ensure educational quality, nor has it served as an effective deterrent to abuse by institutions participating in the Title IV, HEA programs. For several years, certain institutions participating in the Title IV, HEA programs have failed to provide students with education or training of an acceptable level of quality; they have also failed to treat students fairly. In addition, they have failed to meet acceptable standards of financial responsibility and administrative capability and to adequately protect Title IV, HEA program funds entrusted to them. The institutions that have engaged in these abusive practices are not restricted to a particular sector of higher education. Rather, the abuses have been found in all types of institutions participating in the Title IV, HEA programs, including those in the private non-profit and public sectors of higher education as well as those in the proprietary sector. At the same time, gatekeeping functions have not been carried out effectively. For example, some accrediting agencies have not taken sufficient care to ensure the quality of the education or training provided by the institutions or programs they accredit or to protect student interests when they accredit particular institutions or programs. Moreover, some States have also not taken sufficient care to ensure the quality of the education or training provided by the institutions they authorize or license to operate in the State or to protect student interests. Finally, the Federal government's management of its responsibilities to determine eligibility and to certify institutions to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs has not always been adequate to prevent abusive practices at institutions that participate in those programs.
