FR941221-2-00094 FR941221-2-00067 (h) System enhancement to upgrade the labor market information system, broken down by major cost category (for example, staff training, software development, hardware acquisition, improvement in facilities); (i) Testing and evaluating innovations in One-Stop system delivery; and (j) Marketing/dissemination and for serving as a local demonstration site, broken down by staff costs, materials and other resources. Note: Budget form: Local Learning Laboratory Budget Detail is being provided as a supplement to the ``Budget Information Sheet.'' 5. Contacts. The proposal must include the designated Program Official and Fiscal Agent responsible for this grant. Also, the process for sub-allocating funds among the participating agencies should be identified. Part III. Evaluation Criteria for Award Grant applicants are advised that there will be a two-stage review process used to evaluate applications. Prior to the formal review, applications will be reviewed to insure that all the information requested in this grant application is provided and complete. Completed applications will be reviewed by a regional rating panel in a different region. The results of this review will be forwarded to the National Office for further review of the top-rated applications. Each panelist will review the applications according to the rating criteria listed below. The panels' recommendations are advisory in nature to the Grant Officer. Final selection is based on overall quality, geographic location, diversity in approach, diversity in sites as to composition of the local labor market and what is in the best interests of the government. A. Criteria for Evaluating Grant Applications 1. The extent to which the local One-Stop Career Center system embodies the 4 broad outcomes of universality, customer choice, integration and performance-driven outcome-based measures. (35 Points) In evaluating this criterion, factors under consideration include: (a) The ability of the local entity to function effectively as a ``learning lab'' without diminishing the quality and quantity of services provided; (b) The number of programs included and the degree of integration of program services; (c) The services offered to all customers and how the local level will ensure these services are of the highest quality; (d) Evidence of access by all population groups in the area; (e) The extent of choice in receiving services and in training/service providers; (f) The type, quality and methods for assessing information of jobs, wages, skill requirements and education/training opportunities in the local level;
