FR941202-0-00014 FR941202-0-00001 Section 35.930␣Training for Therapeutic Use of Unsealed Byproduct Material Comment. One commenter stated that the certification by the American Osteopathic Board of Radiology (AOBR) should be recognized in all applicable sections in 10 CFR Part 35. Under the existing regulations, the Commission has recognized AOBR in §§35.910, 35.920, 35.940, 35.950, and 35.960, but not in §35.300. Response. Following receipt of this comment, the Commission requested additional information from AOBR concerning training and certification criteria for therapeutic use of unsealed byproduct material. After reviewing supporting documents provided by the AOBR, the Commission has determined that the certification of AOBR is equivalent to the certification of American Board of Radiology (ABR). Therefore, recognition of certification by AOBR has been added in §35.930 of this final rule for certification granted after 1984 because all candidates certified by AOBR since 1984 will meet the NRC's training requirements. Section 35.972␣Recentness of Training Comment. There were several comments concerning whether the recentness of training should be 5 years as in the existing regulations, or 7 years as in the proposed rule. Some commenters favored 5 years and stated that the clinical practice changes rapidly, thus, 5 years is more appropriate. Other commenters supported 7 years and stated that 5 years would be burdensome and would not ensure superior training. Response. The training required in Part 35 concerns radiation safety principles and practices for the protection of public health and safety. These radiation safety principles and practices are not expected to change rapidly with time. Therefore, the Commission is adopting 7 years because this will not reduce the level of radiation protection provided to workers and the public but will reduce the regulatory burden imposed on licensees. Section 35.980␣Training for Authorized Nuclear Pharmacist There were several comments pertaining to this section. These comments and the NRC's responses are summarized below. (1) Comment. The requirement for a preceptor statement is unnecessary and is irrelevant to the mission of the NRC. Many fully qualified nuclear pharmacists would be excluded from being an authorized nuclear pharmacist by this administrative requirement. Response. The written certification from a preceptor is a necessary part of the training and experience criteria. Even though an individual has completed the required 700 hours of the structured educational program, it is still uncertain as to whether this individual is capable of independently operating a nuclear pharmacy. The preceptor's statement is needed to ensure that this individual has achieved the competency to do so. With respect to a nuclear pharmacist who is currently qualified to be an authorized nuclear pharmacist, a new section (§35.981) has been added to address this issue. (2) Comment. It appears that the proposed rule is leaning towards board certification as the only available avenue open to a nuclear pharmacist desiring to be recognized as an authorized nuclear pharmacist in the near future. Response. There are other available avenues for a qualified individual to be recognized as an authorized nuclear pharmacist. Other avenues include: (i) Meeting the training criteria and obtaining a preceptor statement from an authorized nuclear pharmacist; or (ii) Meeting the ``grandfathering'' provisions as specified in §35.981 of this final rule. (3) Comment. Whether an individual is qualified as an authorized nuclear pharmacist should be based on education and training, not just based on BPS certification. Response. The Commission agrees that qualification as an authorized nuclear pharmacist should be based on training and experience. This final rule provides several ways, including BPS certification, to achieve authorized nuclear pharmacist status, all of which include a minimum level of training and experience. The various ways to achieve this status are provided in §§35.980 and 35.981. (4) Comment. It is imperative that training programs be monitored by appropriate independent oversight processes (e.g., American Council on Pharmaceutical Education in the case of pharmacy).
