FR941003-2-00013 FR941003-2-00009 A second perspective concerns a more functional approach to protecting intellectual property; namely, what legal measures, policy mechanisms, and technological solutions, or combinations thereof, aside from intellectual property laws, can be used to effectively protect commercial products and services delivered or made accessible using the NII. This latter topic is the subject that the Forum and Mega-Project III wish to develop through this public hearing. The Forum and Mega-Project III seek input from parties who will produce and make accessible commercial products and services via the NII, as well as users of such products and services. A panel of witnesses drawn from the public will be assembled to discuss the following topics with a panel comprising the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, members of the Security Information Forum and members of Mega-Project III of the NIIAC, and to field questions and comments from other members of the public: 1. What types of projects and services are you contemplating delivering or making available, or would you like to see delivered or made available on the National Information Infrastructure? 2. What capacity do you want to provide to users of the NII to view, hear, retrieve, reproduce, modify or further distribute your products and services? As a user of such products and services, what capabilities in this regard would you like to see made available by content producers? 3. What commercial threats do you foresee in making products and services available via the NII, in terms of: (a) Unauthorized access to or theft of products or services; and (b) Integrity or confidentiality of information delivered or retrieved via the NII? 4. What kinds of technical solutions are you aware of, or would you like to see developed, to address security concerns? Note: Parties who wish to offer comments or suggestions regarding the adequacy of existing intellectual property laws to address questions of commercial security on the NII should utilize the public comment process established by the Working Group on Intellectual Property rights of the IITF. Copies of the draft report of this working group can be obtained by contacting the Patent and Trademark Office by phone, fax or mail using the information provided in the addresses section of this notice. Copies of the report may also be obtained via the Internet at the addresses listed in the addresses section of this notice. II. Guidelines for Participation in the Public Hearing Participants in the public hearing will testify before a panel consisting of members of Mega-Project III of the NIIAC, the Security Issues Forum and the Working Group on Intellectual Property Rights of the IITF. The public hearings will be chaired by Bruce A. Lehman, Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks. Individuals who would like to participate as a witness must request an opportunity to do so no later than October 13, 1994. Each approved participant will be permitted to present brief opening remarks. Once each witness has presented their opening remarks, a general discussion on the topics listed above will be conducted. Individuals may offer comments or ask questions of the witnesses by requesting an opportunity to do so and being recognized during the hearing by the chair of the meeting. Oral remarks offered in this fashion may not exceed three minutes. No advance approval is required to attend, offer comments, or present questions during the hearing. Dated: September 28, 1994. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24458 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;16&hyph;M
