FR941110-2-00102 FR941110-2-00061 [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3691; FR&hyph;3348&hyph;N&hyph;11] State and Local Fair Housing Laws: Notice of Initial Determination Concerning Substantial Equivalency of the Fair Housing Laws of the States of Connecticut, Ohio, South Carolina, and the City of Cambridge, Massachusetts AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, HUD. ACTION: Notice and request for comments. SUMMARY: In accordance with 24 CFR 115.6(c), this notice announces the Department's initial determination that the fair housing laws of the States of Connecticut, Ohio and South Carolina, and the city of Cambridge, Massachusetts, are substantially equivalent, on their face, to the Fair Housing Act. This notice solicits comments from the public on the initial determinations made with respect to these three States and this locality. This notice also solicits comments on the Department's proposed determinations that the present practices and past performance of the agency enforcing the fair housing law of the three States and the locality demonstrate that, in operation, the fair housing laws of the States and the locality provide rights and remedies that are substantially equivalent to those available under the Fair Housing Act. DATES: Comment Due Date: December 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this notice to the Office of General Counsel, Rules Docket Clerk, Room 10276, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20410. Communications should refer to the above docket number and title. A copy of each communication submitted will be available for public inspection and copying on weekdays between 7:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marcella O. Brown, Chief, Fair Housing Assistance Programs Division, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Room 5234, Washington, DC 20410, telephone (202) 708&hyph;0455 (voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free number.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3600&hyph;3619), the Department is authorized to investigate complaints alleging discrimination in housing. (Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, is cited as the ``Fair Housing Act.'') Section 810(f) of the Fair Housing Act requires the Department to refer complaints to State and local agencies that have ``substantially equivalent'' fair housing standards, as determined and certified by the Department. Part 115 of the Department's regulations (24 CFR part 115) contains the certification standards and the procedures for certifying State and local fair housing laws that provide substantive rights and remedies for alleged discriminatory housing practices that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the Fair Housing Act. Announcement of Initial Determinations and Solicitation of Comments In accordance with 24 CFR 115.6(c)(1), this notice announces that the fair housing laws of the States of Connecticut, Ohio, South Carolina and the city of Cambridge, MA, have been determined by the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity to be substantially equivalent, on their face, to the Fair Housing Act. The Assistant Secretary has determined, after application of the criteria set forth in 24 CFR 115.3 and 115.4, that the fair housing laws for these three States and this locality provide, on their face, substantive rights and remedies for alleged discriminatory housing practices that are substantially equivalent to those provided in the Fair Housing Act. Following a review of performance standards and other materials pertaining to the fair housing laws of these three States and this locality, the Department expects to make final determinations that the law of each of the three States and the locality, in operation, provides rights and remedies that are substantially equivalent to those available under the Fair Housing Act. The Department intends to execute a Memorandum of Understanding with the agency charged with enforcement of the fair housing law of each State and locality in accordance with 24 CFR 115.6(c). In accordance with 24 CFR 115.6(b), the public is invited to submit written comments on this notice. Specifically, the Department requests written comments on the proposed determinations that the current practices and past performance of the agencies charged with administration and enforcement of the fair housing laws of the three States and the locality demonstrate that, in operation, these laws provide substantive rights and remedies that are substantially equivalent to the Fair Housing Act. This notice also invites comments from the public on the Department's determination that the fair housing laws of these three States and the locality are, on their face, substantially equivalent to the Fair Housing Act. In commenting on this notice, the Department requests that commenters clearly identify the State or the locality for which comments are submitted. Dated: September 15, 1994. Roberta Achtenberg, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27894 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;28&hyph;P
