FR940711-2-00176 FR940711-2-00073 The HUD State or Area Office may elect to approve less than 100 percent of the units requested in all applications for each allocation area that score above a HUD State or Area Office-determined funding cut-off, up to the maximum number of units allowed. If applications are to be funded at less than 100 percent of the units requested in the applications, the HUD State or Area Office must either (i) approve the same percentage of the number of units requested in each application or (ii) divide approvable applications into two or more categories, for example, those scoring over 80 points, and those scoring between 50 and 80 points. If the HUD State or Area Office elects to divide applications into two categories, the HUD State or Area Office may choose to approve a different percentage for applications in each of the two ranking categories so that a higher percentage of units requested would be approved for all applications in the higher category and a lower percentage of units requested would be approved for all applications in the lower category. The HUD State or Area Office must approve the same percentage of each application within each of the two ranking categories unless there are insufficient funds to approve the minimum 25 units. If the HUD State or Area Office is unable to fund all the applications for the minimum funding allowed in either of the two categories, the HUD State or Area Office must reduce the applicable percentage factor in the category in order to fund all applications for the minimum 25 units (unless the HA requested less than 25 units or the total budget authority available to the allocation area will fund less than 25 units). If an HA applies for a specific program (i.e., rental vouchers or rental certificates) and funding for the specified program is not available in the metropolitan area or non-metropolitan allocation area, the HUD State or Area Office will award the available form of assistance, even though not specifically requested by the applicant. The HUD State or Area Office must promptly notify the applicable Native American Programs Office for each allocation area as to the status of any applications from IHAs and, if applicable, the amount of budget authority to be made available for IHA applications that were rated high enough to receive funding. F. Reallocations of Funds Each HUD State or Area Office must make every reasonable effort to use all available funds. It may be necessary, however, to reallocate funds from one HUD State or Area Office to another when the funds are not likely to be used in the HUD State or Area Office to which they were initially assigned. In such cases, the following procedures shall be followed: (1) Reallocations Within the Same State. If the allocation of funds to a HUD State or Area Office cannot be awarded within the office jurisdiction during Fiscal Year 1994, Headquarters will reallocate those funds to another HUD State or Area Office in the same State where they can be used during Fiscal Year 1994. (2) Reallocations Between States. If a HUD State or Area Office cannot use funds within the same State, Headquarters will reallocate those funds to another HUD State or Area Office for use in a State where they can be used during Fiscal Year 1994. (3) Reallocations Between Metropolitan and Non-metropolitan Areas. The HUD State or Area Office must follow the original fund assignments for metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas when it reallocates unused budget authority among allocation areas. If there are not enough approvable applications for the designated metropolitan or non-metropolitan budget authority, the HUD State or Area Office may switch the budget authority between a metropolitan and a non-metropolitan area within the same State, provided that an offsetting switch can be made in another State within the HUD State or Area Office. If an offsetting switch cannot be made and the metropolitan or non-metropolitan amounts require changes to the fund assignments, the HUD State or Area Office must obtain the approval of the Budget Division, Office of Management and Policy, Office of Public and Indian Housing, before switching budget authority between a metropolitan and a non- metropolitan area. (4) A request for Headquarters approval of a reallocation within or between States must explain the reasons that funds cannot be used in the original State, the amount being withdrawn from the original State, the program type, and the metropolitan/non-metropolitan mix, and the amount to be reallocated. These requests must be submitted to Headquarters (ATTENTION: Budget Division, Office of Management and Policy, Office of Public and Indian Housing) for approval. G. Notification of Funds Awarded (1) After the HUD State or Area Offices have reviewed, rated, and ranked applications, and the HUD State or Area Offices and Native American Programs Offices have approved the applications, each HUD State or Area Office and each Native American Programs Office must submit to Headquarters a list of all approved applications. The application approval list is due in Headquarters (ATTENTION: Rental Assistance Division, Office of Public and Indian Housing) on the tenth working day following the date set by Headquarters for completion of application ranking and selections. (2) The Offices must provide the following information for each application approved: (a) The name and address of the HA; (b) The project number, and the number of rental vouchers and the number of rental certificates, as applicable, approved for the HA; and (c) The amount of contract authority and budget authority, stated separately for rental vouchers and rental certificates.
