FR940304-2-00204 FR940304-2-00114 Selection Procedures Categories of projects warranting support under the TIIAP are described above. The priorities described at the beginning of each specific category sets out those types of projects that NTIA is most interested in supporting. These criteria will enable NTIA to ascertain the competitiveness of projects within certain priorities. All applications will be subject to a thorough peer review process. Panels composed of individuals fully conversant with the technical and operational aspects of advanced telecommunications technologies and services will review the proposals and make non-binding recommendations to the agency. The final decision on successful applications will be made by the Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information, who also administers NTIA. All applicants should address the general criteria described above, regardless of the category to which they are applying. Specific criteria apply only within that category (i.e., a local government should not address the specific criteria for State Planning). While all criteria carry equal weight, not all criteria will be equally applicable to every proposal. Even if the applicability or lack of applicability of a particular criterion may appear obvious, an applicant should take care to explain why that criterion does not apply to its proposal. Other Information Federal Policies and Procedures Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all applicable Federal laws and Federal and Department of Commerce policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. Past Performance Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal financial assistance awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. Pre-Award Activities If applicants incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the government. Applicants are hereby notified that, notwithstanding any verbal or written assurance that they may have received, there is no obligation on the part of Department of Commerce or NTIA to cover pre-award costs. No Obligation For Future Funding If an application is selected for funding, the Department of Commerce has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of the Department of Commerce. Receipt of a TIIAP grant, however, will not eliminate the recipient from consideration for future funding. Delinquent Federal Debts No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: 1. The delinquent account is paid in full; 2. A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received; or
