FR941219-0-00031 FR941219-0-00014 Critical habitat is defined in section 3(5)(A) of the Act as ``(i) the specific areas within the geographical area occupied by the species at the time it is listed *␣*␣* on which are found those physical or biological features (I) essential to the conservation of the species and (II) which may require special management considerations or protection; and (ii) specific areas outside the geographical area occupied by the species at the time it is listed *␣*␣* upon a determination *␣*␣* that such areas are essential for the conservation of the species.'' The term ``conservation'', as defined in section 3(3) of the Act, means ``*␣*␣* to use and the use of all methods and procedures which are necessary to bring an endangered species or threatened species to the point at which the measures provided pursuant to this Act are no longer necessary.'' With recovery, no protection from the Act is necessary. Therefore, areas designated as critical habitat must contain those physical or biological features essential to recover a species to the point that it no longer requires protection under the Act and can be removed from the list of endangered and threatened species. Section 3(c) further states that in most cases the entire range of a species should not be encompassed within critical habitat. Areas outside the present geographic range may be included as critical habitat if a species' present range would be inadequate to ensure conservation of the species. Role in Species Conservation Use of the term ``conservation'' in the definition of critical habitat indicates that its designation should identify areas that may be needed for a species' recovery and delisting. The designation of critical habitat will not, in itself, lead to recovery, but is one of several measures available to contribute to a species' recovery. Critical habitat helps focus conservation activities by identifying areas that contain essential habitat features (primary constituent elements) regardless of whether or not they are currently occupied by the listed species, thus alerting the public to the importance of an area in the conservation of a listed species. Critical habitat also identifies areas that may require special management or protection. Critical habitat receives protection under section 7 of the Act with regard to actions carried out, funded, or authorized by Federal agencies. Section 7 requires that Federal agencies consult on actions that may affect critical habitat to ensure that their actions are not likely to destroy or adversely modify critical habitat. This additional protection to a species' habitat may actually shorten the time needed to achieve recovery. Aside from this added protection provided by section 7, the Act does not provide other direct forms of protection to lands designated as critical habitat. Designating critical habitat does not create a management plan, establish numerical population goals, prescribe specific management actions (inside or out of critical habitat), nor does it have a direct effect on areas not designated as critical habitat. Specific management recommendations for critical habitat are more appropriately addressed in recovery plans, management plans, and section 7 consultations. Critical habitat identifies specific areas essential to the conservation of a species. Areas with one or more essential features but not currently containing all of the features and areas having the capability to provide essential features in the future, may be required for the long-term recovery of the species. This may be so particularly in certain portions of its range. However, not all areas containing all features of a listed species' habitat are necessarily essential to the species' recovery. Areas not included in critical habitat that contain one or more of the essential elements are still important to a species' conservation and may be addressed under other facets of the Act and other conservation laws and regulations. All designated areas also may be of considerable value in maintaining ecosystem integrity and supporting other species. Designation of critical habitat may be reevaluated and revised, at any time, when new information indicates that changes are warranted. The Service may revise critical habitat if management plans, recovery plans, or other conservation strategies are developed and fully implemented, reducing the need for the additional protection provided by critical habitat designation. For example, after the draft Delta Native Fishes Recovery Plan (Recovery Plan) is finalized or the State promulgates more protective water quality standards for the Estuary than are currently in place, land and water management agencies may provide increased protection for the delta smelt. If these protection measures are implemented, the Service may revise its critical habitat designation.
