FR940826-0-00051 FR940826-0-00014 (ii) Requirements which the bidder/offeror must fulfill and all other factors to be used in evaluating bids or proposals. (iii) A description, whenever practicable, of technical requirements in terms of functions to be performed or performance required, including the range of acceptable characteristics or minimum acceptable standards. (iv) The specific features of ``brand name or equal'' descriptions that bidders are required to meet when such items are included in the solicitation. (v) The acceptance, to the extent practicable and economically feasible, of products and services dimensioned in the metric system of measurement. (vi) Preference, to the extent practicable and economically feasible, for products and services that conserve natural resources and protect the environment and are energy efficient. (b) Positive efforts shall be made by recipients to utilize small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises, whenever possible. Recipients of Federal awards shall take all of the following steps to further this goal. (1) Ensure that small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises are used to the fullest extent practicable. (2) Make information on forthcoming opportunities available and arrange time frames for purchases and contracts to encourage and facilitate participation by small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises. (3) Consider in the contract process whether firms competing for larger contracts intend to subcontract with small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises. (4) Encourage contracting with consortiums of small businesses, minority-owned firms, and women's business enterprises when a contract is too large for one of these firms to handle individually. (5) Use the services and assistance, as appropriate, of such organizations as the Small Business Administration and the Department of Commerce's Minority Business Development Agency in the solicitation and utilization of small businesses, minority-owned firms and women's business enterprises. (c) The type of procuring instruments used (e.g., fixed price contracts, cost reimbursable contracts, purchase orders, and incentive contracts) shall be determined by the recipient but shall be appropriate for the particular procurement and for promoting the best interest of the program or project involved. The ``cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost'' or ``percentage of construction cost'' methods of contracting shall not be used. (d) Contracts shall be made only with responsible contractors who posses the potential ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of the proposed procurement. Consideration shall be given to such matters as contractor integrity, record of past performance, financial and technical resources, and accessibility to other necessary resources. In certain circumstances, contracts with certain parties are restricted by agencies' implementation of E.O.s 12549 and 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension.'' See Subpart D of 43 CFR part 12.
