FR940826-2-00070 FR940826-2-00055 R. Marketing Account Team means a discrete and identified group of employees of AT&T, within AT&T's subsidiary, division or other business unit responsible for the manufacture and sale of Telecommunications Equipment, who are engaged in selling, and providing related services in connection with selling, Cellular Infrastructure Equipment and other Telecommunications Equipment to one or more specified customers. The duties of the Marketing Account Team shall include sales and account management functions, including customer relationship management, offer and sale of products and services, pricing of products and services to customers, preparation and presentation of bids and proposals, account-level planning and forecasting, basic technical and engineering advice and support, and contract management; sales operations functions, including order processing and management and customer billing; and project management functions, including ensuring that customer satisfaction goals for specific products are met and that terms and conditions of sale are satisfied. The specific responsibilities of Marketing Account Teams may be modified in compliance plans filed pursuant to Section VII.A of this Final Judgment. S. McCaw means McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc., and its Affiliates, including any McCaw Cellular System. T. McCaw Cellular System means a Cellular System in which McCaw controls, directly or through its affiliates, a direct or indirect voting interest of more than fifty percent (50%), or the right, power or ability to control, including any Cellular Systems in which AT&T or McCaw acquires such interests after the commencement of this action. U. McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System means a Cellular System in which McCaw controls, directly or indirectly, a direct or indirect voting interest of fifty percent or less, and does not have the right, power or ability to control, including any Cellular Systems in which AT&T or McCaw acquires such interests after the entry of this Final Judgment. V. MFJ means the Modification of Final Judgment entered in United States v. Western Electric Corp ., No. 82&hyph;0192, on August 24, 1982, 552 F. Supp. 131 (D.D.C. 1982), as subsequently modified. W. MTSO means Mobile Telephone Switching Office and the equipment used therein. X. 1. Nonpublic Information means information not in the public domain that is furnished (a) by a Wireless Carrier to AT&T in AT&T's capacity as a supplier of Wireless Infrastructure Equipment or (b) by a Wireless Infrastructure Equipment supplier to McCaw or to McCaw Cellular Systems. 2. To be Nonpublic Information, information must be one of the following: (a) Information containing costs, profits, or profit margins; plans for development of new products, services, or technologies; customer names; pricing policies, prices, price schedules, or terms; number of subscribers, sales, churn rates, or other output measures; capacity measures; features and capabilities; technology plans or status of implementation; marketing plans; costs of or prices paid for infrastructure equipment and other inputs, including price credits, or adjustments for a cellular carrier's used equipment; plans for expansion; amounts of capital investment; or quantities and types of equipment used by a wireless carrier or sold by a wireless infrastructure equipment supplier; (b) Other written information designated in writing by the Wireless Carrier or Wireless Infrastructure Equipment supplier as proprietary information by an appropriate legend, marking, stamp, or positive written identification on the face thereof; or (c) Other oral, visual, or other information that is identified as proprietary information in writing by the Wireless Carrier or Wireless Infrastructure Equipment supplier prior to or contemporaneously with its disclosure to AT&T, or in the case of oral, visual, or other information provided prior to the entry of this Final Judgment, information that is so identified within 180 days of the entry of this Final Judgment. 3. ``Nonpublic Information'' shall not include (a) Information already known to AT&T by means of its independent research, development, and analysis activities, (b) Information that subsequently enters the public domain through no violation by AT&T or McCaw of this Final Judgment or of any other duty imposed upon them by law or contract, (c) Information that subsequently is disclosed in writing to AT&T by a third party not in breach of a confidentiality agreement with the Wireless Carrier to whose business the information pertains, (d) Except in the case of information specified in subsection (2)(a) of this Section II.X, (i) information that the party furnishing the information agrees, in writing, may be disclosed, or (ii) information that was first disclosed to AT&T or McCaw over six (6) years previously, or such other period as agreed to in writing by AT&T and the Wireless Carrier or Wireless Infrastructure Equipment Supplier that made the disclosure. Y. Proprietary Development means development by AT&T of products, features or functions for Cellular Infrastructure Equipment that is not intended to be made available to more than one Cellular Infrastructure Equipment customer not affiliated with each other through substantial common ownership. Z. Technical information means intellectual property of all types, including, without limitation, patents, copyrights, know-how and trade secrets, including planning documents, designs, specifications, standards, practices and procedures, and training materials. AA. Telecommunications Equipment means products (hardware or software) other than customer premises equipment purchased by a carrier to provide telecommunications services. AB. Unaffiliated Cellular Infrastructure Equipment Customer means a Cellular Carrier that is not an Affiliate of AT&T or McCaw nor a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System but that has purchased or, as of the date of entry of this Final Judgment, has contracted to purchase, AT&T Cellular Infrastructure Equipment for use in providing Cellular Service in a Cellular Service Area.
