FR941125-1-00036 FR941125-1-00008 Then, for both the horizontal and vertical directions, calculate the response of the photoelectric detector as a function of the projection angle (26 cm of arc with a radius of 3 m equals 5 degrees). Identify the point on the arc furthest from the centerline at which a light intensity of 2.5 percent of the peak light intensity of the COMS light source is recorded, report the relative angle of projection curves, and determine and report the angle of projection. 6.5␣Unacceptable Findings. Whenever a manufacturer finds that a COMS model does not conform to any of the requirements of this section, the manufacturer shall notify and provide the findings to all source owners or operators that have received or installed such nonconforming COMS models manufactured after the date of the previous successful conformance demonstration. The manufacturer shall also submit copies of such notifications to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Director, Stationary Source Compliance Division (EN&hyph;341W), 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20460. 7. Performance Specifications Verification Procedure The owner and operator shall perform following procedures and tests on each COMS that conforms to the design specifications (Table 1&hyph;1) to determine conformance with the specifications of Table 1&hyph;2. The tests described in sections 7.1.1, 7.1.4, and 7.1.5, shall be conducted at the affected facility, in a dust-free environment, before installing the measurement portion of the COMS system on the stack or duct. These tests are to be performed using the entire COMS system, including the data recording component normally used during monitoring. Table 1&hyph;2._Performance Specifications 1Parameter 1Specifications Calibration error a <3 percent opacity. Response time <10 seconds. Operational test period b 336 hours. Zero drift (24-hour) a <2 percent opacity. Calibration drift (24-hour) <2 percent opacity. Zero drift (1-hour) <2 percent opacity. Calibration drift (1-hour) <2 percent opacity. a Expressed as the sum of the absolute value of the mean and the absolute value of the confidence coefficient. b During the operational test period, the COMS must not require any corrective maintenance, repair, replacement, or adjustment other than that clearly specified as routine and required in the operation and maintenance manuals. 7.1␣Preliminary Adjustments and Tests. 7.1.1␣Equipment Preparation. 7.1.1.1␣Set up and calibrate the COMS for the monitoring pathlength to be used in the installation as specified by the manufacturer's written instructions. For this specification, the monitoring pathlength distance (depth of effluent at the installation location) specified in engineering drawings must be verified. The owner and operator shall, following the manufacturer's instructions, adjust the PLCF signal to yield opacity results based on the emission outlet pathlength. 7.1.1.2␣Under a clear path condition and at the required monitoring pathlength, align the instrument using the optical sight and set the instrument actual zero response. As part of this alignment, include tilting the reflector unit (detector unit for single pass instruments) on its axis until the point of maximum instrument response is obtained. Check and record the instrument alignment with the alignment sight. Deviations in alignment must be rectified prior to proceeding with the following performance tests. 7.1.1.3␣Optical Alignment Sight. At the monitoring pathlength, align, zero, and span the instrument. Insert an attenuator of 8 to 15 percent actual opacity into the monitoring pathlength. 7.1.1.3.1␣Single Path Monitors. Using the optical alignment site, record and report the visual depiction of alignment prior to misalignment. Slowly misalign the COMS light assembly unit by tilting it in the vertical plane until a # 2 percent opacity shift is obtained by the data recorder. Then, following the manufacturer's written instructions, check the alignment. Misalignment should be clearly discernable. Record and report the visual depiction of misalignment as viewed using the optical alignment sight. Realign the instrument and record the visual depiction of alignment. Repeat this test for lateral misalignment of the light source unit. Realign the instrument and follow the same procedure for checking misalignment of the COMS detector unit.
