FR940810-0-00227 FR940810-0-00021 (3) Prohibitions. The following work practices and engineering controls shall not be used for work related to asbestos or for work which disturbs ACM or PACM, regardless of measured levels of asbestos exposure or the results of initial exposure assessments: (i) High-speed abrasive disc saws that are not equipped with point of cut ventilator or enclosures with HEPA filtered exhaust air. (ii) Compressed air used to remove asbestos, or materials containing asbestos, unless the compressed air is used in conjunction with an enclosed ventilation system designed to capture the dust cloud created by the compressed air. (iii) Dry sweeping, shoveling or other dry clean-up of dust and debris containing ACM and PACM. (iv) Employee rotation as a means of reducing employee exposure to asbestos. (4) Class I Requirements. In addition to the provisions of paragraphs (g) (1) and (2) of this section, the following engineering controls and work practices and procedures shall be used. (i) All Class I work, including the installation and operation of the control system shall be supervised by a qualified person as defined in paragraph (b) of this section; (ii) For all Class I jobs involving the removal of more than 25 linear or 10 square feet of TSI or surfacing ACM or PACM; for all other Class I jobs, where the employer cannot produce a negative exposure assessment pursuant to paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section, or where employees are working in areas adjacent to the regulated area, while the Class I work is being performed, the employer shall use one of the following methods to ensure that airborne asbestos does not migrate from the regulated area: (A) Critical barriers shall be placed over all openings to the regulated area: or (B) The employer shall use another barrier or isolation method which prevents the migration of airborne asbestos from the regulated area, as verified by perimeter area surveillance during each work shift at each boundary of the regulated area, showing no visible asbestos dust; and perimeter area monitoring showing that clearance levels contained in 40 CFR Part 763, Subpart E of the EPA Asbestos in Schools Rule are met, or that perimeter area levels, measured by (PCM) are no more than background levels representing the same area before the asbestos work began. The results of such monitoring shall be made known to the employer no later than 24 hours from the end of the work shift represented by such monitoring. (iii) For all Class I jobs, HVAC systems shall be isolated in the regulated area by sealing with a double layer of 6 mil plastic or the equivalent; (iv) For all Class I jobs, impermeable dropcloths shall be placed on surfaces beneath all removal activity; (v) For all Class I jobs, all objects within the regulated area shall be covered with impermeable dropcloths or plastic sheeting which is secured by duct tape or an equivalent. (vi) For all Class I jobs where the employer cannot produce a negative exposure assessment or where exposure monitoring shows the PELs are exceeded, the employer shall ventilate the regulated area to move contaminated air away from the breathing zone of employees toward a HEPA filtration or collection device. (5) Specific Control Systems for Class I Work. In addition, Class I asbestos work shall be performed using one or more of the following control methods pursuant to the limitations stated below: (i) Negative Pressure Enclosure (NPE) systems: NPE systems shall be used where the configuration of the work area does not make the erection of the enclosure infeasible, with the following specifications and work practices. (A) Specifications: ( 1 ) The negative pressure enclosure (NPE) may be of any configuration, ( 2 ) At least 4 air changes per hour shall be maintained in the NPE, ( 3 ) A minimum of ^0.02 column inches of water pressure differential, relative to outside pressure, shall be maintained within the NPE as evidenced by manometric measurements, ( 4 ) The NPE shall be kept under negative pressure throughout the period of its use, and ( 5 ) Air movement shall be directed away from employees performing asbestos work within the enclosure, and toward a HEPA filtration or a collection device. (B) Work Practices: ( 1 ) Before beginning work within the enclosure and at the beginning of each shift, the NPE shall inspected for breaches and smoke-tested for leaks, and any leaks sealed. ( 2 ) Electrical circuits in the enclosure shall be deactivated, unless equipped with ground-fault circuit interrupters. (ii) Glove bag systems, shall be used to remove PACM and/or ACM from straight runs of piping with the following specifications and work practices. (A) Specifications: ( 1 ) Glovebags shall be made of 6 mil thick plastic and shall be seamless at the bottom. ( 2 ) [Reserved] (B) Work Practices: ( 1 ) Each glovebag shall be installed so that it completely covers the circumference of pipe or other structure where the work is to be done. ( 2 ) Glovebags shall be smoke-tested for leaks and any leaks sealed prior to use. ( 3 ) Glovebags may be used only once and may not be moved. ( 4 ) Glovebags shall not be used on surfaces whose temperature exceeds 150 ○. ( 5 ) Prior to disposal, glovebags shall be collapsed by removing air within them using a HEPA vacuum.
