FR940303-1-00010 FR940303-1-00003 It also should be noted that this provision is violated (and thus, a basis for departmental discipline exists) when an inappropriate communication takes place, regardless of whether or not the communication results in eliciting an inculpatory statement or is otherwise prejudicial to the represented party. Section 77.6␣Exceptions; Represented Parties This section describes the circumstances under which Department attorneys may communicate, or cause others to communicate, with a represented party who the Department attorney knows is represented concerning the subject matter of the representation without first obtaining the consent of the represented party's counsel. The exceptions enumerated in this section are similar to, but not identical with, the exceptions enumerated in §77.7 of the earlier proposal. Paragraph (a): Determination if Representation Exists This exception recognizes the fact that there is no reason to prohibit a limited inquiry about whether an individual is, in fact, represented by counsel regarding the relevant subject matter. Such an inquiry does not involve the kind of communication about which courts have expressed concern and has little potential for undermining the attorney-client relationship. There may be uncertainty about the existence of representation with respect to whether it has been established, whether it may have been terminated, and whether a particular subject falls within the scope of the representation. The first issue may arise when a judicial or other appearance has not occurred, but the government attorney has some information suggesting that the person may be represented. It may also arise when an attorney purports to represent a group of persons, such as all the employees of a corporation. Uncertainty about the termination of the representation may arise when substantial time has passed since it was made known that the person was represented by counsel or when the attorney for the government has reason to believe that the representation has ceased. It is unlikely, however, that such uncertainty will arise when there are pending judicial proceedings, since the court must approve termination of representation. When inquiring about the status of representation, government attorneys and agents generally must refrain from stating whether it is necessary or desirable to be represented by counsel. After the right to counsel has attached, a statement or implication suggesting that counsel is not providing proper or effective representation could violate the Sixth Amendment right to effective assistance of counsel. See United States v. Morrison , 449 U.S. 361, 364 (1981). This exception is not intended to and does not create a duty on the part of the attorney for the government to inquire about the status of representation. However, if the attorney for the government has any reason to believe that the individual is represented by counsel with regard to the relevant subject matter, he or she should, as a matter of course, make the appropriate inquiries before engaging in substantive discussions with the individual. Paragraph (b): Discovery or Judicial or Administrative Process Any communication that is authorized by discovery procedures, such as a deposition of a party-opponent, or by judicial or administrative process, such as a grand jury, deposition, or trial subpoena or an administrative summons, obviously should not be prohibited by any rule. See United States v. Schwimmer , 882 F.2d 22, 28 (2d Cir. 1989), cert. denied, 493 U.S. 1071 (1990) (prosecutor's questioning of represented person before the grand jury outside the presence of counsel is ``authorized by law'' under DR 7&hyph;104). Among other reasons, a person who is served with process has an opportunity to consult with counsel prior to his or her appearance at the proceeding, and may have counsel present if desired during the proceeding (except, of course, while testifying before a grand jury). This provision ensures that such communications continue to be allowed. This exception does not purport to authorize any communications not otherwise available pursuant to discovery procedures or legal process. Paragraph (c): Initiation of Communication by Represented Party One of the concerns most frequently raised by Department attorneys during the comment period on the previous proposal was the lack of clarity under current law regarding the propriety of communicating with a represented party, in the absence of that party's counsel, when the communication is initiated by the party. A defendant may wish to communicate with the government outside the presence of counsel for many valid reasons. Department attorneys repeatedly cited the situation in which a defendant wants to cooperate with the government but does not want his or her attorney to know for fear that the attorney will disclose the defendant's intentions to others. This situation typically arises when the defendant questions the loyalty of his or her attorney, who is being paid by another individual involved in a criminal enterprise. The same problem may arise when a single attorney represents multiple parties who are part of the same criminal enterprise. When the desire of a defendant or arrestee to speak with the attorney for the government outside the presence of his or her counsel is ``voluntary, knowing and informed,'' there is no valid reason to prohibit the government from engaging in such communications. In fact, the Department believes that it would be a dereliction of its obligation to enforce vigorously federal law if it promulgated a rule that would prohibit such communications. It is well established that an individual who is entitled to counsel under the Fifth Amendment or the Sixth Amendment may waive that right and choose to communicate with the government outside the presence of his or her attorney, ``provided the waiver is made voluntarily, knowingly and intelligently.'' Moran v. Burbine , 475 U.S. 412, 421 (1986) (internal quotations omitted); Patterson v. Illinois , 487 U.S. 285, 292 (1988); Brewer v. Williams , 430 U.S. 387, 404&hyph;06 (1977). In such a situation, the defendant should not be prohibited from engaging in communications that are allowed by the Constitution by a disciplinary rule that was intended to protect that individual in the first place. Neither common sense nor the principles underlying DR 7&hyph;104 and Rule 4.2 require such a result.
