FR941110-0-00081 FR941110-0-00016 The purpose of an extended survey is to determine the extent of the problems and their effect on residents, when surveyors determine or suspect that jeopardy exists, in order to document the problems fully and determine the appropriate combination of remedies. Extended surveys must be conducted whenever a facility has been granted a waiver of nurse staffing requirements. Response: We are not accepting this proposed change because it is inconsistent with the Act. Sections 1819(g)(2)(B)(i) and 1919(g)(2)(B)(i) of the Act specify that an extended survey must be conducted when the Secretary or State survey agency finds substandard quality of care. Substandard quality of care does not necessarily pose immediate jeopardy to residents. Therefore, the commenter's proposal is more restrictive than the Act. As we discussed previously, we are not requiring that the Secretary or the State survey agency conduct an extended survey when a facility has a nurse staffing waiver. We believe that adding ``to determine the extent of problems and their effect on residents'' to the stated purpose of an extended survey is not necessary because it is inherent in identifying policies and procedures that caused substandard quality of care. For example, if there are poor policies and procedures (rather than isolated practices that don't conform to appropriate policies and procedures), the extent of the problem in the facility could be potentially pervasive. Comment: Other commenters suggested that random discretionary extended surveys are a good idea. However, they do not believe that penalties should be applied to facilities as a result of such random surveys when the facility was not cited for substandard quality of care. Response: Sections 1819(f)(2)(B)(iii)(I)( b ) and 1919(f)(2)(B)(iii)(I)( b ) of the Act require that the approval of NATCEP be withheld or withdrawn for 2 years when the State or HCFA conducts an extended survey. The law makes no exceptions for extended surveys conducted at the discretion of the Secretary or the State. However, we believe that we can achieve the indepth random survey favored by commenters through the standard survey. As we discussed above, the State survey agency or HCFA may expand a standard survey at any time without the threat of a loss of NATCEP. Comment: Several commenters disagreed with or suggested alternatives for the items included in an extended survey, as specified in proposed ยง488.160(b). Some commenters asked that we add ``and review sampled residents in more depth'' after paragraph (b)(1). The majority of commenters asked that we delete paragraph (b)(5) which requires that an extended survey include ``an investigation of any participation requirement at the discretion of the survey agency.'' These commenters believe that the proposed language exceeds the concept of the statutory language. In part the commenters stated: It returns to the old methodology of checking everything in contrast to the intent of the IoM study and resident-centered outcomes. It would also waste fiscal resources that could be better utilized elsewhere in the survey system. Response: We are not accepting the proposed amendment to ยง488.310(b)(1) which would add the requirement that the survey agency review sampled residents in more depth. The purpose of an extended survey is to look at the policies and procedures that produced substandard quality of care. The Act only requires an expansion of the size of the sample of resident assessments and not the depth of the reviews of the residents themselves. A more indepth look at residents will not facilitate an investigation of policies and procedures and should, therefore, be accomplished through a standard survey if the survey agency so desires. We also disagree with commenters that ยง488.310(b) should not include ``an investigation of any participation requirement at the discretion of the survey agency.'' Section 488.310(b) says ``all'' and paragraph (b)(5) says ``any participation requirement at the discretion of the survey agency.'' This does not mean, as the commenter suggests, that every requirement would be surveyed, rather, only those that the survey agency chooses.
