FR941019-2-00101 FR941019-2-00068 Availability of an Environmental Assessment and Receipt of an Application for an Incidental Take Permit for Timbering Harvesting Activities in Monroe County, AL AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Ms. Sara N. Bradley (Applicant) is seeking an incidental take permit from the Fish and Wildlife Service (Service), pursuant to Section 10(a)(1)(B) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended. The permit would authorize the take of the Red Hills salamander Phaeognathus hubrichti, a threatened species, in Monroe County, Alabama, for a period of 2 years. The proposed taking is incidental to a planned timber harvest on an 80-acre tract of land owned by the Applicant. The tract is located in the eastern 1/2 of the southwest 1/4 of Section 9, Townships 8 North, Range 8 East, Monroe County, Alabama. The Service also announces the availability of an environmental assessment (EA) and habitat conservation plan (HCP) for the incidental take application. Copies of the EA or HCP may be obtained by making a request to the Regional Office address below. This notice also advises the public that the Service has made a preliminary determination that issuing the incidental take permit is not a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment within the meaning of Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as amended. The Finding of No Significant Impact is based on information contained in the EA and HCP. The final determination will be made no sooner than 30 days from the date of this notice. This notice is provided pursuant to Section 10(c) of the Act and National Environmental Policy Act Regulations (40 CFR 1506.6). DATES: Written comments on the permit application, EA and HCP should be received on or before November 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the application, HCP, and EA may obtain a copy by writing the Service's Southeast Regional Office, Atlanta, Georgia. Documents will also be available for public inspection by appointment during normal business hours at the Regional Office, or the Jackson, Mississippi, Field Office. Written data or comments concerning the application, EA, or HCP should be submitted to the Regional Office. Please reference permit under PRT&hyph;795455 in such comments.
