FR941202-0-00029 FR941202-0-00001 (3) Require the supervising authorized nuclear pharmacist or physician who is an authorized user to periodically review the work of the supervised individual as it pertains to preparing byproduct material for medical use and the records kept to reflect that work. * * * * * §35.27 [Removed] 22. Section 35.27 is removed. 23. In §35.32, paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(1)(i) are revised to read as follows: §35.32 Quality management program. (a) * * * (2) That, prior to each administration, the patient's or human research subject's identity is verified by more than one method as the individual named in the written directive; * * * * * (b) * * * (1) * * * (i) A representative sample of patient and human research subject administrations, * * * * * 24. In §35.33, paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), (b), and (c) are revised to read as follows: §35.33 Notifications, reports, and records of misadministrations. (a) * * * (2) The licensee shall submit a written report to the appropriate NRC Regional Office listed in 10 CFR 30.6 within 15 days after discovery of the misadministration. The written report must include the licensee's name; the prescribing physician's name; a brief description of the event; why the event occurred; the effect on the patient or the human research subject; what improvements are needed to prevent recurrence; actions taken to prevent recurrence; whether the licensee notified the patient or the human research subject or the patient's or the human research subject's responsible relative or guardian (this individual will subsequently be referred to as ``the patient or human research subject''), and if not, why not, and if the patient or the human research subject was notified, what information was provided to that individual. The report must not include the patient's or the human research subject's name or other information that could lead to identification of the patient or the human research subject. (3) The licensee shall notify the referring physician and also notify the patient or the human research subject of the misadministration no later than 24 hours after its discovery, unless the referring physician personally informs the licensee either that he will inform the patient or the human research subject or that, based on medical judgment, telling the patient or the human research subject would be harmful to the patient or the human research subject. The licensee is not required to notify the patient or the human research subject without first consulting the referring physician. If the referring physician or the patient or the human research subject cannot be reached within 24 hours, the licensee shall notify the patient or the human research subject as soon as possible thereafter. The licensee may not delay any appropriate medical care for the patient or the human research subject, including any necessary remedial care as a result of the misadministration, because of any delay in notification. (4) If the patient or the human research subject was notified, the licensee shall also furnish, within 15 days after discovery of the misadministration, a written report to the patient or the human research subject by sending either: (i) A copy of the report that was submitted to the NRC; or (ii) A brief description of both the event and the consequences as they may affect the patient or the human research subject, provided a statement is included that the report submitted to the NRC can be obtained from the licensee. (b) Each licensee shall retain a record of each misadministration for five years. The record must contain the names of all individuals involved (including the prescribing physician, allied health personnel, the patient or the human research subject, and the patient's or human research subject's referring physician), the patient's or the human research subject's social security number or identification number if one has been assigned, a brief description of the misadministration, why it occurred, the effect on the patient or the human research subject, what improvements are needed to prevent recurrence, and the actions taken to prevent recurrence.
