FR941227-0-00103 FR941227-0-00020 (3) Counties may apply on behalf of units of general local government located within their jurisdiction when the unit of general local government has authorized the county to apply. At the time that the county submits its application for funding, it must submit a resolution by the governing body of the unit of local government that authorizes the county to submit an application on behalf of the unit of general local government. The county will be considered the grantee and will be responsible for executing all grant documents. The county is responsible for ensuring compliance with all laws, regulations, and Executive Orders applicable to the CDBG Program. HUD will deal exclusively with the county with respect to issues of program administration and performance, including remedial actions. The unit of general local government will be considered the grantee for the purpose of determining grant limits. The unit of general local government's statistics will be used for purposes of the selection factors referred to in ยง570.421(a). (d) Public service activities cap. Public service activities may be funded up to a maximum of fifteen (15) percent of a State's nonentitlement allocation for any fiscal year. HUD may award a grant to a unit of general local government for public service activities with up to 100 percent of the funds intended for public service activities. HUD will apply the 15 percent statewide cap to public service activities by funding public service activities in the highest rated applications in each NOFA until the cap is reached. (e) Activities outside an applicant's boundaries. An applicant may conduct eligible CDBG activities outside its boundaries. These activities must be demonstrated to be appropriate to meeting the applicant's needs and objectives, and must be consistent with State and local law. This provision includes using funds provided under this subpart in a metropolitan city or an urban county. ยง570.422 Applications from joint applicants. Units of general local government may submit a joint application which addresses common problems faced by the jurisdictions, to the extent permitted by the NOFA. A joint application must be pursuant to a written cooperation agreement submitted with the application. The cooperation agreement must authorize one of the participating units of government to act as the lead applicant which will submit the application to HUD, and must delineate the responsibilities of each participating unit of government with respect to the Small Cities Program. The lead applicant is responsible for executing the application, certifications, and grant agreement, and ensuring compliance with all laws, regulations, and Executive Orders applicable to the CDBG Program. HUD will deal exclusively with the lead applicant with respect to issues of program administration and performance, including remedial actions. In the event of poor performance, HUD reserves the right to deny and/or restrict future funding to all units of general local government which are parties to the cooperation agreement. ยง570.423 Application for the HUD-administered New York Small Cities Grants. (a) Proposed application. The applicant shall prepare and publish a proposed application, and comply with citizen participation requirements as described in ยง570.431. (b) Final application. The applicant shall submit to HUD a final application containing its community development objectives and activities. This final application shall be submitted, in a form prescribed by HUD, to the appropriate HUD Office. (c) Certifications. (1) Certifications shall be submitted in a form prescribed by HUD. If the application contains any housing activities, the applicant shall certify that the proposed housing activities are consistent with its Abbreviated Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy as described at 24 CFR part 91.
