FR940906-2-00128 FR940906-2-00083 Appendix C_Federal Agency Response Missions, Capabilities and Resources, References, and Authorities Each Federal agency develops and maintains a plan which describes a detailed concept of operations for implementing this Plan. This section contains summary information about the following Federal agencies: Department of Agriculture (USDA) Department of Commerce (DOC) Department of Defense (DOD) Department of Energy (DOE) Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Department of the Interior (DOI) Department of Justice (DOJ) Department of State (DOS) Department of Transportation (DOT) Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) General Services Administration (GSA) National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) National Communications System (NCS) Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Summary information for each agency contains: (1) A response mission statement, (2) a description of the agency's response capabilities and resources, (3) agency response plan and procedures references, and (4) sources of agency authority. A. Department of Agriculture 1. Summary of Response Mission The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) provides assistance to State and local governments in developing agricultural protective action recommendations and in providing agricultural damage assessments. USDA actively participates with EPA and HHS on the Advisory Team for Environment, Food, and Health when convened. USDA regulatory responsibilities for the inspection of meat, meat products, poultry, poultry products, and egg products are essential uninterruptible functions that would continue during an emergency. 2. Capabilities and Resources USDA can provide assistance to State and local governments through emergency response personnel located at its Washington, DC, headquarters and from USDA State and county Emergency Board representatives located throughout the country. USDA Emergency Board representatives have knowledge of local agriculture and can provide specific advice to the local agricultural community. In addition, USDA, State, and county Emergency Boards can assist in the collection of agricultural samples during a radiological emergency. The functions and capabilities of the USDA to provide assistance in the event of a radiological emergency include the following: (1) Provide assistance through regular USDA programs, if legally adaptable to radiological emergencies; (2) Provide emergency food coupon assistance in officially designated disaster areas, if a need is determined by officials and if the commercial food system is sufficient to accommodate the use of food coupons; (3) Assist in reallocation of USDA-donated food supplies from warehouses, local schools, and other outlets to emergency care centers. These are foods donated to various outlets through USDA food programs; (4) Provide lists that identify locations of alternate sources of food and livestock feed and arrange for transportation of the food and feed if requested; (5) Provide advice to State and local officials regarding the disposition of livestock and poultry contaminated by radiation; (6) Inspect meat and meat products, poultry and poultry products, and egg products identified for interstate and foreign commerce to assure that they are safe for human consumption; (7) Assist State and local officials, in coordination with HHS and EPA, in the recommendation and implementation of protective actions to limit or prevent the ingestion of contaminated food;
