FR940114-0-00015 FR940114-0-00004 * * * * * (3) The Commission will, within 10 days after receipt by the Commission of notice of a change in the last trading day specification of an option contract, notify the contract market making the submission if it appears that the change is not consistent with the provisions of this paragraph. Upon such notification by the Commission to the contract market, the change will be subject to the usual procedures under section 5a(a)(12) of the Act and paragraph (b) of this section. (q) Option cabinet trade provisions. (1) For purposes of this paragraph, a cabinet trade is defined as an option trade that represents a transaction whereby the per-contract value of the cabinet trade is less than the per-contract value associated with a trade at the existing minimum premium fluctuation specified in the contract market's rules for that option contract. (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, all initial specifications of, and changes to, option cabinet trade provisions shall be deemed approved by the Commission 10 days after written notice of such change is received by the Commission if: (i) The initial specification of a cabinet trade rule or a change thereto provides that the per-contract value (or values) of the cabinet trade is (are) less than the per-contract value associated with a trade at the existing minimum premium fluctuation specified in the contract market's rules for that option contract. (ii) The contract market labels the written notice as being submitted pursuant to paragraph (q) of this section. (3) The Commission will, within 10 days after receipt by the Commission of notice of a change in the cabinet trade provisions of an option contract, notify the contract market making the submission if it appears that the change is not consistent with the provisions of this paragraph. Upon such notification by the Commission to the contract market, the change will be subject to the usual procedures under section 5a(a)(12) of the Act and paragraph (b) of this section. * * * * * 3. Section 1.41a is amended by revising paragraph (a)(5) to read as follows: §1.41a Delegation of authority to the Directors of the Division of Trading and Markets and the Division of Economic Analysis to process certain contract market rules. (a) *␣*␣* (5) Pursuant to §§1.41(h) through (t) to determine: (i) Whether contract market rules submitted pursuant to Section 5a(a)(12) of the Act and the provisions of §§1.41(h) through (t) comply with the provisions of §§1.41(h) through (t), as applicable; (ii) To give notice that rules submitted pursuant to §§1.41(k) through (t) comply with the provisions of §§1.41(k) through (t), as applicable, and therefore shall be deemed approved prior to the end of the period specified in the applicable rule, commencing on the day the rule is received by the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters; (iii) If contract market rules submitted pursuant to the provisions of §§1.41(h) through (t) do not comply with the applicable provisions of these regulations, to notify the submitting contract market that such rules are therefore subject to the procedures specified in Section 5a(a)(12) of the Act and §1.41(b); and (iv) If contract market rules submitted pursuant to the provisions of §1.41(b) comply with any of the provisions of §§1.41(h) through (t), to notify the contract market that such rules will be treated as if submitted pursuant to §§1.41(h) through (t) as applicable. * * * * * PART 5_DESIGNATION OF AND CONTINUING COMPLIANCE BY CONTRACT MARKETS 4. The authority citation for part 5 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 6c, 7, 7a, 8 and 12a, unless otherwise noted. 5. Appendix A to part 5, Commission Guideline No. 1, is amended by revising the introductory text of the appendix and by revising the option designation checklists in paragraph (b)(2) and paragraph (c)(5) to read as follows: Appendix A to Part 5_Guideline No. 1; Interpretive Statement Regarding Economic and Public Interest Requirements for Contract Market Designation For purposes of a board of trade seeking designation as a contract market and thereafter for the purpose of demonstrating continued compliance with the requirements of sections 4c, 5 and 5a of the Commodity Exchange Act, and regulations thereunder, the following shall be provided to the Commission. The board of trade shall furnish to the Commission at its Washington, DC headquarters three copies of the application including the proposed rules. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣*
