FR940513-0-00044 FR940513-0-00009 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;ACE&hyph;12] Establishment of Class E Airspace Areas. AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This action establishes Class E airspace areas at the Cape Girardeau Municipal Airport, Missouri; Columbia Regional Airport, Missouri; Fort Leonard Wood, Forney Army Airfield, Missouri; Jefferson City Memorial Airport, Missouri; Joplin Regional Airport, Missouri; Kansas City, Richards-Gebaur Airport, Missouri; Knob Noster, Whiteman Air Force Base (AFB), Missouri; Springfield Regional Airport, Missouri; St. Joseph, Rosecrans Memorial Airport, Missouri; St. Louis, Spirit of St. Louis Airport, Missouri; and Grand Island, Central Nebraska Regional Airport, Nebraska. Presently, these areas are designated as Class D airspace when the associated control tower is in operation. However, controlled airspace to the surface is needed when the control towers located at these areas are closed. The intended effect of this action is to provide adequate Class E airspace for instrument flight rule (IFR) operations when these control towers are closed. DATES: Effective date: 0901 UTC, June 23, 1994. Comment date: Comments must be received on or before June 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the rule in triplicate to: Manager, Air Traffic Division, ACE&hyph;500, Docket No. 94&hyph;ACE&hyph;12, Federal Aviation Administration, 601 East 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. The official docket may be examined at the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel for the Central Regional Office at the address shown above between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dale L. Carnine, Airspace Specialist, System Management Branch, ACE&hyph;530b, Federal Aviation Administration, 601 East 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106; telephone number: (816) 426&hyph;3408. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments on the Rule Although this action is a final rule, and was not preceded by notice and public procedure, comments are invited on the rule. This rule will become effective on the date specified in the `` DATES '' section. However, after the review of the comments and, if the FAA finds that further changes are appropriate, it will initiate rulemaking proceedings to extend the effective date of the rule or amend the regulation. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in evaluating the effects of the rule, and in determining whether additional rulemaking is required. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the rule which might suggest the need to modify the rule. The Rule This amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) establishes Class E airspace areas at the Cape Girardeau Municipal Airport, Missouri; Columbia Regional Airport, Missouri; Fort Leonard Wood, Forney Army Airfield, Missouri; Jefferson City Memorial Airport, Missouri; Joplin Regional Airport, Missouri; Kansas City, Richards-Gebaur Airport, Missouri; Knob Noster, Whiteman Air Force Base (AFB), Missouri; Springfield Regional Airport, Missouri; St. Joseph, Rosecrans Memorial Airport, Missouri; St. Louis, Spirit of St. Louis Airport, Missouri; and Grand Island, Central Nebraska Regional Airport, Nebraska. Currently, this airspace is designated as Class D when the associated control tower is in operation. Nevertheless, controlled airspace to the surface is needed for IFR operations at the Cape Girardeau Municipal Airport, Missouri; Columbia Regional Airport, Missouri; Fort Leonard Wood, Forney Army Airfield, Missouri; Jefferson City Memorial Airport, Missouri; Joplin Regional Airport, Missouri; Kansas City, Richards-Gebaur Airport, Missouri; Knob Noster, Whiteman Air Force Base (AFB), Missouri; Springfield Regional Airport, Missouri; St. Joseph, Rosecrans Memorial Airport, Missouri; St. Louis, Spirit of St. Louis Airport, Missouri; and Grand Island, Central Nebraska Regional Airport, Nebraska, when the control towers are closed. The intended effect of this action is to provide adequate Class E airspace for IFR operations at these airports when these control towers are closed. As noted in the Airspace Reclassification Final Rule, published in the Federal Register on December 17, 1991, airspace at an airport with a part-time control tower should be designated as a Class D airspace area when the control tower is in operation, and as a Class E airspace area when the control tower is closed (56 FR 65645).
