FR940106-2-00123 FR940106-2-00070 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard [CGD 93&hyph;092] Passenger Vessel Safety Act of 1993 AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of eligibility. SUMMARY: The Passenger Vessel Safety Act of 1993 (the Act) clarifies the criteria which determine when vessels are required to be certificated by the Coast Guard for passenger carriage. To accomplish this, the Act, among other things, redefines the terms ``passenger,'' ``passenger vessel,'' ``small passenger vessel,'' and ``uninspected passenger vessel.'' The Act also provides definitions for the terms ``passenger for hire'' and ``consideration.'' The Act establishes an extension period for its applicability to charter vessels that will operate as charters with no crew provided. The extension period is only available to those vessels whose owners make application to the Coast Guard by June 21, 1994. The Act further calls for the possible modification of existing requirements for certain charter vessels of over 100 gross tons, and the establishment of new requirements for uninspected passenger vessels of at least 100 gross tons carrying not more than 12 passengers. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT. Brian Poskaitis, Project Manager, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division (G&hyph;MVI&hyph;1), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street SW., Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001, telephone (202) 267&hyph;1464. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Applicability Although most of the Act is effective immediately, it does not apply to passenger and small passenger vessels chartered without a crew until six months after enactment. An additional 30 months extension of inapplicability is also available for these vessels only. To receive this extension the vessel owner must: (a) Make application for inspection with the local Coast Guard Officer in Charge, Marine Inspection (OCMI) by June 21, 1994; (b) Make the vessel available for examination by the Coast Guard prior to the carriage of passengers; (c) Correct especially any hazardous conditions involving the vessel's structure, electrical system, and machinery installation such as: (i) Grossly inadequate, missing, unsound, or severely deteriorated frames or major structural members; (ii) wiring systems or electrical appliances without proper grounding or overcurrent protection; and (iii) significant fuel or exhaust system leaks; (d) Equip the vessel with lifesaving and firefighting equipment, or the portable equivalent, required for the route and number of persons carried; (e) Verify through stability tests, calculations, or other practical means (which may include a history of safe operations) that the vessel's stability is satisfactory for the size, route and number of passengers; and (f) Develop a work plan approved by the Coast Guard to complete in a good faith effort all requirements necessary for issuance of a Certificate of Inspection as soon as practicable. If a vessel qualifies for an extension, the Coast Guard will issue a letter to the owner which establishes the conditions of operation for the vessel during the extension period. The letter will specifically indicate the conditions of route, service, number of passengers, manning, and equipment. Depending on the condition and outfitting of these vessels, the process to receive a Coast Guard extension letter may take several weeks or months. Therefore, vessel owners desiring extensions are encouraged to apply early. Under the Act, vessels chartered without a crew that carry more than 12 passengers, as defined by the Act, must have an extension letter from the Coast Guard or have obtained a Certificate of Inspection to continue operations after June 21, 1994. Possible Modified Regulations for Certain Existing Passenger Vessels The Act also permits the establishment of different structural fire protection, manning, operating and equipment requirements for certain existing charter vessels if they are not necessary for safe operation. Such requirements would apply to existing charter vessels carrying not more than 150 passengers on domestic voyages that are: (a) At least 100 gross tons but less than 300 gross tons, and; (b) Former public vessels of at least 100 gross tons but less than 500 gross tons. These modified requirements will seek to ensure an equivalent degree of safety is achieved for those existing vessels that cannot come into full compliance with the current passenger vessel regulations because of their construction. To be eligible for these modified requirements, the owner of the vessel must: (1) Make application for inspection with the local Coast Guard OCMI before June 21, 1994; and (2) Provide satisfactory documentation that the vessel was chartered at least once within the period December 20, 1992 to December 20, 1993. New Regulations for Uninspected Passenger Vessels The new definition of the term ``uninspected passenger vessel'' will now include vessels of at least 100 gross tons, that are: carrying not more than 12 passengers, including at least one passenger for hire; or, that is chartered with the crew provided or specified by the owner or the owner's representative and is carrying not more than 12 passengers. New regulations will be developed for these vessels within 24 months. Dated: December 30, 1993. R.C. North, Captain, U.S. Coast Guard, Acting Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;262 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
