FR941110-0-00120 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We are not adopting these suggestions, because we believe that the needs of the residents to be heard are addressed in other ways. As a threshold matter, the Supreme Court has already concluded in the previously cited O'Bannon decision that residents do not have a right to a pre-termination hearing when the facility in which they reside faces a provider agreement termination. Whether residents might testify to a facility's compliance or noncompliance, arguments on both sides of the issue are already being made by either the government or the provider. Certainly, a provider has every incentive to state its case that it was in compliance with certification requirements and that it ought not be the subject of an adverse action. On the other hand, if residents were interested in contributing to the case against a facility, whatever evidence they might have could be shared with surveyors before, during, or after the completion of a survey. Residents have always had, and will continue to have, opportunities to discuss facility conditions with surveyors either individually or in group meetings, and always have the right to comment on the care they are receiving. Except when there is immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety, the States and the Secretary have very broad discretion under the Act to select among enumerated remedies. Just as we believe it is not for facilities to choose what remedies they should be subject to, we do not believe that facility residents should make that choice either. Comment: Many commenters favored an informal procedure to challenge the survey agency's findings prior to making the Statement of Deficiencies (HCFA&hyph;2567) final. Response: As discussed in the section entitled, Dispute Resolution, we are accepting this proposal and are providing for such a process in §488.331. We believe that such a process will alleviate many of the concerns expressed on providing only post-sanction formal hearings. Comment: A few commenters noted that the existing appeals regulations at 42 CFR part 498 should be amended to reflect the additional issues which can now be appealed in addition to termination. Response: We agree and are amending §498.3 to make it clear that noncompliance leading to an enforcement remedy (other than State monitoring) is appealable. These changes are identified in section V. of this preamble, Additional Conforming Changes. Comment: Several commenters proposed that we clarify when sanctions are to be imposed. Some feared that sanctions would be imposed by the survey team onsite as soon as a deficiency is cited. Some wanted clarification that the State survey agency would be given a reasonable period of time in which to review surveyor findings in order to decide upon a sanction. Response: It is not our intent that the survey team impose remedies. Moreover, the appropriate agency for imposing remedies does not do so prior to the time the facility receives written notice of the noncompliance and written notice of the remedy(ies) to be imposed. The survey agency will have time to review the findings and make a decision as to compliance or noncompliance, and recommend a remedy or remedies to the appropriate State entity or to HCFA, depending on whose decision controls as specified at sections 1919(h)(6) and (7) of the Act. Comment: A few commenters wanted clarification of the timing and meaning of a certification of noncompliance specified in proposed §488.180(d), the notice of hearing given specified in proposed §431.153(e), and the notice of imposition of remedies specified in proposed §488.202(f).
