FR940610-0-00027 FR940610-0-00014 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary 32 CFR Part 367 [DoD Directive 5136.1] Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, DoD. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document revises the responsibilities, functions, relationships, and authorities of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs ASD(HA). The principal revision, the assignment of the Health Affairs functions under the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness is consistent with Section 903 of the FY 1994 Defense Authorization Act. EFFECTIVE DATE: May 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: G. Meiners, (703) 697&hyph;1142. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: List of Subjects in 32 CFR Part 367 Organization and functions (Government agencies). Accordingly, 32 CFR part 367 is revised to read as follows: PART 367_ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR HEALTH AFFAIRS Sec. 367.1␣Purpose. 367.2␣Applicability. 367.3␣Responsibilities and functions. 367.4␣Relationships. 367.5␣Authorities. Authority: 10 U.S.C. 113 and 138. §367.1 Purpose. Pursuant to the authority vested in the Secretary of Defense by 10 U.S.C. 113 and 138, this part updates the responsibilities, functions, relationships, and authorities of the ASD(HA), as prescribed herein. §367.2 Applicability. This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Unified Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities (hereafter referred to collectively as ``the DoD Components''). §367.3 Responsibilities and functions. The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs, as the principal staff assistant and advisor to the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness (USD(P&R)) and the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense for all DoD health policies, programs, and activities, shall effectively execute the Department's medical mission, which is to provide, and to maintain readiness to provide, medical services and support to members of the Armed Forces during military operations, and to provide medical services and support to members of the Armed Forces, their dependents, and others entitled to DoD medical care. (a) In carrying out these responsibilities, the ASD(HA) shall exercise authority, direction, and control over the medical personnel, facilities, programs, funding, and other resources within the Department of Defense, including, but not limited to: (1) Establishing policies, procedures, and standards that shall govern DoD medical programs. (2) Serving as program manager for all DoD health and medical resources. Preparing and submitting in the Department's planning, programming, and budgeting system (PPBS) a unified medical program and budget to provide resources for all medical activities within the Department of Defense. Consistent with applicable law, all funding for the DoD medical program, including operation and maintenance, procurement, and the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, but excluding funds for active and reserve medical military personnel, shall be accounted for in a single defense medical appropriations account. Funds for medical facility military construction shall be in a separate, single appropriations account. (3) Presenting and justifying the unified medical program and budget throughout the PPBS process, including representations before the Congress. (4) Co-chairing with the Director, Defense Research and Engineering, the Armed Services Biomedical Research Evaluation and Management Committee, which facilities consideration of DoD biomedical research. (5) Performing such other functions as the USD(P&R) and the Secretary of Defense may prescribe. (b) The ASD(HA) may not direct a change in the structure of the chain of command within a Military Department with respect to medical personnel and may not direct a change in the structure of the chain of command with respect to medical personnel assigned to that command. §367.4 Relationships. (a) In the performance of assigned responsibilities and functions, the ASD(HA) shall serve under the authority, direction, and control of the USD(P&R) and shall: (1) Report directly to the USD(P&R). (2) Exercise authority, direction, and control over: (i) The Director, Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services. (ii) The Director, Defense Medical Programs Activity. (iii) The Director, Armed Forces Institute of Pathology.
