FR940325-2-00190 FR940325-2-00090 The Exchange is presently seeking approval to add certain Exchange rules to the list of rules subject to possible imposition of fines under Rule 476A procedures. The types of rules covered generally include reporting, required approvals, record retention and conduct of accounts for which determinations of violations can be made objectively. They are as follows: • Rule 304(h)(2) _Requires member organizations to supply the Exchange with information relating to the existence of any statutory disqualification as defined in the Act to which an approved person or any person associated with the approved person may be subject. • Rule 345.12 _Requires applications (Form U&hyph;4) for all natural persons required to be registered with the Exchange to be filed upon the candidate's employment and to be kept current. •Rule 346(b) and (3)_Rule 346(b) requires members, allied members and employees of member organizations to receive prior written consent of their employer to engage in any other business activity or to be employed or compensated by any other person. Rule 346(e) provides that persons delegated supervisory responsibilities must devote their full time to the business of the member organization during business hours, unless otherwise permitted by the Exchange (Rule 346.10). • Rule 346(g) _Provides that no member, member organization, allied member, approved person or employee of any person in a control relationship with a member or member organization shall be associated with any person subject to a statutory disqualification as defined in the Act. • Rule 352(b) and (c) _Prohibits a member, member organization, allied member, registered representative or officer from guaranteeing any customer against loss in any account and from sharing in profits or losses in a customer's account. • Rule 440C _States that no member or member organization should ``fail to deliver'' against a short sale until a diligent effort has been made to borrow necessary securities to make delivery. • Rule 472(c) _Requires members and member organizations to retain communications with customers and the public ( e.g., advertisements, research reports, sales literature) for at least three years. The communications must also contain the name of the person who prepared the material, the name of the person approving its issuance, and be readily available to the Exchange upon request. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change will advance the objectives of section 6(b)(6) of the Act in that it will provide a procedure whereby members, allied members, employees and member organizations can be ``appropriately disciplined'' in those instances when a rule violation is minor in nature, but a sanction more serious than a warning or cautionary letter is appropriate. The proposed rule change provides a fair procedure for imposing such sanctions, in accordance with the requirements of sections 6(b)(7) and 6(d)(1) of the Act. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;38 and should be submitted by April 15, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7052 Filed 3&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
