FR940725-0-00060 FR940725-0-00008 c. The right of the parent(s) to determine whether they, their infant or toddler, or other family members will accept or decline any early intervention service without jeopardizing the delivery of other early intervention services to which such consent is obtained. d. The opportunity for the parent(s) to examine records on assessment, screening, eligibility determinations, and the development and implementation of the IFSP. e. Written prior notice to the parent(s) of the infant or toddler with a disability whenever the Military Department concerned proposes to initiate or change or refuses to initiate or change the identification, evaluation, placement, or the provision of appropriate early intervention services to the infant and toddler with a disability. f. Procedures designed to ensure that the notice required in paragraph D.1.e. of this appendix fully informs the parents in the parents' native language, unless it clearly is not feasible to do so. g. During the pending of any proceeding under appendix C to this part, unless the Military Department concerned and the parent(s) otherwise agree, the infant or toddler shall continue to receive the early intervention services currently being provided, or, if applying for initial services, shall receive the services not in dispute. Appendix B to Part 80_Procedures for Special Educational Programs (Including Related Services) for Preschool Children and Children with Disabilities (3&hyph;21 years Inclusive) A. Identification and Screening 1. Each Section 6 School Arrangement shall locate, identify, and, with the consent of a parent of each preschool child or child, evaluate all preschool children or children who are receiving or are entitled to receive an education from Section 6 School Arrangements and who may need special education and/or related services. 2. Each Section 6 School Arrangement shall: a. Provide screening, through the review of incoming records and the use of basic skills tests in reading, language arts, and mathematics, to determine whether a preschool child or child may be in need of special education and related services. b. Analyze school health data for those preschool children and children who demonstrate possible disabling conditions. Such data shall include: (1) Results of formal hearing, vision, speech, and language tests. (2) Reports from medical practitioners. (3) Reports from other appropriate professional health personnel as may be necessary, under this part, to aid in identifying possible disabling conditions. c. Analyze other pertinent information, including suspensions, exclusions, other disciplinary actions, and withdrawals, compiled and maintained by Section 6 School Arrangements that may aid in identifying possible disabling conditions. 3. Each Section 6 School Arrangement, in cooperation with cognizant authorities at the installation on which the Section 6 School Arrangement is located, shall conduct ongoing child-find activities that are designed to identify all infants, toddlers, preschool children, and children with possible disabling conditions who reside on the installation or who otherwise either are entitled, or will be entitled, to receive services under this part. a. If an element of the Section 6 School Arrangement, a qualified professional authorized to provide related services, a parent, or other individual believes that an infant, toddler, preschool child or child has a possible disabling condition, that individual shall be referred to the appropriate CSC or early intervention coordinator. b. A Section 6 School Arrangement CSC shall work in cooperation with the Military Departments in identifying infants, toddlers, preschool children and children with disabilities (birth to 21 years inclusive). 3B. Evaluation Procedures 1. Each CSC will provide a full and comprehensive diagnostic evaluation of special educational, and related service needs to any preschool child or child who is receiving, or entitled to receive, educational instruction from a Section 6 School Arrangement, operated by the Department of Defense under Directive 1342.21, and who is referred to a CSC for a possible disability. The evaluation will be conducted before any action is taken on the development of the IEP or placement in a special education program. 2. Assessment materials, evaluation procedures, and tests shall be: a. Racially and culturally nondiscriminatory.
