FR940505-1-00178 FR940505-1-00012 b. Requirements Under the EIP (1) Surplus. All emission reductions achieved from a fee system must be surplus to those already being achieved under other control strategies in the FIP. The primary concern of the EIP is that the fee system not take credit for or ``double count'' reductions that are a result of other strategies. It is therefore necessary to define the baseline for the fee program and use this baseline as a basis for projecting program results. Today's proposal clearly satisfies this requirement. The baseline is clearly described in section III.H.2 and EPA has made certain that there has been no double counting of emissions reductions. (2) Quantifiable. The fee programs in the FIP must describe how emissions and changes in emissions will be quantified. The program must specify the minimum required credible, workable, and replicable procedures for quantifying emissions, which could include emission factor calculations, direct monitoring of usage, and the calculation procedures that will be used. While today's proposal does not contain a comprehensive description of how EPA will quantify emissions changes caused by fees, the final FIP will. (3) Enforceable. A fee program must include adequate enforcement consequences for noncompliance with any source requirements, including the monitoring, record keeping, and reporting requirements of the program. Since the proposed fee programs will be federal programs, it is not necessary that they be enforceable by the state, but only federally enforceable. At this time, EPA has not developed regulatory language delineating the monitoring, record keeping, and reporting requirements that will be necessary for the FIP. However, EPA intends on producing this language when it promulgates the fee programs in the final rule and asks for comment on how these requirements should be structured. (4) Consistent With SIP Attainment and RFP Demonstrations. The EIP states that programs must be consistent with SIP attainment and RFP demonstrations. The fee programs will be consistent with the SIP attainment demonstration since the requirement of the FIP is to show attainment. The fee program will not need to be consistent with the RFP demonstrations as EPA is not required to comply with the RFP demonstrations in the FIPs. (5) Permanent. The EIP requires that all reductions be permanent within the timeframe specified by the program. The important issue for this requirement is the determination of the timeframe of the program. The fee programs will most likely have a timeframe of 1 year and therefore the desired effects during that period are what is important. Since the fees will have the result of either increased turnover or reduction of usage, and since these will presumably cause permanent reductions within the 1 year period, then the permanence requirement will be satisfied. (6) Uncertainty Provisions. The EIP requires that projected emissions reductions from a fee program must be adjusted to reflect the uncertainties inherent in these programs through the use of a ``program uncertainty factor.'' EPA must specify a value for this factor, between 0 and 1, which reflects the level of uncertainty inherent in the program. EPA must also include a justification for this value. This factor must then be applied to the predicted level of emission reductions expected from the fee program. Today's proposal does not contain an estimate of an uncertainty factor, however, EPA fully intends to use one in the final promulgation. EPA is not proposing an uncertainty factor at this time because it feels that it does not have the best information. EPA wants to remain open minded about the range of possible impacts from the fee programs and asks for comment as to what uncertainty factors should be applied. It should be noted, however, that, as shown in section III.H, EPA's control strategies do achieve surplus emission reductions and therefore provide for some room should programs not perform as expected. (7) Auditing. A fee program must also contain audit procedures designed to evaluate program implementation and track program results. The auditing methods and the timing must be specified in the FIP. These audits are to be performed at time intervals consistent with RFP milestones and other emission inventory requirements, which is generally once every three years. Since OGC has determined that EPA need not satisfy the state's RFP requirements, the time interval requirement under a FIP is unclear. Since the EIP also specifies that states are free to perform audits at shorter intervals as they deem appropriate, EPA believes it is free to develop any auditing time interval it deems reasonable and appropriate.
