FR940505-1-00239 FR940505-1-00012 Owners of any nonroad equipment (hereafter fleet owners) would determine the total NO X emissions from their equipment by adding up the annual amount of NO X emitted by each piece of equipment. The annual amount of NO X emitted by a piece of equipment is determined by reference to its expected emissions based on the equipment class and model year, as delineated in the table below. An average would be computed by dividing by the number of pieces of equipment. These averages would then be compared to the average which would occur if normal turnover was maintained (see the table below). EPA is proposing to determine the emissions levels and averages required using the same seven classes of nonroad equipment described above in section C.(3)(a). These classes are based on total emissions from equipment and were developed to ensure that any tradeoff between equipment due to averaging which occurs is emissions neutral. The target average emissions level would be reduced each calendar year. If the actual emission rate exceeded the fleet average standard in any year, an emissions surcharge would be applied to the excess amount of emissions for that year. As with the heavy-duty onhighway engine program the surcharge is based on $10,000 per ton of NO X emissions. The table below shows how to calculate the fleet average emission rates for the first two classes of nonroad equipment. (The reader is directed to the regulations or the docket for similar information for the remaining classes of nonroad equipment.) For each equipment class, annual emission levels are provided for model year groups which have different applicable NO X emission standards. The numbers represent annual emissions of NO X in tons for equipment in each category and must be multiplied by the number of engines in that category in a fleet to get total emissions. Adding each column and dividing by the total number of engines in each class will yield the fleet's average per-engine NO X emissions for that category. Calculation of Fleet NO X Emissions for the First Two Classes of Nonroad Engines [tons] 1Model year grouping 1Emissions from class I nonroad engines 1Emissions from class II nonroad engines 1999+ a # ×0.0062 # ×0.027 1998 # ×0.028 # ×0.12 pre-1998 # ×0.037 # ×0.17 n,s Total actual emissions b ␣ ␣ n,s Fleet average emissions per nonroad engine c ␣ ␣ a `` # '' represents the number of nonroad engines in the given fleet for the specific model year/equipment class grouping. b Multiply the number of affected nonroad engines in the given fleet for the specific model year/equipment class grouping by the listed emissions rate and sum down. c Fleet average emissions per nonroad engine equals the total actual emissions for an equipment class divided by the total number of affected nonroad engines for that equipment class in the given fleet.
