FR940426-0-00038 FR940426-0-00011 II. Expanded Availability of Short-Form and Shelf Registration The Commission is adopting revisions to its registration forms to extend to foreign issuers the benefits of short-form and shelf registration to the same extent available to domestic companies. A. Short-Form Registration Statements Under the amendments adopted today, the public float threshold for use of Form F&hyph;3 and full shelf registration is reduced from $300 million to $75 million and the reporting history requirement is reduced from 36 months to 12 months. 21 These are the same as the eligibility criteria applicable to domestic companies using Form S&hyph;3. 21 The amendments adopted today also reduce the public float test specified in form F&hyph;2 to $75 million, as proposed. As proposed, Form F&hyph;3 would not have required that an annual or interim report have been filed or submitted to the Commission prior to first use of the Form. Despite the proposal's requirement that a foreign issuer have been subject to the Exchange Act reporting requirements for 12 months to be eligible to use Form F&hyph;3, it would have been possible for an eligible issuer to have filed no reports during that period. 22 As explained in the Proposing Release, foreign issuers, unlike domestic companies, are required to submit to the Commission under Form 6&hyph;K only those interim reports and other materials that the issuer prepares in accordance with home country or home market requirements or delivers to its securityholders. Moreover, unlike domestic companies using Form S&hyph;3, foreign companies registering on Form F&hyph;3 are not required to incorporate by reference all their reports on Form 6&hyph;K, but may chose which reports are incorporated. In light of these differences, as suggested by several commenters, the revisions to Form F&hyph;3 as adopted require that the company have filed at least one annual report prior to first use of the Form in order to ensure that information regarding the issuer is available to the market. 23 22 Domestic issuers are permitted to use Form S&hyph;3 after being subject to reporting requirements for 12 months, regardless of whether they have filed an annual report. Unlike foreign issuers, however, domestic issuers are required to file quarterly reports and such reports would be incorporated by reference into the Form S&hyph;3 registration statement. 23 This requirement has been added to the issuer eligibility criteria because of its applicability to all offerings registered on Form F&hyph;3. B. Shelf Registration The expanded eligibility for short-form registration on Form F&hyph;3 in turn will allow more foreign companies the full benefits of shelf registration. 24 Issuers eligible to register securities for primary offerings using short-form registration are able to offer those securities on a delayed or continuous basis under the Commission shelf registration procedures. 25 Through expanded Form F&hyph;3 eligibility, foreign issuers will be allowed the same financing flexibility and efficiency that domestic issuers have through Form S&hyph;3 eligibility. 26 In addition, as proposed, the unallocated shelf registration process is being extended to foreign companies on the same basis as for domestic companies. 27 The unallocated shelf process will permit foreign private issuers registering on Form F&hyph;3 to use one registration statement to register debt, equity and other securities, without specifying the amount of each class of securities to be offered. 28 24 See revisions to Item 512(a)(1) of Regulation S&hyph;K (ยง229.512(a)(1)) that codify prior staff interpretations allowing foreign issuers to incorporate Exchange Act reports in order to update shelf registration statements to the same extent as domestic issuers. See also revisions to Item 512(a)(4) that allow Form F&hyph;3 issuers to incorporate Exchange Act reports in order to update financial statements and other information for shelf offerings in accordance with Rule 3&hyph;19 of Regulation S&hyph;X (ยง210.3&hyph;19) and Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3)). 25 Rule 415(a)(1)(x), 17 CFR 230.415(a)(1)(x). 26 Under a staff interpretation, foreign private issuers of asset-backed securities are eligible to use shelf registration regardless of whether such securities are registered on Form F&hyph;1, Form F&hyph;2 or Form F&hyph;3 or the issuer files on registration forms for domestic issuers. The registration statement would include disclosure appropriate for asset-backed securities, regardless of the form used. 27 A foreign issuer wishing to convert an existing effective shelf registration statement to an unallocated shelf registration statement should use the same procedures set forth in a staff interpretive letter for domestic issuers. See, Transitional Procedures for Converting to an Unallocated Shelf Registration (Nov. 19, 1992). 28 See General Instruction II.C. to Form F&hyph;3, General Instruction H. to Form F&hyph;4 and revisions to Rule 457 under the Securities Act. Of course, the issuer must be eligible to use Form F&hyph;3 for each type of securities it registers. C. Investment Grade Non-Convertible Securities Form F&hyph;3 is amended as proposed to permit foreign issuers to use short-form registration for all investment grade non-convertible securities, 29 without regard to the size of issuers' public float. 30 These provisions parallel those applied to domestic companies. The amendments to Forms F&hyph;2 and F&hyph;3 also clarify that the investment grade rating must exist at the time of sale to the public, rather than at the time of effectiveness. 29 To qualify as investment grade, a security must be so rated by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, as that term is used in Rule 15c3&hyph;1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act (ยง240.15c3&hyph;1(c)(2)(vi)(F)). 30 Corresponding changes are being made to the provisions of Form F&hyph;2 that previously allowed for registration of non-convertible investment grade debt securities (but not preferred securities) without regard to public float or reporting history. See General Instruction I.B.2. to Form F&hyph;2.
