FR941028-2-00159 FR941028-2-00109 J. Health Care Worker Counseling, Screening and Evaluation Counseling Comments: Most of the comments on this section were very favorable. Some persons commented that the HIV-infected HCW may not report their infection to the facility and asked about the facility's responsibility to HCWs and to patients should this occur. Some expressed concern about confidentiality and about the Americans with Disabilities Act. Response: No changes were considered necessary. Screening HCWs for Active Disease Comments: Evaluation of every HCW with a cough of 2 weeks or greater duration is excessive. Response: Reemphasized the need to tailor each program to fit the situation. The infection rate in a particular facility, the time of year (e.g., flu season), the potential exposure of individual workers_all these need to be taken into consideration. Screening HCWs for Latent TB Infection Comments: Annual PPD testing in areas of low prevalence is unnecessary. It is unclear which HCWs should be tested. Provide clearer information on the number of conversions during a specified period to trigger the testing of others from the same area or group. Response: Modified this section and coordinated it with recommendations in the risk assessment and the skin testing supplement, which give clearer guidance on who should be tested and how frequently. Comments: Two-step skin testing is not necessary for all HCWs, especially those who are transferring from hospitals and whose PPD results are negative and those from areas where the prevalence of booster phenomenon is low or where boosting was assessed as no problem. Response: Clarified that 2-step testing is not necessary if an HCW has had a documented negative PPD result in the past 12 months or if the institution has determined that boosting is not common in their population. Also added the potential consequences of misinterpreting a boosted reaction as a new infection. Evaluation and Management of Health Care Workers With Positive PPD Tests Evaluation Comments: M. tuberculosis antimicrobial susceptibilities should be recorded in the HCW's medical record and given to the employee if he or she leaves the facility. The HCW can then be put on appropriate therapy if active disease develops. Persons who are PPD positive and have not had adequate preventive therapy should be monitored at least annually. Response: Added these recommendations to this section. Routine and Follow-Up Chest Radiographs Comments: Consideration should be given to performing chest radiographs on HCWs whose PPD tests are positive. Response: Reemphasized the need to monitor more frequently for symptoms of TB in high-risk persons but retained the statement that regular chest radiographs have not been shown to be effective in detecting TB in these persons.
