FR941227-2-00158 FR941227-2-00104 a. The noise compatibility program was developed in accordance with the provisions and procedures of FAR Part 150; b. Program measures are reasonably consistent with achieving the goals of reducing existing noncompatible land uses around the airport and preventing the introduction of additional noncompatible land uses; c. Program measures would not create an undue burden on interstate or foreign commerce, unjustly discriminate against type or classes of aeronautical uses, violate the terms of airport grant agreements, or intrude into areas preempted by the federal government; and d. Program measures relating to the use of light procedures can be implemented within the period covered by the program without derogating safety, adversely affecting the efficient use and management of the navigable airspace and air traffic control systems, or adversely affecting other powers and responsibilities of the Administrator prescribed by law. Specific limitations with respect to FAA's approval of an airport noise compatibility program are delineated in FAR Part 150, Section 150.5. Approval is not a determination concerning the acceptability of land uses under federal, state, or local law. Approval does not by itself constitute an FAA implementing action. A request for federal action or approval to implement specific noise compatibility measures may be required, and an FAA decision on the request may require an environmental assessment of the proposed action. Approval does not constitute a commitment by the FAA to financially assist in the implementation of the program nor a determination that all measures covered by the program are eligible for grant-in-aid funding from the FAA. Where federal funding is sought, request for project grant must be submitted to the Airports District Office at the location identified in FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT clause above. The City of South Lake Tahoe submitted to the FAA on September 24, 1992, the Noise Exposure Maps, descriptions, and other documentation produced during the noise compatibility planning study conducted from January 1984 through December 1991. The Lake Tahoe Airport noise exposure maps were determined by FAA to be in compliance with applicable requirements on May 18, 1994. Notice of this determination was published in the Federal Register on June 8, 1994. The Lake Tahoe Airport Study contains proposed noise compatibility program comprised on actions designed for phased implementation by airport management and adjacent jurisdictions from the date of study completion to (or beyond) the year 2000. It was requested that the FAA evaluate and approve this material as a noise compatibility program as described in Section 104(b) of the Act. The FAA began its review of the program on November 14, 1994, and was required by a provision of the Act to approve or disapprove the program within 180-days (other than the use of new flight procedures for noise control). Failure to approve or disapprove such program within the 180-days period shall be deemed to be an approval of such a program. The submitted program contained seventeen (17) proposed actions for noise mitigation on and off the airport. The FAA completed its review and determined that the procedural and substantive requirements of the Act and FAR Part 150 have been satisfied. The overall program, therefore, was approved by the Associate Administrator for Airports effective November 14, 1994. Outright approval was granted for thirteen (13) of the specific program elements. The approved elements included existing noise abatement procedures, preferential runway use procedures, runup policies, request FAA advisories, noise abatement program, noise monitoring system, rezoning, navigation easements, and property purchase options. Four (4) program elements were disapproved for purposes of Part 150 pending submission of sufficient information. These determinations are set forth in detail in a Record of Approval endorsed by the Assistant Administrator for Airports on November 14, 1994. The Record of Approval, as well as other evaluation materials and the documents comprising the submittal, are available for review at the FAA office listed above and at the administrative offices of the City of South Lake Tahoe. Questions may be directed to the individual named above under the heading, FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT Issued in Hawthorne, California on November 30, 1994. Robert C. Bloom, Acting Manager, Airports Division, AWP&hyph;600 Western-Pacific Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31811 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
