FR940826-0-00075 FR940826-0-00016 61. Finally, we believe that special provisions for rural telephone companies that are not smaller entities are not necessary in this context to encourage service to rural areas. 100 Especially in regions where the lack of wireline service makes wireless alternatives desirable, paging service is provided to rural areas by paging companies as well as telephone companies. We therefore believe that many telecommunications companies, and not only rural telephone companies, will pursue ordinary profit incentives to provide narrowband PCS service to outlying areas. Accordingly, we believe that installment payment plans are not necessary to encourage larger rural telephone companies to provide this relatively low-cost service in rural areas. 100 Congress did not instruct us to provide for every designated entity group in every service, and we believe that provisions for this particular group are not necessary for narrowband PCS. D. Other Designated Entity Decisions 62. We make two additional decisions concerning designated entities on our own motion. First, we clarify that, for a partnership to qualify for designated entity status, all general partners in the applicant and its ``control group'' must be eligible entities, consistent with our revised generic eligibility criteria in the Second Memorandum Opinion and Order in this proceeding. For the purposes of our rules, we presume that all general partners in a partnership have the power to bind the partnership, and therefore have de facto control. 101 Therefore, to ensure that designated entity provisions are made available only to legitimate eligible entities if the partnership is to receive designated entity benefits, all general partners will be required to be designated entities if the partnership is to obtain designated entity status. 101 See, e.g., Fifth Report and Order, ¶158 & n. 134 (making such a presumption and therefore treating each general partner in a partnership applying for broadband PCS licenses as part of the partnership's control group). 63. In addition, we are adopting for narrowband PCS the requirement that all entities claiming a designated entity benefit must substantiate their eligibility for such benefits. In a related action reconsidering the Second Report and Order in this proceeding, we are requiring applicants that seek designated entity benefits to document their eligibility for such benefits. 102 For narrowband PCS we therefore require designated entity applicants to describe on their long-form applications how they meet the eligibility criteria for designated entity benefits. Applicants must list and summarize on their long-form application all agreements that affect designated entity status, such as all partnership agreements, shareholder agreements, management agreements and other agreements, including oral agreements, which establish that the designated entity will have both de facto and de jure control of the entity. In addition, we will require that such information be maintained at the licensee's facilities, or by its designated agent, for the term of the license, and that the information be made available to Commission staff upon request. We believe that this provision will prove useful when the Commission conducts its random audits of designated entities providing narrowband PCS to ensure their continuing designated entity status. 102 See Second Memorandum Opinion and Order at ¶134; Cook Inlet Petition for reconsideration of Second Report and Order at 16. VI. Procedural Matters And Ordering Clause A. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis 64. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. §604, the Commission's final analysis for the Memorandum Opinion and Order is as follows: Memorandum Opinion and Order_Final Analysis 65. Need for, and Purpose of, this Action. As a result of new statutory authority, the Commission may utilize competitive bidding mechanisms in the granting of certain initial licenses. The Commission published an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, see generally 5 U.S.C. §603, within the Notice of Proposed Rule Making in this proceeding, and published Final Regulatory Flexibility Analyses within the Second Report and Order (at ¶¶299&hyph;302) and the Third Report and Order (at ¶¶91&hyph;94). As noted in these previous final analyses, this proceeding will establish a system of competitive bidding for choosing among certain applications for initial licenses, and will carry out statutory mandates that certain designated entities, including small entities, be afforded an opportunity to participate in the competitive bidding process and in the provision of spectrum-based services. 66. Summary of the Issues Raised by the Public Comments. In regard to the specific narrowband PCS issues addressed by this Third Memorandum Opinion and Order, no comments were submitted in response to our Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. 67. Significant Alternatives Considered. Although, as described in (B) above, no comments were received pertaining to narrowband PCS, the Second Report and Order and Third Report and Order addressed at length the general policy considerations raised as a result of the Commission's new auction authority.
