FR940214-0-00089 FR940214-0-00012 S5.6.7.2␣Trailers. S5.6.7.2.1␣According to the following procedure, determine the threshold level of common diaphragm leakage-type failure (or equivalent level of leakage from the air chamber containing that diaphragm) at which the vehicle's parking brakes become unreleasable. With an initial reservoir system and supply line pressure of 100 psi, no application of any of the vehicle's brakes, and, if the vehicle is designed to tow a vehicle equipped with air brakes, a 50 cubic inch test reservoir connected to the supply line coupling, introduce a leakage-type failure of the common diaphragm (or equivalent leakage from the air chamber containing that diaphragm). Make a parking brake application by venting the front supply line coupling to the atmosphere, and reduce the pressures in all of the vehicle's reservoirs to zero. Pressurize the supply line by connecting the trailer's front supply line coupling to the supply line portion of the trailer test rig (Figure 1) with the regulator of the trailer test rig set at 100 psi, and determine whether all of the mechanical means referred to in S5.6.3.2 continue to be actuated and hold the parking brake applications with sufficient parking retardation forces to meet the minimum performance specified in either S5.6.1 or S5.6.2. Repeat this procedure with progressively decreasing or increasing levels (whichever is applicable) of leakage-type diaphragm failures or equivalent leakages, to determine the minimum level of common diaphragm leakage-type failure (or equivalent level of leakage from the air chamber containing that diaphragm) at which all of the mechanical means referred to in S5.6.3.2 continue to be actuated and hold the parking brake applications with sufficient parking retardation forces to meet the minimum performance specified in either S5.6.1 or S5.6.2. S5.6.7.2.2␣At the level of common diaphragm leakage-type failure (or equivalent level of leakage from the air chamber containing that diaphragm) determined in S5.6.7.2.1, and using the following procedure, determine the threshold maximum reservoir leakage rate (in psi per minute). With an initial reservoir system and supply line pressure of 100 psi, no application of any of the vehicle's brakes and, if the vehicle is designed to tow a vehicle equipped with air brakes, a 50 cubic inch test reservoir connected to the rear supply line coupling, make a parking brake application by venting the front supply line coupling to the atmosphere. Determine the maximum reservoir leakage rate (in psi per minute), which is the maximum rate of decrease in air pressure of any of the vehicle's reservoirs that results after that parking brake application. S5.6.7.2.3␣Using the following procedure, a leakage-type failure of the common diaphragm (or equivalent leakage from the air chamber containing that diaphragm) that results in a maximum reservoir leakage rate that is three times the threshold maximum reservoir leakage rate determined in S5.6.7.2.2. With an initial reservoir system and supply line pressure of 100 psi, no application of any of the vehicle's brakes and, if the vehicle is designed to tow a vehicle equipped with air brakes, a 50 cubic inch test reservoir connected to the rear supply line coupling, make a parking brake application by venting the front supply line coupling to the atmosphere. Determine the maximum reservoir leakage rate (in psi per minute), which is the maximum rate of decrease in air pressure of any of the vehicle's reservoirs that results after that parking brake application. The level of common diaphragm leakage-type failure (or equivalent level of leakage from the air chamber containing that diaphragm) associated with this reservoir leakage rate is the level that is to be used under the option set forth in S5.6(b). * * * * * S5.8.2␣Supply Line Pressure Retention. Any single leakage type failure in the service brake system (except for a failure of the supply line, a valve directly connected to the supply line or a component of a brake chamber housing) shall not result in the pressure in the supply line falling below 70 p.s.i., measured at the forward trailer supply coupling. A trailer shall meet the above supply line pressure retention requirement with its brake system connected to the trailer test rig shown in Figure 1, with the reservoirs of the trailer and test rig initially pressurized to 100 p.s.i. and the regulator of the trailer test rig set at 100 p.s.i.; except that a trailer equipped with an air-applied, mechanically-held parking brake system and not designed to tow a vehicle equipped with air brakes, at the manufacturer's option, may meet the requirements of S5.8.4 rather than those of S5.8.2 and S5.8.3. * * * * * S5.8.4␣ Automatic Application of Air-Applied, Mechanically Held Parking Brakes. With its brake system connected to the supply line portion of the trailer test rig (Figure 1) and the regulator of the trailer test rig set at 100 psi, and with any single leakage type failure in the service brake system (except for a failure of the supply line, a valve directly connected to the supply line or a component of a brake chamber, but including failure of any common diaphragm), the parking brakes shall not provide any brake retardation as a result of complete or partial automatic application of the parking brakes. * * * * * 3. Figure 1 of §571.121 is revised to appear as follows: BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSER14FE94.000 BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;C Issued on: February 9, 1994. Howard M. Smolkin, Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3364 Filed 2&hyph;9&hyph;94 3:11 pm] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
