FR941011-1-00027 FR941011-1-00012 (c) Labor-management agreements. If costs of compensation established under ``arm's length'' negotiated labor-management agreements are otherwise allowable, the costs are reasonable if, as applied to work in performing Government contracts, they are not determined to be unwarranted by the character and circumstances of the work or discriminatory against the Government. The application of the provisions of a labor-management agreement designed to apply to a given set of circumstances and conditions of employment (e.g., work involving extremely hazardous activities or work not requiring recurrent use of overtime) is unwarranted when applied to a Government contract involving significantly different circumstances and conditions of employment (e.g., work involving less hazardous activities or work continually requiring use of overtime). It is discriminatory against the Government if it results in employee compensation (in whatever form or name) in excess of that being paid for similar non-Government work under comparable circumstances. Disallowance of costs will not be made under this paragraph (c) unless_ (1) The contractor has been permitted an opportunity to justify the costs; and (2) Due consideration has been given to whether unusual conditions pertain to Government contract work, imposing burdens, hardships, or hazards on the contractor's employees, for which compensation that might otherwise appear unreasonable is required to attract and hold necessary personnel. (d) Form of payment. (1) Compensation for current services includes compensation paid (or to be paid in the future) to employees in the form of cash, corporate securities, such as stocks, bonds, and other financial instruments (see subparagraph (d)(2) of this subsection regarding valuation), or other assets, products, or services valued at fair market value. (2) When compensation is paid with securities of the contractor or of an affiliate, the following additional restrictions apply_ (i) Valuation placed on the securities shall be the fair market value on the measurement date (e.g., the first date the number of shares awarded is known) determined upon the most objective basis available; and (ii) Accruals for the cost of the securities before issuing the securities to the employees shall be subject to adjustment according to the possibilities that the employees will not receive the securities and that their interest in the accruals will be forfeited. * * * * * (f) Bonuses and incentive compensation. (1) Incentive compensation for management employees, cash bonuses, suggestion awards, safety awards, and incentive compensation based on production, cost reduction, or efficient performance are allowable provided the awards are paid or accrued under a written plan established before the services are rendered and the basis for the award is supported in writing according to the criteria in the plan (see also 31.205&hyph;6(a)(3)). (2) When the bonus and incentive compensation payments are deferred, the costs are subject to the requirements of subparagraph (f)(1) and paragraph (k) of this subsection. * * * * *
