FR940429-0-00168 FR940429-0-00015 Subpart B_Standards for Participation in the Title IV, HEA Programs Section 668.13␣Certification Procedures Period of participation. In response to concerns of many commenters about the consequences (particularly the potential for provisional certification) to a participating institution in the event that the Secretary does not complete a review of the institution's application prior to the expiration of the institution's program participation agreement, even if the institution had filed its renewal application in a timely manner, §668.13(b) is amended to provide that full certification will be extended on a month to month basis following the expiration of a program participation agreement where the institution's application for recertification was materially complete, and submitted at least 90 days prior to the expiration date. Provisional certification. In response to public comment, proposed §668.13(c)(1)(ii) that provided that the Secretary may provisionally certify an institution if the financial responsibility and administrative capability of the institution was being determined for the first time has been deleted from these regulations. Although this provision is statutory, the Secretary has decided that the other standards requiring the use of provisional certification are adequate to identify institutions that would be captured by this provision where greater monitoring and procedural restrictions are appropriate. Section 668.13(c)(2)(i) has been amended to clarify the maximum permissible length of periods of provisional certification. Upon further consideration, the Secretary has decided to repeat the language of the statute that provides that periods of participation under provisional certification should be for ``complete award years.'' So, for example, the regulations will permit the Secretary to provisionally certify an initial applicant for one complete award year, rather than for a period of 12 months as proposed in the February 28, 1994 NPRM. This will provide the Secretary with a complete award year of data on which to base determinations of further participation for the institution. In response to public comment, §668.13(d)(1) that lists the requirements for provisional certification to participate on a limited basis for institutions that are not financially responsible has been amended to make clear that the criteria of this section are not required for an institution that meets the exceptions to the general standards of financial responsibility under §668.15(d). In response to public comment §668.13(d)(1)(ii) has been amended to clarify that any required submission of a letter of credit must be in an amount and in a form acceptable to the Secretary. Proposed §668.13(d)(1)(iii)(B) has been revised, consistent with similar changes in §668.15(b) (3) and (4), to make clear how an institution demonstrates that it has met all of its financial obligations and is current in its debt payments. This provision is explained in greater detail in the section of the Analysis of Comments and Changes that addresses the factors of financial responsibility (§668.15). In response to public comment, §668.13(d)(2) has been clarified to explain that financial guarantees are only required if the institution comes within the requirements of §668.15(c)(2), or where the institution fails to demonstrate financial responsibility under its current audit and has failed to do so at least one other time under the standards in effect during the preceding five years. In response to public comment, a new paragraph (e) is added to §668.13 which provides for denial of certification to initial applicants for participation in a Title IV, HEA program and to participants that have undergone a change of ownership resulting in a change of control, if the State in which those applicants or participants are located does not participate in the State Postsecondary Review Program. This addition conforms these regulations to the requirements of the State Postsecondary Review Program in 34 CFR part 667, and provides some further explanation of the consequences to an institution if the State in which the institution is located does not participate in the State Postsecondary Review Program. Under paragraph (e), the Secretary may provisionally certify a participating institution or branch campus in that State. Section 668.13(c)(2)(ii) has also been revised to provide that the provisional certification of an institution under these circumstances expires at the end of the third complete award year following the date of the provisional certification. In response to public comment, a change has been made to provide for notices of revocation of provisional certification to be sent by certified mail, instead of registered mail. In response to public comment, §668.13(f)(4)(i) has been modified to provide that the official reviewing a request for reconsideration of provisional certification must be different from, and not subject to supervision by, the official that issued the notice of revocation. Section 668.14␣Program Participation Agreement In response to public comment, §668.14(b)(1) has been amended to clarify that an institution must comply with all special arrangements, agreements, or limitations entered into under the authority of statutes applicable to Title IV of the HEA. Corresponding changes have been made throughout the sections of 34 CFR part 668 and 34 CFR part 682 contained in this regulatory package. In response to public comment, §668.14(b)(4) has been amended to provide that an institution must provide information relating the administrative capability and financial responsibility of the information to a SPRE only if the institution was referred by the Secretary under 34 CFR 667.5. The proposed regulations prohibited any type of incentive payments, particularly those based on ``retention.'' In response to public comment, the Secretary has amended §668.14(b)(22) to allow that token gifts may be given to students or alumni for referring other students for admission to the institution, as long as: (1) The gift is not money, check or money order; (2) No more than one such gift is given to any student or alumnus; and (3) The value of the gift is no more than twenty-five dollars. In response to public comment, proposed §668.16(k) that requires that an institution: (1) Demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of the program and occupational entry level requirements and (2) establish the need for the training has been moved to §668.14(b)(26). Further, the requirements of this provision have been amended to require an institution to demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of the program and occupational entry level requirements established by any Federal agency.
