FR940428-2-00135 FR940428-2-00063 If the Subcommittee determines that a specialist has failed to adhere to one or more of the four standards or any issue receiving enhanced parity split participation, the Subcommittee must make a preliminary finding that the specialist should lose the enhanced participation privilege in that issue. The specialist will be notified of this finding and will be required to appear before the Subcommittee within five business days. At such meeting, the specialist bears the burden of overcoming the presumption of substandard performance. For example, a specialist might be able to overcome this presumption in the case where he has transacted less contracts than one ROT in his trading crowd during the review period. In this case, if the specialist can demonstrate that one large block trade occurred during the review period but for which that specialist would have been the lead market maker, the Subcommittee may determine that the specialist does not deserve to lose the enhanced participation privilege. Any decision of the Subcommittee must be in writing and must be delivered to the specialist on the next business day following the Subcommittee meeting at which the decision was made. A decision to revoke the privilege will be effective on the next business day after receipt of the decision by the specialist. A specialist who has lost the privilege may reapply for it at the Subcommittee's next scheduled review and the specialist may be granted reinstatement if the Subcommittee finds that the condition which initially caused the revocation of the enhanced participation privilege has been cured and that no other problems exist. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 6 of the Act in general, and with section 6(b)(5), 3 in particular, in that it is designed to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, promote just and equitable principles of trade, and protect investors and the public interest. 3 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Phlx does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants or Others The Exchange represents that two comment letters were received from Exchange members 4 and considered at the September 8, 1993 Exchange Board of Governors (``Board'') meeting. Generally, the Phlx states that the authors of the comment letters asserted that the proposed rule may be a disincentive to market makers to compete and add liquidity to the marketplace. According to the Exchange, the letters expressed a concern that there was no evidence that this enhanced participation would benefit the Exchange and the public. One commenter recommended a yearly review procedure and an on-going performance standard (both of which have been included in the proposal approved by the Board). Another argument raised related to the procedure for choosing which 50% of a specialist's options would be eligible for the enhanced participation. There was a concern that if the top 50% of the most active issues were subject to the rule, over 90% of the total Exchange volume would be subject to the enhanced specialist participation. The Exchange believes this concern has been addressed by adopting the quartile approach. 4 See Letter from Robert H. Miller, II, M & G Investments, to Board of Governors, Phlx, dated September 7, 1993; and Letter from Jay Mizrahi, PJ Shoreline Securities, to Board of Governors, Phlx, dated September 8, 1993. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 522, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Phlx. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;12 and should be submitted by May 19, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 5 5 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10089 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8016&hyph;01&hyph;M
