FR940627-0-00229 FR940627-0-00019 (iii) Each laboratory or other study area shall have immediately available manuals and standard operating procedures relative to the laboratory procedures being performed. Published literature may be used as a supplement to standard operating procedures. (iv) A historical file of standard operating procedures, and all revisions thereof, including the dates of such revisions, shall be maintained. (2) Reagents and solutions. All reagents and solutions in the laboratory areas shall be labeled to indicate identity, titer or concentration, storage requirements, and expiration date. Deteriorated or outdated reagents and solutions shall not be used. (3) Animal and other test system care. (i) There shall be standard operating procedures for the housing, feeding, handling, and care of animals and other test systems. (ii) All newly received test systems from outside sources shall be isolated and their health status or appropriateness for the study shall be evaluated. This evaluation shall be in accordance with acceptable veterinary medical practice or scientific methods. (iii) At the initiation of a study, test systems shall be free of any disease or condition that might interfere with the purpose or conduct of the study. If during the course of the study, the test systems contract such a disease or condition, the diseased test systems shall be isolated, if necessary. These test systems may be treated for disease or signs of disease provided that such treatment does not interfere with the study. The diagnosis, authorization of treatment, description of treatment, and each date of treatment shall be documented and shall be retained. (iv) When laboratory procedures require test animals to be manipulated and observed over an extended period of time or when studies require test animals to be removed from and returned to their housing units for any reason (e.g., cage cleaning, treatment, etc.), these test systems shall receive appropriate identification (e.g., tattoo, color code, etc.). Test system identification shall conform with current laboratory animal handling practice. All information needed to specifically identify each test system within the test system-housing unit shall appear on the outside of that unit. Suckling animals are excluded from the requirement of individual identification unless otherwise specified in the protocol. (v) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(v)(A) of this section, test animals of different species shall be housed in separate rooms when necessary. Test animals of the same species, but used in different studies, shall not ordinarily be housed in the same room when inadvertent exposure to the test or reference substances or test system mixup could affect the outcome of either study. If such mixed housing is necessary, adequate differentiation by space and identification shall be made. (A) Test systems that may be used in multispecies tests need not be housed in separate rooms, provided that they are adequately segregated to avoid mixup and cross-contamination. (B) [reserved] (vi) Cages, racks, pens, enclosures, and other holding, rearing, and breeding areas, and accessory equipment, shall be cleaned and sanitized at appropriate intervals. (vii) Feed and water used for the test animals shall be analyzed periodically to ensure that contaminants known to be capable of interfering with the study and reasonably expected to be present in such feed or water are not present at greater than trace levels. Documentation of such analyses shall be maintained as raw data. (viii) Bedding used in animal cages or pens shall not interfere with the purpose or conduct of the study and shall be changed as often as necessary to keep the animals dry and clean. (ix) If any pest control materials are used, the use shall be documented. Cleaning and pest control materials that interfere with the study shall not be used.
