FR941116-2-00134 FR941116-2-00096 • Storage/Support _Warehousing and related storage including operations and maintenance support. • Parking _Sufficient for a minimum of 70 vehicles. Other factors that influence the suitability and cost of facilities necessary to operate a Job Corps center include the following: Configuration of Facility The preferred configuration of a facility is a campus-type environment permitting a self-contained center with all space requirements located on-site. Low-rise buildings such as those commonly found in public school and college settings are preferred. The Office of Job Corps has developed prototype designs for selected facilities where new construction is necessary. Parties interested in obtaining copies of these designs may do so by contacting the Office of Job Corps at the address shown above. Location of Facilities Facilities should be located in areas where neighbors are supportive and no major pervasive community opposition exists. Past experience indicates that commercial, light industrial, and rural locations are most desirable in this regard, while high-value residential locations are the least conducive to community acceptance. In addition, access to emergency medical services and fire and law enforcement assistance should be within reasonable distances. If non-residential enrollment is planned, direct and easy access to the center by public transportation is an important consideration. Moreover, proposed sites should be within reasonable commuting distance of planned linkages with other programs and services and easy access to transportation to these linkages should be available. Locations with major environmental issues, zoning restrictions, flood plain and storm drainage requirements, or uncertainty regarding utility connections that cannot be resolved efficiently and in a timely manner are less than desirable. Likewise, a facility with buildings which are eligible under the National Historical Preservation Act may receive less than favorable consideration, due to restrictions on and costs for renovation. Communities are encouraged to hold public hearings in close proximity to the facilities being proposed to ascertain the level of community support for a Job Corps center. The Office of Job Corps has developed a 12-minute video (available in English and Spanish) which provides an overview of the Job Corps program and can be useful in informing the local community about Job Corps. Any proposer interested in obtaining a copy of either version of this video may contact the Office of Job Corps at the address shown above. Own/Lease Ownership is preferred over leased facilities, since most facilities will require a substantial investment of construction funds to make the site suitable for Job Corps utilization. Exceptions are long-term leases ( e.g. , 25 years or longer) at a nominal cost ( e.g., $1/year). Size The size (capacity) of Job Corps centers can vary substantially. However, centers with a capacity of less than approximately 275 students are relatively cost-inefficient in terms of operating cost. Centers above approximately 500 students are less desirable from a programmatic and management standpoint.
