FR941019-2-00140 FR941019-2-00081 Judiciary Center Building, 555 4th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20001. October 6, 1994. Jack E. Brown, Esquire, Brown & Bain, P.A., 2901 North Central Avenue, P.O. Box 400, Phoenix, Arizona 85001&hyph;0400 Thomas D. Barr, Esquire, Cravath, Swayne & Moore, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10019 Re: Response to Comment on Proposed Final Judgment U.S. v. Pilkington plc and Pilkington Holdings, Inc., CIV 94&hyph;345 TUC WDB (D. Ariz.), filed May 25, 1994 Dear Messrs. Brown and Barr: This letter responds to the Comments of PPG Industries, Inc. [``PPG''] on Proposed Final Judgment, Stipulation and Competitive Impact Statement (``Comments'') submitted to the Antitrust Division over your names on August 13, 1994. The Comments include a ``Preliminary Statement'' that summarizes certain representations by Defendants to the press that, in your words, indicate that ``Pilkington *␣*␣* intends to continue engaging in [its prior anticompetitive] behavior to the degree that the consent decree allows it.'' You further assert that ``[b]ased on Pilkington's own statements *␣*␣* protection of the public interest counsels modification or clarification of the Proposed Final Judgment'' in eleven specific ways. Before addressing your eleven specific proposed changes, we would point out that the text of the proposed Final Judgment (``Judgment''), rather than Pilkington's characterization thereof in its own press releases, controls what it will be permitted and required to do. Thus, contrary to Pilkington's public claim, which you quote, that the restraints Pilkington has imposed under the guise of ``protection and licensing of its total float technology, throughout the rest of the world, remain unaffected,'' the Judgment will in fact enjoin Pilkington from anticompetitive practices throughout the world to the extent that those practices are aimed at U.S.-based entities seeking to use float technology anywhere, or are aimed at anyone else seeking to use float technology in North America. That is, Pilkington's specified anticompetitive conduct is enjoined insofar as it is within the jurisdiction of the U.S. antitrust laws. The competitive effect of Pilkington's ability, also referred to in the portion of Pilkington's press release that you quote, to acquire ``normal licensing'' of its ``recent float bath technology,'' must be considered in the light of its ready concession to the United States during settlement negotiations that very little significant technology of that kind exists. A good measure of the near-absence of such significant recent technology, as you must certainly realize, in that float glass manufactured in this country by PPG and others who have not been licensed to use this ``recent technology'' has been quite competitive with Pilkington's subsidiary's production. The standard we have applied in assessing your eleven specific proposals for modification or clarification is whether it is in the public interest to enter the Judgment that has been submitted for entry by stipulation. Entry is in the public interest if the Judgment is adequate to remedy the antitrust violations alleged in the Complaint. United States v. Bechtel Corp. , 1979&hyph;1 Trade Cas. (CCH) ¶62,430 (N.D. Cal. 1979), aff'd , 648 F. 2d 660, 665 (9th Cir. 1981), cert. denied , 454 U.S. 1083 (1982). 1. You propose, in the alternative, to change subparagraph IV.A.1 of the Judgment to provide that all obligations of U.S. LICENSEES 1 under all LICENSE AGREEMENTS are declared null, void, and unenforceable, or alternatively ``at a minimum'' to make four specific changes in that paragraph. As to your first proposed alternative, the Department of Justice does not agree that it is in the public interest to withhold entry of the Judgment on the ground that it does not totally render these agreements null, void, and unenforceable. We believe, rather, that the existing provisions of subparagraph IV.A. protect the interest of the public by restoring competition and remedying the violation with regard to the ability of U.S. LICENSEES to compete freely in float glass process technology and float glass markets. In that regard, we would point out that in the Complaint in PPG Industries, Inc. v. Pilkington plc et al. , Civil Action CIV 92&hyph;753 TUC WDB (D. Ariz.) the relief you seek is for the Court to declare null, void, and unenforceable only ``the anticompetitive restraints in the Pilkington license agreements,'' and not the agreements themselves, relief that is essentially like that provided in the Judgment rather than that which now you propose. 1 Capitalized terms have the meanings assigned to them in Paragraph II of the Judgment. As an alternative to the above, you make a four-part proposal, to which we have the following responses:
