FR941013-2-00073 FR941013-2-00057 •Provides special analyses of beneficiary enrollment and disenrollment data to monitor managed care membership. •Provides training to plans and ROs on enrollment, disenrollment, and other operational systems processes and requirements. •Develops and implements a long-term strategy for data systems improvements including: improved enrollment data, quality performance standards tracking, and minimum data sets. •Develops a policy database information system. Evaluates the effectiveness of existing and new managed care data systems and implements improvements. •Works with Federal, State, and the managed care industry on formats and methodologies for collecting and reporting encounter data and other accountability measures. •Serves as the Project Officer for contracts to support OMC's data needs. •Produces user-friendly reports of managed care statistics and trends. •Identifies and utilizes software tools for program improvement. Serves as trouble shooter and provides assistance to OMC components on systems matters. •Conducts continual monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of systems security for OMC to assure confidentiality. •Proposes policy changes in law, regulations, manual instructions, and procedures related to Data Development and Support to OMC's Program Policy and Improvement component. d. Beneficiary Access and Education Team (FAD3) •Serves as the beneficiary advocate regarding access and protection in Federal and State contracts with managed care plans and the development of Federal and State policies affecting health plans. Advises on health plan performance standards to assure beneficiary protection. •Plans, directs, and implements educational efforts to improve beneficiary information on health care plans. Develops consumer information comparison charts and other educational tools to facilitate beneficiary understanding of health care choices. •Conducts beneficiary focus groups to determine beneficiary understanding of managed health care options including: respective costs, benefits or quality, and improved consumers education. •Serves as liaison to the Social Security Administration and States to distribute information on managed health plan options to beneficiaries. •Serves as the Federal focal point for providing information on beneficiary choice, including presentation of managed care options to State Health Insurance Counselling Projects. Develops an annual listing of managed care choices available to Medicare beneficiaries. •Plans, conducts, and participates in joint educational initiatives on health plan choices with other payers for retirees, including Department of Defense, employers, and employer coalitions. •Develops and implements a strategy of promoting Medicare and Medicaid managed care programs to the plan and employer industries, in conjunction with the Office of the Associate Administrator for Customer Relations and Communications. Develops Federal initiatives to promote health education and prevention for beneficiaries in health plans. •Serves as Project Officer for an external contract to conduct reconsideration decisions for health plan appeals from beneficiaries. Serves as the focal point for policy guidance to the contractor. Disseminates data from reconsideration contract to OMC and ROs. •Uses program data, including data from the reconsideration contract and other sources, to conduct analyses of beneficiary access and utilization of health care services. Identifies problems and recommends solutions as appropriate. •Develops marketing standards for Medicare contracting plans and reviews contractor strategies. •Responds to beneficiary concerns, including Congressional and other inquiries. Develops model beneficiary satisfaction surveys that can be used by plans to determine beneficiary satisfaction with health plan services. •Proposes policy changes in law, regulations, manual instructions, and procedures related to Beneficiary Access and Education to OMC's Program Policy and Improvement component. e. Program Policy and Improvement Team (FAD4) •Develops managed care policies reflecting OMC's vision, Department of Health and Human Services and HCFA initiatives, and Congressional mandates. Serves as the focal point for health care reform issues within OMC. •Coordinates policy development within OMC, assuring input and recommendations of the affected OMC components. Serves as a policy development resource for OMC components. Coordinates policy development between OMC and other HCFA, Office of General Counsel, and other policy components. •Serves as the focal point for managed care policy. Plans, develops and prepares policy documents including legislative proposals, regulatory specifications, policy analysis, instructions, and procedures. Develops legislative proposals to improve managed care programs. Serves as legislative liaison for OMC components.
