FR940428-2-00151 FR940428-2-00072 The Director may consider the issuance of individual permits when: 1. The discharger is not in compliance with the terms and conditions of the general permit; 2. A change has occurred in the availability of demonstrated technology or practices for the control or abatement of pollutants applicable to the point source; 3. Effluent limitations guidelines are subsequently promulgated for the point sources covered by the general NPDES permit; 4. A Water Quality Management plan containing requirements applicable to such point sources is approved; or 5. Circumstances have changed since the time of the request to be covered so that the discharger is no longer appropriately controlled under the general permit, or either a temporary or permanent reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge is necessary; 6. The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollution. In accordance with 40 CFR 122.28(b)(3)(iv), the applicability of the general permit is automatically terminated on the effective date of the individual permit. III. Description of Non-Contact Cooling Water Discharges The proposed general permits are for: (1) Massachusetts operators of any facilities with non-contact cooling water discharges; (2) Maine operators of facilities with non-contact cooling water discharges; (3) New Hampshire operators of any facilities with non-contact cooling water discharges. Non-contact cooling water is water used to reduce temperature which does not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product (other than heat) or finished product. Non-contact cooling water discharges are similar in composition even though they are not generated by a single industrial category or point source. The similarity of the discharges has prompted EPA to prepare this general permit. When issued, this permit will enable facilities to maintain compliance with the Act and will extend environmental and regulatory controls to a large number of discharges and reduce some permit backlog. The issuance of this general permit for the geographic areas described below is warranted by the similarity of (a) environmental conditions, (b) State regulatory requirements applicable to the discharges and receiving waters, and (c) technology employed. In the State of Maine there are 271 industrial applicants or permittees. It is estimated that 12 of the industries that have direct discharges to the waters of the State are strictly non-contact cooling water. In the State of New Hampshire there are 178 industrial applications or permittees. It is estimated that over 30 of the industries that have direct discharges to the waters of the State are strictly non-contact cooling water. In the Commonwealth of Massachusetts there are 651 industrial applicants or permittees. It is estimated that over 200 of the industries that have direct discharges to the waters of the State are strictly non-contact cooling water. IV. Conditions of the General NPDES Permit A. Geographic Areas Maine (Permit No. MEG250000). All of the discharges to be authorized by the general NPDES permit for dischargers located in the State of Maine are into all waters of the State unless otherwise restricted by Title 38, Article 4&hyph;A, Water Classification Program (or as revised). Massachusetts (Permit No. MAG250000). All of the discharges to be authorized by the general NPDES permit for dischargers in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts are into all waters of the Commonwealth unless otherwise restricted by the Massachusetts Surface Water Quality Standards, 314 CMR 4.00 (or as revised), including 314 CMR 4.04(3) Protection of Outstanding Resource Waters. New Hampshire (Permit No. NHG250000). All of the discharges to be authorized by the general NPDES permit for dischargers in the State of New Hampshire are into all waters of the State of New Hampshire unless otherwise restricted by the State Water Quality Standards, New Hampshire RSA 485&hyph;A:8 (or as revised). B. Notification by Permittees Operators of facilities whose discharge, or discharges, are non-contact cooling water and whose facilities are located in the geographic areas described in Part IV.A. above may submit to the Regional Administrator, Region I, a notice of intent to be covered by the appropriate general permit within 180 days of the effective date of the general permit. This written notification must include the owner's or operator's legal name and address; the facility name and address; the number and type of facilities to be covered; the facility location(s); a topographic map (or other map if a topographic map is not available) indicating the facility location(s); the name(s) of the receiving waters into which discharge will occur; a determination as to whether or not the facility discharge will adversely affect a listed or proposed to be listed endangered or threatened species or its critical habitat (See Part E.); and in the State of Maine, only, a special list of water treatment chemicals used by the facility. Facilities located in Massachusetts or New Hampshire that intend to be covered under this general permit must also submit a formal certification with the notice of intent that no chemical additives are used in their non-contact cooling water systems. Each facility must also certify that the discharge consists solely of non-contact cooling water, no other waste stream discharges will be permitted under this general permit.
