FR940505-1-00497 FR940505-1-00012 (10) Repairs and maintenance. Routine repairs or maintenance not involving changes to any equipment for which a permit has been granted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (11) Other equipment. Other equipment authorized for exemption by the EPA and which would emit less than 2 pounds in any 24-hour period of any pollutants without the benefit of air pollution control devices. (e) Administrative requirements. (1) Posting. A person who has been granted a permit to operate any article, machine, equipment, or other contrivance described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall maintain a legible copy of said permit on the premises of the subject equipment. Other information, analysis, plans or specifications which disclose the nature, extent, quantity, or degree of air contaminants which are or may be discharged from such source shall be readily available for inspection by the EPA. (2) Altering of permit. A person shall not willfully deface, alter, forge, counterfeit, or falsify an Authority to Construct any article, machine, equipment, or other contrivance described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. A permit amendment or revision requested by the owner or operator, other than an administrative permit amendment or an amendment pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, shall require the filing of an application. For an administrative permit amendment, a responsible official may implement the change addressed in the written request immediately upon submittal of the request. (i) After designating the permit revisions as an administrative permit amendment, the EPA may revise the permit without providing notice to the public or any affected state. (ii) The EPA shall provide a copy of the revised permit to the responsible official. (iii) While the EPA need not make a completeness determination on a written request, the EPA shall notify the responsible official if it determines that the permit can not be revised as an administrative permit amendment. (3) Applications. An application for an Authority to Construct, Permit to Operate, change of ownership, or an application for a permit amendment, permit reopening, or revision shall be filed in the manner and form prescribed by the EPA, and shall give all the information necessary to enable the EPA to make the determinations required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section and ยง52.3001, New Source Review. (i) A responsible official representing the owner or operator shall certify the truth, accuracy and completeness of application forms. (ii) When the information submitted with the application is insufficient for the EPA to make the determination required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section, ยง52.3001, and any other applicable rule, regulation, or order, a responsible official shall supplement any complete application with additional information upon the written request of the EPA within the time frame specified by the EPA. (iii) A responsible official shall promptly provide additional information in writing to the EPA upon discovery of submittal of any inaccurate information as part of the application or as a supplement thereto, or of any additional relevant facts previously omitted which are needed for accurate analysis of the application. (iv) Intentional or negligent submittal of inaccurate information shall be reason for denial of an application. (v) An application for an Authority to Construct, permit amendment or revision shall be accompanied by payment of the application filing fee as determined by the EPA. (vi) An application for an Authority to Construct shall be accompanied by evidence of a sufficient number of authorized emission reduction credits, to meet any offset obligation in accordance with ยง52.3001, New Source Review. (4) Action on applications. The EPA shall notify the applicant in writing of its approval, conditional approval, suspension, or denial of the application for an Authority to Construct. (i) In the event said notification or notification of application completeness pursuant to ยง52.3001, New Source Review, is not received by the applicant within 30 days of the filing of the application, or within 30 days of providing further information as required by paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the applicant may, at his or her option, deem the application to construct denied. (ii) Service of said notification may be made in person or by mail, and such service may be proved by the written acknowledgement of the person(s) served or affidavit of the person making the service.
