FR940128-2-00181 FR940128-2-00118 Availability of Funds; Employment and Training Needs of Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration (DOL/ETA), announces the availability of funds for a demonstration project to encourage and promote innovative responses to the employment and training needs of migrant and seasonal farmworkers. This notice describes the application process, possible demonstration models, how grantees will be selected and the responsibility of the grantee. One (1) grant, not to exceed $550,000 will be awarded on a competitive basis. This grant will be for a 12 month period with the possibility of 2 option years. The Department reserves the option to fund additional demonstration projects, based on a review and evaluation of applications received as a result of this solicitation. Applications with proposed costs in excess of $550,000 will not be considered. DATES: Applications for grant awards will be accepted commencing January 28, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications shall be March 14, 1994, at 2 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time) at the address below. ADDRESSES: Mail on hand deliver applications to: U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Office of Grants and Contract Management, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, room S4203, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. Attention: Irene Taylor-Pindle or Shirley Horton. Reference SGA/DAA&hyph;94&hyph;001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Irene Taylor-Pindle or Ms. Shirley Horton, Division of Acquisition and Assistance. Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;8702. (This is not a toll free number.). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This solicitation consists of four parts. Part I provides the background and purpose of the demonstration project(s). Part II identifies possible demonstration models. Part III describes the application process and provides detailed guidelines for use in applying for the demonstration grant and the selection criteria used in reviewing the applications. Part IV describes the reporting requirements. Part I. Background Studies have indicated that although large numbers of farmworkers actively leave agricultural employment annually, equally large numbers depend on continued long-term employment in agriculture for their livelihood. For those seeking to leave agriculture, programs annually funded under section 402 of the JTPA offer classroom and skill training leading to employment opportunities. Farmworkers opting to remain in agriculture are dependent on an agricultural employment system that is at times affected by weather conditions and changing local labor market needs and economic factors, but is always constant in its unforgiving working conditions and long term negative effect on the farmworker's health and economic well being. The Department is interested in aiding farmworkers seeking employment opportunities and a future outside of agriculture, while at the same time stabilizing the farm labor force by providing labor market information and enhancing the skills and well being of farmworkers (and their dependents) wishing to remain in agriculture. The Department of Labor is focusing this solicitation on demonstration efforts that will address issues that directly impact the daily lives of farmworkers_both seasonal and migrant.
