FR941207-1-00004 FR941207-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;159&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Boeing Model 737&hyph;100 and &hyph;200 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Boeing Model 737&hyph;100 and &hyph;200 series airplanes. This proposal would require various inspections for cracks in the outboard chord of the frame at Body Station (BS) 727 and in the outboard chord of Stringer 18A; and repair or replacement of cracked parts. This proposal is prompted by reports of fatigue cracks in those outboard chords. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent such fatigue cracking, which could result in reduced structural integrity of the outboard chords, and subsequent rapid decompression of the airplane. DATES: Comments must be received by February 3, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;ANM&hyph;159&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Boeing Commercial Airplane Group, P.O. Box 3707, Seattle, Washington 98124&hyph;2207. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas Rodriguez, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANM&hyph;120S, Seattle Aircraft Certification Office, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2779; fax (206) 227&hyph;1181. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;159&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;159&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The FAA has received several reports of cracking on Boeing Model 737&hyph;100 and &hyph;200 series airplanes in the outboard chord of the frame at Body Station (BS) 727 where Stringer 18A is attached. There also have been reports of cracking in the outboard chord of Stringer 18A. These cracks were found on eight airplanes that had accumulated between 39,000 and 54,100 flight hours, and between 56,200 and 73,200 flight cycles. The cracks have been determined to be caused by fatigue that was initiated by fretting of adjacent parts. Fatigue cracks in the chords, if not detected and corrected in a timely manner, could result in reduced structural integrity of the structure, and subsequent rapid decompression of the airplane. The FAA has reviewed and approved Boeing Alert Service Bulletin 737&hyph;53A1166, dated June 30, 1994, which describes procedures for the following repetitive inspections: 1. Close visual inspections to detect cracking of the edge of the forward flange of the outboard chord of the frame at BS 727; 2. High frequency eddy current (HFEC) inspections to detect cracking of the fastener holes in the outboard chord of the frame at BS 727; 3. Pulse echo shear wave (PESW) inspections to detect cracking in the area of the two forward lower fastener holes in the outboard chord where Stringer 18A is attached; and 4. HFEC inspections to detect cracking of the outboard surface of the outboard chord of Stringer 18A at Station 727 and of the surface around the heads of two fasteners. The alert service bulletin also describes procedures for either the installation of a time-limited repair or the replacement of the chords, if any crack is found in the outboard chord of the frame at BS 727. (The alert service bulletin references Boeing Service Bulletin 737&hyph;53&hyph;1088 as an additional source of service information for replacement of the outboard chords.) In addition, the alert service bulletin describes procedures for installation of a preventative modification, which, when accomplished, eliminates the need for repetitive inspections. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would require various inspections for cracks in the outboard chord of the frame at BS 727 and in the outboard chord of Stringer 18A; and repair or replacement of cracked parts. The proposed AD would also provide for an optional terminating action for the required inspections. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. As a result of recent communications with the Air Transport Association (ATA) of America, the FAA has learned that, in general, some operators may misunderstand the legal effect of AD's on airplanes that are identified in the applicability provision of the AD, but that have been altered or repaired in the area addressed by the AD. Under these circumstances, at least one operator appears to have incorrectly assumed that its airplane was not subject to an AD. On the contrary, all airplanes identified in the applicability provision of an AD are legally subject to the AD. If an airplane has been altered or repaired in the affected area in such a way as to affect compliance with the AD, the owner or operator is required to obtain FAA approval for an alternative method of compliance with the AD, in accordance with the paragraph of each AD that provides for such approvals. A note has been included in this notice to clarify this requirement. There are approximately 999 Boeing Model 737&hyph;100 and &hyph;200 series airplanes of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 296 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 4 work hours per airplane to accomplish each of the proposed inspections, and that the average labor rate is $60 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the inspection requirements of this proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $71,040, or $240 per airplane, per inspection cycle. Should an operator elect to accomplish the optional terminating action that would be provided by this AD action, it would take approximately 50 work hours to accomplish it, at an average labor rate of $60 per work hour. Required parts would cost approximately $3,680 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of this optional terminating action is estimated to be $6,680 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES.
