FR940513-0-00016 FR940513-0-00003 (l) OFI means other financing institutions that have established an access relationship with a Farm Credit Bank or an agricultural credit bank under section 1.7(b)(1)(B) of the Act. (m) Officer means the chief executive officer, president, chief operating officer, vice president, secretary, treasurer, general counsel, chief financial officer, and chief credit officer of each System institution, and any person not so designated who holds a similar position of authority. (n) Ordinary course of business, when applied to a transaction, means: (1) A transaction that is usual and customary between two persons who are in business together; or (2) A transaction with a person who is in the business of offering the goods or services that are the subject of the transaction on terms that are not preferential. Preferential means that the transaction is not on the same terms as those prevailing at the same time for comparable transactions for other persons who are not directors or employees of a System institution. (o) Person means individual or entity. (p) Relative means any member of the family as defined in paragraph (g) of this section. (q) Service organization means each service organization authorized by section 4.25 of the Act, and each unincorporated service organization formed by one or more System institutions. (r) Standards of Conduct Official means the official designated under ยง612.2170 of these regulations. (s) Supervised institution is a term which only applies within the context of a System bank or an employee of a System bank and refers to each association supervised by that bank. (t) Supervising institution is a term that only applies within the context of an association or an employee of an association and refers to the bank that supervises that association. (u) System institution and institution mean any bank, association, or service organization in the Farm Credit System, including the Farm Credit Banks, banks for cooperatives, agricultural credit banks, Federal land bank associations, agricultural credit associations, Federal land credit associations, production credit associations, the Federal Farm Credit Banks Funding Corporation, and service organizations. ยง612.2135 Director and employee responsibilities and conduct_generally. (a) Directors and employees of all System institutions shall maintain high standards of industry, honesty, integrity, impartiality, and conduct in order to ensure the proper performance of System business and continued public confidence in the System and each of its institutions. The avoidance of misconduct and conflicts of interest is indispensable to the maintenance of these standards. (b) To achieve these high standards of conduct, directors and employees shall observe, to the best of their abilities, the letter and intent of all applicable local, state, and Federal laws and regulations and policy statements, instructions, and procedures of the Farm Credit Administration and System institutions and shall exercise diligence and good judgment in carrying out their duties, obligations, and responsibilities. ยง612.2140 Directors_prohibited conduct. A director of a System institution shall not: (a) Participate, directly or indirectly, in deliberations on, or the determination of, any matter affecting, directly or indirectly, the financial interest of the director, any relative of the director, any person residing in the director's household, any business partner of the director, or any entity controlled by the director or such persons (alone or in concert), except those matters of general applicability that affect all shareholders/borrowers in a nondiscriminatory way, e.g., a determination of interest rates. (b) Divulge or make use of, except in the performance of official duties, any fact, information, or document not generally available to the public that is acquired by virtue of serving on the board of a System institution. (c) Use the director's position to obtain or attempt to obtain special advantage or favoritism for the director, any relative of the director, any person residing in the director's household, any business partner of the director, any entity controlled by the director or such persons (alone or in concert), any other System institution, or any person transacting business with the institution, including borrowers and loan applicants. (d) Use the director's position or information acquired in connection with the director's position to solicit or obtain, directly or indirectly, any gift, fee, or other present or deferred compensation or for any other personal benefit on behalf of the director, any relative of the director, any person residing in the director's household, any business partner of the director, any entity controlled by the director or such persons (alone or in concert), any other System institution, or any person transacting business with the institution, including borrowers and loan applicants. (e) Accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, fee, or other present or deferred compensation that is offered or could reasonably be viewed as being offered to influence official action or to obtain information that the director has access to by reason of serving on the board of a System institution.
