FR941104-1-00020 FR941104-1-00002 §353.104 Notification of rights and obligations. When an agency separates, places on leave of absence, restores or fails to restore an employee because of military duty or compensable injury, it shall notify the employee of his or her rights, obligations, and benefits relating to Government employment, including any appeal rights to the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB) as required by §1201.21 of this title, or where appropriate, the right to grieve under a negotiated grievance procedure. However, regardless of notification, an employee is still obligated to exercise due diligence in ascertaining his or her rights, and to seek reemployment within the time limits provided by chapter 43 of title 38 of the U.S. Code, for reemployment after military service or as soon as he or she is able after a compensable injury. §353.105 Maintenance of records. Each agency shall identify the position vacated by an employee who is injured or leaves to enter on military duty. It shall also maintain the necessary records to assure that all such employees are preserved the rights and benefits granted by this law and this part. §353.106 Personnel actions during employee's absence. (a) Agency promotion plans must provide a mechanism by which employees who are absent because of military duty or compensable injury can be considered for promotion. (b) An employee whose position is reclassified while he or she is absent because of military duty or compensable injury shall be considered for that position in accordance with the provisions in part 335 of this chapter. §353.107 Status upon reemployment. Upon reemployment, an employee who was absent on military duty or because of compensable injury is generally entitled to be treated as though he or she had never left. This means the entire period from the time the employee entered military service or was injured until he or she was reemployed is creditable for purposes of rights and benefits based upon seniority and length of service, including within-grade increases, career tenure, completion of probation, and leave rate accrual. §353.108 Effect of performance and conduct on restoration rights. The laws covered by this part do not permit an agency to circumvent the protections afforded by other laws to employees who face the involuntary loss of their positions. Thus, an employee may not be denied restoration rights because of poor performance or conduct that occurred prior to the employee's departure for compensable injury or military duty. However, separation for cause that is substantially unrelated to the injury or to the performance of military duty negates restoration rights. If during the period of injury or military duty the employee's conduct is such that it would disqualify him or her for employment under OPM or agency regulations, restoration rights may be denied. §353.109 Transfer of function to another agency. If the function of an employee absent on military duty or compensable injury is transferred to another agency, and if the employee would have been transferred with the function under part 351 of this chapter had he or she not been absent, the employee is entitled to be reinstated to a position in the gaining agency that is equivalent to the one he or she left. It shall also assume the obligation to restore the employee in accordance with law and this part. §353.110 OPM placement assistance. (a) Employee returning from military duty.
