FR940706-0-00099 FR940706-0-00016 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Roy Nanovic, Office of General Counsel, Bureau of Prisons, phone (202) 514&hyph;6655. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Bureau of Prisons is amending its regulations on Smoking/No Smoking Areas. A final rule on this subject was published in the Federal Register on November 16, 1989 (54 FR 47753). On February 8, 1994, the Bureau of Prisons published a proposed rule requiring that ``smoking areas'' to be designated by Wardens at medical referral centers and at minimum security institutions shall ordinarily be outside of all buildings and away from all entrances so as not to expose others to second-hand smoke. As for the remaining Bureau institutions, the proposed rule specifies that the Warden may, but is not required to, designate indoor smoking areas in addition to outdoor smoking areas. The proposed rule also reorganized and revised the regulations for the sake of clarity and to avoid redundancy. For example, the regulations had contained cross references qualifying those locations where smoking ordinarily was not permitted. Because the Warden is responsible for designating smoking areas, ordinarily only where the needs of effective operations so require, the Bureau deems it unnecessary to list in its revised regulations specific locations which would still be subject to the Warden's discretion. The listing of these locations has therefore been removed from the regulation, but remains as guidance in implementing instructions to staff. The revised regulations also contain a nomenclature change in which the title ``Warden'' has been substituted for ``Chief Executive Officer''. The comment period closed on April 11, 1994. The Bureau received comments from only one respondent. The commenter, a public health interest group, stated that it supported the proposal and believed it to be an important health measure. The commenter further recommended that in the cases in which the Warden decides to designate an indoor smoking area, the area should be separately ventilated so that the air is vented directly to the outside and does not mix with the air circulating in other parts of the facility. Finally, the commenter stated that it believed it essential that smoking cessation services for employees and inmates be made available as part of a policy for a smokefree environment. In response to these comments, the Bureau wishes to note that guidance on ventilation requirements for indoor smoking areas is provided in its internal instructions to staff. Given the limited number of indoor smoking areas which may be authorized under ยง551.163(b) and the constraints of operations in a correctional setting, the Bureau believes it unnecessary to include more specific direction in its regulations. The Bureau also wishes to note that separate policy on the provisioning of wellness programs to staff and to inmates does allow for participation in smoking cessation programs. While budget and staff limitations initially may limit such staff and inmate participation to those institutions most affected by the revised regulations, the Bureau is committed to extending program opportunities at all facilities. Therefore, in light of the above comment and agency response, the Bureau is adopting the proposed amendments as a final rule without change. The Bureau of Prisons has determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action for the purpose of E.O. 12866, and accordingly this rule was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. After review of the law and regulations, the Director, Bureau of Prisons has certified that this rule, for the purpose of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354), does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 551 Prisoners. Kathleen M. Hawk, Director, Bureau of Prisons.
