FR940927-0-00018 FR940927-0-00002 (b) You must plant the crop in a manner that results in a clear and discernable break in the planting pattern at the boundaries of each optional unit. (c) You must have records of measurement of stored or marketed production from each optional unit maintained in such a manner that we can verify the production from each optional unit or the production from each unit must be kept separate until after loss adjustment under the policy is completed. (d) Each optional unit must meet one or more of the following criteria as applicable: (1) Optional Units by Section, Section Equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number: Optional units may be established if each optional unit is located in a separate legally identified Section. In the absence of Sections, we may consider parcels of land legally identified by other methods of measure including, but not limited to: Spanish grants, railroad surveys, leagues, labors, or Virginia Military Lands as the equivalent of Sections for unit purposes. In areas which have not been surveyed using the systems identified above or another system approved by us, or in areas where such systems exist but boundaries are not readily discernable, each optional unit must be located in a separate farm identified by a single ASCS Farm Serial Number. (2) Optional Units on Acreage Including Both Irrigated and Non-Irrigated Practices: In addition to or instead of establishing optional units by Section, section equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number, optional units may be established based on irrigated acreage or non-irrigated acreage if both are located in the same Section, section equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number. The irrigated acreage may not extend beyond the point at which your irrigation system can deliver the quantity of water needed to produce the yield on which your guarantee is based and you may not continue into non-irrigated acreage in the same rows or planting pattern. You must plant, cultivate, fertilize, or otherwise care for the irrigated acreage in accordance with recognized good irrigated farming practices. Basic units may not be divided into optional units on any basis (production practice, type, variety, planting period, etc.) other than as described under this section. If you do not comply fully with these provisions, we will combine all optional units which are not in compliance with these provisions into the basic unit from which they were formed. We may combine the optional units at any time we discover that you have failed to comply with these provisions. If failure to comply with these provisions is determined to be inadvertent, and all the optional units are combined, the premium paid for the purpose of electing optional units will be refunded to you. 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities (a) In addition to the requirements of section 3 (Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8) you may select: (1) For grain sorghum and soybeans, only one price election for each crop in the county insured under this policy; and (2) For corn, only one price election for all the corn in the county insured as grain under this policy, and only one price election for all the corn in the county insured as silage under this policy. The price elections you choose for grain and silage must have the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election offered by us for grain and silage. For example, if you choose one hundred percent (100%) of the maximum grain price election and you also insure corn on a silage basis, you must choose one hundred percent (100%) of the maximum silage price election. (b) For corn only, if you harvest the crop in a manner other than the manner you reported (for example, you reported grain but harvested as silage) and you did not select a price election for the type harvested, we will assign a price election for the type harvested that bears the same percentage relationship to the maximum price election you selected for the type reported (for example, if you selected a grain price election in the amount of eighty percent (80%) of the maximum price election for grain and you did not select a silage price election, we will assign a silage price election in the amount of eighty percent (80%) of the maximum price election for silage specified in the Special Provisions if you harvest for silage). This assigned price election will be used only to determine the dollar value of production to count for indemnity purposes and will not be used to determine the amount of insurance or premium. 4. Contract Changes
