FR941110-0-00128 FR941110-0-00016 In response to the above comments we are adding a new requirement that State survey agencies consider all complaints of resident neglect or abuse, or misappropriation of resident property as a potential reflection on a facility's compliance with Medicaid and/or Medicare participation requirements. This new requirement is at §488.335(h). (The provisions in §488.185 (g) and (h) of the proposed rule are revised and combined in §488.335(g) and are discussed later in this preamble.) Comment: Some commenters suggested that the words, ``by an individual used by the facility'' be added to paragraph (a) of this section as it requires the State to review all allegations of neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of resident property. Commenters pointed out that the suggested text is found in the Act and the preamble to the proposed rule. Response: We are revising and expanding §488.335(a), and in doing so, incorporating the comment. This paragraph now specifies that the State reviews all allegations of resident abuse and neglect and misappropriation of resident property. The State also follows the procedures of §488.332. We are adding that, if there is reason to believe, either through oral or written evidence, that an individual used by the facility to provide services to residents could have abused or neglected a resident or misappropriated a resident's property, the State must investigate the allegation. We also now specify in this section that the State must have written procedures for the timely review and investigation of these allegations. Comment: Several commenters mentioned that the proposed rules do not specify a timeframe for initiation of an investigation nor a time limit on the length of an investigation of neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of resident property. Response: Our intent in writing this rule was to not be too prescriptive of State investigation processes. However, manual instructions to State survey agencies specify a timeframe for situations of immediate jeopardy in which they should initiate complaint investigations. We chose not to regulate the time in which a State must complete its investigation of these types of complaints. We thought a specific time limit could, in some instances, compromise the outcome of the investigation. Comment: Some commenters suggested that the rules specify a timeframe in which the State must notify an individual when there is reason to believe that the abuse, neglect, or misappropriation of resident property did occur. Also, some suggested that we notify the administrator or owner of the facility employing such person, or both. Also, some commenters suggested that we include in the notice to the accused person the consequences of the hearing determination or waiving the right to a hearing. Response: We do not accept the comment to send a notice to the individual implicated in an allegation of resident neglect or abuse or misappropriation of resident property before the State has conducted an investigation. To do so could possibly jeopardize the outcome of the investigation and in some cases would be premature as the investigation might find the allegation unsupported. However, we are revising the final rule at §488.335(c) to require that a State must notify the individual implicated in the allegation and the current administrator of the facility in which the incident occurred, in writing within 10 working days of its preliminary determination, which is based on oral or written evidence and its investigation, that resident neglect or abuse, or misappropriation of resident property occurred. This timeframe was selected to provide timely notice to the individual involved and yet, give States sufficient time to provide such notice. We are also revising the final rule to reflect that this notice to the individual includes the consequences of a hearing finding and of waiving the right to a hearing. We are adding that the notice includes a statement to inform the accused individual of the right to be represented by an attorney at the individual's own expense. Comment: We received several comments suggesting that we establish, by regulation, a more extensive ``due process'' appeal mechanism for facility employees accused of neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of a resident's property.
