FR940524-1-00080 FR940524-1-00010 (j) The maximum filter penetration for each of the 30 filters shall be determined and recorded. The mean maximum penetration, m, and the standard deviation, s, shall be calculated. The particulate respirator filter shall be considered as meeting the requirement of this Subpart if the test static U meets the following condition: U=m+2.22s>0.0003 type A. U=m+2.22s>0.01 type B. U=m+2.22s>0.05 type C. ยง84.185 Powered, particulate respirator flow requirements. Powered, air-purifying respirators shall be classified as tight-fitting or loose-fitting depending on their design. Tight-fitting, powered, air-purifying respirators shall be designed to seal to the wearer's face and shall provide protection as a non-powered respirator in the event of a blower failure. Loose-fitting, powered, air-purifying respirators shall be designed to function without reliance on a tight-fitting faceseal. The minimum airflow requirements for each class is as follows: (a) Tight-fitting, powered, air-purifying respirators shall maintain an airflow rate of at least 115 liters (4.06 cubic feet) per minute for a period of at least 4 hours unless otherwise specified. (b) Loose-fitting, powered, air-purifying respirators shall maintain an airflow rate of at least 170 liters (6.0 cubic feet) per minute for a period of at least 4 hours unless otherwise specified. (c) Powered, air-purifying respirators shall be provided with an acceptable mechanism and appropriate instructions whereby the user can routinely and simply determine that the minimum airflow is maintained. ยง84.186 Exhalation valve leakage test; minimum requirements. (a) Dry exhalation valves and valve seats will be subjected to a suction of 25 mm. water-column height while in a normal operating position. (b) Leakage between the valve and valve seat shall not exceed 30 milliliters per minute. Subpart L_Chemical Cartridge Respirators ยง84.190 Chemical cartridge respirators: description. (a) Chemical cartridge respirators including all completely assembled respirators which are designed for use as respiratory protection during entry into or escape from atmospheres not immediately dangerous to life and health, are described according to the specific gases or vapors against which they are designed to provide respiratory protection, as follows:
