FR940621-2-00025 FR940621-2-00016 NEPA requires review of any major Federal action which may significantly affect the quality of the human environment. The review is documented through an EIS. The NEPA process is described in the CEQ regulations implementing NEPA [40 CFR, Parts 1500&hyph;1508] and DOE NEPA regulations at 10 CFR Part 1021. The draft and final PEIS will be prepared in accordance with these requirements. A PEIS is a broad-scope environmental analysis of a program or policy [40 CFR 1500.4(i)]. A PEIS provides an opportunity for NEPA review to coincide with meaningful points in agency planning and decisionmaking [40 CFR 1502.4(b)]. A PEIS may be used to support later NEPA documents of narrower scope (called ``tiering''), such as site-specific or project-specific NEPA reviews. NEPA documents tiered from the PEIS would focus on specific actions when they are ripe for review [40 CFR 1502.20]. Following preparation of an EIS, an agency issues a Record of Decision (ROD) to document its decision [40 CFR 1505.2]. The ROD explains how the EIS analysis was balanced against other factors leading to the agency's decision. DOE has determined that potential decisions and their implementation regarding the long-term storage and disposition of weapons-usable fissile materials would be a major Federal action within the meaning of NEPA; and that the several actions which might be anticipated under this effort are connected [40 CFR 1508.25] and would constitute a broad agency program [40 CFR 1502.4]. Accordingly, DOE has decided that a PEIS is appropriate to analyze the environmental consequences associated with long-term storage and disposition of weapons-usable fissile materials and to factor environmental considerations into DOE decisions. At this point in the NEPA process, all alternatives, especially those identified for plutonium disposition, are broadly stated. This has been done intentionally so that public input during scoping can be optimally utilized to identify which alternatives should be specifically addressed and which significant issues should be included within the scope of the PEIS. Based on comments received during the scoping process, the reasonable alternatives to be included in the PEIS, a discussion of the methodology and the issues to be addressed will be identified in a PEIS Implementation Plan. Environmental Issues The PEIS will identify and analyze direct, indirect, and cumulative impacts resulting from the alternatives for potential decisions and their implementation. The impact analyses will address the following resources: air, water, land, biota, human health and safety, social and economic, cultural, energy and minerals, transportation, and any other issues identified as appropriate during the scoping process. The impact analyses will be at the programmatic level for the proposed action and each alternative and will not deal with specific site environmental resource issues unless an alternative proposes a site-specific activity. Subsequent to the decisions made upon the completion of this PEIS, DOE may undertake site-specific actions based upon such decisions and may also perform separate NEPA analyses on those actions prior to any site implementation. Such analyses would include a detailed examination of the site-specific environmental impacts of those activities. DOE invites public comments specifically on the scope of the PEIS analysis. Classified Material DOE plans to prepare the PEIS in unclassified form; however, DOE will review classified material while preparing the PEIS. In the event any classified material is included in the completed PEIS or its associated Record of Decision (ROD), such material would be in a classified appendix which would not be available for general public review. This material would, however, be considered by DOE in reaching a decision on long-term storage and disposition of fissile nuclear materials. DOE will provide as much information as possible in unclassified form to assist public understanding and input. Other DOE NEPA Documents There are several other NEPA documents in preparation by DOE that have a direct bearing on this PEIS. These are: • The Reconfiguration PEIS which will no longer address long-term storage of plutonium and HEU since the PEIS which is the subject of this NOI will address alternatives for long-term storage of all weapons-usable fissile material. The Reconfiguration PEIS will continue to describe the remaining missions in the nuclear weapons complex and will evaluate alternatives for tritium supply and recycle. • The Pantex Site-Wide Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) will address alternatives for interim storage of plutonium pits. This interim storage of plutonium pits is part of the no-action alternative for long-term storage of all plutonium which includes other forms of plutonium, along with pits, and which will be addressed in this PEIS. • The Oak Ridge Interim Storage of Enriched Uranium Environmental Assessment (EA) will address interim storage alternatives for enriched uranium. This interim storage also forms part of the no-action alternative for long-term storage of HEU which will be addressed in this PEIS. • The Environmental Restoration and Waste Management PEIS will address the programmatic level decisions for treatment, storage and disposal of waste within the DOE complex. If any actions to dispose of weapons-usable fissile materials result in a waste form, these waste forms would be treated, stored and disposed of in accordance with the decisions resulting from the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management PEIS.
