FR940505-1-00058 FR940505-1-00012 d. Maintenance demonstration for the south coast. EPA's FIP obligations for the South Coast, Sacramento, and Ventura arose from disapprovals of their SIPs solely on the ground of their failure to demonstrate attainment by 1987 or any fixed near-term date. See 53 FR 1280&hyph;1281 (January 22, 1988) (South Coast); 53 FR 39087&hyph;39088 (October 5, 1988) (Ventura); 53 FR 48535-48536 (Dec. 1, 1988) (Sacramento). The settlement agreements for Ventura and Sacramento describe EPA's FIP obligation solely in terms of promulgating a plan for attainment. The South Coast settlement agreement refers to a plan for attainment and maintenance. Thus, with respect to the South Coast, EPA must determine what requirements apply to maintenance. As noted above, EPA is applying the new law to its FIP obligation. The 1990 Amendments changed the law with respect to maintenance demonstrations. Under the pre-Amendment Clean Air Act, sections 172(a)(1) and 110(a)(2)(b) required plans to include measures to ``insure attainment and maintenance ''. (emphasis added) But the 1990 Amendments revised both the general planning and ozone and CO specific planning provisions to delete the requirement for a maintenance demonstration to be submitted simultaneously with an attainment demonstration. The Amendments revised section 110(a)(2) to delete any reference to a maintenance demonstration. When we look to Part D for requirements applicable to areas classified ``Serious'' and above for ozone, and ``Moderate'' (with a design value greater than 12.7ppm) and above for CO, we find that section 172(c)(1), the closest analog to old section 172(a)(1), also drops any mention of planning for maintenance. Sections 182(c)(2)(A) and 187(a)(7) of the new Amendments, which set forth the specific requirements for ozone and CO nonattainment areas, respectively, to provide for attainment, similarly makes no mention of any maintenance requirement. 21 21 Section 110(a)(1) of both the pre-amended and amended Acts requires areas to provide for maintenance (as well as implementation and enforcement) after EPA issues a new or revised NAAQS. But this is not applicable here, since that obligation is past for ozone and CO, and the failure that gave rise to the FIP obligation here was grounded in maintenance provisions of section 172(a) that were repealed in 1990. Rather, the requirement for nonattainment areas to provide for maintenance in the amended Act is now found in new section 107(d)(3)(E)(iv) and section 175A. These sections provide that maintenance plans must be submitted when an area requests redesignation to attainment. The combination of the amendments to section 172 and the addition of these new maintenance plan provisions indicates that the requirement for a maintenance plan arises only much later, when it must accompany a request for redesignation. This reflects a Congressional determination to focus on attainment, and to compel maintenance plans only when an area has progressed to the point when it has already attained and is ready to demonstrate attainment. This legal regime and policy has thus superseded any obligation arising out of old section 172(a). EPA's existing regulation, promulgated under the aforementioned pre-Amendment maintenance provisions, requires SIPs to provide for maintenance for 20 years, or for 10 years upon the making of an appropriate finding. Section 193 of the 1990 Amendments, the ``General Savings Clause'', provides in pertinent part that each regulation shall remain in effect except to the extent ``otherwise provided under this Act, or inconsistent with any provision in effect. *␣*␣*'' As demonstrated above, the changes to section 172 and the new requirements of section 175A and related provisions deleted from the Act any requirement to provide for maintenance prior to a request for redesignation. The new Act thus establishes a whole new regime for demonstrating attainment and maintenance, the timing and requirements of which are inconsistent with the old law. Under the Amendments, attainment plans no longer must provide ``up front'' a plan for maintenance. And when the Act does require submission of maintenance plans (at the time of a redesignation request), such plan need demonstrate maintenance for only ten years instead of twenty. Although EPA has not yet accomplished the formal rescission of its pre-1990 regulations on maintenance, we consider the rules nullified by operation of Section 193, and therefore no longer applicable. EPA will propose in separate rulemaking to rescind these national regulations, which appear at 40 CFR part 51 subpart D_Maintenance of National Standards. EPA may or may not promulgate a replacement for the regulations. 2. Other Issues Relating to EPA's Authority in Issuing a FIP a. Comprehensive FIP authorities under the clean air act. When forced by a state planning delinquency to promulgate a FIP, EPA has wide-ranging authority under section 110(c) to fill the gaps left by the state failure. EPA's authority to prescribe FIP measures is of three types. First, EPA may promulgate any measure which it is expressly permitted to issue under any circumstances pursuant to pre-existing independent statutory authority_for example, explicit provisions of Title II. That is, EPA may promulgate any measure which it has authority to issue in a non-FIP context, without reliance on section 110(c). Second, EPA may invoke Section 110(c)'s general FIP authority, and act to cure a planning inadequacy in any way not clearly prohibited by statute. Third, under section 110(c), the Courts have held that EPA may exercise all authority that the State may exercise under the Act. The second type of authority, EPA's general authority under section 110(c), is essentially remedial, and EPA has broad power under that section to cure a defective state plan. Thus, in promulgating a FIP, EPA may exercise its own, independent regulatory authority under the Act in any way not clearly prohibited by an explicit provision of the Act. When EPA promulgates a FIP, courts have not required explicit authority for specific measures: ``We are inclined to construe Congress' broad grant of power to the EPA as including all enforcement devices reasonably necessary to the achievement and maintenance of the goals established by the legislation.'' South Terminal Corp. v. EPA, 504 F.2d 646, 669. (1st Cir. 1974). See also City of Santa Rosa v. EPA, 534 F.2d 150, 153&hyph;154 (9th Cir. 1976) (upholding the Administrator's authority to promulgate a FIP imposing gas-rationing in Los Angeles on a massive scale). ``The authority to regulate pollution carries with it the power to do so in a manner reasonably calculated to reach that end.'' Id. at 155. In addition, when a State's failure to discharge the primary responsibility to protect its air quality compels EPA to assume this task, the powers of the defaulting State accrue to EPA. As the Ninth Circuit recently held, when EPA acts in place of the State pursuant to a FIP under section 110(c), EPA ```stands in the shoes of the defaulting State, and all of the rights and duties that would otherwise fall to the State accrue instead to EPA.''' Central Arizona Water Conservation District v. EPA, 990 F.2d 1531, at 1541 9th Cir. 1993). The First Circuit, in an early FIP case, agreed: The Administrator must promulgate promptly regulations setting forth `an implementation plan for a State should the State itself fail to propose a satisfactory one.' The statutory scheme would be unworkable were it read as giving to EPA when promulgating an implementation plan for a State, less than those necessary measures allowed by Congress to a State to accomplish federal clean air goals. We do not adopt any such crippling interpretation. South Terminal Corp. v. EPA, supra at 668. b. EPA authority to charge fees. State Implementation Plans for nonattainment areas are clearly authorized to include emission fees as economic incentives to reduce pollutants. Sections 110(a)(2)(A) (relating to SIPs generally) and 172(c)(6) broadly authorize SIPs to meet the Act's requirements through any ``control measures, means, or techniques *␣*␣* necessary or appropriate'', including ``economic incentives such as fees *␣*␣*'' EPA interprets the FIP provisions to authorize fees as well, by virtue of both the case law that grants FIPs much the same scope as SIPs, and by the provisions of section 302(y), which defines a FIP to include_ Enforceable emission limitations or other control measures, means or techniques (including economic incentives, such as marketable permits or auctions of emissions allowances). EPA interprets this phrase, including the parenthetical reference to economic incentives, as providing authority to impose a broad range of economic incentives, including fees, even if not specifically listed in the provision. Thus, EPA takes the position that a FIP includes authority to impose fees concerning ozone generating emissions or other activities. c. Restrictions on EPA's authority regarding fees. As a legal matter, EPA's authority under section 110(c) and 302(y) to impose fees is limited only to the extent that the fees must be enforceable, and must provide an incentive that may result in a reduction in ozone generating emissions or other activities. As a practical matter, because only quantifiable emissions reductions may be credited in the attainment demonstration, EPA may limit the types or amounts of fees imposed to those that assure quantifiable emissions reductions.
