FR940513-2-00269 FR940513-2-00098 (6) The extent to which the applicant has developed a strategy to increase its capacity to carry out larger or more complex project activities and to address its long-term financial and organizational development needs. (8 points) (7) The extent of participation in the proposed activities by a neighborhood development funding organization. An eligible applicant shall be credited with the maximum score under this factor if the applicant demonstrates that it has made a good faith effort to obtain such participation, even if the applicant is not successful. (7 points). (8) The quality of the management plan submitted for accomplishing the activities proposed by the applicant including evidence of sound financial management, the experience and capability of the applicant's director and staff, and the level of coordination efforts, including working relationships with local governments or neighborhood development funding organizations. (25 points) E. Determination of Ratio for Federal Contribution The Secretary will determine the ratio by which Federal funds will be used to match monetary contributions made to each eligible applicant that is selected for funding under this NOFA. The ratio will be based on: (1) The number of households in the neighborhood. Neighborhoods having the smallest number of households will be assigned higher ratios under this factor; and (2) The degree of economic distress. Neighborhoods indicating the greatest degree of economic distress will be assigned higher ratios under this factor than those with lesser degrees of economic distress. F. Environmental Reviews HUD will conduct the appropriate environmental review and comply with all the environmental requirements in 24 CFR part 50 before award of a grant. Grantees will be expected to adhere to all assurances applicable to environmental concerns as contained in the RFGA and grant agreements. II. Application Submissions Process A. Obtaining Application For an application kit, contact: American Communities, P.O. Box 7189, Gaithersburg, MD 20898&hyph;7189. Requests for Grant Applications (RFGAs) must be in writing, but the request may be faxed to (301) 251&hyph;5747. (This is not a toll-free number). We strongly recommend the use of the fax transmission option to promote accuracy and expedite response time. Requests for application kits must include the applicant's name, mailing address (including zip code), telephone number (including area code), and must refer to FR&hyph;3662. The RFGA contains the application, forms, and other information regarding the application process and the administration of the program, including relevant provisions from OMB Circulars A&hyph;110 and A&hyph;122. (This NOFA summarizes major provision of the RFGA). B. Application Submission An original and three copies of an application must be submitted to: Processing and Control Branch, Office of Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., room 7255, Washington, DC 20410. HUD will accept only one application per neighborhood organization.
