FR940516-1-00095 FR940516-1-00006 If changes to an engine family configuration occur after the application is submitted which cause the changed version to be the engine family's worst case emitter, then emission testing of the changed version is required. Additionally, the Administrator may require a manufacturer to conduct testing to demonstrate compliance. The application would be submitted to the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Certification Division, Office of Mobile Sources, 2565 Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor, MI 48105. A second copy of the application would be forwarded to Manufacturers Operation Division, Office of Mobile Sources, 401 M St., SW (Mail Code 6405J), Washington, DC 20460. The application would include the following information: •A description of the basic engine design including engine family specifications, •A complete description and explanation of how the emission control system operates, including a detailed description of all emission control components, and a listing of the engine and emission control calibrations, •Part numbers for all emission control components which might reasonably be expected to affect emissions, •Proposed test engine selection and the rationale for such a selection, •A description of the test engine starting instructions, fuel, and lubricants to be used, •A description of the operating cycle and the service accumulation period necessary to break in the test engine, •A description of all adjustable operating parameters, •Information relating why the physical limits or stops used to establish the physically adjustable range of each parameter were effective, •A description of the rated speed(s) and power(s) within the engine family, •Fuel flow rates for each configuration within the engine family, •The proposed maintenance instructions, the emission warranty, and emission control label, •All test data obtained by the manufacturer on the test engine, •A description of the test facilities, test equipment, and test procedures, •A section which incorporated any revisions or amendments to the application, including any production changes, •A list of official manufacturer contacts, organizational chart, and individual designated to receive the certificate of conformity, •The projected annual sales for the engine family, •A statement indicating which information in the application was confidential, and •An unconditional statement certifying that all engines in the engine family complied with all the requirements of the Clean Air Act and this regulation. 14. Certification Procedures_Testing Overview and Preliminaries EPA is proposing that the emission level used to certify an engine family be equal to the highest emission test level reported for any engine configuration in that family. The engine manufacturer would be responsible for selecting and testing one engine from each engine family which is most likely to be that engine family's worst case emitter. The criterion for selecting the worst case engine would be that engine configuration which has the highest weighted brake-specific fuel consumption over the appropriate engine test cycle. EPA could verify the test results by requiring Administrator testing of this engine. EPA would also have the option to test any available test engine representing other configurations in the engine family. Before emission testing was carried out, the manufacturer would perform service accumulation on each test engine over the dynamometer hour accumulation cycle of its choice based on good engineering practices (for example, a cycle representative of typical ``break-in'' operation of a new production engine in actual use). For each engine family, the manufacturer would determine the number of hours required to stabilize the emissions of the test engine. However, the number of hours which the manufacturer chose could not exceed 12 hours. EPA does not believe a break-in time greater that 12 hours is necessary to stabilize new engine emissions. In addition, this cutoff is necessary to ensure that EPA gets an equitable view of stabilized emissions over all engine families which may vary with respect to HC and CO emission degradation and NO X emission improvement with time. The manufacturer would maintain, and provide in its application to the Administrator, a record of the rationale used both in making the dynamometer cycle selection and in making the service accumulation hours determination.
