FR940613-0-00047 FR940613-0-00015 An affidavit made by an individual familiar with the issue at hand is both reasonable and within the documentation parameters established by the SNPRM. The authenticity of any document proposed as evidence to support activity occurring over 21/2 years ago could be challenged by any party. Of the possible items of documentation which could be submitted, a notarized affidavit may be the least susceptible to alteration. It represents an individual's witnessed, sworn statement. An affidavit could, of course, be fraudulent, and the FHWA would be reluctant to take regulatory action based solely on an affidavit without other support. In fact, however, affidavits are merely one kind of information which the FHWA has combined with other types of documentation to demonstrate the operation of vehicles that State law and/or regulation allows. In addition, section 1023(c) of the ISTEA amended 23 U.S.C. 141(b) by adding at the end the following sentence: ``Each State shall also certify that it is enforcing and complying with the provisions of section 127(d) of this title and section 411(j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982 (49 U.S.C. App. 2311(j))'' (emphasis added). Additional discussion of the certification change is contained elsewhere in this document. However, for this discussion the statement means that if a State is found not to be complying with the ISTEA LCV requirements, it will be subject to Federal-aid highway funding sanctions involving millions of dollars annually. Documentation of operation of the vehicles listed in appendix C for each State was provided to the docket by the following sources. All original submissions are filed in docket number 92&hyph;15. Alaska: Five carriers, State Department of Commerce and Economic Development Arizona: Seven carriers, one shipper, State Department of Transportation (DOT) Colorado: Seven carriers, State DOT Florida: Three carriers, three private fleets Hawaii: One private fleet, State DOT Idaho: Fifteen carriers, six private fleets, one agricultural cooperative, one owner-operator, State DOT Indiana: Five carriers, State DOT Kansas: Five carriers, one private fleet, State DOT, State Turnpike Authority Massachusetts: Two carriers, State Turnpike Authority Michigan: State DOT Mississippi: State DOT Missouri: Three carriers, State Highway & Transportation Department Montana: Ten carriers, one shipper, five private fleets, one owner-operator, State DOT Nebraska: State Department of Roads Nevada: Thirteen carriers, one shipper, one private fleet, one agricultural cooperative, one owner-operator New Mexico: One carrier, State Taxation and Revenue Department New York: Two carriers, State Motor Truck Association, State DOT, State Thruway Authority North Dakota: Four carriers, four private fleets, State DOT Ohio: Four carriers, State Turnpike Commission Oklahoma: Nine carriers, four private fleets Oregon: Fourteen carriers, three private fleets, one agricultural cooperative, State DOT South Dakota: Four carriers, one shipper, three private fleets, State Trucking Association, State Highway Patrol, State DOT Utah: Sixteen carriers, one shipper, three private fleets, one agricultural cooperative, one owner-operator, State Motor Truck Association, State DOT Washington: Five carriers, one shipper, two private fleets, one agricultural cooperative, one owner-operator, State DOT Wyoming: Six carriers, two shippers, four private fleets, one owner-operator, three individuals, State DOT The following vehicle combinations included in the SNPRM, or comments thereto, have not been included in appendix C for the reasons given. California: ``Triple,'' including a 28-foot semitrailer, two 28-foot trailers, an overall length of 107.4 feet, and a maximum gross vehicle weight of 111,000 pounds. ``Rocky Mountain Double,'' including a 48-foot semitrailer, a 28-foot trailer, an overall length of 93.2 feet, and a maximum gross vehicle weight of 106,850 pounds. ``Turnpike Double,'' including a 48-foot semitrailer, a 48-foot trailer, an overall length of 116.7 feet, and a maximum gross vehicle weight of 122,650 pounds. Two permits were issued by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) for ``Triples'' at the request of the California legislature in 1971 in order to conduct a test to evaluate the possible allowance of ``Triples'' in California. In 1983, permits were issued to allow the operation of the above described vehicle combinations in order to conduct an over the road test of these vehicles. The State, in its comments, points out that the 1983 tests were conducted, in part, to assist the FHWA in its study of the costs and benefits of a national intercity LCV route network.
