FR941206-1-00005 FR941206-1-00001 III. GAO Report on Mechanically Separated Products In 1983, the General Accounting Office (GAO) issued a report recommending that the Secretary of Agriculture direct the Administrator of FSIS to establish specific standards on poultry products produced by mechanical separation and labeling requirements on products made with such poultry products as had been done for MS(S) and products made with MS(S). MS(S) is a finely comminuted product resulting from the mechanical separation and removal of most of the bone from attached skeletal muscle of livestock carcasses and parts of carcasses that meets the provisions of 9 CFR 319.5. IV. Improvements in Machinery for Poultry Products Produced by Mechanical Separation The Agency has monitored the advances in the technology for mechanically separating poultry, also referred to as mechanical deboning, over the last decade. There have been improvements in the efficiency of the mechanical separation and removal of most of the bone from attached skeletal muscle and tissue of poultry carcasses and parts of poultry carcasses. Today, it has been estimated that roughly 1 billion pounds of raw poultry materials are used to manufacture 700 million pounds of mechanically separated poultry, also referred to as mechanically deboned poultry (MDP), which is used, in turn, to formulate approximately 400 million pounds of poultry sausages (including franks, bologna, and salami), and 300 million pounds of poultry nuggets and poultry patties. 1 There have been major advances in mechanical deboning machinery in terms of the effectiveness of bone removal from skeletal muscle and other tissues of poultry carcasses and parts of carcasses. This has been accomplished through enhancements and modifications of the bone-removal devices that are part of the mechanical deboning machines. There have been continued refinements of certain operational parameters of the machinery, e.g., the ability for operators to adjust the pressure needed to force ground poultry bones with adhering muscle and other tissues through screens to separate muscle and other tissues from bone, and the size of the apertures (i.e., holes) in the screens and sieves through which the ground bones, muscle, and other tissues are pushed. 1 Information provided by industry is available for public inspection at the FSIS Docket Clerk's office. In 1969, the Agency amended the regulations for poultry and poultry products inspection to, among other things, provide labeling requirements for boneless poultry products, as well as a prescribed bone solids content of not more than 1 percent (34 FR 13991). This limit was based on an evaluation conducted by the Department of the operating results in a series of poultry establishments that used mechanical deboning equipment. Analyses were made of 485 samples of raw, mechanically deboned product from nine commercial operations that used the three types of machines most often used in the process. The analyses showed that the equipment, at that time, could be operated under commercial conditions to produce boneless poultry that contained no more than 1 percent bone solids, on a raw weight basis, and the Department concluded that it was demonstrated that it was practical to limit the bone content in deboned poultry to 1 percent. In light of the improvements that have occurred with regard to the machinery used to mechanically separate and remove most of the bone from the muscle and other tissues of poultry carcasses and parts of carcasses, FSIS recently conducted a study of the bone solids content of mechanically separated poultry. 2 The percentage of bone solids content (determined by calcium analysis) in boneless poultry products produced by mechanical deboning was collected from approximately 50 establishments during August 1993, and represented a sampling of over 2000 products. The data indicate that the mean bone solids content of the samples of these products was approximately 0.6 percent; generally, half of the samples were above 0.6 percent and half were below 0.6 percent. 2 Data available for public inspection at the FSIS Docket Clerk's Office. V. RTI Study In response to complaints from industry, some of them longstanding, that the Agency is ``not regulating meat and poultry equitably,'' FSIS contracted out to the Research Triangle Institute (RTI) a comparison of the meat and poultry inspection regulations. RTI found many differences in the two sets of regulations and narrowed down to 12 the areas of the regulations where significant differences exist. 3 FSIS has studied these areas to determine whether, in the actual conduct of inspection, they result in an inequitable application of the inspection laws, and, if so, what might be done to mitigate the inequities. 3 A copy of the RTI study is available for public inspection in the FSIS Docket Clerk's office.
