FR940707-1-00015 FR940707-1-00001 (d) A hearing may only be convened after actual notice of the time, place, and nature of the hearing is provided both to the applicant or appellant and to any other person readily identifiable by the OHA as one who will be aggrieved by the OHA action involved. The notice shall include, as appropriate: (1) A statement that such person may participate in the hearing; or (2) A statement that such person may request a separate conference or hearing regarding the application or appeal. (e) When a hearing is convened in accordance with this section, each person may present views as to the issue or issues involved. Documentary evidence may be presented at the hearing, but will be treated as if submitted in the regular course of the proceeding. A transcript of the hearing will usually be prepared. (f) If material factual issues remain in dispute after an application or appeal has been filed, the Director of the OHA or his designee may issue an order convening an evidentiary hearing in which witnesses shall testify under oath, subject to cross-examination, for the record and in the presence of a Presiding Officer. A Motion for Evidentiary Hearing should specify the type of witness or witnesses whose testimony is sought, the scope of questioning that is anticipated, and the relevance of the questioning to the proceeding. A motion may be summarily denied for lack of sufficient specificity, because it would place an undue burden on another person or the DOE or because it will cause undue delay. (g) A Motion for Evidentiary Hearing must be served on any person from whom information is sought. Any person who wishes to respond to a Motion for Evidentiary Hearing must do so within ten days of service. (h) In reaching a decision with respect to a request for a hearing or motion filed under this subpart, the OHA shall consider all relevant information in the record. If an order is issued granting a hearing or evidentiary hearing, in whole or in part, the order shall specify the parties, any limitations on the participation of a party, and the issues to be considered. An order of the OHA issued under this section is an interlocutory order which is subject to further administrative review or appeal only upon issuance of a final Decision and Order in the proceeding concerned. (i) All hearings convened pursuant to this subpart shall be conducted by the Director of the OHA or his designee. At any hearing, the parties shall have the opportunity to present material evidence that directly relates to a particular issue set forth for hearing. The Presiding Officer may administer oaths or affirmations, rule on objections to the presentation of evidence, receive relevant material, require the advance submission of documents offered as evidence, dispose of procedural requests, determine the format of the hearing, modify any order granting a Motion for Evidentiary Hearing, direct that written motions, documents or briefs be filed with respect to issues raised during the course of the hearing, ask questions of witnesses, issue subpoenas, direct that documentary evidence be served upon other parties (under protective order if such evidence is deemed confidential) and otherwise regulate the conduct of the hearing. Subpart G_Private Grievances and Redress §1003.70 Purpose and scope. The OHA shall receive and consider petitions that seek special redress, relief or other extraordinary assistance apart from or in addition to the other proceedings described in this part. Such petitions shall include those seeking special assistance based on an assertion that a person is adversely affected by DOE regulations, orders or rulings, or otherwise, administered by DOE in carrying out functions assigned under DOE legislative authority. §1003.71 Who may file. Any person aggrieved by the regulations contained in 10 CFR Chapter II may file a petition under this subpart. §1003.72 What to file. The person aggrieved shall file a ``Petition for Special Redress or Other Relief,'' which shall be clearly labeled as such both on the petition and on the outside of the envelope in which it is transmitted, and shall be in writing. The general filing requirements stated in §1003.9 shall be complied with in addition to the requirements stated in this subpart. §1003.73 Where to file. A petition shall be filed with the OHA at the address provided in §1003.11. §1003.74 Notice. (a) The person filing the petition, except a petition that asserts that the DOE is not complying with the agency regulations, orders or rulings, shall send by United States mail a copy of the petition and any subsequent amendments or other documents relating to the petition, or a copy from which confidential information has been deleted in accordance with §1003.9(f), to each person who is reasonably ascertainable by the petitioner as a person who will be aggrieved by the OHA action sought. The copy of the petition shall be accompanied by a statement that the person may submit comments regarding the petition to the OHA within 10 days. The copy filed with the OHA shall include certification that the requirements of this paragraph have been complied with and shall include the names and addresses of each person to whom a copy of the petition was sent.
