FR940513-2-00094 FR940513-2-00039 4. Certification Forms Certifications are required of the applicant regarding (a) lobbying; (b) debarment, suspension, and other responsibility matters; and (3) drug-free workplace requirements. Please note that a duly authorized representative of the applicant organization must attest to the applicant's compliance with these certifications. 5. Project Summary Description On a separate page, provide a project summary description headed by two identifiers: (1) the name of the applicant organization as shown in SF 424, item 5 and (2) the priority area as shown in the upper left hand corner of SF 424. Please limit the summary description to one page with a maximum of 1,200 characters, including words, spaces and punctuation. The description should be specific and succinct. It should outline the objectives of the project, the approaches to be used and the outcomes expected. At the end of the summary, list major products that will result from the proposed project (such as manuals, data collection instruments, training packages, audio-visuals, software packages). The project summary description, together with the information on the SF 424, becomes the project ``abstract'' which is entered into AoA's computer data base. The project description provides the reviewer with an introduction to the substantive parts of the application. Therefore, care should be taken to produce a summary which accurately and concisely reflects the proposal. 6. Program Narrative The Program Narrative is the critical part of the application. It should be clear, concise, and, of course, responsive to the priority area under which the application is being submitted. In describing your proposed project, make certain that you respond fully to the evaluation criteria set forth in Section F above. The format of the narrative should, in fact, parallel the criteria, beginning with an integrated discussion of (A) the project's purpose(s), relevance, and significance, which answers the questions of why the project should be undertaken and what it intends to accomplish. The next section of the narrative provides a detailed explanation of (B) the approach(es)/methodology the project will follow to achieve its purpose(s), leading to a discussion of (C) the anticipated outcomes/results/benefits of the project, how these will be evaluated, disseminated, and utilized. The narrative concludes with (D) the level of effort needed to carry out the project, in terms of the Project Director and other key staff, funding, and other resources. Please have the narrative typed on one side of 81/2 ’ ’ x 11 ’ ’ plain white paper with 1'' margins on both sides. All pages of the narrative (including charts, tables, maps, exhibits, etc.) should be sequentially numbered, beginning with ``Objectives and Need for Assistance'' as page number one. (Applicants should not submit reproductions of larger size paper, reduced to meet the size requirement). The narrative should also identify the author(s) of the proposal, their relationship with the applicant, and the role they will play, if any, should the project be funded. This narrative guidance is in accordance with that provided in OMB Circular A&hyph;102. The checklist reporting form (Section K, below) is consistent with that approved under OMB control number 0937&hyph;0189. 7. Organizational Capability Statement and Vitae for Key Project Personnel The organizational capability statement should describe how the applicant agency (or the particular division of a larger agency which will have responsibility for this project) is organized, the nature and scope of its work and/or the capabilities it possesses. This description should cover capabilities of the applicant not included in the program narrative. It may include descriptions of any current or previous relevant experience or describe the competence of the project team and its record for preparing cogent and useful reports, publications, and other products. An organizational chart showing the relationship of the project to the current organization should be included. Vitae should be included for key project staff only. K. Checklist for a Complete Application The checklist below should be typed on 81/2 ’ ’ x 11 ’ ’ plain white paper, completed and included in your application package. It will help in properly preparing your application.
