FR941005-2-00006 FR941005-2-00004 Cottonwood Fire Restoration Project, Tahoe National Forest, Sierra County, CA AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice; intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Tahoe National Forest will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for proposed watershed restoration, timber salvage, fuels reduction, wildlife habitat improvement, and reforestation activities within the xx,xxx-acre Cottonwood Fire Restoration Project analysis area located in the Feather River and Truckee River watersheds. The project area is located within all or portions of T19N, R15 & 16E, T20N, R15, 16, & 17E; and T21N, R15, 16, and 17E, MDB&M. The agency invites comments and suggestions on the scope of the analysis. In addition, the agency gives notice of the full environmental analysis and decision-making process that will occur on the proposal so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the final decision. DATES: Comments should be made in writing and received by November 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments concerning the project should be directed to Steve Bishop, District Ranger, Sierraville Ranger District, P.O. Box 95, Sierraville, CA 96126. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Steve Bishop, District Ranger, Sierraville Ranger District, Sierraville, CA 96126, telephone (916) 994&hyph;3401, or Martha Twarkins, Project Team Leader, at the above location or at (916) 478&hyph;6293. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A Notice of Intent to prepare the Eastside Forest Restoration Project EIS was published in the Federal Register on May 16, 1994 [59 FR 25440&hyph;25441]. That 85,000-acre project was proposed to address the area's extensive tree mortality and overstocked timber stands. Opportunities were identified to treat those stands in order to improve forest health and reduce the fire hazard, while concurrently accomplishing watershed restoration and wildlife habitat improvement goals. Significant new circumstances have occurred that bear on the original proposal. From August 16 through August 31, 1994, the 48,000-acre Cottonwood Fire burned through the Eastside Forest Restoration Project analysis area, affecting about 36,300 acres of National Forest System land and 11,700 acres of lands of other ownership on both the Tahoe and Toiyabe National Forests. The fire burned with high-to-moderate intensity on over 90 percent of the affected area, leaving only skeletons of burned trees and shrubs. Less than 10 percent of the area burned with low intensity, leaving partially burned or scattered live trees. This loss of vegetation has resulted in large areas of exposed soils and, thus, unstable watershed conditions, large amounts of new fuels, and the loss of standing timber and future timber growth potential. The fire also affected other important resources, such as wildlife habitat, recreation sites, visual quality, historic and pre-historic sites, fisheries, sensitive plant and animal species, and water quantity and quality. The unburned portion (about xx,xxx acres) of Eastside Forest Restoration Project EIS is being deferred for analysis until the completion of the Cottonwood Fire Restoration Project EIS; a revised Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement for the remaining area, along with new time schedules, will be placed in the Federal Register at a later date. The Cottonwood Fire Restoration Project analysis area is about xx,xxx acres in size, and includes xx,xxx acres of National Forest System lands and xx,xxx acres of lands of other ownerships. Most of the area is in the Feather River watershed, with a small portion in the Truckee River watershed. It is located east of the town of Sierraville and Highway 89, north of Sardine Peak and Lewis Mill, west of Babbitt Peak and the crest of the Bald Mountain Range, and south of the town of Loyalton. Major drainages within the project area include Cottonwood Creek, Lemon Canyon, Turner Canyon, Smithneck Creek, Bear Valley Creek, and Badenaugh Canyon. The project area includes all lands within the fire boundary on the Sierraville Ranger District of the Tahoe National Forest; the area burned on the Carson Ranger District of the Toiyabe National Forest will be analyzed separately. In preparing the environmental impact statement, the Forest Service will identify and analyze a range of alternatives that address the issues developed for this area. One of the alternatives will be no treatment. Other alternatives will consider differing levels of implementation of salvage treatments, fuels reduction, watershed restoration, road obliteration, wildlife habitat improvement, and new road construction and reconstruction. An ecological approach will be used to achieve multiple-use management of the Cottonwood Fire area. It also means that the needs of people and environmental values will be blended in such a way that this area's desired condition would represent a diverse, healthy, productive, and sustainable ecosystem. Public participation will be important during the analysis, especially during the review of the draft environmental impact statement. The Forest Service is seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. This input will be used in preparation of the draft environmental impact statement. The scoping process includes: 1. Identifying potential issues. 2. Identifying issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminating insignificant issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis. 4. Exploring additional alternatives. 5. Identifying potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects and connected actions). 6. Determining potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. The following list of issues has been identified through initial scoping: (1) To what extent can the potential for future large, catastrophic wildlife be reduced within the project area?
