FR940725-2-00056 FR940725-2-00036 4. The adequacy of the facilities and resources available to the applicant to carry out the proposed project; 5. The qualifications of the project director and proposed staff; 6. The reasonableness of the proposed budget in relation to the proposed project; and 7. The potential of the project to continue on a self- sustaining basis after the period of grant support. Funding Factors Statutory Funding Preferences: In making awards of grants under section 820(a), preference will be given to any qualified school that provides students of the school with clinical training in the provision of primary health care in publicly- funded: (A) Urban or rural outpatient facilities, home health agencies, or public health agencies; or (B) rural hospitals. In making awards of grants under section 820(d), preference will be given to any qualified applicant operating an accredited program of education in professional nursing that provides for the rapid transition to status as a professional nurse from status as a nursing paraprofessional. Established Funding Priorities: The following funding priorities were established in FY 1993 after public comment (58 FR 35020, dated 6/30/93) and the Administration is extending these funding priorities in FY 1995. A priority will be given to schools that offer generic baccalaureate programs. A priority will also be given to schools that offer both generic baccalaureate nursing programs and RN completion programs. These priorities apply to applications for grants under section 820(a). A funding priority will be given to programs which demonstrate either substantial progress over the last 3 years or a significant experience of 10 or more years in enrolling and graduating trainees from those minority or low-income populations identified as at-risk of poor health outcomes. This priority applies to applications for grants under sections 820(a), 820(b), and 820(d). Finally, a funding priority will be given to applications for continuing education programs for nurses from medically underserved communities to increase their knowledge and skills in care of persons who are HIV positive or who have AIDS. This priority applies to applications for grants under section 820(c). Advanced Nurse Education Programs Purpose: Section 821 of the Public Health Service Act, as implemented by 42 CFR part 57, subpart Z, authorizes assistance to meet the costs of projects to: (1) Plan, develop and operate new programs, or (2) significantly expand existing programs leading to advanced degrees that prepare nurses to serve as nurse educators or public health nurses, or in other clinical nurse specialties determined by the Secretary to require advanced education. The period of Federal support should not exceed 3 years. Eligibility: To be eligible to receive a grant, a school must be a public or nonprofit private collegiate school of nursing and be located in a state. Review Criteria: The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: (1) The need for the proposed project including, with respect to projects to provide education in professional nursing specialties determined by the Secretary to require advanced education: (a) The current or anticipated national and/or regional need for professional nurses educated in the specialty; and (b) The relative number of programs offering advanced education in the specialty; (2) The need for nurses in the specialty in which education is to be provided in the State in which the education program is located. (3) The potential effectiveness of the proposed project in carrying out the educational purposes of section 821 of the Act and 42 CFR part 57, subpart Z; (4) The capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project; (5) The soundness of the fiscal plan for assuring effective utilization of grant funds; (6) The potential of the project to continue on a self- sustaining basis after the period of grant support; and
