FR940111-2-00080 FR940111-2-00048 [Docket No. 50&hyph;285] Omaha Public Power District; Fort Calhoun Station, Unit No. 1; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. DPR&hyph;40, issued to Omaha Public Power District (OPPD/the licensee), for operation of Fort Calhoun Station, Unit No. 1, located in Washington County, Nebraska. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed amendment would consist of revisions to 10 CFR part 20 references to recognize the new section numbers, revise definitions to ensure consistency with 10 CFR part 20, and change administrative controls for reporting and recordkeeping to maintain compliance with the new part 20. The changes would revise the limitations on concentrations of radioactive material released in liquid effluents and the limitations on the dose rate resulting from radioactive material released in gaseous effluents and reflect the relocation of the prior 10 CFR 10.106 requirements to the new 10 CFR 20.1302. These changes are in response to the licensee's application for amendment dated May 21, 1993, as supplemented September 10, 1993, implementing the new 10 CFR part 20. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action is needed in order to retain operational flexibility consistent with 10 CFR part 50, appendix I, concurrent with the implementation of the revised 10 CFR part 20. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The proposed revision, in regards to the actual release rates as referenced in the Technical Specifications (TSs) as a dose rate to the maximally exposed member of the public, will not increase the types or amounts of effluents that may be released offsite, nor increase individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposures. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed changes do not affect nonradiological effluents and have no other environmental impact. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission concluded that there are no significant environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment to the TSs, any alternative to the amendment will have either no significantly different environmental impact or will have greater environmental impact. The principal alternative would be to deny the requested amendment. This would not reduce environmental impacts as a result of plant operation. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statement (FES) related to the operation of the Fort Calhoun Station, Unit No. 1, dated August 1972. Agencies and Persons Consulted The Commission's staff reviewed the licensee's request and did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, we conclude that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed license amendment. For further details with respect to this action, see the application for amendment dated May 21, 1993, as supplemented September 10, 1993, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555 and at the Local Public Document Room located at the W. Dale Clark Library, 215 South 15th Street, Omaha, Nebraska 68102. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 5th day of January 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Paul W. O'Connor, Acting Director, Project Directorate IV&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects III/IV/V, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;576 Filed 1&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
