FR940204-0-00016 FR940204-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 100 [CGD 05&hyph;93&hyph;055] Special Local Regulations for Marine Events; Virginia Beach Offshore Grand Prix; Atlantic Ocean, Rudee Inlet, Lake Rudee, Virginia Beach, VA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: Special Local Regulations are being adopted for the Virginia Beach Offshore Grand Prix held annually in the Atlantic Ocean off Virginia Beach. The effect of these regulations will be to restrict general navigation in the regulated area for the safety of spectators and participants. These regulations are needed to provide for the safety of life, limb, and property on the navigable waters during the event. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule is effective March 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Stephen L. Phillips, Chief, Boating Affairs Branch, Fifth Coast Guard District, 431 Crawford Street, Portsmouth, Virginia 23704&hyph;5004 (804) 398&hyph;6204. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Coast Guard published a notice of proposed rulemaking concerning this regulation in the Federal Register on September 7, 1993 (58 FR 47099). Interested persons were requested to submit comments. The 45-day comment period ended on October 21, 1993. The Coast Guard received no letters. Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are QM2 Gregory C. Garrison, project officer, Boating Affairs Branch, Fifth Coast Guard District, and LT Monica L. Lombardi, project attorney, Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Staff. Background and Purpose The Virginia Beach Offshore Grand Prix, sponsored by the Eastern Virginia Offshore Racing Association is an annual event held on the Atlantic Ocean off of Virginia Beach. As part of the application, the sponsor requested that the Coast Guard provide control of spectator and commercial traffic within the regulated area. Discussion of Regulation The Eastern Virginia Offshore Racing Association annually sponsors the Virginia Beach Offshore Grand Prix. Since this is a regular, yearly event, the Coast Guard is developing a special local regulation. Specifically the Coast Guard will regulate the waterways surrounding the race course. The Virginia Beach Offshore Grand Prix race course has been marked and checked by Waterway Surveys & Engineering, Ltd. to insure accurate certification of race points and records. The course runs from Rudee Inlet at the southern end to approximately 75th Street at the northern end. The Start/Finish line is at 20th Street. Race boats will be pitted in the Southside Marina and Owl's Creek area. The course measures 11.0 Nautical miles (12.7 Statute miles). Waterway closures include the beach front and Rudee Inlet at the start of and throughout the race. To provide for safety of participants, spectators, and vessels transiting the area, the Coast Guard will restrict vessel movement in the regulated area during the race. Regulatory Evaluation This regulation is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866 and is not significant under Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979). The economic impact of this regulation is expected to be so minimal that a full regulatory evaluation is unnecessary. This regulation will only be in effect for several hours, one day a year, and the impact on routine navigation is expected to be minimal.
