FR940622-0-00045 FR940622-0-00011 Transportation Comment: One commenter wanted us to recognize that requiring trained emergency medical technicians to accompany a patient being transferred will meet the requirements that a transfer be effected through ``qualified personnel'' as required under proposed ยง489.24(d)(2)(iii) (now paragraph (d)(2)(iv)) because, in many communities, transfers are made by volunteer rescue squads with trained emergency medical technicians. Response: We cannot state unequivocally that emergency medical technicians are ``qualified personnel'' for purposes of transferring an individual under these regulations. Depending on the individual's condition, there may be situations in which a physician's presence, or some other specialist's presence, might be mandatory. Comment: One commenter proposed that we amend the regulations to clarify that the hospital is responsible for providing transportation services, either directly or indirectly, stating that the proposed regulations did not address the need for the hospital to provide transportation services to carry out the physician's orders. Response: We disagree. The statute (section 1867(c)(2)(C) of the Act) imposes a duty on the hospital to ensure that the transfer is effected through qualified personnel and transportation equipment. Frequently the determination of what equipment and personnel will be required will be a medical decision. The hospital by-laws, rules and regulations, or State law may dictate that the decision be made by the transferring physician. If the hospital delegates its duty under the statute to the transferring physician, both the hospital and physician would be obligated to ensure that the transfer is effected through qualified personnel and necessary equipment. To say that the hospital is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the transfer is appropriately effected is not, however, to dictate the means by which it meets that responsibility. Neither the statute nor the regulations requires a hospital to operate an emergency medical transport service. To this extent, the hospital may meet its obligations as it sees fit; however, that does not mean HHS must accept the hospital's determination. We also note that with regard to the general area of transportation, although no specific comments were received concerning ``transportation equipment'', the term has now been interpreted to include all physical objects reasonably medically necessary for safe patient transfer. Burditt v. U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services, 934 F.2d 1362, 1373 (5th Cir. 1991). We agree with this interpretation. To limit the appropriate transfer requirement to just that equipment that is necessary and medically appropriate for life support measures is too narrow an interpretation. Other Requirements Comment: Five commenters wrote in response to our request for comments concerning the ``other requirements'' the Secretary may find necessary in the best interests of transferred patients' health and safety. They recommended that we require the use of a standardized memorandum of transfer to be sent with every transferred patient to be signed by both transferring and receiving physicians and to include information regarding the patient's medical condition, treatment received and reasons for transfer. One of the commenters also recommended that calls between hospitals requesting transfers be tape recorded.
