FR941110-0-00133 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We agree that these definitions are in conflict. However, the definition in ยง442.2 will no longer apply to nursing facilities and is being revised to reflect this change. We are maintaining two separate definitions of immediate jeopardy because of the different regulations applicable to ICFs/MR and SNFs or NFs. Comment: Some commenters suggested striking references to the scope and severity scale and inserting the phrase ``creates imminent danger.'' Other commenters recommended that immediate jeopardy should represent the most severe or life threatening violation. Response: We agree with the commenters and we have removed references to the scope and severity scale from the definition of immediate jeopardy. We are redefining immediate jeopardy to encompass all situations that pose actual or potential life threatening harm, death, serious injury or impairment. Therefore, a life threatening situation or imminent danger will inevitably be considered immediate jeopardy. Comment: Many commenters were concerned that the definition of immediate jeopardy pertains to only physical harm and not emotional harm. Response: We agree with the commenters that significant emotional as well as physical harm may be considered immediate jeopardy. Every determination of the seriousness of a deficiency includes the consideration of whether a resident has failed to achieve his or her highest practicable physical, mental, or psychosocial function. Comment: Many commenters expressed the need for us to clarify the definition of ``new admission'' to indicate whether or not residents transferred to the hospital, with the intention of returning, are considered new admissions. They are concerned that if denial of payment for new admissions is imposed, those transferred residents will not be covered if they return to the facility. Response: New admission is described within ยง442.2 as well as ยง488.401. We believe these descriptions are sufficient and further clarification is not necessary. Comment: Some commenters suggested that the definition of ``plan of correction'' be amended to require the facility to identify the systemic underlying problem, make restitution to the affected resident or residents, contain measurable outcomes for all quality of care deficiencies, and require the facility to take further measures to ensure future compliance. Response: The purpose of a plan of correction is to identify and address the underlying problem or problems for the facility. Individual residents have other legal means at their disposal to seek restitution. It is impracticable to develop model thresholds for each and every plan of correction as each situation is different and is evaluated accordingly. Plans of correction are geared toward prospective compliance to ensure the underlying causes of cited deficiencies do not recur. As it is virtually impossible to afford retroactive restitution to residents who have been injured or have been deprived of their rights, we have not accepted these suggestions. Comment: Many commenters wanted to have a definition of ``highest practicable well-being.'' Response: The phrase ``highest practicable well-being'' was established in sections 1819(b)(2) and 1919(b)(2) of the Act. We believe the conspicuous absence of a definition demonstrates that the Congress recognized the impossibility of establishing a single definition of this phrase, as every resident, and his or her particular needs and abilities, must be evaluated individually. Comment: Some commenters wanted a definition of ``repeat deficiency.'' Response: The Act, in section 1819(h)(2)(B) and 1919(h)(3)(C), specifies that incrementally more severe fines must be imposed for repeated or uncorrected deficiencies. Repeated deficiencies are described in ยง488.438 as deficiencies in the same regulatory grouping of requirements found at the last survey, subsequently corrected, and found again at the next survey. Comment: A few commenters wanted a definition of ``distinct part.'' Response: ``Distinct part'' is defined in sections 2110 and 2762 of the State Operations Manual. As it is beyond the scope of this regulation, we do not believe it is necessary to place this definition in these regulations. Comment: Some commenters wanted various other terms defined or clarified. Response: We define terms in regulations only if the use of those terms, within the regulation, has a different application than that which is accepted in common English usage.
