FR940124-1-00072 FR940124-1-00008 (ii) Whether the institution's or program's admissions policies and standards are reasonable in light of the institution's or program's educational mission. (7) Program length and tuition and fees in relation to the subject matters taught and the objectives of the degrees or credentials offered. The agency shall have standards that establish minimum and maximum program lengths for prebaccalaureate vocational education programs and have other standards to enable the agency to assess an institution's or program's length of program and tuition and fee charges. In developing these standards, the agency shall take into account such factors as_ (i) Program objectives and content; (ii) The types and locations of instructional delivery; (iii) The knowledge and skills necessary for students to reach competence in the field being taught; (iv) Generally accepted practices in higher education; (v) Any applicable Federal statutes or regulations; and (vi) For any prebaccalaureate vocational education program, consideration of the remuneration that can reasonably be expected by students who complete the program. (8) Measures of program length in clock hours or credit hours. The agency shall have standards that enable it to assess an institution's or program's measurement of program length. In developing these standards, the agency shall take into account such factors as_ (i) Program goals, objectives, and content; (ii) The types and combinations of instructional methodologies and delivery systems, including outside preparation as appropriate; (iii) The knowledge and skills necessary for students to reach competence in the field being taught; (iv) Generally accepted practices in higher education; and (v) Any applicable Federal statutes or regulations. (9) Success with respect to student achievement in relation to mission. The agency shall have standards that enable it to assess an institution's or program's success with respect to student achievement. Under these standards, the agency shall_ (i) Require the institution or program to document and assess the educational achievement of students in verifiable and consistent ways, such as_ (A) Student grades, grade point averages, theses, or portfolios; (B) Results of admissions tests for graduate or professional school or other standardized tests; (C) Transfer rates to institutions offering higher level programs; and (D) Job placement rates, completion rates, results of licensing examinations, evaluations by employers, follow-up studies of alumni, and other recognized measures of educational outcomes; (ii) Require the institution or program to use effectively the information obtained under paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section to improve student achievement with respect to the degrees or certificates offered; (iii) Systematically monitor institutional or program performance with respect to student achievement to determine if performance is consistent with both the institution's or program's mission and objectives and the agency's objective measures of performance of student achievement; and (iv) For any prebaccalaureate vocational education program accredited by the agency or provided by an institution the agency accredits, establish minimum quantitative standards for_ (A) Completion rates; (B) Job placement rates; and (C) Pass rates on State licensing examinations or other appropriate measures of occupational competency. (10) Default rates in the student loan programs established under Title IV of the Act, based on the most recent data provided by the Secretary. The agency shall have standards that require it to evaluate an institution to determine whether the institution is out of compliance with its accrediting standards if the institution's latest cohort default rate under the Federal Stafford Loan or Federal Supplemental Loans for Students program_ (i) Equals or exceeds 25 percent; or (ii) Has increased significantly in relation to its rate in the previous year. (11) Record of student complaints received by, or available to, the agency. The agency shall have standards that enable it to assess an institution's or program's record of student complaints received by or made available to the agency. Under these standards, the agency shall_ (i) Review student complaints that relate to the agency's standards; (ii) Take appropriate follow-up action with regard to those complaints; (iii) If considered necessary by the agency, refer complainants to appropriate Federal, State, and other agencies if the complaints do not relate to the agency's standards; and (iv) Require institutions or programs to make available to students the agency's mailing address or telephone number for complaints. (12) Compliance with the institution's program responsibilities under Title IV of the Act. The agency shall have standards that require institutions to be in compliance with their responsibilities under the Title IV, HEA programs. The agency's assessment under these standards shall be based on program reviews, financial and compliance audits, audited financial statements, and any other information that the Secretary provides. (13) The institution's practice of making refunds to students. The agency shall have_ (i) A refund policy, that must be approved by the Secretary, that provides for a fair and equitable refund to a student of tuition, fees, and other institutional charges; and (ii) Standards that enable it to assess whether an institution complies with its refund policy.
