FR940406-0-00004 FR940406-0-00001 Definition of Elderly or Disabled_7 CFR 271.2 Section 350 of Public Law 100&hyph;435 added three categories to the definition of elderly or disabled persons. These categories are: (1) Recipients of interim assistance benefits pending the receipt of supplemental security income (SSI); (2) recipients of disability-related medical assistance benefits under title XIX of the Social Security Act (SSA); and (3) recipients of disability-based State general assistance benefits. Recipients of any of these benefits must be treated as disabled persons for food stamp purposes provided the eligibility to receive these benefits is based upon disability or blindness criteria which are at least as stringent as those under title XVI of the SSA. The Department amended paragraph (11) of the definition of ``Elderly or disabled member'' in 7 CFR 271.2 in the interim rulemaking to implement these provisions. The Department received several comments suggesting changes to the interim rule language. One commenter stated that it was unclear in the rule language that receipt of interim assistance is involved in only the first of the three new categories of disabled member. The Department shares the commenter's concern and is amending paragraph (11) of the definition of ``Elderly or disabled member'' in 7 CFR 271.2 in this rulemaking to more clearly indicate that receipt of interim assistance as a condition of being defined as disabled for food stamp purposes is only required for those persons who are interim recipients of SSI. Another commenter stated that it is unclear in the regulatory language if it is only disability-based State general assistance (GA) that must be based upon disability or blindness criteria at least as stringent as title XVI of the SSA, or whether the ``at least as stringent'' requirement applies to all three types of benefits. The Department interprets the law to require that the ``at least as stringent'' criteria apply to all three types of benefits. The regulatory language at 7 CFR 271.2 is being amended to clarify this point. Another commenter pointed out that the definition of elderly or disabled persons in 7 CFR 271.2 needs to be revised to clearly state that it is State programs, not individual cases, which are to be measured by the ``at least as stringent criteria as those under title XVI of the Social Security Act'' requirement. The commenter argued that the regulation, as it is written in the interim rule, appears to state that the decision as to whether a GA program is based on criteria as stringent as those under title XVI of the Social Security Act can be made on a case-by-case basis. The commenter argued, however, that the intent of Public Law 100&hyph;435 was for this decision to be made on a State-by-State basis, not case-by-case. The Department agrees with the commenter and is amending paragraph (11) of the definition to clarify this point. In order to further emphasize that State disability programs will be measured by criteria at least as stringent as those under title XVI, the Department has decided to further amend the definition of ``Elderly or disabled member'' in this final rule to include in paragraph (11) of the definition the specific citation to the SSA regulations interpreting title XVI of the SSA. Including this citation will provide State and local agencies with the information necessary to determine if an individual applying for food stamps meets the definition of elderly/disabled person as set forth in the Food Stamp Act.
