FR940805-1-00140 FR940805-1-00014 (i) Anti-poverty strategy. The plan must describe the jurisdiction's goals, programs, and policies for reducing the number of poverty level households and how the jurisdiction's goals, programs, and policies for producing and preserving affordable housing will be coordinated with other programs and services for which the jurisdiction is responsible and the extent to which they will reduce (or assist in reducing) the number of households with incomes below the poverty line. (j) Institutional structure. The plan must describe what the jurisdiction will do to overcome gaps in the institutional structure for carrying out its strategy for addressing its priority needs. (k) Coordination. The plan must describe the jurisdiction's activities to enhance coordination between public and assisted housing providers and private and governmental health, mental health, and service agencies. With respect to the public entities involved, the plan must describe the means of cooperation and coordination among the State and any units of general local government in the implementation of its strategy, including activities to encourage public housing residents to become more involved in management and participate in homeownership. §91.220 Action plan. The action plan must include the following: (a) Standard Form 424; (b) A description of the activities the jurisdiction will undertake during the next year to address priority needs and local objectives that were identified in §91.215. This description shall identify the local objectives that will be addressed by the activities that are expected to be undertaken using formula grant funds, other HUD assistance, non-HUD sources of funds, and program income the jurisdiction expects to receive during the program year. This information is to be presented in the form of a table prescribed by HUD; (c) Activities it plans to undertake during the next year to address emergency shelter and transitional housing needs of homeless individuals and families, to prevent low-income individuals and families with children (especially those with incomes below 30 percent of median) from becoming homeless, and to help homeless persons make the transition to permanent housing and independent living; (d) Actions it plans to take during the next year to foster and maintain affordable housing, public housing improvements and resident initiatives, remove barriers to affordable housing, evaluate and reduce lead-based hazards, reduce the number of households with incomes below the poverty line, develop institutional structure, address obstacles to meeting underserved needs, and enhance coordination between public and private housing and social service agencies. (See §91.215 (c), (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k).) For HOME funds, a participating jurisdiction shall describe other forms of investment that are not described in §92.205(b) of this chapter. §91.225 Certifications. (a) General ._(1) Citizen participation. Each jurisdiction must certify that it is in full compliance and following a detailed citizen participation plan that satisfies the requirements of §91.105. (2) Affirmatively furthering fair housing. Each jurisdiction is required to submit a certification that it will affirmatively further fair housing. This certification includes conducting an analysis of impediments to fair housing choice and preparing a description of any steps taken to carry out the certification, and maintaining evidence to support the certification. (See 24 CFR 570.601(c) for a description of the responsibilities that a CDBG entitlement community must undertake to fulfill this certification.) (3) Anti-displacement and relocation plan. Each jurisdiction is required to submit a certification that it has in effect and is following a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan in connection with any activity assisted with funding under the CDBG or HOME programs. (4) Drug-free workplace. The jurisdiction must submit a certification with regard to drug-free workplace required by 24 CFR part 24, subpart F. (5) Anti-lobbying. The jurisdiction must submit a certification with regard to compliance with restrictions on lobbying required by 24 CFR part 87, together with disclosure forms, if required by that part. (6) Authority of jurisdiction. The jurisdiction must submit a certification that the consolidated plan is authorized under State and local law (as applicable) and that the jurisdiction possesses the legal authority to carry out the programs for which it is seeking funding, in accordance with applicable HUD regulations. (7) Consistency with plan. The housing activities to be undertaken with CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA funds are consistent with the plan. (8) Acquisition and relocation. It will comply with the acquisition and relocation requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. (9) Section 3. It will comply with section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968. (b) Community Development Block Grant program. For jurisdictions that seek funding under CDBG, the following certifications are required: (1) Consultation by States. In the case of a State, a certification that it has consulted with affected units of local government about the method of distribution of funding. (2) Community development plan. A certification that this consolidated housing and community development plan identifies community development and housing needs and specifies both short-term and long-term community development objectives that have been developed in accordance with the primary objective of the statute authorizing the CDBG program, as described in §570.2 of this title, and requirements of this part and part 570 of this title.
