FR941012-2-00146 FR941012-2-00099 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service Tariff Classification of Imported Glassware AGENCY: Customs Service, Treasury. ACTION: Proposed change of practice; solicitation of comments. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that Customs proposes a change of practice regarding the tariff classification of three classes of imported glassware: ``containers of glass used for the conveyance or packing of goods'', ``preserving jars of glass'' and ``glassware of a kind used for table or kitchen purposes''. The principal use of these classes or kinds of glassware, whether it be conveying or packing solid or liquid products, home canning or household storage, determines its classification. After intensive review of the three classes of imported glassware, it has been determined advisable to set forth factors which Customs proposes to use when determining whether merchandise falls within a particular class or kind. Customs proposes that ``containers of glass used for the conveyance or packing of goods'' includes glass articles that are part of the exchange or buying and selling of commodities that are principally used to convey a product to a consumer who uses the product and then discards the container. Customs proposes that ``preserving jars of glass'' includes only various glass articles which are the typical size and shape of ``Mason-type'' jars. Because the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has determined that glass jars with wire bails and glass caps (non ``Mason-type'') are not recommended for home canning, and these type of jars are often advertised and sold in sets of varying sizes for use in the storage of dry goods in the home, Customs proposes to change its practice of classifying them as ``preserving jars of glass'' to the more appropriate class, glassware of a kind used for table or kitchen purposes. Finally, Customs proposes that the class ``glassware of a kind used for table or kitchen purposes'' includes glass household storage articles. By this action, those rulings which are inconsistent with Customs proposed change of practice would be revoked. Before adopting this proposed change of practice, consideration will be given to any written comments regarding the scope of all three of these classes (especially the characteristics which are indicative of each class) which are timely submitted in response to publication of this document. DATES: Comments (preferably in triplicate) must be received on or before December 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments may be submitted to the U.S. Customs Service, Office of Regulations and Rulings, Attention: Regulations Branch, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW. (Franklin Court) Washington, DC 20229. Comments submitted may be inspected at the Regulations Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings, located at Franklin Court, 1099 14th Street, NW. Suite 4000, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary Beth McLoughlin, Metals and Machinery Classification Branch, (202) 482&hyph;7030. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Customs proposes a change of practice involving the tariff classification of three classes of imported glass articles under the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). This requires an examination of subheadings 7010.90.50 and 7013.39, HTSUS. The HTSUS subheadings read as follows: 7010.90.50␣Carboys, bottles, flasks, jars, pots, vials, ampoules and other containers, of glass, of a kind used for the conveyance or packing of goods; preserving jars of glass; stoppers, lids and other closures, of glass: [o]ther: [o]ther containers (with or without their closures) 7013.39␣[g]lassware of a kind used for table, kitchen, toilet, office, indoor decoration or similar purposes (other than that of heading 7010 or 7018): [g]lassware of a kind used for table, (other than drinking glasses) or kitchen purposes other than that of glass-ceramics: [o]ther Subheadings 7010.90.50 and 7013.39, HTSUS, are considered ``use'' provisions. There are two principal types of classification by use: (1) According to the use of the class or kind of goods to which the imported article belongs; and (2) According to the actual use of the imported article. Use according to the class or kind of goods to which the imported article belongs is more prevalent in the tariff schedule. A few tariff provisions expressly state that classification is based on the use of the class or kind of goods to which the imported article belongs. However, in most instances, this type of classification is inferred from the language used in a particular provision.
