FR940314-2-00133 FR940314-2-00069 13. The Trusts intend to waive the CDSC in the event of one or more of the following occurrences: (a) on redemptions following the death or disability, as defined in section 72(m)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code or 1986, as amended (the ``Code''), of a shareholder if redemption is made within one year of death or disability of a shareholder, as relevant; (b) in connection with a lump-sum or other distribution following retirement or, in the case of an IRA or Keough Plan or a custodial account pursuant to section 403(b)(7) of the Code, after attaining age 591/2 or, in connection with redemptions which result from a tax-free return of an excess contribution pursuant to section 408(d) (4) or (5) of the Code or from the death or disability of the employee; (c) in connection with redemptions of shares purchased by officers, directors or trustees, and employees of the series, the Advisers and their affiliated entities the Distributors and their affiliated entities, and by the members of the immediate families of such persons; (d) in connection with redemptions of shares made pursuant to a shareholder's participation in any systematic withdrawal plan adopted by a series; (e) in connection with redemptions effected by advisory accounts managed by the Advisers and their affiliated entities; (f) in connection with redemptions by tax-exempt employee benefit plans as a result of the enactment or promulgation of any law or regulation pursuant to which continuation of the investment in the series would be improper; and (g) in connection with redemptions effected by a registered investment company in connection with the combination of the investment company with a series by merger, acquisition of assets, or by any other transaction. In addition, the Trusts intend to reduce the CDSC in connection with redemptions by large accountholders. 14. Each series may provide a pro rata credit for any CDSC paid in connection with a redemption of shares from a series followed by a reinvestment in the series effected within 365 days, or a shorter period, of the redemption. The credit will be paid for by the series' distributor. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Applicants request an order exempting them from the provisions of sections 18(f)(1), 18(g), and 18(i) to the extent that the proposed issuance and sale of various classes of shares representing interests in the same Trust might be deemed: (a) to result in a ``senior security'' within the meaning of section 18(g); (b) prohibited by section 18(f)(1); and (c) to violate the equal voting provisions of section 18(i). 2. Applicants believe that the proposed multi-class arrangement will better enable the Trusts to meet the competitive demands of today's financial services industry. Under the multiclass arrangement, an investor will be able to choose the method of purchasing shares that is most beneficial given the amount of his or her purchase, the length of time the investor expects to hold his or her shares, and other relevant circumstances. The proposed arrangement would permit the Trusts to facilitate both the distribution of their securities and provide investors with a broader choice as to the method of purchasing shares without assuming excessive accounting and bookkeeping costs or unnecessary investment risks. 3. The proposed allocation of expenses and voting rights relating to the rule 12b&hyph;1 plans in the manner described is equitable and would not discriminate against any group of shareholders. In addition, such arrangements should not give rise to any conflicts of interest because the rights and privileges of each class of shares are substantially identical. 4. Applicants believe that the proposed multi-class arrangement does not present the concerns that section 18 was designed to address. The multi-class arrangement will not increase the speculative character of the shares of the Trusts. The multi-class arrangement does not involve borrowing, nor will it affect the Trust's existing assets or reserves, and does not involve a complex capital structure. Nothing in the multi-class arrangement suggests that it will facilitate control by holders of any class of shares. 5. Applicants submit that the requested exemption to permit the Trusts to implement the proposed CDSCs is appropriate in the public interest, consistent with the protection of investors, and consistent with the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. The proposed CDSC arrangements will provide shareholders the option of having their full payment invested for them at the time of their purchase of shares of the Trusts with no deduction of an initial sales charge. Applicants' Conditions Applicants agree that any order granting the requested relief shall be subject to the following conditions:
