FR940325-1-00100 FR940325-1-00008 (f) The authorized officer will not offer, grant or renew grazing permits or leases when the applicants, including permittees or lessees seeking renewal, refuse to accept the proposed terms and conditions of a permit or lease. (g) Temporary nonuse and conservation use may be approved by the authorized officer if such use is determined to be in conformance with the applicable land use plan, AMP or other activity plan, and standards and guidelines as follows: (1) Conservation use may be approved for periods of up to 10 years when, in the determination of the authorized officer, the proposed nonuse will promote rangeland resource protection or enhancement of resource values or uses, including more rapid progress toward resource condition objectives; or (2) Temporary nonuse for reasons including but not limited to financial conditions or annual fluctuations of livestock, may be approved on an annual basis for no more than 3 consecutive years. Permittees or lessees applying for temporary nonuse shall state the reasons supporting nonuse. (h) Application for nonrenewable grazing permits and leases under §§4110.3&hyph;1 and 4130.4&hyph;2 for areas for which conservation use has been authorized will not be approved. Forage made available as a result of temporary nonuse may be made available to qualified applicants under §4130.4&hyph;2. * * * * * 43. Paragraph (a) of §4130.4&hyph;1 is revised to read as follows: §4130.4&hyph;1 Exchange-of-use grazing agreements. (a) An exchange-of-use grazing agreement may be issued to an applicant who owns or controls lands which are unfenced and intermingled with public lands when use under such an agreement will be in harmony with the management objectives for the allotment and will be compatible with the existing livestock operations. The agreements shall contain appropriate terms and conditions required under §4130.6 of this title that ensure the orderly administration of the range, including fair and equitable sharing of the operation and maintenance of range improvements. The term of an exchange-of-use agreement may not exceed the length of the term for any leased lands that are offered in exchange-of-use. * * * * * 44. Section 4130.4&hyph;3 is revised to read as follows:
