FR941021-0-00192 FR941021-0-00022 (a) Space station application requirements. Each application for a space station license in the radiodetermination satellite service shall describe in detail the proposed radiodetermination satellite system, setting forth all pertinent technical and operational aspects of the system, including its capability for providing and controlling radiodetermination service on a geographic basis, and the technical, legal and financial qualifications of the applicant. In particular, each application shall include the information specified in Appendix B of Space Station Application Filing Procedures, 93 FCC 2d 1260, 1265 (1983), except that in lieu of demonstrating compliance with item II.F (two degree spacing), applicants are required to demonstrate compatibility with licensed satellite systems in the same frequency band. Applicants must also file information demonstrating compliance with all requirements of this section, specifically including information demonstrating how the applicant has complied or plans to comply with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. * * * * * (f) Radiodetermination satellite service. Licenses shall coordinate with radiodetermination satellite system licensees to avoid harmful interference to other radiodetermination satellite systems through: (1) Power flux density limits; (2) Use of pseudorandom-noise codes (for both the satellite-to-user link and for the user-to-satellite link); and (3) Random access, time division multiplex techniques. Licensees shall coordinate with 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service system licensees to avoid interference to 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service systems. 10. A new §25.143 is added to read as follows: §25.143 Licensing provisions for the 1.6/2.4 GHz Mobile-Satellite Service. (a) System License: Applicants authorized to construct and launch a system of technically identical non-geostationary satellite orbit satellites will be awarded a single ``blanket'' license covering a specified number of space stations to operate in a specified number of orbital planes. (b) Qualification Requirements. (1) General Requirements: Each application for a space station system authorization in the 1.6/2.4 GHz mobile-satellite service shall describe in detail the proposed satellite system, setting forth all pertinent technical and operational aspects of the system, and the technical, legal, and financial qualifications of the applicant. In particular, each application shall include the information specified in §25.114. (2) Technical Qualifications: In addition to providing the information specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, each applicant shall demonstrate the following: (i) That the proposed system employs a non-geostationary constellation or constellations of satellites; (ii) That the proposed system be capable of providing mobile satellite services to all locations as far north as 70 ○ latitude and as far south as 55 ○ latitude for at least 75% of every 24-hour period, i.e., that at least one satellite will be visible above the horizon at an elevation angle of at least 5 ○ for at least 18 hours each day within the described geographic area; (iii) That the proposed system is capable of providing mobile satellite services on a continuous basis throughout the fifty states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, U.S., i.e., that at least one satellite will be visible above the horizon at an elevation angle of at least 5 ○ at all times within the described geographic areas; (iv) That operations will not cause unacceptable interference to other authorized users of the spectrum. In particular, each application shall demonstrate that the space station(s) comply with the requirements specified in §25.213. (3) Financial Qualifications: Each applicant for a space station system authorization in the 1.6/2.4 GHz mobile-satellite service must demonstrate, on the basis of the documentation contained in its application, that it is financially qualified to meet the estimated costs of the construction and launch of all proposed space stations in the system and the estimated operating expenses for one year after the launch of the initial space station. Financial qualifications must be demonstrated in the form specified in §§25.140(c) and (d). In addition, applicants relying on current assets or operating income must submit evidence of a management commitment to the proposed satellite system. Failure to make such a showing will result in the dismissal of the application. (c) Replacement of Space Stations Within the System License Term. Licensees of 1.6/2.4 GHz mobile-satellite systems authorized through a blanket license pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section need not file separate applications to construct, launch and operate technically identical replacement satellites within the term of the system authorization. However, the licensee shall certify to the Commission, at least thirty days prior to launch of such replacement(s) that:
