FR941216-1-00158 FR941216-1-00012 Change house . A building provided with facilities for employees to change to and from work clothes. Such buildings may be provided with sanitary facilities, drinking fountains, lockers, and eating facilities. Classification yard . A railroad yard used for the receiving, dispatching, classifying, and switching of cars. Compatibility . Ammunition and explosives are considered compatible if they may be stored or transported together without significantly increasing either the probability of an accident or, for a given quantity, the magnitude of the effects of such an accident. Deflagration . A rapid chemical reaction in which the output of heat is sufficient to enable the reaction to proceed and be accelerated without input of heat from another source. Deflagration is a surface phenomenon with the reaction products flowing away from the unreacted material along the surface at subsonic velocity. The effect of a true deflagration under confinement is an explosion. Confinement of the reaction increases pressure, rate of reaction and temperature, and may cause transition into a detonation. Demilitarize . To disarm, neutralize, and accomplish any other action required to render ammunition and explosives innocuous or ineffectual for military use. Detonation . A violent chemical reaction within a chemical compound or mechanical mixture evolving heat and pressure. A detonation is a reaction that proceeds through the reacted material toward the unreacted material at a supersonic velocity. The result of the chemical reaction is exertion of extremely high pressure on the surrounding medium forming a propagating shock wave that is originally of supersonic velocity. A detonation, when the material is located on or near the surface of the ground, normally is characterized by a crater. Dud . Explosive munition that is not armed as intended, or that has failed to function after being armed. Establishment . Any plant, works, facility, installation, or other activity. Explosion . A chemical reaction of any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that, when initiated, undergoes a very rapid combustion or decomposition releasing large volumes of highly heated gases that exert pressure on the surrounding medium. Also, a mechanical reaction in which failure of the container causes the sudden release of pressure from within a pressure vessel; for example, pressure rupture of a steam boiler. Depending on the rate of energy release, an explosion can be categorized as a deflagration, a detonation, or a pressure rupture. Explosive . Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that, when subjected to heat, impact, friction, detonation, or other suitable initiation, undergoes a very rapid chemical change with the evolution of large volumes of highly heated gases that exert pressures in the surrounding medium. The term applies to materials that either detonate or deflagrate. Explosives facility . Any structure or location containing ammunition and explosives. Exposed site (ES) . A location exposed to the potential hazardous effects (blast, fragments, debris, and heat flux) from an explosion at a potential explosion site (PES). The distance to a PES and the level of protection required for an ES determine the quantity of ammunition or explosives permitted in a PES. Fire-resistive . Applies to generally combustible materials or structures that have been treated or have surface coverings designed to retard ignition or fire spread. Firebrand . A projected burning or hot fragment from which thermal energy is transferred to a receptor. Firewall . A wall of fire-resistive construction designed to prevent the spread of fire from one side to the other. A firewall also may be termed a ``fire division wall.'' Flame-resistant . Applies to combustible materials, such as clothing, which have been treated or coated to decrease their burning characteristics. Flammable . Combustible. A flammable material is one that is ignited easily and burns readily. Fragmentation . Breaking up of the confining material of a chemical compound or mechanical mixture when an explosion takes place. Fragments may be complete items, subassemblies, pieces thereof, or pieces of equipment or buildings containing the items. Hangfire . Temporary failure or delay in the action of a primer, igniter, or propelling charge. Hazard analysis . The logical, systematic examination of an item, process, condition, facility, or system to identify and analyze the probability, causes, and consequences of potential or real hazards. High explosive equivalent or explosive equivalent . The ratio of the weight of TNT to that of another explosive when both quantities produce equivalent blast effects at the same distance from their detonations. The ratio is expressed as a percent. Holding yard . A location for groups of railcars, trucks, or trailers used to hold ammunition and explosives for interim periods before storage or shipment. Hypergolic . The term used to describe the self-ignition of certain fuels and oxidizers upon contact with each other. Inhabited building . A building or structure, other than an operating building, occupied in whole or part by human beings; or a building or structure where people customarily assemble, such as a church, schoolhouse, railroad station and similar transportation facilities, store, theater, or factory, inside or outside the establishment. Inhabited building distance . That separation between explosives locations (PES) and non-associated locations (ES) requiring a high degree of protection from an accidental explosion. Such exposed sites include facility boundaries, wholly inert administrative facilities, the public, etc. Inspection station . A designated location at which trucks and railcars containing ammunition and explosives are inspected.
