FR941202-2-00050 FR941202-2-00032 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5116&hyph;3] Office of Research and Development; Ambient Air Monitoring Reference and Equivalent Methods; Reference Method Designation Notice is hereby given that EPA, in accordance with 40 CFR part 53, has designated another reference method for the measurement of ambient concentrations of nitrogen dioxide. The new reference method is an automated method (analyzer) which utilizes the measurement principle (gas phase chemiluminescence) and calibration procedure specified in appendix F of 40 CFR part 50. The new designated method is identified as follows: RFNA&hyph;1194&hyph;099, ``Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc. Model 200A Nitrogen Oxides Analyzer,'' operated on any full scale range between 0&hyph;0.05 ppm and 0&hyph;1.0 ppm, at any temperature in the range of 5 ○C to 40 ○C, with a 5-micron TFE filter element installed in the filter assembly, with either a user- or vendor-supplied vacuum pump capable of providing an absolute pressure no greater than 10 inches mercury at 1 slpm, with the following software settings: Dynamic Zero: OFF; Dynamic Span: OFF; Cal-on-NO 2 : OFF; Dilution factor: 1.0; AutoCal: ON or OFF; Independent Range: ON or OFF; AutoRange: ON or OFF; Temp/Pres Compensation: ON; and with or without any of the following options: Rack Mount with Slides Rack Mount without Slides, Ears Only Rack Mount for External Pump without Slide Tray Stainless Steel Zero/Span Valves Internal Zero/Span with Valves (IZS) Permeation Tubes for IZS 4&hyph;20 mA Isolated Outputs Digital Status Outputs RS&hyph;232 Outputs Note: In addition to the U.S. electrical power voltage and frequency, this analyzer is approved for use, with proper factory configuration, on 50 Hertz line frequency and any of the following voltage ranges: 200&hyph;242 Vac (220 volts nominal); 216&hyph;264 Vac (240 volts nominal). This method is available from Advanced Pollution Instrumentation, Inc., 8815 Production Avenue, San Diego, California 92121&hyph;2219. A notice of receipt of application for this method appeared in the Federal Register , Volume 59, August 23, 1994, page 43342. A test analyzer representative of this method has been tested by the applicant, in accordance with the test procedures specified in 40 CFR part 53. After reviewing the results of these tests and other information submitted by the applicant, EPA has determined, in accordance with part 53, that this method should be designated as a reference method. The information submitted by the applicant will be kept on file at EPA's Atmospheric Research and Exposure Assessment Laboratory, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, and will be available for inspection to the extent consistent with 40 CFR part 2 (EPA's regulations implementing the Freedom of Information Act). As a designated reference method, this method is acceptable for use by States and other air monitoring agencies under requirements of 40 CFR part 58, Ambient Air Quality Surveillance. For such purposes, the method must be used in strict accordance with the operation or instruction manual associated with the method and subject to any limitations (e.g., operating range) specified in the applicable designation (see description of the method above). Vendor modifications of a designated method used for purposes of part 58 are permitted only with prior approval of EPA, as provided in part 53. Provisions concerning modification of such methods by users are specified under section 2.8 of appendix C to 40 CFR part 58 (Modifications of Methods by Users). In general, this designation applies to any analyzer which is identical to the analyzer described in the designation. In many cases, similar analyzers manufactured prior to the designation may be upgraded (e.g., by minor modification or by substitution of a new operation or instruction manual) so as to be identical to the designated method and thus achieve designation status at a modest cost. The manufacturer should be consulted to determine the feasibility of such upgrading. Part 53 requires that sellers of designated methods comply with certain conditions. These conditions are given in 40 CFR 53.9 and are summarized below: (1) A copy of the approved operation or instruction manual must accompany the analyzer when it is delivered to the ultimate purchaser. (2) The analyzer must not generate any unreasonable hazard to operators or to the environment. (3) The analyzer must function within the limits of the performance specifications given in table B&hyph;1 of part 53 for at least one year after delivery when maintained and operated in accordance with the operation manual. (4) Any analyzer offered for sale as a reference or equivalent method must bear a label or sticker indicating that it has been designated as a reference or equivalent method in accordance with part 53. (5) If such an analyzer has two or more selectable ranges, the label or sticker must be placed in close proximity to the range selector and indicate which range or ranges have been included in the reference or equivalent method designation. (6) An applicant who offers analyzers for sale as reference or equivalent and to notify them within 30 days if a reference or equivalent method designation methods is required to maintain a list of ultimate purchasers of such analyzers applicable to the analyzer has been canceled or if adjustment of the analyzers is necessary under 40 CFR 53.11(b) to avoid a cancellation. (7) An applicant who modifies an analyzer previously designated as a reference or equivalent method is not permitted to sell the analyzer (as modified) as a reference or equivalent method (although he may choose to sell it without such representation), nor to attach a label or sticker to the analyzer (as modified) under the provisions described above, until he has received notice under 40 CFR 53.14(c) that the original designation or a new designation applies to the method as modified or until he has applied for and received notice under 40 CFR 53.8(b) of a new reference or equivalent method determination for the analyzer as modified. Aside from occasional breakdowns or malfunctions, consistent or repeated noncompliance with any of these conditions should be reported to: Director, Atmospheric Research and Exposure Assessment Laboratory, Department E (MD&hyph;77), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711. Designation of this reference method will provide assistance to the States in establishing and operating their air quality surveillance systems under part 58. Technical questions concerning the method should be directed to the manufacturer. Additional information concerning this action may be obtained from Frank F. McElroy, Methods Research and Development Division (MD&hyph;77), Atmospheric Research and Exposure Assessment Laboratory, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, (919) 541&hyph;2622. Carl Gerber, Assistant Administrator for Research and Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29691 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
