FR940921-0-00143 FR940921-0-00016 102. A new section 86.1314&hyph;94 is added to subpart N to read as follows: §86.1314&hyph;94 Analytical gases. (a) Gases for the CO and CO 2 analyzers shall be single blends of CO and CO 2 , respectively, using nitrogen as the diluent. (b) Gases for the hydrocarbon analyzer shall be single blends of propane using air as the diluent. (c) Gases for the methane analyzer shall be single blends of methane using air as the diluent. (d) Gases for the NO X analyzer shall be single blends of NO named as NO X with a maximum NO 2 concentration of five percent of the nominal value using nitrogen as the diluent. (e) Fuel for the FID and the methane analyzer shall be a blend of 40 # 2 percent hydrogen with the balance being helium. The mixture shall contain less than 1 ppm equivalent carbon response; 98 to 100 percent hydrogen fuel may be used with advance approval of the Administrator. (f) The allowable zero gas (air or nitrogen) impurity concentrations shall not exceed 1 ppm equivalent carbon response, 1 ppm carbon monoxide, 0.04 percent (400 ppm) carbon dioxide and 0.1 ppm nitric oxide. (g)(1) ``Zero-grade air'' includes artificial ``air'' consisting of a blend of nitrogen and oxygen with oxygen concentrations between 18 and 21 mole percent. (2) Calibration gases shall be accurate to within # 1 percent of NBS gas standards, or other gas standards which have been approved by the Administrator. (3) Span gases shall be accurate to within # 2 percent of NBS gas standards, or other gas standards which have been approved by the Administrator. (h) The use of precision blending devices (gas dividers) to obtain the required calibration gas concentrations is acceptable, provided that the blended gases are accurate to within # 1.5 percent of NBS gas standards, or other gas standards which have been approved by the Administrator. This accuracy implies that primary gases used for blending must be ``named'' to an accuracy of at least # 1 percent, traceable to NBS or other approved gas standards. 103. A new section 86.1316&hyph;94 is added to subpart N to read as follows: §86.1316&hyph;94 Calibrations; frequency and overview. (a) Calibrations shall be performed as specified in §§86.1318 through 86.1326. (b) At least monthly or after any maintenance which could alter calibration, the following calibrations and checks shall be performed: (1) Calibrate the hydrocarbon analyzer, methane analyzer, carbon dioxide analyzer, carbon monoxide analyzer, oxides of nitrogen analyzer, methanol analyzer and formaldehyde analyzer (certain analyzers may require more frequent calibration depending on the equipment and use). (2) Calibrate the engine dynamometer flywheel torque and speed measurement transducers, and calculate the feedback signals to the cycle verification equipment. (3) Check the oxides of nitrogen converter efficiency. (c) At least weekly or after any maintenance which could alter calibration, the following checks shall be performed: (1) Perform a CVS system verification. (2) Check the shaft torque feedback signal at steady-state conditions by comparing: (i) Shaft torque feedback to dynamometer beam load; or (ii) By comparing in-line torque to armature current; or (iii) By checking the in-line torque meter with a dead weight per §86.1308(e). (d) The CVS positive displacement pump or critical flow venturi shall be calibrated following initial installation, major maintenance or as necessary when indicated by the CVS system verification (described in §86.1319). (e) Sample conditioning columns, if used in the CO analyzer train, should be checked at a frequency consistent with observed column life or when the indicator of the column packing begins to show deterioration.
