FR940617-2-00010 FR940617-2-00007 On May 13, 1994, based on petitioners' March 14, 1994, allegation of sales below cost of production (COP), the Department initiated a COP investigation ( see decision memorandum from Richard Moreland to Barbara Stafford, dated May 13, 1994) and issued a COP questionnaire. However, because of the deadline established for Paulista's COP questionnaire response, this information could not be considered for the preliminary determination. It will be considered for the final determination. Postponement of Final Determination Pursuant to section 735(a)(2)(A) of the Act, on April 26, 1994, Paulista requested that, in the event of an affirmative preliminary determination in this investigation, the Department postpone its final determination to 135 days after the date of publication of an affirmative preliminary determination. Pursuant to 19 CFR 353.20(b), if our preliminary determination is affirmative, and the Department receives a request from producers or resellers who account for a significant portion of the exports under investigation, we will, absent compelling reasons for denial, grant the request. Because Paulista represents a significant portion of the exports under investigation and there are no compelling reasons to deny the request, we are postponing the final determination until the 135th day after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Scope of Investigation The merchandise covered by this investigation is silicomanganese. Silicomanganese, which is sometimes called ferrosilicon manganese, is a ferroalloy composed principally of manganese, silicon, and iron, and normally containing much smaller proportions of minor elements, such as carbon, phosphorous and sulfur. Silicomanganese generally contains by weight not less than 4% iron, more than 30% manganese, more than 8% silicon and not more than 3% phosphorous. All compositions, forms and sizes of silicomanganese are included within the scope of this investigation, including silicomanganese slag, fines and briquettes. Silicomanganese is used primarily in steel production as a source of both silicon and manganese. This investigation covers all silicomanganese, regardless of its tariff classification. Most silicomanganese is currently classifiable under subheading 7202.30.0000 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTS). Some silicomanganese may also be classifiable under HTS subheading 7202.99.5040. Although the HTS subheading is provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this proceeding is dispositive. Period of Investigation The period of investigation (POI) is June 1, 1993, through November 30, 1993. Such or Similar Comparisons We have determined that the class or kind of merchandise subject to this investigation constitutes two such or similar categories: silicomanganese lumps and silicomanganese fines. In making our fair value comparisons, in accordance with the Department's standard methodology, we first compared identical merchandise. Where there were no sales of identical merchandise in the home market to compare to U.S. sales, we made similar merchandise comparisons on the basis of the criteria defined in Appendix V to the antidumping duty questionnaire. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.58, the Department normally attempts to compare U.S. sales to home market sales made at the same level of trade, where possible. Because Paulista did not make sales at the same level of trade in Brazil and the United States, we made comparisons without regard to level of trade. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether Paulista's sales of silicomanganese from Brazil to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price In accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, we based USP for Paulista on purchase price because all sales were made to unrelated parties prior to importation into the United States. We calculated purchase price sales based on prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign brokerage, handling and foreign inland freight in order to adjust these prices to an ex-factory basis. We did not add an amount for interest revenue because Paulista failed to place adequate information on the record to support this adjustment (see concurrence memorandum, dated June 3, 1994). We will, however, examine this issue further at verification, and consider it for the final determination. On October 7, 1993, the Court of International Trade (CIT), in Federal-Mogul Corp. and The Torrington Co. v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 (CIT, October 7, 1993), rejected the Department's methodology for calculating an addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act to account for taxes that the exporting country would have assessed on the merchandise had it been sold in the home market. The CIT held that the addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act should be the result of applying the foreign market tax rate to the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. Federal- Mogul, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 at 12. In accordance with the Federal-Mogul decision, we have added to USP the product of the home market tax rate and the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the home market tax was applied to foreign market sales. We have also deducted from the USP and the FMV those portions of the home market tax and the USP tax adjustments attributable to expenses included in the home market and United States bases of the tax if those expenses are later deducted to calculate FMV and USP. These adjustments to the home market tax and the USP tax adjustment are necessary to prevent the methodology for calculating the USP tax adjustment from creating antidumping duty margins where no margins would exist if no taxes were levied upon foreign market sales.
