FR941205-2-00172 FR941205-2-00074 •Conduct seminars and workshops for rehabilitation counselors and upper management rehabilitation administrators in States with significant American Indian populations on how to reach out to American Indian populations with disabilities, including effective services planning in conjunction with section 130 American Indian vocational rehabilitation services grants; •Provide training in State agencies with significant American Indian populations; and •Demonstrate potential for replication based on project outcomes through the dissemination of training materials and protocols. Priority 4_Training Impartial Hearing Officers on Provisions of the Act Background The Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992 contain several new requirements for due process applicable to State rehabilitation agencies that provide services under Title I of the Act. For example, agency personnel shall presume that an applicant can benefit from vocational rehabilitation services unless they can demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the applicant is incapable of benefiting from vocational rehabilitation services in terms of an employment outcome. If an individual with a disability is dissatisfied with an eligibility determination or other decisions affecting the nature, scope, onset, duration, or other conditions of services, the applicant or recipient is entitled to a fair hearing before an impartial hearing officer under section 102(d) of the Act. An impartial hearing officer is defined in section 7(28) of the Act. Among the qualifications the impartial hearing officer must have is knowledge of the delivery of vocational rehabilitation services, the State plan for rehabilitation services, and the Federal and State regulations governing the provision of services. Hearing officers are required in section 102(d)(2)(C) of the Act to be qualified to perform their official duties. One problem in training hearing officers is that there is a lack of an organized and accessible information base of hearing decisions and appeals such as is commonly found in our judicial system. Those compilations relate hearing decisions to State administrative case law, encourage the use of precedent in hearing decisions, provide evaluative data to State agencies on policies and practices that require revision or remediation, and provide information for use by the Federal Government in its monitoring responsibilities. A digest of hearing decisions and appeals, if published nationally, would also be of great benefit to multiple agencies, constituent groups, and Client Assistance Programs. The Secretary intends to make an award with a project period of up to 36 months. The Secretary expects that the materials developed under this project would be used by projects funded under the State Vocational Rehabilitation Unit In-Service Training program, the Rehabilitation Continuing Education Program, and the Client Assistance Program training projects. Priority The project must_ •Provide seminars and workshops for impartial hearing officers that address the many changes in due process requirements in the Act, including_(1) The rights and remedies for people with disabilities seeking services under Title I of the Act; and (2) The conduct of impartial hearings; •Develop model materials and decision compilations (including, if appropriate, computer-accessed compilations) for in-State and national dissemination of information on hearing decisions and appeals; and •Provide training that is national in scope and training approaches and materials that, when replicated and adapted, are suited to train State rehabilitation agency staff and Client Assistance Program staff who have significant involvement with hearings and hearing officers. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR Part 390. Program Authority: 29 U.S.C. 774.
