FR940919-0-00059 FR940919-0-00016 The universal treatment standards, described in detail in the next section, greatly simplify both compliance and enforcement with the LDRs, without sacrificing protection of the environment or human health. In particular, the rule replaces the myriad constituent concentration levels in the LDR treatment standards for most hazardous wastes with a uniform set of constituent levels. Thus, the treatment standard concentration for a constituent in waste A will be the same concentration as for that constituent in waste B. As a result, hazardous waste generators and treaters should be able to save money and effort in treating hazardous wastes. These facilities will be able to operate more efficiently by consolidating treatment activities. One facility, for example, estimated an annual savings of $750,000 from not having to campaign treat their wastes with varying limits. The consistency provided by universal treatment standards will make it easier to comply with the LDRs. Likewise, the universal treatment standards will make the job of enforcement easier for state governments. With universal treatment standards in place, it will also be easier and quicker for EPA to set standards for hazardous wastes identified in the future (assuming those standards are feasible and appropriate for newly identified and listed wastes). The end result for the regulated community, states, and the EPA will be to save resources for other pressing tasks. While establishment of universal treatment standards is the primary improvement, other improvements are also included in today's rule. In particular, the Agency is: •Consolidating three separate tables containing treatment standards into a single consolidated table; •Reducing the information required on notification forms; •Simplifying the regulations for treatment of lab packs; •Providing easy-to-read flowcharts and a simple guide to paperwork requirements in order to make the rule's requirements clearer and easier to implement. Although today's rule takes significant steps in improving the Land Disposal Restrictions program, the Agency recognizes that further, in fact continuing, improvement is necessary. Some of the universal treatment standards (such as cyanide) will need to be reassessed upon completion of Agency efforts to improve the analytic test method. HWIR will need to be integrated into the Land Disposal Restrictions. The Agency is also on a firm track of pursuing other avenues for continuous quality improvement in the program. Ideas and suggestions for improvements have, and will, come from: (1) Advance Notices of Proposed Rulemaking published by EPA in order to acquire as much information as possible from the public about treatment options; (2) communications between EPA and its customers representing environmental groups, generators, and treaters; and, (3) the LDR Program evaluation that is currently being conducted, which was initiated by a public roundtable discussion with a large number of customers. Consequently, the Agency will continue to take advantage of opportunities to streamline and improve the LDR program. B. Universal Treatment Standards The EPA is promulgating a single universal treatment standard (UTS) for each constituent in nonwastewater form and a single UTS for each constituent in wastewater form, regardless of the hazardous waste containing the constituent. 1. Identification of Wastes to Which Universal Treatment Standards Apply The universal treatment standards apply to all listed and characteristic wastes for which treatment standards have been promulgated, with two exceptions. The first exception is the TC metal wastes (D004&hyph;D011). These metal wastes will be addressed in the future Phase IV LDR rule. (It should be noted that the mineral processing wastes which were formerly excluded from RCRA Subtitle C regulation under the Bevill Amendment are considered to be newly identified and will also be addressed in Phase IV.) The second exception is those for which the treatment standard is a specified method of treatment. Most of these wastes must continue to be treated using those required technologies. For a small number of wastes with previously specified methods of treatment, the universal standards are an alternative, i.e. either use of the specified method or the universal standard will satisfy the LDR requirement. For those few situations where a mixture of wastes may be subject to different standards for the same constituent, the more stringent standard continues to apply. See §268.41(b). Although the proposed rule excluded F024 from the UTS, EPA is applying UTS to F024 in today's rule. The existing standards, which were unique among standards set for F- or K-listed wastes, incorporated numerical treatment standards and also mandated a specific technology_incineration. The original F024 numerical standards for metals were also exceptionally low, reflecting the fact that F024 contains only low levels of metals. However, comments from Dow Freeport indicated that the low F024 metal limit needlessly prevented them from co-treating wastes, a process that could save the facility $750,000/year, and that application of UTS solved this problem without diminishing the extent of treatment. EPA agrees, and is applying UTS to F024 in this rule while continuing to require incineration. UTS apply to underlying hazardous constituents in characteristic wastes that are subject to LDRs. Apparent confusion in several comments leads the Agency to clarify that UTS will apply to the F039 waste code, the code for multi-source leachate. EPA used the F039 levels in the May 1993 Interim Final Rule as treatment standards for underlying hazardous constituents in certain decharacterized D001 and D002 wastes (58 FR 29885). Consequently, UTS levels and F039 standards are identical, with the exception of those few constituents regulated in F039 but not in UTS. This means that the Interim Final Rule requirement that underlying hazardous constituents in certain D001 and D002 wastes meet F039 levels is now one and the same thing with the requirement that underlying hazardous constituents meet UTS. (The term ``underlying hazardous constituents'' is defined at 268.2(i)). 2. Differences in Universal Treatment Standards and Previous Treatment Standards In most cases (59%), UTS are the same as the previous treatment standards. Thirty three percent of the standards went up or down within a factor of ten of the original standard, while 8% underwent larger changes (3% of the total number of UTS becoming significantly more stringent). The following table lists the differences between the UTS and previous standards.
