FR941122-0-00018 FR941122-0-00005 (f) Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs _(1) General . Under the direction and supervision of the Deputy Commissioner, the Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs is delegated authority for policy development, review and integration of the Service's enforcement and examinations programs, and for providing general direction to, and supervision of, the Associate Commissioners for Enforcement and Examinations. (2) Associate Commissioner for Enforcement _(i) General . Under the direction and supervision of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs, the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement is delegated authority and responsibility for program and policy planning, development, coordination, evaluation, and staff direction to the Border Patrol, Investigations, Detention and Deportation, Intelligence, and Asset Forfeiture programs, and to impose administrative fines, penalties, and forfeitures under sections 274, 274A and 274C of the Act. The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement is responsible for providing general direction and supervision to the: (A) Assistant Commissioner for Border Patrol; (B) Assistant Commissioner for Investigations; (C) Assistant Commissioner for Detention and Deportation; (D) Assistant Commissioner for Intelligence; and (E) Director of Asset Forfeiture. (ii) Director of Asset Forfeiture . Under the direction and supervision of the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement, the Director of Asset Forfeiture is delegated the authority to direct and coordinate the Service program under section 274(b) of the Act which provides for the seizure and forfeiture of conveyances used in violation of section 274(a) of the Act. (3) Associate Commissioner for Examinations . (i) General . Under the direction and supervision of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs, the Associate Commissioner for Examinations is delegated authority and responsibility for program and policy planning, development, coordination, evaluation, and staff direction to the Adjudications and Nationality, Inspections, Administrative Appeals, Service Center Operations, and Records programs, and to direct and supervise the: (A) Assistant Commissioner for Adjudications and Nationality; (B) Assistant Commissioner for Inspections; (C) Assistant Commissioner for Service Center Operations; (D) Assistant Commissioner for Records; and (E) Director of Administrative Appeals. (ii) Administrative Fines . The Associate Commissioner for Examinations is delegated the authority to impose administrative fines under provisions of the Act in any case which is transmitted to the National Fines Office by a district director. (iii) Appellate Authorities . In addition, the Associate Commissioner for Examinations exercises appellate jurisdiction over decisions on; (A) Breaching of bonds under §103.6(e); (B) Petitions for immigrant visa classification based on employment or as a special immigrant or entrepreneur under §§204.5 and 204.6 of this chapter except when the denial of the petition is based upon lack of a certification by the Secretary of Labor under section 212(a)(5)(A) of the Act; (C) Indochinese refugee applications for adjustment of status under §245.2 (a)(4) and (e) of this chapter; (D) Revoking approval of certain petitions under §205.2 of this chapter.; (E) Applications for permission to reapply for admission to the United States after deportation or removal under §212.2 of this chapter; (F) Applications for waiver of certain grounds of excludability under §212.7(a) of this chapter;
