FR940603-1-00087 FR940603-1-00009 TM&hyph;15 (1). This unit is identical to TM&hyph;15 except the full width of the right-of-way to be cleared shall be XXXX ( XXXX ) feet wide (See Detail D, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). Additional Requirements. (When specifying units denote type of disposal A or B). A. Trees, brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used). 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (Describe) B. Trees that are felled shall be cut to commercial wood lengths, stacked neatly, and left on the right-of-way for the landowner. Commercial wood length means the length designated by the Engineer but in no case shall it be required to be less than XXXX ( XXXX ) feet. Brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used). 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (Describe) Specifications In preparing the right-of-way, trees shall be removed, underbrush cleared, and trees trimmed so that the right-of-way shall be clear from the ground up or as specified. Trees fronting each side of the right-of-way shall be trimmed symmetrically unless otherwise directed by the Engineer. Dead trees beyond the right of-way which would strike the line in falling shall be removed. Leaning trees beyond the right-of-way which would strike the line in falling and which would require topping if not removed may be removed or topped at the direction of the Engineer. Where RC or TMC units are specified, the right-of-way shall be cleared in accordance with the instructions in the preceding paragraph and in addition, all stumps one-half inch in diameter and larger shall be sprayed as specified by the Engineer. Right-of-Way Units Distribution Clearing Units 1Unit No. 1No. of Units 1Unit Price 1Extended Price ␣ Total Transmission Clearing Units 1Unit No. 1No. of Units 1Unit Price 1Extended Price ␣ Total Total Distribution and Transmission Acceptance The Owner hereby accepts the foregoing Proposal of the Contractor, XXXX for the following: Total Distribution Clearing: $ XXXX Total Transmission Clearing: $ XXXX The total contract price is $ XXXX XXXX Owner By XXXX President XXXX Secretary XXXX Date of Contract [End of clause] §1726.322 Transmission system right-of-way clearing contract, REA Form 203. The contract form in this section shall be used when required by this part. This form refers to guide drawings, which do not contain requirements, and, hence, are not included in this part. The guide drawings are included in the printed form available from REA (See §1726.300.) Transmission System Right-of-Way Clearing Contract Notice and Instructions to Bidders 1. Sealed proposals for the clearing of underbrush and trees from right-of-way, including the supply of necessary labor and equipment, of a rural electric system of XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner'') bearing the REA Designation XXXX will be received by the Owner on or before XXXX o'clock XX M., XXXX 19 XXXX , at its office at XXXX at which time and place the proposals will be publicly opened and read. Any proposal received subsequent to the time specified will be promptly returned to the Bidder unopened. 2. Description of Project. The Project will consist of approximately: XXXX miles of right-of-way clearing. The Project is located in XXXX Counties in the State of XXXX . 3. Obtaining and Transferring Documents. All necessary forms and other documents for bidders may be obtained from the Owner, or from the Engineer XXXX at the latter's office at XXXX . A copy of the Loan Contract (if the Project is to be financed in whole or in part, pursuant to a Loan Contract) between the Owner and the United States of America acting through the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration (hereinafter called the Administrator), and any other lender's contract may be examined at the office of the Owner. Each set of documents will have a serial number, given by the Engineer, and the number of each set with the name of the recipient will be recorded by the Engineer. Bids will be accepted only from the original recipient. 4. Manner of Submitting Proposals. Proposals and all supporting instruments must be submitted on the forms furnished by the Owner and must be delivered in a sealed envelope addressed to the Owner. The name and address of the Bidder, its license number if a license is required by the State, and the date and hour of the opening of bids must appear on the envelope in which the Proposal is submitted. Proposals must be filled in in ink or typewritten. No alterations or interlineations will be permitted, unless made before submission, and initialed and dated.
