FR940429-2-00041 FR940429-2-00035 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Resources and Services Administration Advisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines; Request for Nominations for Voting Members AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) is requesting nominations to fill three vacancies on the Advisory Commission on Childhood Vaccines (ACCV). The Commission was established by title XXI of the Public Health Service Act, as enacted by Public Law 99&hyph;660 and as subsequently amended, and advises the Secretary, HHS, on issues related to implementation of the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Bryan Johnson, Principal Staff Liaison, Policy and Commission Branch, Division of Vaccine Injury Compensation at (301) 443&hyph;1533. DATES: Nominations are to be submitted by May 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: All nominations are to be submitted to the Director, Division of Vaccine Injury Compensation, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), Parklawn Building, room 8A&hyph;35, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under the authorities that established the Advisory Commission, viz., the Federal Advisory Committee Act of October 6, 1972 (Pub. L. 92&hyph;463) and section 2119 of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 300aa&hyph;19, as added by Public Law 99&hyph;660 and amended, HRSA is requesting nominations for three voting members of the Commission. The Commission advises the Secretary on the implementation of the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program; on its own initiative or as the result of the filing of a petition, recommends changes in the Vaccine Injury Table; advises the Secretary in implementing the Secretary's responsibilities under section 2127 regarding the need for childhood vaccination products that result in fewer or no significant adverse reactions; surveys Federal, State, and local programs and activities relating to the gathering of information on injuries associated with the administration of childhood vaccines, including the adverse reaction reporting requirements of section 2125(b), and advises the Secretary on means to obtain, compile, publish, and use credible data related to the frequency and severity of adverse reactions associated with childhood vaccines; and recommends to the Director, National Vaccine Program, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, research related to vaccine injuries which should be conducted to carry out the National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program. The Commission consists of nine members appointed by the Secretary as follows: Three health professionals, of whom two are pediatricians, who are not employees of the United States, and who have expertise in the health care of children, the epidemiology, etiology, and prevention of childhood diseases, and the adverse reactions associated with vaccines; three members from the general public, of whom two are legal representatives of children who have suffered a vaccine-related injury or death; and three attorneys, of whom at least one shall be an attorney whose specialty includes representation of persons who have suffered a vaccine-related injury or death and one shall be an attorney whose specialty includes representation of vaccine manufacturers. In addition, the Director of the National Institutes of Health, the Assistant Secretary for Health, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Commissioner of Food and Drugs (or the designees of such officials), serve as non-voting ex officio members. Specifically, HRSA is requesting nominations for three voting members of the Commission representing: (1) A health professional with special experience in childhood diseases; (2) an attorney whose specialty includes representation of vaccine manufacturers; and (3) a member of the general public. The third category requires a total of three members of the general public, of whom at least two are legal representatives (parent or legal guardian) of children who have suffered a vaccine-related injury or death_by this notice, the Department is soliciting nominations for the third general public position. Nominees will be invited to serve 3-year terms beginning January 1, 1995, and ending December 31, 1997. Interested persons may nominate one or more qualified persons for membership on the Advisory Commission. Nominations shall state that the nominee is willing to serve as a member of the Commission and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude Commission membership. Potential candidates will be asked to provide detailed information concerning such matters as financial holdings, consultancies, and research grants or contracts to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. A curriculum vitae should be submitted with the nomination. The Department has special interest in assuring that women, minority groups, and the physically handicapped are adequately represented on advisory bodies and therefore extends particular encouragement to nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, or physically handicapped candidates. Dated: April 22, 1994. John H. Kelso, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10235 Filed 4&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;P
