FR940304-1-00105 FR940304-1-00014 The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association recommended that pulse combustion and condensation be simplified to condensation of flue gases. The essential efficiency improvement is to extract enough heat out of the flue gases, such that condensation occurs. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No 40. at 5). The Department notes that manufacturing costs and actual efficiencies for design options that condense flue gases depend on the method of condensation. Therefore, pulse combustion was retained as a separate design option. Northern Indiana Public Service recommended that pulse combustion and condensation of flue gases be eliminated as design options. While these designs are clearly feasible from a technical standpoint, cost considerations have proven to be insurmountable thus far. (Northern Indiana Public Service, No. 48 at 3). Since pulse combustion and condensation of flue gas technologies are feasible, the Department cannot eliminate these design options, but has considered their cost impacts using the best available estimates of manufacturing cost. The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy proposed that flue dampers and intermittent ignition devices be treated as separate designs. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 3). Because of concerns about contaminating indoor air with combustion products from the pilot light, the Department did not consider flue dampers as a separate design option. The Natural Resources Defense Council proposed that DOE evaluate power combustion with intermittent ignition devices. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 27). From the limited description of this design option, the Department assumed that the Natural Resources Defense Council was referring to a fan-assisted combustion system using electronic ignition with the fan before the combustion chamber. Part of the increase in efficiency from this design is caused by the fan restricting off-cycle air flow through the flue. This reduces off-cycle flue losses. The Department analyzed power vent with intermittent ignition devices, which is a fan-assisted combustion system with the fan after the combustion chamber. The reduction of flue losses would be similar to the reduction for the design option recommended by the Natural Resources Defense Council. Northern Indiana Public Service also stated that for vent fans, the main energy-conserving value is the reduction of flue losses, and a thermal vent damper could be used to accomplish that reduction more simply. (Northern Indiana Public Service, No. 48 at 4). The Department did not analyze vent dampers, which are above the draft hood, but did analyze flue dampers, which are below the draft hood, in conjunction with intermittent ignition devices as discussed above. Oklahoma Natural Gas proposed that DOE analyze improved burner design, modulating controls, improved flue baffling and improved fill tube designs to reduce sediment buildup and temperature stacking of heated water. (Oklahoma Natural Gas, No. 57 at 2). The Department was not able to obtain cost and efficiency data for improved burner design or fill tube designs. No analysis was done for modulating controls, because the Department is not aware of how this design would improve efficiency. Improved flue baffling was included as a design option. Mr. Rajendra Narang provided patented items for improving the efficiency of gas and oil water heaters. These included preheat of combustion air, self- regulating fuel flow to the burner, lower heat input, combustion dampers, and better heat exchangers. (Narang, No. 82). No data on potential energy efficiency improvements or incremental manufacturing costs were available for these design options. In addition, DOE was not able to develop any estimates on the cost or efficiency of these designs. Therefore, they were not included in today's proposed rule. The Department requests cost and efficiency data on these designs in order to evaluate them for inclusion in the final rule.
