FR940622-2-00009 FR940622-2-00004 We used constructed value (CV) as FMV for those U.S. sales for which there were insufficient sales of the comparison home-market model at or above the COP. We calculated CV in accordance with section 773(e) of the Act. We made an adjustment to general and administrative expenses based on our finding that Akzo had allocated general and administrative costs to different product groups based on specific allocation methodologies. The costs reported were general in nature and related to all operations, and we allocated them to all of Akzo's product lines. In addition, we summed the cost of materials, indirect selling expenses, direct selling expenses, revised general and administrative expenses, net interest expenses, and imputed credit. In our calculation of the selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A), where the sum of the actual selling expenses and the revised general and administrative expenses was less than the statutory minimum of 10 percent of the cost of manufacturing (COM), we calculated SG&A as 10 percent of the COM. Where the actual profits were less than the statutory minimum of 8 percent of COM plus SG&A, we calculated profit as 8 percent of the sum of COM plus SG&A. We adjusted CV for selling, credit, and packing expenses. For those models that had sufficient above-cost sales, the Department calculated FMV using home market prices based on the FOB price to unrelated purchasers. Where applicable, we made adjustments for inland freight (post-sale), inland insurance, packing, discounts, other discounts, interest revenue, rebates, and third party payments. We made adjustments for differences in technical services expenses and credit. We also made adjustments for differences in the physical characteristics of merchandise. The Department also made an adjustment to the amount of consumption taxes included in FMV in accordance with the Department's aforementioned tax adjustment methodology. Preliminary Results As a result of our review, we preliminarily determine the dumping margin to be: ␣ 1Manufacturer/Exporter 1Time period 1Margin (percent) Akzo Faser A.G. 2/20/92&hyph;5/31/93 1.11 Parties to this proceeding may request disclosure within 5 days of publication of this notice and any interested party may request a hearing within 10 days of publication. Any hearing, if requested, will be held 44 days after the date of publication, or the first workday thereafter. Interested parties may submit case briefs and/or written comments not later than 30 days after the date of publication. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttals to written comments, limited to issues raised in such briefs or comments, may be filed not later than 37 days after the date of publication. The Department will publish a notice of the final results of this administrative review, which will include the results of its analysis of issues raised in any such briefs or comments. The Department shall determine, and the U.S. Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. Individual differences between USP and FMV may vary from the percentage stated above. The Department will issue appraisement instructions directly to the U.S. Customs Service. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective upon completion of the final results of this administrative review for all shipments of high-tenacity rayon filament yarn from Germany entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the publication date of the final results of this administrative review, as provided by section 751(a) of the Act: (1) The cash deposit rate for Akzo will be that established in the final results of this review; (2) for merchandise exported by manufacturers or exporters not covered in this review but covered in the original LTFV investigation, the cash deposit will continue to be the rate published in the final determination for which the manufacturer or exporter received a company-specific rate; (3) if the exporter is not a firm covered in this review, or the original investigation, but the manufacturer is, the cash deposit rate will be that established for the manufacturer of the merchandise in the final results of this review, or the original investigation; (4) if neither the exporter nor the manufacturer is a firm covered in this or any previous review, the cash deposit rate will be the ``all others rate'' from the LTFV investigation. On May 25, 1993, the CIT in Floral Trade Council v. United States, 822 F. Supp. 766 (1993), and Federal-Mogul Corporation and the Torrington Company v. United States, 822 F. Supp. 782 (1993), decided that once an ``all others'' rate is established for a company, it can only be changed through an administrative review. The Department has determined that in order to implement these decisions, it is appropriate to reinstate the original ``all others'' rate from the LTFV investigation (or that rate as amended for correction for clerical errors or as a result of litigation) in proceedings governed by antidumping duty orders for the purposes of establishing cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. Thus, the ``all others'' rate for the purposes of this review will be 24.58 percent, the ``all others'' rate established in the final notice of LTFV investigation by the Department (57 FR 21770). This notice also serves as a preliminary reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 353.26 to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in the Secretary's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and 19 CFR 353.22. Dated: June 15, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15182 Filed 6&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
