FR940902-2-00015 FR940902-2-00012 Department of the Army Finding of No Significant Impact and Environmental Assessment for Disposal and Reuse of Tacony Warehouse, Philadelphia, PA AGENCY: Department of the Army, DoD. ACTION: Finding of no significant impact. SUMMARY: The proposed action analyzed by this document is the disposal and reuse of the Tacony Warehouse facility, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania as required by the Defense Authorization Amendments and the Base Closure and Realignment Act (Pub. L. 100&hyph;526). The Army will dispose of an approximately 14 acre parcel of land with improvements. The Fort Dix Directorate of Public Works has been maintaining the facility since closure in September 1992. The alternatives are expressed in terms of Army imposed conditions for real estate disposal. An ``Unencumbered Alternative'' represents the ability to turn over the property with no Army imposed conditions. An ``Encumbered Alternative'' deals with property transferred with conditions imposed by the Army. This may be due to mitigation required by another regulatory agency or may be required to protect Army interests. Council on Environmental Quality and Army regulations implementing the National Environmental Protection Act require a no-action alternative as a benchmark against which proposed actions are evaluated. For this document, this is the ``Caretaker'' alternative. The ``Unencumbered Alternative'', the ``Encumbered Alternative'', and the ``No Action Alternative'' (Caretaker) have been addressed in the Environmental Assessment (EA). In the ``Unencumbered Alternative'', the facility will be available for reuse under a range of projected levels of reuse. Those projected levels of reuse are: High Intensity Use, Medium Intensity Use, Low Intensity Use and Open Space. High Intensity Use is defined when all of the property is offered for sale for a light industrial/commercial reuse. There would be renovation of existing structures to house a light industrial/commercial enterprise. Some construction activities, including building office and showroom space, will be performed within existing structures. Medium Intensity Use is when all of the property is used as a regional distribution center. The facility's area of distribution will be the Mid-Atlantic States region. There will be renovations of existing structures and renovation of the rail lines entering the site. Low Intensity use would occur if all of the property is sold or transferred for reuse as warehouse. An example of Open Space is when the remainder of the parcel will be transferred to the city for use as an outdoor recreation area. Land use in the ``Encumbered Alternative'' is similar to ``Low Intensity Use'' addressed in the ``Unencumbered Alternative.'' The identified encumbrance is associated with groundwater remediation activities and will restrict use of groundwater for human ingestion or industrial purposes. Additionally, the 0.9 acre parcel adjacent to the state owned boat ramp will be transferred to the Pennsylvania Fishing Commission as part of the boat ramp parking and picnic area. In the no action alternative, also known as the ``Caretaker'' alternative, the Army will retain and close the facility. The structures will be allowed to stand, with minimum maintenance activity conducted at the facility. The disposal of Tacony Warehouse would not result in significant environmental or socioeconomic impacts. The transfer of 0.9 acres to the Pennsylvania Fishing Commission will have no impact on the environment since the activities and conditions at the 0.9 acre site will not change as a result of the transfer. Army Environmental Center studies have identified the extent of contamination at the site. A remediation plan was prepared and coordinated with the Environmental Protection Agency and the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Resources. The following remediation has been planned: Removal of underground storage tanks and above ground storage tanks; replacement of polychlorinated biphenyl contaminated transformers; asbestos removal and management; steam cleaning of contaminated building surfaces; contaminated soil and sediment removal; and groundwater collection and monitoring. Since the structures on the property were constructed prior to 1978, the potential for lead based paints exist. The Army does not plan to remove any lead based paint. Reuse of the property will have potential impacts to air quality, water quality, soils, and hazardous and toxic materials. The extent of these impacts will be dependent on: (1) The extent of renovation, demolition, and construction activities; and (2) the products produced and stored at the facility. High intensity reuse and Open Space reuse, addressed in the ``Unencumbered Alternative'', will have the greatest impacts on these resources. Best management techniques will lessen the impacts of construction and renovation. Prior to and during operations, consultation will occur with environmental resource agencies, as required, to ensure compliance with all federal, state, and local regulations and guidelines. Increases to the facility's utility usage and the surrounding traffic patterns as a result of reuse will not pose a significant impact to the surrounding community. No plant and animal ecologies exist on the property. No cultural resources exist on the site to be affected by reuse. The State Historic Preservation Office has concurred with the Army's determination that no historic properties exist on the site. Since the disposal of Tacony Warehouse does not constitute a major federal action significantly affecting the human environment, an Environmental Impact Statement will not be prepared. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to comment may obtain a copy of the EA or inquire regarding this Finding of No Significant Impact by writing to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: Mr. Larry D. Eastman, Planning Division, P.O. Box 1715, Baltimore, Maryland 21203&hyph;1715. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Questions regarding this FNSI may be directed to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: Mr. Larry D. Eastman, at (410) 962&hyph;3208. Dated: August 29, 1994. Lewis D. Walker, Assistant Secretary of the Army, (Environment, Safety and Occupational Health) OASA (IL&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21749 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
