FR941116-1-00017 FR941116-1-00004 (7) The VE program should include procedures for monitoring the implementation of the recommendations to ensure that proper documentation is maintained for accepted and rejected VE and VECP recommendations, the projected or actual cost savings associated with the recommendations, and the total costs involved in performing the VE studies. The monitoring procedures should also include a mechanism to assure that applicable VE alternatives employed on one projects are included in other similar projects. (b) State VE coordinators. Each State highway agency shall be adequately staffed with individuals knowledgeable in VE to effectively coordinate and monitor its VE efforts. Individuals assigned to administer and monitor the VE program should have sufficient authority to insure the vigorous implementation of the VE program and be actively involved in all phases of the VE program including the development of the agency's annual VE plan. (c) VE training. The VE program should include procedures for identifying formal VE training needs and for coordinating training efforts to ensure that an adequately trained staff is available to perform the number of VE studies required in the annual VE plan and to assure a continuing VE program. Key VE program managers, VE team leaders and members, and individuals involved in the VECP review and approval process shall receive VE training. (d) Use of consultants. Consultants that have experience in VE may be retained by SHAs to conduct VE studies on Federal-aid projects or elements of Federal-aid projects. Members of consultant VE study teams should be experienced in VE, have completed a recognized VE course or workshop, and have participated in previous VE studies. A consultant firm should not be retained to conduct a VE study of its own design unless the firm maintains separate and distinct organizational separation of its VE and design sections. (e) Funding eligibility. The cost of performing VE studies is project related and is therefore eligible for reimbursement with Federal-aid highway funds at the appropriate pro-rata share for the project studied. ยง627.7 Reports. Each SHA shall report yearly the results it achieved through the application of VE to selected highway projects financed with Federal-aid highway funds. States should report data for the Federal fiscal year, the twelve month period beginning October 1 and ending September 30. States should submit these reports to the FHWA division office by November 10 of the calendar year. This information may be transmitted to the FHWA electronically. The suggested report format is provided in appendix A of this part. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2125- XXX .)
