FR941227-0-00004 FR941227-0-00002 5 CFR Parts 870, 871, 872, 873, 874, and 890 [RIN 3206&hyph;AF94] Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance and Federal Employees Health Benefits Programs; Reconsideration of Employing Office Enrollment Decisions AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is issuing final regulations to improve the administrative process used by the Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) and Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Programs in resolving disputes between Federal employees and agencies over coverage and enrollment issues. The purpose of these regulations is to improve the performance of the Government by delegating to Federal agencies the authority to reconsider disputes over coverage and enrollment issues in these two programs and to make retroactive as well as prospective corrections of errors. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 27, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Margaret Sears (202) 606&hyph;0191. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On June 17, 1994, OPM published proposed regulations (59 FR 31171) that would delegate to agencies the authority to make final reconsideration decisions on enrollment issues under the FEGLI and FEHB Programs and to make retroactive as well as prospective corrections where appropriate. OPM received comments from nine agency headquarters or installations, one employee organization, and one health insurance carrier. Three commenters expressed their approval of the proposed regulations without further comment. The other eight commenters expressed various concerns about the changes made by the proposed regulations and about the procedures they would have to develop in order to comply with them. Generally, the comments reflected considerable confusion on the part of agencies as to exactly what they would be required to do under these proposed regulations. Four commenters expressed the belief that the statistics provided in the supplementary information do not support the delegation of the reconsideration decision to agencies because they represent errors on the part of agencies. These statistics showed that about one-third of the cases OPM received involved decisions about retroactive changes, which agencies cannot make under current regulations. Therefore, these do not represent errors on the part of agencies. An additional 23 percent of the requests OPM received were returned to the agencies because the employees had not followed administrative procedures_in most cases employees had not asked their agencies for an initial decision. These, also, do not represent agency errors. Because some cases involved both an enrollment issue and a retroactive coverage issue, the percentages do not show the exact number of cases where agency error may have been involved. However, in more than half the cases, agency error was not involved. Considering the tremendous volume of enrollment decisions that employing offices make each year, the fact that so few decisions are disputed by employees reflects a remarkable achievement by employing offices. Three commenters were uncertain about what ``administrative error'' means. Generally, an administrative error occurs when an employing office misapplies the law or regulations, misinforms employees, or fails to inform employees when required to do so. It could include any mistake on the part of the employing office that directly results in the loss of a benefit or opportunity to an employee. We have not incorporated a definition into the regulations because doing so would tend to narrow the application of the term. One of the commenters asked that we clarify the difference between ``administrative error'' in §§870.102(a) and 890.103(a) and ``error'' in §§870.102(b) and 890.103(b). There is no difference; therefore, we are changing the regulations to read ``administrative error'' in each case. Three commenters questioned OPM's ``equity and good conscience'' authority and asked if they must give an appeal right to OPM when they issue a reconsideration decision. OPM's ``equity and good conscience authority,'' which allows us to order the correction of an administrative error, is not a part of the administrative review process. The administrative review process ends with the agency's reconsideration decision. However, without the authority to order a correction, OPM could not overrule an agency reconsideration decision that is obviously in disregard of law and regulations and is unfair to the employee. While these situations are rare, OPM must retain the authority to correct them. OPM will issue guidance to agencies to help them in developing procedures for making reconsideration decisions.
