FR941205-1-00052 FR941205-1-00014 Part IV Part IV requires the filing party to provide the market shares of all liner operators within the entire geographic scope of the agreement and in each sub-trade within the scope of the agreement, during the most recent calendar quarter for which complete data are available. Sub-trade is defined as the scope of all liner movements between each U.S. port range within the scope of the agreement and each foreign country within the scope of the agreement. Where the agreement covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound market shares should be shown separately. U.S. port ranges are defined as follows: Atlantic _Includes ports along the eastern seaboard from the northern boundary of Maine to, but not including, Key West, Florida. Also includes all ports bordering upon the Great Lakes and their connecting waterways as well as all ports in the State of New York on the St. Lawrence River. Gulf _Includes all ports along the Gulf of Mexico from Key West, Florida, to Brownsville, Texas, inclusive. Also includes all ports in Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Pacific _Includes all ports in the States of Alaska, Hawaii, California, Oregon and Washington. Also includes all ports in Guam, American Samoa and Saipan. The formula for calculating market share (in either the entire agreement scope or in a sub-trade) is as follows: The total amount of cargo carried on each liner operator's liner vessels (in either the entire agreement scope or in the particular sub-trade) during the most recent calendar quarter for which complete data are available, divided by the total amount of cargo carried on all liner vessels (in either the entire agreement scope or in the particular sub-trade) during the same calendar quarter, which quotient is multiplied by 100. The calendar quarter used must be clearly identified. The market shares held by non- agreement lines as well as by agreement lines must be provided, stated separately in the format indicated. The amount of cargo is to be measured in TEUs. Liner movements is the carriage of liner cargo by liner operators. Liner cargoes are cargoes carried on liner vessels in a liner service. A liner operator is a vessel-operating common carrier engaged in liner service. Liner vessels are those vessels used in a liner service. Liner service refers to a definite, advertised schedule of sailings at regular intervals. All these definitions, terms and descriptions apply only for purposes of the Information Form. Part V Part V requires the filing party to state, for each agreement member line that served all or any part of the geographic area covered by the agreement during all or any part of the most recent 12-month period for which complete data are available, each line's total cargo carryings (measured in TEUs) within the geographic area, total revenues within the geographic area, and average revenue per TEU. The Information Form specifies the format in which the information is to be reported. Where the agreement covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound data should be stated separately. Part VI Part VI requires the filing party to identify, for each sub- trade within the scope of the agreement, the top 10 commodities by cumulative TEUs carried by all the parties during the same 12-month period used in responding to Part V, or the commodities accounting for 50 percent of the cumulative TEUs carried by all the parties during the 12-month period, whichever is greater. Where the agreement covers both U.S. inbound and outbound liner movements, inbound and outbound sub-trades should be stated separately. Part VII Part VII addresses how each of the parties to the proposed agreement has carried each major commodity in each sub-trade, and the revenue results experienced by each party from its carriage of each commodity. The Information Form specifies the format in which the information is to be reported. Part VIII Part VIII is concerned with the levels of service at each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement. The filing party is required to provide the number of calls at each port by each of the agreement lines over the 12-month period used in responding to Parts V, VI and VII, and also to indicate any change in the nature or type of service to be effected immediately by the agreement.
