FR941117-0-00204 FR941117-0-00013 A number of commenters discussed the appropriateness of the proposed dollar exemption, with comments ranging from a call for increased thresholds to no thresholds at all. 180 Some commenters believed that the thresholds should be increased, because many small municipalities would exceed these thresholds if they delay their financings in order to issue a greater amount of bonds at one time. The commenters argued that these are small, infrequent issuers with limited trading in the secondary market and the cost of compliance would outweigh the benefits received from improved secondary market disclosure. 181 180 See, e.g. Letter of ALHFA; Letter of CDFA; Letter of NFMA; Letter of National Association of Independent Public Finance Advisors; Letter of Prudential Investment Corp.; Letter of PSA; Letter of Washington State Auditor. 181 See, e.g., Letter of NAST; Letter of SIA. Other commenters took exception to the proposed thresholds because they were too high. These commenters argued that the exemption as proposed would exclude from coverage of the rule the types of issuers who have historically had deficient disclosure practices and disproportionate numbers of defaults. 182 A number of commenters also argued that the $3 million/48 month component of the threshold was too complex. 183 182 See, e.g. Letter of Chemical Securities; Letter of Eaton Vance Management; Letter of Edward D. Jones & Co.; Letter of Morgan Stanley; Letter of National Association of Independent Public Finance Advisors; Letter of Norwest Investment Services. 183 See, e.g., Letter of APPA; Letter of The Bank of New York; Joint Response. As adopted, 184 the exemption retains the aggregate $10,000,000 limitation, but eliminates the $3,000,000 threshold. Instead, in addition to falling under the $10,000,000 in outstanding securities threshold, the exemption is conditioned upon an issuer or obligated person providing a limited disclosure undertaking. Under this undertaking, financial information and operating data concerning each obligor for which financial information or operating data is presented in the final official statement, must be provided upon request to any person, or be provided at least annually to the appropriate SID. The undertaking would specify the type of financial information and operating data that will be made available annually, which must include financial information and operating data that is customarily prepared by the obligated person and is publicly available. The final official statement must describe where and how the financial information and operating data can be obtained. 184 See Rule 15c2&hyph;12(d)(2). Financial information and operating data of governmental issuers generally are subject to freedom of information laws, and thus would be publicly available for purposes of this condition of the exemption. Conduit borrowers generally provide annual financial information to trustees, credit enhancers, or the financing agency that issued the municipal securities, and thus would have no difficulty complying with this standard if that information is made publicly available. To the extent that an obligated person does not currently publicly disclose that information, they are free to specify the type of information they are undertaking to provide on an ongoing basis, but they must agree to provide some information. That information need not be the same type of information presented in the official statement. Nor would these exempt persons have to release their audited financial statements, unless they otherwise customarily prepare and make their audited financial statements publicly available. Moreover, the limited disclosure undertaking need only cover those obligors for which financial information or operating data is provided in the official statement. In addition to providing financial information and operating data annually, notices of material events must be sent to each NRMSIR or to the MSRB, and the appropriate SID. This public information condition has been adopted in response to comments highlighting the need for information regarding small issuers accessing the public debt market. 185 185 See Joint Response. A number of other commenters expressed concern about the lack of information on issuers in market segments in which the higher proportion of defaults have occurred. See note 182, supra and accompanying text. The effective date for this information undertaking condition on the small issuer exemption will be delayed until January 1, 1996. See Section II.E., infra. The threshold of $10,000,000 has been retained, notwithstanding comments that it was too high or too low. According to statistics provided by one commenter, 186 in 1993, 71% of the approximately 52,000 municipal issuers had under $10,000,000 in outstanding municipal securities. Accordingly, the amendments as proposed already provided significant exemptive relief for small issuers. Indeed, the fact that a majority of issuers fall below that threshold supports conditioning the exemption on a commitment to provide a limited amount of secondary market information from exempt issuers. Even with that condition, a significant percentage of offerings would remain totally exempt from the amendments as adopted, because over 20% of the total issuances in 1993 were under $1,000,000. 187 As these statistics demonstrate, the exemption should exclude a large percentage of small infrequent issuers. 186 See Letter of The Bond Buyer. 187 See Letter of The Bond Buyer. The requirements of Rule 15c2&hyph;12, as amended, may not be avoided by breaking up an offering into several offerings of less than $1,000,000, where the offerings are of the same class of securities and are for the same purpose. Commenters also questioned how the aggregate thresholds were measured, including whose securities would be included and whether the exemption applied only to outstanding securities that were sold in Offerings subject to the rule. 188 Many commenters indicated that the thresholds should be separately applied to each issuer of municipal securities and each underlying obligor. 189 Thus, in the case of conduit issuers that have no liability on the municipal securities, commenters argued that the thresholds should be determined by reference to the persons who are the beneficiaries of the financing. 190 Some commenters argued that those issuers that had different types of financings that relied on separate revenue streams for repayment, such as dedicated tax revenues, should not be foreclosed from relying on the small issuer exemption for each financing. 191 188 See, e.g., Letter of ABA Urban Law Section; Letter of CIFA; Letter of Colorado Municipal Bond Supervision Advisory Board. 189 See, e.g., Letter of ALHFA; Letter of CDFA; Letter of Hawkins Delafield & Wood. 190 See, e.g., Letter of Alaska Municipal Bond Bank; Letter of Bose, McKinney & Evans; Letter of CDFA; Letter of Oregon Economic Development Department. 191 See, e.g., Letter of ABA Business Law Section; Letter of Chapman and Cutler; Letter of NABL.
