FR940503-0-00087 FR940503-0-00022 (ii) 10 percent of the number of units assisted under this part in the eligible project. (2) Option to reserve greater number of units for non-elderly disabled families. The owner, at the owner's option, and at any time, may reserve a greater number of units for non-elderly disabled families than that provided for in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The option to provide a greater number of units to non-elderly disabled families will not obligate the owner to always provide that greater number to non-elderly disabled families. The number of units required to be provided to non-elderly disabled families at any time in an elderly project is that number determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (d) Secondary preferences. An owner of an elderly project also may elect to establish secondary preferences in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section. (1) Preference for near-elderly disabled families in units reserved for elderly families. If the owner of an elderly project determines, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that there are an insufficient number of elderly families who have applied for occupancy to fill all the vacant units in the elderly project reserved for elderly families (that is, all units except those reserved for the non-elderly disabled families as provided in paragraph (c) of this section), the owner may give preference for occupancy of such units to disabled families who are near-elderly families. (2) Preference for near-elderly disabled families in units reserved for non-elderly disabled families. If the owner of an elderly project determines, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that there are an insufficient number of non-elderly disabled families to fill all the vacant units in the elderly project reserved for non-elderly disabled families as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the owner may give preference for occupancy of these units to disabled families who are near-elderly families. (e) Availability of units to families without regard to preference. If the owner of an elderly project who has elected to adopt the secondary preferences in paragraph (d) of this section determines, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that there are an insufficient number of families for whom preference, including secondary preference, in occupancy has been given, to fill all the vacant units in the elderly project, the owner shall make the vacant units generally available to otherwise eligible families who apply for housing, without regard to the preferences and reservation of units provided in this section. (f) Determination of insufficient number of applicants qualifying for preference. To make a determination that there are an insufficient number of applicants who qualify for the preferences, including secondary preferences, provided by this section, the owner must: (1) Conduct marketing in accordance with ยง886.321(a) to attract applicants qualifying for the preferences and reservation of units set forth in this section; and (2) Make a good faith effort to lease to applicants who qualify for the preferences provided in this section, including taking all feasible actions to fill vacancies by renting to such families. (g) Federal preferences. An owner that gives preferences to elderly families and reserves units for non-elderly disabled families in accordance with this section also shall select applicants among each respective group in accordance with the Federal preferences contained in ยง886.337. (h) Prohibition of evictions. An owner may not evict a tenant without good cause, or require that a tenant vacate a unit, in whole or in part because of any reservation or preference provided in this section, or because of any action taken by the Secretary pursuant to subtitle D (sections 651 through 661) of title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13611 through 13620). (i) Expiration date of section. This section will expire on May 3, 1995. Dated: April 26, 1994. Nicolas P. Retsinas, Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10519 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;P
