FR940617-0-00024 FR940617-0-00005 Section 3: One commenter remarked that the word ``substantial'' should be replaced and one commenter remarked that the language ``The Owner *␣*␣* may *␣*␣* make reasonable changes, additions to or subtractions from the Specifications *␣*␣*'' is ambiguous and should be changed. Response: This is the same language that is in the existing REA Form 525 Contract. It has worked well in the past and REA does not feel there is a need to change it. Article II, Delivery and Installation Section 1: One commenter remarked that the draft REA Form 525 made the Completion of Installation of the essence. The commenter feels that Completion of the Project should be of the essence, since liquidated damages are measured from that event. Response: Completion of Installation is a scheduled date that must be met. The scheduled date for the Completion of the Project, as shown in Article I, Section 1, Column 7, is established by adding 60 days to the Completion of Installation. Liquidated Damages are measured from the scheduled date for Completion of the Project. Actual Completion of the Project may be a date earlier or later than the scheduled date of Completion of the Project as defined in Article VII, Section 1, Definitions. Therefore, REA believes that Completion of Installation must be of the essence. Section 1: One commenter remarked that if a remote switching terminal is scheduled independently of a central office, the Contract should reflect this as a separate Project. Response: Article I, Section 1, and the Contract in general, regard a central office, including all associated remote switching terminals, to be an indivisible unit for delivery, payment, turnover, closeout, liquidated damages, and other purposes. A host office and its remotes are interdependent and alterations to one may affect the others. Therefore, REA regards a host office and all associated remotes as one item under the Contract. Section 1: One commenter remarked that the reference to ``the satisfaction of the Owner and the Administrator'' is a subjective standard and should be removed. Response: If the language in question is deleted, the Section would require unconditional adherence to the terms of the Contract. The language is included here to allow the possibility of latitude, where the Owner and REA agree. Section 3: One commenter had the following remarks: (i) In the first sentence the wording ``give sufficient supervision to'' should be changed to ``supervise.'' (ii) Also, this commenter feels the language ``using Bidder's best skill and attention'' is onus and unenforceable and should be deleted. (iii) The commenter also feels the second sentence should be expanded to include the following language ``but that the failure of the Bidder to discover these items shall not create any obligation or liability on the part of the Bidder, nor relieve the Owner of its performance or responsibilities.'' Response: REA feels that the existing language is appropriate. REA disagrees with the expansion of the second sentence since REA believes it is reasonable for the Bidder to be responsible for the fulfillment of the Contract requirements. Section 4: One commenter had the following remarks: (i) The reference to ``manufacturing'' in the first paragraph should be replaced with ``other than cost information or any other information from which cost could be derived.'' (ii) The commenter also suggests the language ``each central office (and its associated remote switching terminals), feature or service'' be replaced with the word ``Project'' as a potential exists for a remote to be scheduled as a separate Project. (iii) In addition, the commenter feels the word ``nonperformance'' in the fourth paragraph should be replaced with ``failure to satisfactorily resolve all such deficiencies as previously listed on the REA Form 517.''
