FR941011-2-00003 FR941011-2-00002 Privacy Act of 1974; Systems of Records AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, USDA. ACTION: Notice of revision of Privacy Act systems of records. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4) that the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) proposes to revise the Privacy Act Systems of Records maintained by the Office of Inspector General (OIG) in order to update the information in the systems and provide individuals with more current and more detailed information concerning the records maintained in the USDA/OIG systems of records. The proposed revisions include removing two categories of records from existing systems and setting them up as separate systems, deleting two systems for which records are no longer maintained, establishing one entirely new system of records, and condensing/consolidating routine uses. DATES: This revision is effective upon final publication of the amendments to 7 CFR 1.122 and 1.123 published in proposed form elsewhere in today's issue of the Federal Register unless changes are made in response to comments received from the public. Comments must be submitted on or before December 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons may submit comments to Paula F. Hayes, Assistant Inspector General for Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington , DC 20250&hyph;2310. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paula F. Hayes, Assistant Inspector General for Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2310 (202&hyph;720&hyph;6979). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Proposed updates applicable to all USDA/OIG systems include changes in addresses to reflect changes in addresses to reflect changes in office locations, and changes in titles of system managers and contact persons to reflect organizational changes. Other proposals specifically applicable to particular systems are as follows. For USDA/OIG&hyph;1, ``Employee Records, USDA/OIG,'' to clarify further the types of records that may be on file USDA/OIG proposes to add two categories, security clearance forms and exit interviews, and to add an explanation that the qualifications category in regard to law enforcement employees may include such records as Attorney General designations, training certificates, physical fitness data, and the medical officer's certification section of medical examination forms. Also to assist employees in locating their records, USDA/OIG proposes to add references to two OPM systems and one USDA system which also cover employee records. Furthermore, the proposed changes include the addition of citations to the National Archives and Records Administration General Records Schedules which govern the retention and disposition of employee records.The routine uses listed under system USDA/OIG&hyph;1, which are basically the same for all systems and which were last published in 54 FR 39552, September 27, 1989, are proposed to be condensed, consolidated, and reduced in number from 17 to 12. The proposed routine use changes, which are primarily for clarification purposes, are as follows: _The use providing for release of records to an entity to enable the entity to recover money or property of USDA (previously numbered 14), and the use pertaining to release of records to a licensing agency where violations or potential violations of licensing standards are indicated (previously numbered 16), would be incorporated with other enforcement type releases under the routine use numbered 1. _The use governing the release of records to contractors for debt collection purposes (previously numbered 17), would be included as part of the routine use numbered 2 which covers the release of records to obtain information relevant to an OIG decision. _The use allowing release of records to another agency that is considering suspension or debarment action (previously numbered 13), would become part of the routine use numbered 3 which generally pertains to the release of records to another agency for use in hiring or licensing decisions. _The use covering the release of records for use in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body (previously numbered 6), would be combined with the routine use numbered 5 concerning release of records to the Department of Justice for litigation purposes. Ad Hoc forums and administrative tribunals would also be added. _The use pertaining to the disclosure of records to private contractors performing work for OIG (previously numbered 11) would be reworded to identify more precisely what the use covers and to include Privacy Act safeguards. It would be renumbered as 9.
