FR940803-0-00023 FR940803-0-00008 Small credit unions that are not automated present a different picture entirely. Because of the many dividend rate, annual percentage yield, and annual percentage yield earned calculations required by TISA, and the prohibition of the prevalent rollback method of calculating dividends, nonautomated credit unions are much more needful of adequate resources and time to accomplish meaningful Truth in Savings compliance. To this end, the NCUA Board adopted a program to place retired NCUA computers with nonautomated credit unions with $2 million or less in assets. Due to the length of the federal procurement process for obtaining new NCUA computers, however, no computers will be available to distribute until sometime in 1995. The Board understands that many nonautomated credit unions with assets of $2 million or less have relied upon previous estimates of earlier delivery dates of retired NCUA computers. Therefore, the Board has decided to expand the extension for all credit unions eligible for retired NCUA computers until January 1, 1996. Only a small number of credit unions are affected by this extension. NCUA has determined that there are 1,248 credit unions under $2 million in assets that have no or grossly inadequate computers or data processing capability. Of these credit unions, approximately 1,096 have less than $1 million in assets and approximately 152 have between $1&hyph;2 million in assets. The compliance date remains January 1, 1995, for all other credit unions (automated credit unions under $2 million in assets and all credit unions having over $2 million or more in assets). NCUA encourages early Truth in Savings compliance by all credit unions as soon as they are able in order to meet the Congressional intent of universal Truth in Savings coverage of consumer held accounts in financial institutions. Each credit union receiving this extension is encouraged to begin to comply with TISA and part 707 as soon as its board of directors believes the credit union is ready. The NCUA Board is well aware that most credit unions start small, and historically, the fostering of small credit unions has strengthened the entire credit union movement. The Board has supported and instituted several small credit union initiatives to continue the development of small credit unions. For instance, in NCUA's Region V, a ``big brother'' partnership program has teamed smaller credit unions with larger credit unions, proving that the smallest credit unions can be preserved if examiners, other credit unions, and trade associations work together cooperatively in the spirit of the credit union movement to help those in need. Over 331 small credit unions are benefiting from participation in various Region V small credit union programs. NCUA has implemented the ``big brother'' program in all other NCUA Regions. The NCUA Board recently established an Office of Community Development Credit Unions to help implement NCUA's commitment to small, low-income, and community credit unions. In addition, the Board recently adopted new chartering and field of membership policies designed to encourage the creation of new credit unions, and facilitate credit union services in financially depressed communities (Final Interpretive Ruling and Policy Statement No. 94&hyph;1, 59 FR 29066, June 3, 1994). Moreover, the agency has liberalized its rules governing receipt of nonmember deposits by low-income credit unions (Final Rule, 59 FR 26101, May 19, 1994), and has previously extended the Truth in Savings compliance deadline for small credit unions (Final Rule, 59 FR 13435, March 22, 1994). A commitment has been made by the Board to provide some nonautomated, small credit unions access to laptop computers used by credit union examiners as this equipment is replaced with newer technology. Credit unions that are not automated and under $2 million in assets, and that have not already done so, should contact either their appropriate state credit union supervisor or NCUA Regional Director no later than October 1, 1994, if interested in participating in the laptop computer program. By these, and other, initiatives and programs, the Board seeks to assure all credit unions that the NCUA Board values small credit unions and will work to preserve them. Larger credit unions and the trade groups are urged to assist their colleagues in the smallest credit unions. The Board believes that such selfless giving lies at the heart of the cooperative philosophy and history of the credit union movement. Healthy, small credit unions are an absolutely essential part of a bright future for all credit unions. With this background, when the Board discovered that the extensions previously granted to small, nonautomated credit unions would not be sufficient to accomplish all of the Board's objectives, the Board decided to grant an additional extension. It has been shown to the satisfaction of the NCUA Board that small, nonautomated credit unions need more time to comply with the complex, technical requirements of Truth in Savings than other, larger, more automated credit unions. An extended compliance date for affected credit unions will enable NCUA and other interested parties to complete the extensive training and preparation that is necessary to ensure that these credit unions comply with part 707 by the extended compliance dates. This action is taken to preserve, educate, and possibly automate (by providing retired NCUA computers and by fostering the provision of minimal cost computer hardware, software and services by other parties) many of these small credit unions; ensure compliance with Truth in Savings at the earliest possible date; assist administrative convenience; reduce the risk of potential losses to the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund; and to allow time for coordination of this effort among NCUA, affected credit unions, data processors and other interested parties. As stated previously, NCUA intends to use the December 31, 1993, NCUA Form 5300 report to determine the requisite nonautomation status and asset size for those credit unions filing Form 5300 reports that are eligible for the extensions in required compliance. Credit unions which do not file Form 5300 reports will be permitted to prove nonautomation status and asset size by other means. NCUA will consider verified self-certifications, certifications by appropriate state supervisory authorities, and other equivalent forms of proof as sufficient for eligibility for the extension by non-federally insured credit unions. Indeed, with the assistance of the affected credit unions, trade groups, and the NCUA regional and central office staffs, NCUA is well on its way to having identified credit unions in need of Truth in Savings compliance assistance, and in providing various educational and other assistance to the affected small, nonautomated credit unions. Administrative Procedure Act The extension made to this part is not subject to the notice and comment provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (the ``APA''), 5 U.S.C. 551 et seq. The extension relates to a few credit unions that need more time and assistance in complying with part 707. No major changes are contemplated, or made, by this extension. Therefore, the NCUA Board has determined that, in this case, the APA notice and comment procedures for this extension is impracticable, unnecessary, and contrary to the public interest. 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(3)(B). By the National Credit Union Administration Board on July 26, 1994. Becky Baker, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18718 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7535&hyph;01&hyph;P
