FR941202-2-00154 FR941202-2-00098 B. Requirements. No other special requirements apply. Section 3_Voting Rules A. Proxy votes. Proxy votes are not permitted. Since issues and recommendations in the committees' interim reports are often modified and amended at the Annual Meeting, the attendance of officials at the NELAC Annual Meeting and voting sessions is vital. B. Method. All voting is by show of hands, standing vote or machine (electronic). There shall be no voice voting. No abstentions are permitted. NELAC Annual Meeting and voting sessions are mandatory. C. Timing. Voting by both Houses is simultaneous. D. Recording. The voting system is designed to record the votes of the Representatives whether an electronic system, show of hands, standing vote or other method capable of being tallied is used. E. Applicability. These procedures (rules) apply only to the Annual Meetings of NELAC. However, only active members are permitted to vote in committee or other meetings. Section 4_Committee Reports Alternatives that may be used in voting on the reports: A. vote on the entire report; B. vote on grouped items or sections; or C. vote on individual items, according to 1. committee discretion, or 2. on request by a voting delegate, with the support of 10 others. Section 5_Floor Amendments A. Amendments. Committee chairs are allowed to offer amendments on the day of voting to make editorial changes in their final reports. B. Changes. Substantive changes can be made at the request of House of Representatives or House of Delegates members and: 1. A majority of the voting delegates of each House must vote favorably before a proposed amendment can be accepted for debate. 2. A two-thirds favorable vote of each House on the amendment is required for passage (the requirement for the minimum number of votes in both Houses also applies). Section 6_Seating A. Arrangement. The seating arrangement for voting sessions is shown in Figure 1. B. Supervision. The members of the Board of Directors will control placement and movement of delegates. The Executive Secretary will count votes. Section 7_Voting At the conclusion of debate on a motion, there shall be a call for the vote by a show of hands, standing, electronic count, or other tally method. A. Minimum Votes. 1. House of Representatives. A minimum of one-half the participating agencies must cast their votes in favor of, or in opposition to an issue for the vote to be considered official. 2. House of Delegates. A minimum number of votes, equivalent to one-half the number of participating agencies, must be cast in favor of, or in opposition to an issue for the vote to be considered official. B. Motion accepted. 1. If the minimum number of members of the House of Representatives votes Yea; and if
