FR940630-1-00034 FR940630-1-00010 Legal notices and news releases announcing the date, time, and location of the hearing are being published in newspapers concurrently with this Federal Register notice. The comment period on the proposal originally closed on July 18, 1994. In order to accommodate the hearing, the Service hereby extends the comment period until August 17, 1994. Written comments may now be submitted to the Service office identified in the ADDRESSES section, however, all comments must be received before the close of the comment period to be considered. The Service stated in the proposed rule (59 FR 25875) that critical habitat will be proposed for the Virgin spinedace and the other listed Virgin River species before publishing a final determination to list the Virgin spinedace only, this could have a negative impact on the Virgin spinedace. Section 7 of the Act requires that: ``Each Federal agency shall *␣*␣* insure that any action authorized, funded, or carried out by such agency *␣*␣* is not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of any endangered species or result in the destruction or adverse modification of habitat of such species which is determined *␣*␣* to be critical, unless such agency has been granted an exemption for such action *␣*␣*.'' The Virgin spinedace presently occupies areas of the Virgin River drainage that overlap or are upstream of areas occupied by the endangered Virgin River chub ( Gila robusta seminuda ) and woundfin ( Plagopterus argentissimus ). Because these species occur in such close proximity and they, in part, share common resources, the Service finds that critical habitat must be determined only on a multispecies level using an ecosystem approach. If critical habitat and its constituent elements were determined for the Virgin spinedace only, this could have a negative impact on the Virgin River chub and woundfin minnow. Therefore, in the case of the Virgin River fishes, it would not be prudent to designate critical habitat for a single species. At this time, the Service is seeking comments related to the proposed listing of the Virgin spinedace. At a later date, the Service will publish a proposed rule for determining critical habitat for the Virgin River fishes, and additional comments concerning its multispecies approach to endangered species conservation for the Virgin River will be sought. After the proposed rule for critical habitat is published in the Federal Register , the Service will open a public comment period, hold public hearings, and request comments from all interested parties on the proposed critical habitat designation. After the public comment period has expired, the Service will review the public input, consider any areas recommended for exclusion, make a final critical habitat designation, and publish the critical habitat designation. Authors The primary authors of the notice are Janet Mizzi, Utah Field Office (see ADDRESSES above), telephone 801/524&hyph;5001, and Harold Tyus, Denver Regional Office. Authority Authority for this action is the Endangered species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .). Dated: June 20, 1994. Robert D. Jacobsen, Acting Regional Director, Region 6, Denver, Colorado. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15850 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
