FR940805-1-00134 FR940805-1-00014 (iii) A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings. Homeless family. A family that includes at least one parent or guardian and one child under the age of 18; a pregnant woman; or a person in the process of securing legal custody of a person under the age of 18; who is homeless, as defined in this section. Homeless individual. A youth (17 years or younger) not accompanied by an adult (18 years or older) or an adult without children, who is homeless, as defined in this section. HUD. The United States Department of Housing and Urban Development. Jurisdiction. A State, unit of general local government, or a consortium. Lead-based paint hazards. Any condition that causes exposure to lead from lead-contaminated dust, lead-contaminated soil, lead-contaminated paint that is deteriorated or present in accessible surfaces, friction surfaces, or impact surfaces that would result in adverse human health effects as established by the appropriate Federal agency. Low-income families. Families whose incomes do not exceed 80 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 80 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes. (The CDBG program has used the terms ``low-income'' and ``moderate-income'' persons, which terms are derived from its statute. Those terms have the same meaning as the terms ``very low-income'' and ``low-income'' as used in NAHA and in the United States Housing Act of 1937 for the assisted housing programs administered under it. To make the usage uniform under this part, the terms ``very low-income'' and ``low-income'' are used here.) Poverty level households (or families). Households with incomes below the poverty line, as defined by the Office of Management and Budget and revised annually. State. Any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Transitional housing. A project that is designed to provide housing and appropriate supportive services to homeless persons to facilitate movement to independent living within 24 months, or a longer period approved by HUD. For purposes of the HOME program, there is no HUD-approved time period for moving to independent living. Unit of general local government. A city, town, township, county, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State; an urban county; the Federated States of Micronesia and Palau, the Marshall Islands, or a general purpose political subdivision thereof; and a consortium of such political subdivisions recognized by HUD in accordance with the HOME program (part 92) or the CDBG program (part 570). Urban county. See definition in ยง570.3. Very low-income families. Low-income families whose incomes do not exceed 50 percent of the median family income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 50 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes. ยง91.10 Consolidated program year. (a) Each of the following programs shall be administered by a jurisdiction on a single consolidated program year, established by the jurisdiction: CDBG, ESG, HOME, and HOPWA. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the program year shall run for a twelve month period and begin on the first calendar day of a month. (b) Once a program year is established, the jurisdiction may either shorten or lengthen its program year to change the beginning date of the following program year, provided that it notifies HUD in writing at least two months before the date the program year would have ended if it had not been lengthened or at least two months before the end of a proposed shortened program year.
