FR940913-1-00011 FR940913-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 25 [Docket No. NM&hyph;53; Notice No. SC&hyph;94&hyph;3&hyph;NM] Special Conditions: Jetstream Aircraft Limited Model 4100 Series Airplanes, Main Cabin Aisle Arrangement AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed special conditions. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to amend special conditions issued to British Aerospace Public Limited Company (BAe) (Currently Jetstream Aircraft Limited) for the BAe Model 4100 airplane. This airplane has a novel or unusual design feature associated with the main cabin aisle arrangement. Special Conditions No. 25&hyph;ANM&hyph;45 were issued on July 9, 1991, addressing this unusual arrangement, and included a limitation on passenger capacity. The applicant has requested that the special conditions be amended to increase the passenger capacity limit from 29 to 30 passengers. Since the special conditions were issued the applicant has changed the company name and revised the model number of the airplane. This amendment of the special conditions should also reflect these changes. Since the applicable airworthiness regulations do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards for this particular design feature, this notice contains the additional safety standards which the Administrator finds necessary to establish a level of safety equivalent to that established by the airworthiness standards for transport category airplanes. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this proposal may be mailed in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Transport Airplane Directorate (ANM&hyph;100), Attn: Docket No. NM&hyph;53, 1601 Lind Avenue SW, Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; or delivered in triplicate to the Transport Airplane Directorate at the above address. Comments must be marked: Docket No. NM&hyph;53. Comments may be inspected in the Rules Docket weekdays, except Federal holidays, between 7:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeff Gardlin, Regulations Branch, ANM&hyph;114, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service, FAA, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2136. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of these proposed special conditions by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the regulatory docket or notice number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered by the Administrator before taking action on this proposal. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerning this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Persons wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. NM&hyph;53.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped, and returned to the commentor. Background On May 24, 1989, BAe Public Limited Company (currently Jetstream Aircraft Ltd.) applied for a type certificate for the BAe Model 4100 (currently Jetstream Model 4101) airplane in the transport airplane category. The Model 4100 was to be a derivative of the Model 3100, which is a small airplane and is certificated under the provisions of part 23. Like the Model 3100, the Model 4100 was a low wing, twin engine turbo-prop design. The fuselage was stretched, however, to seat 29 passengers in a three-abreast arrangement. Since the Model 4100 airplane had the same fuselage cross section as the Model 3100, it did not have a traditional main cabin aisle arrangement. Section 25.815 species the minimum aisle width dimensions for transport category airplanes based on the passenger capacity. For airplanes with 20 or more passenger seats, a minimum 15-inch width at heights 25 inches or less above the main aisle floor and a minimum 20-inch width at heights greater than 25 inches above the floor must be maintained. Aisle width is measured at any point along the aisle, normal to the centerline of the aisle. The main aisle envisioned by the regulations would run in a straight line from one end of the passenger cabin to the other and would satisfy these width criteria. Long standing FAA policy has permitted slight deviation from a straight line where there is a transition from one cabin section to another, or where there are interior features which dictate that the aisle move laterally. For example, from tourist class to first class there may be a change from five-abreast seating to four-abreast seating which moves the aisle centerline laterally. This has been accepted provided the required widths are maintained at all heights normal to the path that an individual would take. This type of offset normally occurs at one or two points in a main cabin aisle. In addition, there is no offset permitted in the aisle vertically; that is, the required 15-inch dimension must lie completely below the projected 20-inch dimension at all points along the aisle. The Jetstream main cabin aisle arrangement utilizes an offset at each seat row. The left and right seat assemblies are offset from one another longitudinally such that the seatbacks are not opposite each other across the aisle. This arrangement permits a 20-inch measurement between seatbacks (at an angle to the airplane centerline) and the required 15-inch dimension is maintained within the projected 20-inch dimension vertically. Thus the ``required aisle'' is not a straight line from one end of the cabin to the other, but a series of alternating angular segments from seatback to seatback. Nonetheless, there is a straight path along the cabin length, and the aisle floor does not deviate from side to side at all. The projected aisle width along this straight path reaches 20 inches at a height of 43 inches above the floor, which is the typical seatback height for transport airplanes. Another feature of the design includes the use of overwing exits which are offset longitudinally, corresponding to the seat positions on the left and right of the airplane. In order to provide design standards for the novel and unusual aisle configuration in the BAe Model 4100 airplanes, the FAA issued Special Conditions No. 25&hyph;ANM&hyph;45 on July 9, 1991. The criteria used to develop Special Conditions No. 25&hyph;ANM&hyph;45 utilized the existing regulations, and made certain favorable design features in the Model 4100 mandatory. Special Conditions No. 25&hyph;ANM&hyph;45 are summarized as follows: a. There are no more than 29 passenger seats with no more than ten seat rows on either side of the aisle; b. The interior arrangement includes one pair of Type II and one pair of Type III passenger emergency exits; c. In addition to the requirements of ยง25.815, the projected aisle width is at least 20 inches measured at a height of 43 inches above the aisle floor;
