FR940406-0-00093 FR940406-0-00010 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 216 [Docket No. 930939&hyph;4035; I.D. 062993B] Taking and Importing of Marine Mammals; Fisheries Certificate of Origin AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS amends its regulations to allow importers or brokers to file ``Fisheries Certificates of Origin,'' which are required for importation of certain fish and fish products, using the U.S Customs Service's Automated Broker Interface (ABI) system. The purpose of this amendment is to eliminate excess paperwork and minimize the reporting burden, while maintaining an efficient, accurate system to monitor the importation of the regulated fish and fish products. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule is effective on May 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James Lecky, Chief, Protected Species Division, NMFS Southwest Region, 310&hyph;980&hyph;4000. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background NMFS has implemented the use of the NOAA Form 370 ``Fisheries Certificate of Origin'' (FCO) to monitor the importation of those fish and fish products specified by regulation to implement the Marine Mammal Protection Act (Pub. L. 100&hyph;711)(MMPA), the Dolphin Protection Consumer Information Act (Pub. L. 101&hyph;627, Title IX) (DPCIA), and the International Dolphin Conservation Act (Pub. L. 102&hyph;523)(IDCA). These laws reflect the policy of the U.S. Government to ameliorate a worldwide environmental crisis in which marine mammals and other marine life are killed by commercial fishing technology, such as large-scale driftnets and purse seine nets deployed to encircle dolphins. The FCO provides the U.S. Customs Service (USCS) a tool to monitor and deny entry of those fish products that are prohibited entry into the United States. NMFS published a proposed rule, with a request for comments, on November 18, 1993 (58 FR 60829), in the Federal Register to amend the regulations to allow importers or brokers to file the FCO using the USCS's Automated Broker Interface (ABI). Filing with the ABI would allow electronic filing of importation documentation without submission of the paper forms. There were no comments received on the proposed rule. The final rule is substantially identical to the proposed. This final rule advances USCS's long-range plan to automate the importation process with the goal of eliminating unnecessary paperwork. NMFS has requested, and USCS has agreed, to incorporate the FCO into the ABI system. USCS has agreed to collect the information and to make the information available to NMFS by electronic transfer. The ABI system for the FCO will not be ready until the second quarter of 1994. Many details still need to be worked out before initiating electronic filing of the FCO. Recognizing this, NMFS is structuring its regulations to accommodate both the existing paper system and the future electronic filing of the FCO. To facilitate the conversion to electronic filing, the final rule will permit electronic filing at any and all points of entry where the ABI system is or may become available. After the ABI system is implemented for the FCO, importers will have the option to file electronically or submit the paper FCO upon entry. If an importer is unable to participate in the electronic filing system, the paper FCO can still be used. Importers or their brokers will be required to maintain documentation to verify electronic entries for a period of 5 years after the entry. Any FCOs from foreign exporters, invoices, ``dolphin safe'' certification, and all other required documents must be maintained by the broker or importer. NMFS enforcement officers are allowed access to these documents, upon request, for routine inspections and when investigating alleged violations of the MMPA or ``dolphin safe'' labeling violations.
