FR940707-1-00033 FR940707-1-00011 Subpart E_Housing for Older Persons §100.304 55 or over housing. (a) The provisions regarding familial status in this part shall not apply to housing intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years of age or older per unit, provided that, at the time of an alleged violation of the Act or at any time that the exemption is asserted as a basis for allowing a practice that would otherwise be prohibited as discriminatory on the basis of familial status, the housing satisfies the requirements of: (1) §§100.305, 100.306, 100.315 and 100.316; or (2) §§100.310, 100.315 and 100.316. (b) With reference to complaints filed pursuant to the Act, this means that the person or entity claiming the exemption must affirmatively demonstrate through credible and objective evidence as of the date of the alleged violation of the Act or at any time that the exemption is asserted as a basis for allowing a practice that would otherwise be prohibited as discriminatory on the basis of familial status that the housing meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. (c) For purposes of §§100.305, 100.306, 100.310, 100.315 and 100.316 of this subpart, ``older persons'' means persons 55 years of age or older. For purposes of §§100.305 and 100.306, ``housing provider'' means: (1) The owner or manager of a housing facility; or (2) The owner or manager of the common and public use areas of a housing facility, where the dwelling units are individually owned. §100.305 Specifically designed facilities and services. (a) The provisions regarding familial status in this part shall not apply to housing intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years of age or older per unit, provided that the person or entity asserting the exemption affirmatively demonstrates through credible and objective evidence that the housing has facilities and services specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons. In order to satisfy this paragraph, there must be more than one facility and more than one service specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons. Both facilities and services specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons must exist as of the date of an alleged violation of the Act or at any time that the exemption is asserted as a basis for allowing a practice that would otherwise be prohibited as discriminatory on the basis of familial status. (b)(1) In determining that a facility or service is ``specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons,'' the Department will first consider whether the facility or service is readily accessible to and usable by older persons with mobility, visual and hearing impairments. (i) If the housing is a covered multifamily dwelling as defined in 24 CFR 100.201 constructed for first occupancy and use after March 13, 1991, in order for a facility to satisfy §100.305(b)(1) it must meet the requirements of §100.205. In order for a service to satisfy §100.305(b)(1), the Department will consider whether older persons with mobility, visual and hearing impairments occupying units can readily access and use the service and the extent to which the service is designed to meet the mobility, visual and hearing impairments of an aging population. (ii) If the housing is not a covered multifamily dwelling as defined in 24 CFR 100.201 constructed for first occupancy after March 13, 1991, in order for a facility or service to satisfy §100.305(b)(1), the Department will consider whether older persons with mobility, visual and hearing impairments occupying units can readily access and use the facility or service, and the extent to which the facility or service is designed to meet the mobility, visual and hearing impairments of an aging population. However, if the facility meets the Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines for new construction (24 CFR Ch. 1, Subch. A, App. II), the facility will satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (b). (2) If the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section are met, the Department will consider such factors as the following as relevant in determining whether a facility or service is ``specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons'': (i) The extent to which the facility or service benefits the current and future health, safety or leisure needs of an aging population. (ii) Whether a housing provider has published and adhered to policies and procedures which demonstrate an intent by the housing provider not only to comply with all requirements of law governing discrimination against persons with disabilities, but, even in circumstances not otherwise required by law, to make, at the housing provider's expense, reasonable alterations, modifications and accommodations to facilities and services to make them accessible to persons with disabilities who become or who are residents. The policies and procedures must ensure that as the needs of older persons currently residing in the housing change and as new residents move into the housing, the housing provider will respond to those changing needs. A statement of these policies and procedures shall be provided to residents and applicants for housing. (iii) The extent to which the housing provider has taken meaningful steps to make available an off-site facility or service which would otherwise be unavailable to older persons who are residents of the housing facility. (iv) The extent to which a service, or services, specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons is provided in connection with the facility. (3) The types of facilities and services provided in the section 202 ``Supportive Housing for the Elderly'' Program (see 24 CFR part 889) are the types of facilities and services that would meet the physical or social needs of older persons in general. However, these do not constitute the exclusive set of facilities and services that the Department will consider in determining whether a facility or service is ``specifically designed'' to meet the physical or social needs of older persons. §100.306 Significant facilities and services. (a) The provisions regarding familial status in this part shall not apply to housing intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years of age or older per unit, provided that the person or entity asserting the exemption affirmatively demonstrates through credible and objective evidence that the facilities and services specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons are ``significant''. (b) In determining whether the facilities and services offered as specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons are significant, the Department will consider, in the aggregate, all facilities and services that meet the requirements of §100.305. (c) The Department will evaluate each facility or service that meets the requirements of §100.305 by the following criteria to determine whether the facilities in the aggregate and the services in the aggregate are ``significant'':
