FR941216-1-00089 FR941216-1-00012 Appendix A to Subpart E of Part 184 _Storage Compatibility Mixing Chart 1Groups 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L 1N 1S A X Z B Z X Z Z Z Z Z ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X X C ␣ Z X X X Z Z ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X X D ␣ Z X X X Z Z ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X X E ␣ Z X X X Z Z ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X X F ␣ Z Z Z Z X Z ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X X G ␣ Z Z Z Z Z X ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X X H ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X J ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X ␣ ␣ ␣ X K ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ Z ␣ ␣ ␣ L ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ N ␣ X X X X X X ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣ X X S ␣ X X X X X X X X ␣ ␣ X X Notes: 1. An ``X'' indicates that the intersecting groups may be combined in storage. Otherwise, mixing is either prohibited or restricted per note 2. 2. A ``Z'' indicates that, when warranted by operational considerations or magazine nonavailability, and when safety is not sacrificed, the intersecting groups may be combined in storage. Operational considerations include conditions that waste resources such as money, manpower, and energy, or compromise security, readiness, or the ability to accomplish the installation mission. Storage personnel, after consultation with safety personnel, should determine when operational considerations exist that warrant ``Z'' storage compatibility mixing. Examples of acceptable combinations of class 1 follow: a. Division 1, group C, bulk propellants with division 1, group G, fireworks. b. Division 1, group C, rocket motors with division 1, group F, ammunition with its own means of initiation. c. Group C rocket motors with group B detonators and similar initiating items. 3. Equal numbers of separately packaged components of complete rounds of any single type of ammunition may be stored together. When so stored, compatibility is that of the assembled round; that is, WP filler in group H, HE filler in group D, E, or F, as appropriate. 4. See §184.48(e) for permissible mixed storage of quantities of 1000 pounds or less. 5. Ammunition designated ``practice'' or ``target practice'' by national stock number and nomenclature may be stored with the fully loaded ammunition it simulated (for example, 2.75 inch TP rockets with WP rockets). 6. Ammunition items without explosives containing substances more suited to another hazard division may be assigned to the same compatibility group as items containing explosives and the same substances, and be stored with them. 7. Articles of Compatibility Group B and F shall each be segregated in storage from articles of other compatibility groups by means which are effective in the prevention of propagation to those articles. 8. Group K requires not only separate storage from other groups, but also may require separation storage for different items within the group. Before storage of mixed items in Group K, PCO approval shall be obtained. 9. If dissimilar Hazard Division 1.6, Group N munitions, such as Mk 82 and Mk 84 Bombs, are mixed together and have not been tested to assure non-propagation; the mixed munitions are considered to be Hazard Division 1.2, Storage and Compatibility Group D for purposes of transportation and storage.
