FR940830-2-00122 FR940830-2-00057 NYS submits that the ambiguous language of the smart-card exception ( i.e., ``cards that contain'' the stored value function) could allow EPS to continue its exclusionary conduct with respect to ATM cards simply by merging the ATM cards with smart-card functionality. The Competitive Impact Statement does not appear to recognize the ability of EPS to take advantage of the smart-card exception to avoid the prohibitions of the decree. Based on its knowledge of the impending market impact of smart cards, NYS strongly believes that the Department must directly address the anticompetitive potential of this ambiguous smart-card exception. 2. The Smart Card Exception Undermines the Purposes of the Decree EPS has established a pattern of excluding competitors by conditioning its financial institutions' membership on their agreement not to belong to other networks and not to use the brands of those networks on their cards and ATMs. NYS is concerned that the smart-card exception could be interpreted and exploited by EPS to subvert the general prohibitions in the decree against ATM and ATM card branding restrictions. Through this exception, EPS would be able to convert its ATM cards to dual-function cards and escape the prohibitions of the decree, to the detriment of NYS competition generally. The Department's acceptance of the smart-card exception appears to rest on two premises: one is that stored value cards, with their computer-chip component, are so distinct from ``ordinary ATM cards'' (which rely on magnetic stripe technology) that the exception will not significantly affect the member institutions' use of ``ordinary ATM cards'' which are the primary focus of the Complaint; the other premise appears to be that the current number of smart cards is still relatively low compared with the number of ordinary ATM cards and that any anticompetitive consequences of the exception will therefore be negligible. NYS disagrees with both premises. It cannot be assumed that ``ordinary ATM cards'' and smart cards are and will remain separate, stand-alone devices. NYS has reason to believe that the smart card being marketed by EPS to financial institutions is not, in fact, a product separate from the ordinary ATM card but is instead a hybrid, multi-function card that contains both a computer chip with stored value functionality and a magnetic stripe with on-line debit functionality. This dual functionality in a single card is already being tested and its use is likely to increase substantially in the near future. Moreover, as several industry publications disclose, EPS intends to offer a multi-purpose smart card which is basically a combination ATM/stored value card. For example, one source reports that: Consumers will get a micro-chip smart card that also has a mag-stripe on back. The card will be available for both on-line debit and off-line prepaid debit applications. When consumers use the card in an ATM or on-line POS application, a terminal will read the mag-stripe and when used in an off-line prepaid application, the terminal will read and deduct funds from the chip memory. 6 6 Bank Network News , Vol. 11, No. 7, Aug. 26, 1992, at 7. See also American Banker , Feb. 12, 1993, at 3 (reporting that EPS stored value card ``doubles as an ATM card''). Nor is it correct to assume that the number of smart cards will remain relatively low. Although just emerging, smart-card applications are expected to expand rapidly. EPS apparently intends to market its smart card aggressively to financial institutions throughout its service area. While the Department correctly observes that the number of smart cards is now relatively small when compared with ordinary ATM cards, EPS has made it clear that it sees the potential for significant growth in the use of its hybrid ATM card with a computer chip. 7 7 ABA Banking Journal , July 1993, at 68 (``MAC's 26 million card holders will still use their cards for ATM transactions, but those with the smart-card version will be able to load monetary value onto the cards at the ATMs, as well. EPS estimates there will be 20 million smart-card users by 1998.''); see also , American Banker , Feb 12, 1993 (reporting that EPS sees potential volume greater than ATM debit card programs). The decree explicitly bars EPS from restricting its members' branding of ATM cards. Yet, the intention and effect of the smart-card exception are ambiguous. It is possible that EPS would be able to prohibit all of its member banks from placing the NYCE brand or other competing network brands 8 on any card (including an ``ordinary ATM card'') simply by adding a computer chip with stored value functionality to its cards, a modification which is neither difficult nor expensive. 8 Of course, the smart-card exception would also permit EPS selectively to allow dual branding with national network brands while prohibiting co-branding with NYCE and other regional network competitors. In this manner, EPS could exclude NYCE (one of its strongest competitors) from those very areas where, as the Competitive Impact Statement notes, the MAC network has a history of ``largely successful efforts to keep competitors out. *␣*␣*'' 59 Fed. Reg. at 24719.
