FR941003-1-00044 FR941003-1-00003 > (1) If the order was issued under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the paper may (i) request that final hearing be set to review any decision which is the basis for the order as well as any other decision of the administrative patent judge that the party wishes to have reviewed by the Board at final hearing, or (ii) fully explain why judgment should not be entered. (2) < Any other party may file a response to the paper within 20 days of the date of service of the paper. > If the order was issued under paragraph (d)(10 of this section and the paper includes a request for final hearing, the response must identify every decision of the administrative patent judge that the responding party wishes to have reviewed by the Board at a final hearing. If the order was issued under paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the paper does not include a request for final hearing, the response may include a request for final hearing, which must identify every decision of the administrative patent judge that the responding party wishes to have reviewed by the Board at a final hearing. Where only the response includes a request for a final hearing, the party that filed the paper has 14 days from the date of service of the response in which to file a supplemental paper identifying any other decision of the administrative patent judge that the party wishes to have reviewed by the Board at a final hearing. (3) The paper or the response thereto should be accompanied by a motion (§1.635) requesting a testimony period if a party wishes to introduce any evidence to be considered at final hearing (§1.671). A request for a testimony period shall be construed as including a request for final hearing. (4) If the paper contains an explanation of why judgment should not be entered in accordance with the order and no party has requested a final hearing, the decision that is the basis for the order shall be reviewed based on the contents of the paper and the response. If the paper fails to show good cause, the Board shall enter judgment against the party against whom the order issued. < If the party against whom the order was issued fails to show good cause, the Board shall enter judgment against the party. If a party wishes to take testimony in response to an order to show cause, the party's response should be accompanied by a motion (§1.635) requesting the testimony period. See §1.651(c)(4). 40. Section 1.461 and the section heading are proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.641 Unpatentability discovered by > administrative patent judge < examiner-in-chief . < (a) > During the pendency of an interference, if the < administrative patent judge > examiner-in-chief becomes aware of a reason why a claim < designated to correspond > corresponding to a count may not be patentable, the < administrative patent judge > examiner-inc-chief may < enter an order notifying > notify the parties of the reason and set a time within which each party may present its views < , which may include argument and any appropriate preliminary motions under §1.633(c), (d) or (h), including any supporting evidence > .
