FR941026-0-00047 FR941026-0-00017 46 CFR Part 15 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Seamen, Vessels. For the reasons set out in the preamble, the Coast Guard amends 46 CFR parts 10 and 15 as follows: PART 10_LICENSING OF MARITIME PERSONNEL 1. The citation of authority for part 10 continues to read as follows: Authority: 14 U.S.C. 633, 31 U.S.C. 9701, 46 U.S.C. 2103, 7701; 49 CFR 1.45, 1.46; ยง10.107 also issued under the authority of 44 U.S.C. 3507. 2. Section 10.305 is revised to read as follows: ยง10.305 Radar-observer certificates and qualifying courses. (a) A student who takes an approved course of training, which includes passing both a radar-theory examination and a practical demonstration on a simulator, and who meets the requirements of this section is entitled to an appropriate radar-observer certificate_ (1) In a form prescribed by the school and acceptable to the Coast Guard; and (2) Signed by the head of the school. (b) The following radar-observer certificates are issued under this section: (1) Radar Observer (Unlimited). (2) Radar Observer (Inland Waters). (3) Radar Observer (Rivers). (4) Radar Observer (Unlimited Renewal). (5) Radar Observer (Inland Waters Renewal). (6) Radar Observer (Rivers Renewal). (c) A school with an approved radar-observer course may issue a certificate listed in paragraph (b) of this section after the student has successfully completed the appropriate curriculum as follows: (1) Radar Observer (Unlimited). Classroom instruction_including demonstration and practical exercises using simulators_and examination, in the following subjects: (i) Fundamentals of radar: (A) How radar works. (B) Factors affecting the performance and accuracy of marine radar. (C) Purposes and functions of the main components that constitute a typical marine radar system. (ii) Operation and use of radar: (A) Purpose and adjustment of controls. (B) Detection of malfunctions, false and indirect echoes, and other radar phenomena. (C) Effects of sea return and weather. (D) Limitations of radar resulting from design factors. (E) Precautions to observe in performing maintenance of radar equipment. (F) Measurement of ranges and bearings. (G) Effect of size, shape, composition, and distance of vessels and terrestrial targets on echo. (iii) Interpretation and analysis of radar information: (A) Radar navigation_determining the position and direction of movements of a vessel. (B) Collision-avoidance, including visual techniques, appropriate to the circumstances and the equipment in use. (C) Determining the course and speed of another vessel. (D) Determining the time and distance of closest point of approach of a crossing, meeting, overtaking, or overtaken vessel. (E) Detecting changes of course and/or speed of another vessel after its initial course and speed have been established. (F) Factors to consider when determining changes of course and/or speed of a vessel to, on the basis of radar observation, prevent collisions with other vessels. (iv) Plotting (by any graphically-correct method): (A) Principles and methods of plotting relative and true motion. (B) Practical-plotting problems. (2) Radar Observer (Inland Waters). Classroom instruction_with emphasis on situations and problems encountered on inland waters, including demonstration and practical exercises using simulators_and examination, in the following subjects: (i) Fundamentals of radar: (A) How radar works. (B) Factors affecting the performance and accuracy of marine radar. (C) Purpose and functions of the main components that constitute a typical marine radar system. (ii) Operation and use of radar: (A) Purpose and adjustment of controls. (B) Detection of malfunctions, false and indirect echoes, and other radar phenomena. (C) Effects of sea return and weather. (D) Limitations of radar resulting from design factors. (E) Precautions to observe in performing maintenance of radar equipment. (F) Measurement of ranges and bearings. (G) Effect of size, shape, composition, and distance of vessels and terrestrial targets on echo. (iii) Interpretation and analysis of radar information: (A) Radar navigation_determining the position and direction of movements of a vessel. (B) Collision-avoidance, including visual techniques, appropriate to the circumstances and the equipment in use. (C) Determining the course and speed of another vessel. (D) Determining the time and distance of closest point of approach of a crossing, meeting, overtaking, or overtaken vessel. (E) Detecting changes of course and/or speed of another vessel after its initial course and speed have been established. (F) Factors to consider when determining changes of course and/or speed of a vessel to, on the basis of radar observation, prevent collisions with other vessels.
