FR940511-0-00052 FR940511-0-00015 Comment: Clarify NOAA's authority to regulate vessel traffic within State of Washington waters. Response: Section 303 of the MPRSA gives NOAA the authority to promulgate regulations to implement the designation, including regulations necessary to achieve resource protection. Comment: The State and Federal government have appropriated $75 million to expand and enhance maritime activity at Grays Harbor through waterway dredging and port terminal development programs. If vessel traffic is restricted, one branch of the government would be defeating the purpose of other parts of the government. Response: NOAA has studied vessel traffic along the Washington coast. The result of the analysis was the recommendation for the previously mentioned ATBA. This proposal, if adopted, would add approximately 17 nautical miles on a transit from Grays Harbor to the entrance of the Straits of Juan de Fuca and approximately 21 nautical miles on a transit from the entrance of the Straits to Grays Harbor. In comparison to the costs of cleanup, legal fees, liability, fines, loss of cargo, and vessel and environmental damages, the proposals to establish the ATBA seem reasonable. Comment: Double-hulled proposals are not economically sensible in the foreseeable future. Response: Congress has mandated (OPA 90) national double hull requirements for tank vessels. Issue: Overflights Comment: Establish the boundary for overflights at the beach rather than one (1) mile inland. Response: The boundary for overflights is at the shoreline and not one (1) mile inland. Comment: Establish a 2,500 foot minimum flight altitude over the sanctuary. Response: To be consonant with current regulations regarding flights over charted National Park Service Areas, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service Areas, and U.S. Forest Service Areas, NOAA is prohibiting the flying of motorized aircraft at less than 2,000 feet above the Sanctuary within one nautical mile of the Flattery Rocks, Quillayute Needles, or Copalis National Wildlife Refuge, and at less than 2,000 feet above the Sanctuary within one nautical mile seaward from the coastal boundary of the Sanctuary, except as necessary for valid law enforcement purposes, for activities related to tribal timber operations conducted on reservation lands, or to transport persons or supplies to or from reservation lands as authorized by a governing body of an Indian Tribe. NOAA will work with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) on how best to reflect this limitation on aeronautical charts. Comment: Permit search and rescue at all times by whatever aircraft is needed to accomplish the task. Response: The prohibitions set forth in the Sanctuary regulations do not apply to activities necessary to respond to emergencies threatening life, property, or the environment pursuant to ยง925.5(c) of the regulations. Thus, in any emergency, search and rescue aircraft are allowed to perform whatever tasks are required within the Sanctuary boundary. Comment: When necessary to bring a research flight into the area below the Sanctuary prescribed ceiling, regulations should require the plane's engine be kept at or below a reasonable decibel level as heard from the ground. Response: FAA regulations (14 CFR part 36) codify noise standards for aircraft operating within U.S. airspace. Adherence to these standards is already required. When research is to be conducted within the Sanctuary boundary, aircraft operators will be required to obtain a permit and conduct such research in such a manner so as to minimize disturbance yet remain within safe aircraft operating parameters. Issue: Living Resource Extraction Fishing Comment: NOAA should not restrict access to fishing grounds or catch-ability. Crab fishing and razor clam digging must be allowed.
