FR941220-0-00017 FR941220-0-00005 Response: Section 409.43(c) requires only that the plan of care be signed by a physician who meets the certification and recertification requirements of §424.22, before the bill for services is submitted. This requirement effectively precludes from signing the plan of care a physician who has a significant ownership interest in, or a significant financial or contractual relationship with, the HHA. We do not believe that this requirement restricts the ability of HHA patients to receive care from multiple physicians. Comment: One commenter suggested that §409.43(d) be revised to clarify that oral (verbal) orders must be signed and dated by a registered nurse or qualified therapist but need not actually be transcribed by them. Response: We agree that it would be allowable for a designated member of the HHA staff to receive oral orders over the phone as long as the orders are reviewed, signed, and dated with the date of receipt by a registered nurse or qualified therapist before the services are furnished. We have revised paragraph (d) to require that the ``orders must be put in writing and be signed and dated with the date of receipt by the registered nurse or qualified therapist (as defined in §484.4 of this chapter) responsible for furnishing or supervising the ordered services.'' This revision closely reflects the current policy governing the use of oral orders in the hospital setting (see 42 CFR 482.23(c)(2)). It is also important to note that other Federal or State laws or regulations may restrict the personnel allowed to receive oral orders. To ensure consistency with the Medicare HHA conditions of participation, we have also revised §484.18(c). Comment: One commenter stated that the physician should not be required to sign the oral order before the bill for services is submitted to the intermediary. Several commenters complained that physicians are slow to sign these orders in a timely manner because they have no motivation to do so. Response: We have not revised this requirement. This is a longstanding Medicare requirement that is intended to ensure that the HHA obtains the physician's signature on the oral orders (which confirms that the services were furnished under a physician's order) in a timely manner. We believe that the removal of this requirement would ensure that neither the physician nor the HHA have any motivation to obtain the physician's signature in a timely manner. Comment: One commenter asked for clarification of whether a plan of care or oral order may be transmitted by facsimile machine. Response: Yes. The plan of care or oral order may be transmitted by facsimile machine. However, the hard copy of the order with the original signature must be retained and made available to the intermediary, State surveyor, or other authorized personnel upon request. Comment: One commenter asked that we allow the use of computer-generated ``alternative signatures'' for the physician's signature on the plan of care. Response: We do not believe that this rule is the appropriate place to establish criteria for the acceptance of computer-generated alternative signatures. However, we do generally support the use of this technology and intend to make revisions to the Medicare HHA and Intermediary Manuals to specify the conditions under which these signatures may be used. Comment: One commenter stated that the physician should not be required to review the plan of care at least every 62 days. The commenter believed that some patients' need for care can be predicted for more than 62 days, and so the physician's review should only be required when necessary. Response: We have not accepted this comment. We believe that requiring the physician's review of the plan of care at least once every 62 days protects patient health and safety by ensuring a minimum level of physician oversight. Although it is true that some patients' needs for services are relatively stable, this requirement ensures regular physician review of all patients' care and minimizes the chance of a patient receiving long periods of inappropriate or ineffective care. This requirement is also intended to coordinate with similar physician review requirements contained in §§424.22 and 484.18, thus allowing the HHA to meet the requirements of three regulations with a single document. Comment: One commenter stated that the plan of care should not be terminated just because a beneficiary does not receive at least one covered skilled service in a 62 day period. Response: As explained in this rule, a beneficiary must be in need of either intermittent skilled nursing care or physical therapy, speech-language pathology services, or continuing occupational therapy to qualify for Medicare coverage of home health services. If the physician's plan of care does not order any of these services, we presume that the beneficiary no longer needs any of these skilled services and therefore does not qualify for Medicare home health coverage. However, we understand that some individuals need skilled care at intervals of more than 62 days and so therefore allow coverage of services furnished to beneficiaries who do not require at least one qualifying skilled service in a 62 day period if the physician documents that such an interval without skilled care is appropriate to the treatment of the beneficiary's illness or injury. We do not agree that the beneficiary should be able to continue to receive nonskilled services indefinitely when there is no documented need for a skilled service. Skilled Service Requirements (§409.44) Comment: Several commenters stated that the statement contained in the preamble of the proposed rule regarding the necessity of basing coverage decisions on objective clinical evidence should be included in the text of the final rule. Response: We agree. We have added a new paragraph (a) to §409.44 (and redesignated subsequent paragraphs) to include this general statement concerning coverage determinations. We also believe it is important to note that this principle has been explicitly stated in the Medicare HHA Manual as Medicare policy since 1989 and so does not represent a change in the current process of Medicare coverage determinations.
