FR940525-2-00110 FR940525-2-00064 The proposed extension of time for preparing and forwarding NSARC meeting minutes would not affect safe operation of the facility. Significant safety concerns or unreviewed safety questions would still be brought to the attention of the Senior Vice President without waiting for the release of the NSARC meeting minutes. The change would not impede in any manner prompt communication of significant concerns to the Senior Vice President. The proposed changes do not affect the manner by which the facility is operated and do not change any facility design feature or equipment. The proposed changes involve administrative or programmatic requirements or merely involve editorial changes, corrections, or clarifications. Since there is no change to the facility or operating procedures, there is no effect upon the probability or consequences of any accident previously analyzed. B. The changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated (10 CFR 50.92(c)(2)) because they do not affect the manner by which the facility is operated and do not change any facility design feature or equipment which affects the operational characteristics of the facility. The proposed changes involve administrative or programmatic requirements or merely involve editorial changes, corrections, or clarifications. C. The changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety (10 CFR 50.92(c)(3)) because the proposed changes do not affect the manner by which the facility is operated or involve equipment or features which affect the operational characteristics of the facility. Based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Exeter Public Library, 47 Front Street, Exeter, New Hampshire 03833. Attorney for licensee: Thomas Dignan, Esquire, Ropes & Gray, One International Place, Boston, Massachusetts 02110&hyph;2624. NRC Project Director: John F. Stolz. Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, et al., Docket No. 50&hyph;423, Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 3, New London County, Connecticut Date of amendment request: February 10, 1992, as supplemented April 14, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would remove two tables from the Technical Specifications (TS) which list reactor trip system (RTS) instrumentation response times and engineered safety features actuation system (ESFAS) instrumentation response times. These tables will be placed in the Millstone 3 Technical Requirements Manual. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The proposed changes do not involve a significant hazards consideration because the changes would not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes to remove the RTS and ESFAS response times from the Technical Specifications will not affect the operation of the RTS and ESFAS. Operability and surveillance requirements are still maintained in the Technical Specifications and the response times will be included and maintained in the plant operating procedures. A safety evaluation and PORC [Plant Operations Review Committee] review will be required for the limits to be changed. Since the systems will not be affected by the proposed changes, there is no impact on the performance of these systems or the consequences of an accident previously analyzed.
