FR940208-2-00149 FR940208-2-00092 (a) Where the final determination was made in the United States, the list maintained by the investigating authority of persons who have been served in the proceedings leading to the final determination, and (b) Where the final determination was made in Canada, a list comprising the government of the United States and (i) In the case of a final determination made by the Deputy Minister, persons named on the list maintained by the Deputy Minister who participated in the proceedings before the Deputy Minister and who were exporters of goods of the United States, importers of goods of the United States or complainants referred to in section 34 of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended; and (ii) In the case of a final determination made by the Tribunal, persons named on the list maintained by the Tribunal of parties in the proceedings before the Tribunal who were exporters of goods of the United States, importers of goods of the United States, complainants referred to in section 31 of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended, or other domestic parties whose interest in the findings of the Tribunal is with respect to goods of the United States; ``Tribunal'' means the Canadian International Trade Tribunal or its successor and includes any person authorized to act on its behalf. 4. The definitions set forth in Article 1911 of the Agreement are hereby incorporated into these rules. 5. Where these rules require that notice be given, it shall be given in writing. Part I_General Duration and Scope of Panel Review 6. A panel review commences on the day on which a first Request for Panel Review is filed with the Secretariat and terminates on the day on which a Notice of Completion of Panel Review is effective. 7. A panel review shall be limited to (a) The allegations of error of fact or law, including challenges to the jurisdiction of the investigating authority, that are set out in the Complaints filed in the panel review; and (b) Procedural and substantive defenses raised in the panel review. Responsibilities of the Secretary 8. The normal business hours of the Secretariat, during which the offices of the Secretariat shall be open to the public, shall be from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on each weekday other than (a) In the case of the United States Section of the Secretariat, legal holidays of that Section; and (b) In the case of the Canadian Section of the Secretariat, legal holidays of that Section. 9. The responsible Secretary shall provide administrative support for each panel review and shall make the arrangements necessary for the oral proceedings and meetings of each panel. 10. (1) Each Secretary shall maintain a file for each panel review. Subject to subrules (3) and (4), the file shall be comprised of either the original or a copy of all documents filed, whether or not filed in accordance with these rules, in the panel review. (2) The file number assigned to a first Request for Panel Review shall be the Secretariat file number for all documents filed or issued in that panel review. All documents filed shall be stamped by the Secretariat to show the date and time of receipt. (3) Where, after notification of the selection of a panel pursuant to rule 44, a document is filed that is not provided for in these rules or that is not in accordance with the rules, the responsible Secretary may refer the unauthorized filing to the chairperson of the Panel for instructions, provided such authority has been delegated by the Panel to its chairperson pursuant to rule 17. (4) On a referral referred to in subrule (3), the chairperson may instruct the Secretary to (a) Retain the document in the file, without prejudice to a motion to strike such document; or
