FR940617-2-00066 FR940617-2-00042 2. Recruitment of additional utility members in UPVG. 3. PV information dissemination to utilities and other groups. 4. Refined market analysis and PV evaluation tools, such as a cost estimating guide and PV-SCREEN, for analysis of grid-connected PV systems. 5. Initiation of PV utility applications via large- and small-scale demonstrations. From the previous project phase, UPVG has developed a working relationship with its member utilities and has the expertise to recruit additional utility members. Most of the other tasks in this phase are also extensions of work previously begun by UPVG, such as information dissemination and PV market analysis. The techniques required for successful completion of the proposed tasks are available at UPVG and have already been demonstrated in the previous activities. Thus, the probability of success is high. C. Quality of the Applicant's Personnel and Facilities The proposed efforts by UPVG do not require unique facilities or equipment. The team proposed by UPVG has significant experience in the development and deployment of PV systems, and should be capable of successfully implementing the proposed PV program. The team includes senior personnel from several different organizations, including private consultants with experience in utility projects, the Electric Power Research Institute, and several electric utilities. The UPVG Executive Director has significant experience in technology transfer and the management of associations since, in addition to UPVG, he also provides management and staff support to the Fuel Cell Commercialization Group, the National Hydrogen Association, and the Utility Biomass Energy Technology Association. In addition, a UPVG Board of Directors was previously established to assist in management, financial, technical, and other issues. The Board is composed of personnel from member utilities. D. Appropriateness and Adequacy of the Proposed Budget The budget proposed for the anticipated work was reviewed and is considered to be appropriate and adequate. A total of $1,209,000 will be required for the program, with $1,000,000 provided by DOE for the period of February 15, 1994 to March 31, 1995. Cost sharing will be provided by UPVG in the amount of $209,000. The UPVG program represents a unique approach to achieving utility involvement with PV. The program has potential to result in near-term utility applications of PV technology and is consistent with DOE objectives. The proposed project is not eligible for financial assistance under a recent, current, or planned solicitation. Competition for the effort would have a significant adverse impact on the continuity and completion of the proposed activity. The UPVG is the only organization whose sole purpose is the advancement and development of cost-effective utility applications of PV. UPVG has established relationships with all the utility participants and has developed an understanding of the technical and management issues required for successful and timely accomplishment of program objectives. Therefore, recompetition would cause a time delay of numerous months in task completion and would require a significant duplication of costs to enable a new awardee to perform the proposed tasks. John W. Meeker, Chief, Procurement, GO. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14834 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
