FR940830-2-00024 FR940830-2-00011 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Inventory of Energy Technologies for Least-Cost Energy Strategy AGENCY: Department of Energy (DOE) . ACTION: Notice of Request for Comments on Least Cost Energy Strategy Technology Assumptions. SUMMARY: The Energy Policy Act of 1992 requires the Secretary of Energy to prepare a least-cost energy plan a resource and technology inventory of the least-cost energy strategy. The inventory (1) provides a description of each current and anticipated primary energy input available to the U.S. economy, (2) describes the system for electricity generation and distribution, and (3) lists available and anticipated energy technologies that are sufficiently defined so as to permit measurement or estimation of their cost and effectiveness over the period from the present to the year 2015. This notice summarizes work in progress and invites public comment on the appropriate content for the energy resource and technology inventory. We are particularly interested in suggestions for expansion of the list of efficient end-use technologies expected to be available by the year 2010, and their cost and performance parameters. DATES: To guarantee consideration, comments must be received by October 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments related to the technology and resource inventory should be sent in 3 copies to: Least-Cost Plan/Energy & Technology Inventory, Office of Economic Analysis and Competition, U.S. Department of Energy, PO&hyph;61, Washington, D.C. 20585 FOR FURTHER TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Peter Karpoff, Office of Economic Analysis and Competition, U.S. Department of Energy, PO&hyph;61, Washington, D.C. 20585, (202) 586&hyph;4767. FOR MODELING INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Phillip Tseng, Office of Economic Analysis and Competition, U.S. Department of Energy, PO&hyph;61, Washington, D.C. 20585, (202) 586&hyph;3892. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background II. Content of the Energy Resource and Technology Inventory III. Alternative Least-Cost Concepts IV. Least-Cost Energy Modeling V. Next Steps I. Background Section 1602 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPAct) requires the Department to provide a Least-Cost Energy Strategy (LCES) to accompany the National Energy Policy Plan (NEPP) it submits pursuant to the legislation that established the Department. Implicitly, EPAct recognizes that the LCES and the NEPP are distinct, reflecting in part the fact that least-cost modeling exercises may fail to account for important real-world considerations that may enter into energy policy formulation. Notwithstanding this distinction, the LCES can be an important source of insights for use in developing energy policy. It can also provide important insights into other issues facing the Department, such as strategic planning, the identification of research and development priorities, long-term climate mitigation policy, and sustainable development initiatives, by identifying energy-related technologies that have the largest leverage on attainment of social objectives related to the nexus of energy and economic growth.
