FR940720-0-00067 FR940720-0-00006 2. Change to Low End of RVP Valid Range in the Simple Model The low end of the valid range for RVP in the Simple Model was based on the distribution of data used in the model's development, as well as a consideration of the needs of the reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping programs under the Simple Model. Since VOC emission reductions under the Simple Model are accomplished primarily through limits on maximum RVP levels, the valid range for RVP in the Simple Model only affects toxics compliance calculations. In promulgating the final regulations, the Agency determined that refiners had no incentive to reduce RVP below 6.6 psi for the purposes of complying with the toxics standards since reductions in fuel benzene and aromatics are much more effective in reducing emissions of toxic compounds. In contrast to the Simple Model, the absence of RVP caps and the impact of other fuel parameters on emissions under the Complex Model will likely result in large variations in RVP levels in reformulated gasoline. RVP control will continue to be the primary mechanism through which VOC emissions are reduced because RVP is the most cost-effective fuel parameter to control, and because the RVP effect on VOC in the Complex Model is quite large. As in the Simple Model, the valid range for RVP in the Complex Model was determined from an examination of the distribution of data used in the model's development and the needs of the reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping programs. The low end of the valid range was set at 6.4 psi to accommodate large reductions in RVP while maintaining the accuracy of the Complex Model. Fuel RVPs are expected to reach this low level in Phase II of the reformulated gasoline program, and the potential exists for them to be reached in Phase I as well. California has been developing its own program in which reformulated gasoline must meet more stringent requirements than in the federal program during the years 1996 and 1997 that the Simple Model will be in effect. Given California's more stringent requirements, the potential exists for fuel having an RVP of less than 6.6 psi to be either sold or used as a blendstock in and outside of California. With the low end of the valid range for RVP set at 6.6 psi, these California reformulated gasolines might not be certifiable as federal reformulated gasoline. Also, refiners trying to blend down tanks quickly at terminals in the spring to meet summer volatility requirements may end up with fuels that have RVPs as low as 6.4 psi. Since the low end of the valid range for RVP under the Complex Model is 6.4 psi, the Agency has determined that the low end of the valid range for RVP under the Simple Model should likewise be 6.4 psi. The change from 6.6 psi to 6.4 psi makes the low end of the valid range for RVP consistent throughout Phase I of the federal reformulated gasoline program, and provides an additional element of flexibility for refiners to complement the already established blending and enforcement tolerances. The change should have no effect on the environment, since presumably only cleaner fuels would be allowed certification under the Simple Model. Both the Simple and Complex Models are linear with respect to RVP for all pollutants, and this linear relationship would simply be extended from 6.6 psi down to 6.4 psi. 3. Change to High End of Aromatics Valid Range in the Simple Model It was and is the intention of the Agency to avoid, to the extent possible, establishing regulations which require refiners to reformulate their conventional fuels. The anti-dumping program is designed to ensure that a refiner's or importer's conventional gasoline stays as clean as it was in 1990, and does not require reformulation beyond those levels. Thus the valid range limits for conventional gasoline in both the Simple and Complex Models were designed to be as wide as possible while simultaneously ensuring the accuracy of the models. As an additional level of flexibility, the Agency also allowed for the extension of the valid range for conventional gasoline if a refiner's individual 1990 baseline fuel exceeded the specified valid range limits (see discussion in Section II.B. below).
