FR940126-2-00048 FR940126-2-00020 LROs that successfully completed previous program compliance reviews and are receiving funds under this program may not be required to submit documentation with their final reports unless specifically asked to do so by the National Board; however, successful completion does not mean automatic exemption from submission. Documentation will be required for LROs not funded in the previous phase of the program. Failure of an LRO to comply with the National Board's reporting requirements may result in its funds being held in escrow. Funds will be held until all reporting requirements have been satisfied. If an LRO does not comply in a timely manner, the Local Board or National Board may reclaim and reallocate the funds being held in escrow. The National Board will compile the reports it receives from the Local Boards and submit a detailed accounting of use of all program monies in the form of a report to FEMA. If the Local Board discovers lack of documentation, ineligible expenditures or any other problem in an LRO report, it should contact the LRO and attempt to correct the problem before submitting the report to the National Board. If the National Board discovers a problem, it will inform the Local Board and LRO and advise them of the action to be taken. It is the responsibility of the Local Board to continue working with LROs which have compliance problems until they have been cleared by the Secretariat. To avoid compliance-related problems, the Local Board should ensure that LROs have a thorough understanding of the types of documentation (e.g., canceled checks [both sides], invoices, contracts, lease agreements, utility bills) they must retain to meet cost eligibility guidelines. Items not listed as eligible or ineligible should not be assumed to be eligible. Local Boards are advised to contact National Board staff for clarification on items subject to interpretation. LROs failing to clear the National Board compliance review after a reasonable amount of time will be referred to FEMA and will remain ineligible to receive funds until audit problems are resolved with FEMA. Section 7.0␣Amendments to Plan The National Board reserves the right to amend this Plan at any time. Dated: January 13, 1994. Dennis H. Kwiatkowski, Deputy Associate Director, Preparedness, Training & Exercises. The following is a list of all Phase XII (Fiscal Year 1994) funded jurisdictions:
