FR940111-2-00034 FR940111-2-00017 B. Comments Opposing Existing Intervention Procedure Environmental groups and individual citizens criticized the existing intervention procedure and its application by the DENR. 1. Some commenters stated that intervention rights were not being honored. One environmental group stated that it was ``*␣*␣* especially concerned about the problems posed *␣*␣* by the progressive subtle and not so subtle deterioration of participation by citizens and non-profit citizens organizations in quasi-judicial hearings.'' It referred to individual citizens being ignored at public hearings, public documents being unavailable for review and comment before a contested case hearing, and decisions being given little publicity. One individual commented that at a public hearing in the Fall of 1992 he ``*␣*␣* watched (and objected) as BME Board members subverted the rules of that hearing by allowing a mining industry lawyer take control of the hearing. Board members allowed the attorney to cross examine citizens as if they were under oath when the citizens were simply there to testify on their own behalf. The incidents are a matter of record. They are also quite typical of DENR.'' Another environmental group cited instances where it or individual citizens were excluded from permit modification, remediation, and negotiation processes. Another individual citizen's letter provided comments which ``*␣*␣* center[ed] on the State of South Dakota's continued and specific efforts to stifle and judicially dissuade individuals from pursuing environmental issues. They concluded that ``[O]bviously, the state of South Dakota has little understanding of citizen participation and rights to involvement.'' ``Politically powerful applicants regularly 'short-circuit' the contested case procedure with active help from the Attorney General and the DENR. In several controversial cases *␣*␣* DENR and/or the applicant have used various procedures to obtain 'quickie hearings' designed to thwart due process and a fair hearing. One state board, at the urging of the Attorney General, *␣*␣* carved out a novel justification, citing SDCL 1&hyph;22&hyph;27, that allows applicants the right to short-circuit the contested case process.'' ``A circuit court remedy for denial of intervenors status is NO remedy because of expense and unwieldiness.'' 2. Commenters expressed the concern that public interest and environmental groups must be represented by an attorney at contested cases hearings. An environmental group stated that DENR has denied them intervention in administrative hearings if they are not represented by an attorney. They noted that the State's application does not clearly state whether an attorney is required. ``Public interest groups must be represented by an attorney at contested case hearings. Since hardly any of us can afford such, the public interest has rarely been represented in the past few years.'' ``The Board [of Minerals and the Environment] [h]as so decreed, and the state Attorney General's office has rendered an opinion of agreement that only attorney's (sic) can present cases before the Board if the group appearing before the Board is an association, corporation, or other similar entity. The Board has effectively prevented environmental groups from appearing before the Board without the considerable expense of an attorney. It is our understanding that other State Boards do not have the attorney requirement.'' C. EPA's Response to Comments Concerning Intervention Procedure EPA has determined that DENR intervention authority and procedures adequately meets the requirement of 40 CFR 123.27(d). Citizen intervention rights will be honored. There is currently no requirement for public interest groups to be represented by attorneys at NPDES contested case proceedings. Honoring Intervention Rights The great majority of the comments expressing concerns with the application of intervention rights pertained to non-NPDES State program topics (e.g. mining, sewage ash, landfills) and a State board (Board of Minerals and Environment) which will not administer the NPDES program in South Dakota. South Dakota statutes, rules, and program documents provide citizen access to information. SDCL 1&hyph;27&hyph;1 specifically allows for open inspection of all records and documents during normal business hours. The MOA (page 7, item E.1) provides public access to NPDES files during normal working hours. Public notice of proposed general permits, major permits, and pretreatment program applications is provided for in the MOA (page 7, item E.3) and the Program Description (page 9). South Dakota Rule 74:03:13:02 requires the DENR to public notice any contested case hearing requested and the reasons for the hearing. The public notice of any proposed settlement of a State enforcement action is required only when the authority which allows intervention as of right is not demonstrated (see 40 CFR 123.27(d)). The Attorney General Statement construes the language of SDCL 34A&hyph;10&hyph;2 concerning intervention to be mandatory. In addition, both the MOA (page 3, item A.13) and the Program Description (page 19) allow for citizen intervention as of right in civil proceedings equivalent to that required by 40 CFR 123.26(d)(1). Representation by an Attorney The South Dakota Bar Association has issued an ethics opinion that appearance before administrative agencies on behalf of corporations or associations must be by licensed attorneys. The ruling concerning representation at contested case hearings was in reference to contested case hearings held by the Board of Minerals and Environment. The requirement for representation by an attorney does not appear to apply to the NPDES program. However, even in the case of the Board of Minerals and Environment, the Board does not exclude individual citizens from full participation at hearings, but applies the requirement for legal representation of organizations.
