FR941110-2-00134 FR941110-2-00083 [Docket No. 27954] Report to Congress on Quiet Aircraft Technology for Propeller and Rotor Driven Aircraft AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice, request for comment. SUMMARY: This notice requests comment and information to help fulfill a requirement from the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 that requires the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) to conduct a joint study to identify the technologies for noise reduction in propeller-driven airplanes and rotorcraft. This notice solicits information and comment on specific issues; the FAA will consider all responses in preparing its report to Congress on the Quiet Aircraft Technology for Propeller and Rotor Driven Aircraft. DATES: Comments must be received on or before December 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this notice should be mailed, in triplicate, to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Attn: Rules Docket, Docket No. 27954, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Room 915G, Washington, DC 20591. Comments may be inspected in Room 915G between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., weekdays, except Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Mehmet Marsan, Research and Engineering Branch (AEE&hyph;110), Office of Environment and Energy, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591; phone (202) 7703; fax (202) 267&hyph;5594. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 308 of the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994 requires the FAA and NASA to jointly conduct a noise study and report the results to Congress. This study shall identify technologies for noise reduction of propeller-driven airplanes and rotorcraft. The goal of the study is to determine the status of research and development now underway in the area of noise reduction technology for propeller-driven airplanes and rotorcraft, and to determine whether a research program to supplement existing research activities is necessary. The FAA and NASA have developed a plan for conducting the required study and completing the report to Congress. The plan's major elements include an assessment of current noise reduction technology for propeller driven airplanes and rotorcraft, a review of the study findings with appropriate groups, and preparation of the report to Congress. The FAA and NASA are in the process of determining the status of research and development now underway within NASA in the area of noise reduction technology for propeller-driven airplanes and rotorcraft. Participation of federal agencies will be invited through the Federal Interagency Committee on Aviation Noise (FICAN). Request for Information In supplementing the study findings, the FAA is seeking comment and information regarding the following 6 questions. A discussion of each will be incorporated into the FAA/NASA report to Congress. Additional comments regarding any of the issues raised by Congress under Section 308 of the Authorization Act are also invited. The FAA and NASA will review and consider all responses in preparing its report to Congress. 1. What are the existing and emerging propeller driven airplane and rotorcraft noise reduction technologies? 2. Which noise reduction technologies can be retrofitted to the current propeller driven airplanes and rotorcraft and what are the economic impacts? 3. To what extent do existing noise reduction technologies succeed in reducing noise exposure? 4. To what extent is noise from propeller driven airplane and rotorcraft considered a problem requiring further research efforts? 5. What aspects of propeller driven airplane and rotorcraft noise create impact? 6. What are the areas of propeller driven airplane and rotorcraft noise reduction technology that require further research? The FAA encourages public participation in this opportunity to comment to comply with the requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration Authorization Act of 1994. The data received for this request will be considered in preparing the report to Congress. Comments responding to these questions should be mailed to the office designated in the ADDRESSES heading and include docket number. Commenters who wish the FAA to acknowledge the receipt of their comments must submit with their comments a pre-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 27954.'' The postcard will be date-stamped by the FAA and returned to the commenter. Issued in Washington, DC, on November 4, 1994. Louise E. Maillett, Director, Office of Environment and Energy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27913 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
