FR941003-0-00114 FR941003-0-00018 Response: Section 267.8(d)(1) now clarifies that fee panelists must be listed on the HUD Appraiser Roster. Otherwise, minority and female panelists could not be tracked for the report compiled by HUD pursuant to ยง267.3(b)(2). Comments on the scope of the Roster: Must an appraiser apply for listing on the Roster in every state where the appraiser may do business? Also, if an institutional appraiser applies, must the individual employees of that firm apply for listing as well? Response: The appraiser must apply to the HUD Office (or to any one of the state's HUD Offices if there are several) in each state where he or she intends to perform an appraisal. The reason is that every state has its own numbering system and the only practical means of correlating the Roster data and the record of state accreditation is to maintain a list of all the various certification and/or license numbers pertaining to that appraiser. Individual employees as well as the employing institution must be listed since the performance of both will be monitored. Comment on removal from the Roster: If HUD needs to remove an appraiser from the Roster for any reason, it should report that fact to the state licensing board. Two commenters, in fact, suggested that HUD ``punish'' a disqualified appraiser. Response: It is HUD's intention to report cases of fraudulent or incompetent appraisals and other serious violations of appraisal professional conduct to state accrediting boards. However, the commenters who favor ``punishment'' mistake the purpose of the Roster. As we said previously, it is not a device for applying sanctions; it is simply a quality control measure to assure that appraisers who have not maintained their credentials, or who for some reason have not met FHA standards, are removed from the system where they can cause a problem. Congress did not make HUD a watchdog or enforcer for the appraisal industry when it enacted section 142 of the Reform Act, and it would be inappropriate to base a punitive process on the Roster system. When we discussed the Roster in the Proposed Rule, we explained that 24 CFR part 24 relating to Government debarment and suspension procedures does not apply to the removal of an appraiser from the listing, but we also cautioned that the Department will invoke part 24 whenever circumstances call for remedial action and ยง267.8(d)(3) so states. Comment on training for special HUD programs: How will HUD train non-panelists with regard to special FHA requirements such as lead based paint detection and abatement? Response: This is a matter that has not been resolved. The Department is exploring several means of helping appraisers who have not been through fee panel training to become knowledgeable about specific program requirements. We are expediting this matter and will advise interested members of the public as soon as there is further information. In the meantime, appraisers should bear in mind that it would be a violation of USPAP's Competency Provision to undertake an assignment for which the appraiser has not been adequately trained and is not qualified. Comment on membership in professional organizations: Even though the Department may not wish to predicate an individual appraiser's competence solely on the basis of his or her membership in a professional organization, such membership should be given weight. Response: We disagree. There is simply no correlation in our view between an appraiser's competence and which professional organizations, or the number of professional organizations, that an appraiser may choose to join. Our conclusion in the proposed rule on this point remains unchanged. Comment on appraising Secretary-held properties: It is short-sighted and ill-advised for HUD to exempt the sale of Secretary-held properties from part 267. HUD disposition properties are indeed exempted from the requirements of part 267, but they are nonetheless subject to a valuation process in determining what would be an acceptable return on the disposition sale. Moreover, if FHA mortgage insurance is used to finance that sale, the maximum allowable mortgage is based on the bid amount capped by the FHA mortgage limit applicable to the area. No appraisal is required, and should the mortgagee on its own initiative call for one, this part 267 would not apply. IV. Other Matters
