FR940805-1-00118 FR940805-1-00013 (iv) a bed above floor level, a desk or writing surface, safety-type hooks or closet space, and a chair or stool. (5) Single occupancy furnishings and conditions (immediate segregation). Segregation rooms shall provide living conditions that approximate those of the general inmate population; all exceptions shall be clearly documented. Each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) a minimum of seventy square feet of floor space; (ii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iii) access to showers; (iv) hot and cold running water; and (v) a bed at or above floor level, desk or writing surface, and a stool. (6) Space, furnishing and conditions for dayrooms. The facility shall provide separate dayroom space. The dayroom shall provide: (i) a minimum of thirty-five square feet of space per inmate exclusive of lavatories; (ii) showers and toilets with some degree of privacy; and (iii) seating and writing surfaces, appropriate to the classification which uses this space, sufficient for the number of inmates who use the dayroom at one time. (7) Toilets. The facility shall provide operable toilets at a minimum ratio of one for every twelve inmates in male facilities and one for every eight inmates in female facilities. Urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the toilets in male facilities. All housing units with three or more inmates shall have two toilets. (8) Washbasins. Inmates shall have access to operable washbasins with hot and cold running water in the housing units at a minimum ratio of one basin for every twelve occupants. (9) Showers. Inmates shall have access to operable showers with temperature-controlled hot and cold running water at a minimum of one shower for every eight inmates. Water for showers shall be thermostatically controlled to temperatures ranging from one hundred to one hundred-twenty degrees Fahrenheit. (10) Housing for the disabled. Disabled inmates shall be housed in a manner that provides for their safety in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101 19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17, yet prevents their being discriminated against in their use of the facility. (11) Visiting spaces. The facility shall provide a visiting room, which allows staff to observe visiting. (12) Dining. If dining occurs outside the dayroom, the facility shall provide a minimum of fifteen square feet per occupant. (13) Food service spaces. When the facility provides for food processing, storage, refrigeration and sanitation. Toilet and washbasin facilities shall be available to food service personnel and inmates in the vicinity of the food preparation area. The square footage of the kitchen shall be appropriate to the needs of the facility. (14) Janitor closet. The facility shall provide a secure, well-ventilated janitor closet, which includes sink and adequate space for the storage of cleaning implements and supplies. (15) Storage of toxic, flammable and caustic items. The facility shall provide secure storage, outside the secure area, for flammable, toxic and caustic items. (16) Clothing and supply storage. The facility shall provide storage space for inmate clothing, bedding, mattresses, personal hygiene items and facility supplies. (17) Laundry. The facility shall provide access to laundry services or laundry space and equipment. (18) Booking. The facility shall provide an intake/booking and release area which shall be located inside the security perimeter, but outside inmate living quarters. The booking area shall include: (i) an intake/booking work area; (ii) sallyport; (iii) access to operable toilets, washbasins, drinking water and showers; (iv) space for alcohol and drug testing equipment; (v) space for inmate identification equipment; (vi) a secure, well-ventilated storage room for inmates' personal property; (vii) telephone(s), which can be used by inmates; (viii) private interview spaces; (ix) temporary holding rooms or waiting spaces with sufficient fixed seating for all inmates at their rated capacities; and (x) access to continuously observable protective holding cells for the safe holding of intoxicated individuals. (19) Staff toilets. The facility shall provide staff toilets that inmates shall not use. (20) Public spaces. The facility shall provide public restroom(s) and a public lobby with an adequate number of seats to accommodate anticipated visitors outside the secure perimeter. (21) Administration. The facility shall provide adequate space for its administrative functions. (22) Staff. The facility shall provide adequate space for staff assigned to work in the facility. (23) Mechanical. The facility shall provide separate and adequate space for mechanical systems and equipment. ยง10.53 Institutional operations. (a) Security and control _(1) Perimeter access. All security perimeter entrances and control center doors shall be kept locked, except when used for supervised entry or exit of employees, inmates, or visitors and in emergencies. (2) Staff posts. Staff posts shall permit staff to hear and respond promptly to emergency situations. (3) Full coverage of staff posts. Staff shall be provided for full, around-the-clock coverage of designated security posts, full surveillance of inmates and performance of other functions. (4) Supervision of high security areas. A staff member shall enter a high security area only when another staff member is immediately available to provide assistance.
