FR941205-1-00036 FR941205-1-00014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background The jurisdiction of the Federal Maritime Commission (``FMC'' or ``Commission'') over ocean carrier agreements in the foreign commerce of the United States extends under section 4(a) of the Shipping Act of 1984 (``1984 Act'') to all agreements to: (1) Discuss, fix, or regulate transportation rates, including through rates, cargo space accommodations, and other conditions of service; (2) Pool or apportion traffic, revenues, earnings, or losses; (3) Allot ports or restrict or otherwise regulate the number and character of sailings between ports; (4) Limit or regulate the volume or character of cargo or passenger traffic to be carried; (5) Engage in exclusive, preferential, or cooperative working arrangements *␣*␣*; (6) Control, regulate, or prevent competition in international ocean transportation; and (7) Regulate or prohibit *␣*␣* use of service contracts. 46 U.S.C. app. 1703(a). The reforms in 1984 to the Shipping Act were intended in large part to facilitate the swift effectiveness, with immunity from the antitrust laws, of such agreements. Section 15 of the former Shipping Act, 1916 (``1916 Act''), had required carriers to secure Commission approval for any agreement governing rates, conditions of service, or similar matters, before such an agreement could become effective. Under standards set forth in section 15, the Commission was permitted to disapprove, cancel, or modify any agreement that it found to be unjustly discriminatory or unfair, or to operate to the detriment of the commerce of the United States, or to be contrary to the public interest, or to be in violation of the 1916 Act. 46 U.S.C. 814 (1982). The Commission, with Supreme Court approval, had taken the position that agreements to set rates, pool revenues, restrict capacity, or to engage in other activities that normally would be contrary to the antitrust laws were presumed to be contrary to the public interest, and would be approved only if they were shown to be ``required by a serious transportation need, necessary to secure important public benefits or in furtherance of a valid regulatory purpose of the Shipping Act.'' FMC v. Svenska Amerika Linien, 390 U.S. 238, 243 (1968). The burden of making this showing was placed upon the carrier proponents of an agreement, on the ground that information regarding the operation and probable future impact of an agreement ``[a]lmost uniformly *␣*␣* is in the hands of those seeking approval *␣*␣* and it is incumbent upon those in possession of such information to come forward with it.'' Mediterranean Pools Investigation, 9 F.M.C. 264, 290 (1966). Under these procedures, the implementation of agreements had often been delayed for considerable amounts of time, especially if formal protests were made. See Marine Space Enclosures, Inc. v. FMC, 420 F.2d 577 (D.C. Cir. 1969) (requiring that the Commission hold a hearing when a protest raising substantial issues had been filed). In many cases, protests were filed by other carriers, who effectively delayed or blocked their competitors' business plans. The 1984 Act did away with the requirement that an agreement had to be approved by the Commission before it could lawfully operate. Instead, agreements now generally become effective forty-five days after they are filed. As a partial counterbalance to this liberalized approach, conference agreements 1 are required by section 5(b) of the Act, 46 U.S.C. app. 1704(b), to include a number of procompetitive provisions, and the Commission may reject a conference agreement that does not meet this standard. Especially noteworthy is the requirement that all conference agreements must clearly state that any member line may take ``independent action'' on any rate or service item required to be filed in a tariff with the Commission; this empowers any member line to set an individual rate below (or above) the conference rate, without having to obtain approval of the rate from the other member lines. The conference is then required to publish the independent action rate in its conference tariff upon no more than ten days' notice. 1 Under the 1984 Act, a conference is an association of ocean common carriers which engage in concerted activities and utilize a common tariff. Section 3(7), 46 U.S.C. app. 1702(7). The Commission may also prescribe the ``form and manner'' in which agreements of any kind must be filed, and may reject an improperly drafted agreement. In addition, the Commission may request information and documents in connection with a newly filed agreement and, if its demand is not ``substantially'' met, may seek a delay in the agreement's effective date or other relief from the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. 2 2 Sections 6 (d) and (i) of the 1984 Act, 46 U.S.C. app. 1705 (d) and (i).
