FR940118-2-00055 FR940118-2-00047 Baroid's diamond bit business includes its diamond drill bit manufacturing facilities in Houston, Texas, and all equipment, supplies, data, documents and inventories (other than Baroid's inventory of diamonds and diamond drill bits held for sale) contained therein, as well as equipment owned or controlled by Baroid on September 7, 1993 that has been used in the United States by Baroid to manufacture matrix diamond bits. The equipment in the Houston facility includes, but is not limited to, the following: LS Bonding Units, Kuraki CNC Mills, Okuma CNC Lathe, Yuasa Lathe, Axelson Lathe, Timemaster Lathe, and Bryant Grinder. The equipment formerly used by Baroid to manufacture matrix diamond bits includes, but is not limited to, the following: Norton Lathe, 18 ’ ’ Kohema Lathe, 20 ’ ’ Kohema Lathe, Yuasa Lathe, Allain Mill, Bridgeport Mill, Vanier Mill, Cincinnati Mill with 90 degree Volstrohead, Blast-It-All Sandblaster, Kelco Sandlblaster, Positioner (welding), Southbend Oven, Lochhead Haggerty Furnace and Control Panel, Sunbean Furnace and Control Panel, Powermatic Band Saw, Two 360 degree Layout Chucks, Two Surface Tables, Matrix Powder Mixer, Micrometers, Height Gauges, Scales, and various measuring equipment and welding equipment. Baroid's diamond bit business shall not include any rights, including trademarks and service marks, associated with the use of the trade names or commercial names of Stratabit, DB Stratabit Inc., DBS, Diamond Boart, or any derivative thereof; provided, however, that in the marketing of its diamond drill bits the purchaser of Baroid's diamond bit business will possess the right for two years following the date of divestiture to identify its diamond drill bits as being manufactured pursuant to a license from DBS. F. ``Diamond drill bits'' means natural diamond drill bits and polycrystalline diamond compact drill bits. Diamond drill bits do not include coring bits. G. ``Drilling fluid'' means a mixture of natural and synthetic chemical compounds used at petrocarbon drilling sites to cool and lubricate the drill bit, clean the hole bottom, carry cuttings to the surface, seal porous well formations, control downhole pressures, and improve the function of the drilling string and tools in the hole. H. ``Drilling fluid business'' means either one of the following: (1) Dresser's interest in M&hyph;I Drilling Fluids Co.; or (2) all assets of Baroid Drilling and any other assets that Baroid owns or has an interest in that are used to research, develop, test, produce, manufacture, service, or market, domestically or internationally, drilling fluids, including, but not limited to, all barite, bentonite, and other mineral mines; chemical plants; mineral grinding and processing plants; other real property; material; equipment; supplies; customer lists; contracts and accounts; patents; copyrights; copyright registrations and applications; trademarks; trademark registrations and applications; trade names or commercial names; know-how; computer software programs; and all other tangible and intangible assets, rights, and other benefits, presently owned, licensed, possessed, or used by Baroid in the research, development, testing, production, manufacture, servicing or marketing of drilling fluids.
