FR940805-2-00042 FR940805-2-00031 [File No. 932 3253] American Institute of Smoking Cessation, et al.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis To Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would prohibit, among other things, an Illinois-based company and its two officers from making any representation about the relative or absolute performance or efficacy of any smoking cessation or weight loss program, unless they possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate the representation, and would prohibit the respondents from misrepresenting the contents, results or validity of any study, test, survey or report. DATES: Comments must be received on or before October 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, Room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Matthew Daynard, FTC/H&hyph;200, Washington, D.C. 20580. (202) 326&hyph;3291. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to Section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with ยง4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist In the matter of American Institute of Smoking Cessation, Inc., a corporation, Kenneth C. Grossman, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and Jane A. Grossman, individually and as an officer of said corporation. 4 The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of American Institute of Smoking Cessation, Inc. (``AISC''), a corporation, Kenneth C. Grossman, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and Jane A. Grossman, individually and as an officer of said corporation (``respondents''), and it now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed, By and between American Institute of Smoking Cessation, Inc., Kenneth C. Grossman, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and Jane A. Grossman, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that:
