FR941221-0-00060 FR941221-0-00018 Response. HUD clearly rejects the latter suggestion. Coverage of a section 8 housing project under subtitle D must be based on evidence that the project was originally designed primarily for seniors, not solely on the owner's ``belief'' that it was designed primarily for seniors. HUD also declines to adopt the commenter's first suggestion. While some ``housing for older persons,'' as this term is defined in 24 CFR part 100, subpart E, could also constitute section 8 housing that is covered by subtitle D, some would not. HUD emphasizes that the list of primary and secondary documents are not intended to be all inclusive, but rather provide examples of the types of documents that would be acceptable. The language of the rule itself expresses that intent by referring in both cases to ``sources such as '' (emphasis added) before listing the examples. (See ยง880.612a(b)(1) (i) and (ii) and comparable sections in other parts covered by this rule.) Comment. One commenter stated that documents that indicate approval of a project's final proposal frequently spell out the intended nature of a project, yet these documents may not qualify ``as any other underwriting or financial document collected at or before loan closing.'' Response. As noted in the response to the preceding comment, the list of sources does not exclude other sources such as a ``final proposal'' approved by HUD. To avoid any implication that the source list is limited to underwriting or financial documents, the word ``other'' has been removed from this section (e.g., see ยง880.612a(b)(1)(i) and comparable sections in other parts covered by this rule). Comment. One commenter stated that the language of the interim rule indicates that there could be five primary sources that demonstrate a project's eligibility and one which indicates otherwise in which case the owner would be required to turn to secondary sources to establish a project's eligibility. The commenter states that requiring an owner to look to secondary sources, which are inferior to primary sources, when a majority of sources indicate that the project was designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families does not make sense. Response. HUD agrees with the commenter that requiring an owner to look at secondary sources when a majority of primary sources ``demonstrate'' the original design of the project does not make sense, but disagrees that the rule indicates that this is the course of action that an owner would have to follow. The critical language in the rule is ``clear evidence'' of original design. The rule states that ``In any case where the primary sources do not provide clear evidence of original design of the project for occupancy primarily by elderly families, including those cases where primary documents conflict, secondary sources may be used to establish the use for which the project was originally designed.'' (Emphasis added.) (See 24 CFR 880.612a(b)(2) and comparable provisions in other parts covered by this rule.) Establishing original design, therefore, is not simply a matter of where the numbers fall; that is, establishing original design is not a matter of counting how many documents favor a project originally designed for seniors and how many documents oppose such design. The focus is to be on the type of evidence located and how clearly the evidence may address the issue of original design. If one primary source clearly (unambiguously) establishes original design of a seniors project, and one or more other primary sources do not specifically address the original design of the project and are ambiguous, the owner need not look to secondary sources to establish a project's eligibility. In this case, the owner may rely on the single primary source that establishes clear evidence of a project originally designed for seniors. Conversely, the single primary source may clearly establish that the project was not originally designed for seniors. Again, however, where the primary sources conflict (i.e., are equally ambiguous or equally specific), the owner must go to secondary sources. An example of a document that clearly specifies the project's original design could be the market studies projecting occupancy by seniors on which underwriting decisions were made. Comment. One commenter stated that the documentation concerning the project's identity must take into account the definitions of ``elderly family'' and ``elderly person'' as this term has been used over the past several years to include ``persons with disabilities.'' The commenter stated that ``documents using the words `elderly person' or `elderly family' must be viewed as evidence of an intent to serve people 62 years of age and older and people with disabilities.'' Response. HUD disagrees with the commenter, and addressed this issue in the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule. (59 FR 22917&hyph;22918) Because one of the previous definitions of ``elderly families'' in section 3(b) of the 1937 Act included disabled families, it is not clear from documents that indicate a project was developed for ``elderly families'' whether the project for elderly families was intended to mean housing for the broader eligible category of elderly families (i.e., elderly families and disabled families) or housing for families who qualified by virtue of age alone. Thus a document's statement that the project is a project for elderly families, in and of itself, would not constitute clear evidence which category of family was to be served, i.e., the broader category of elderly family or the family who qualified by age alone. Comment. One commenter stated that the final rule must explicitly require owners to make available for inspection by applicants, tenants and their advocates, all relevant documents regarding elderly-only designation, including any conflicting documents. Response. The interim rule provided that the owner, if challenged on the issue of eligibility of the project for the election, ``must be able to support the project's eligibility through the production of supporting evidence.'' (See ยง880.612a(a)(2)(i) and comparable sections in other parts covered by this rule.) HUD has revised this language in the final rule to provide that the owner, if challenged on the issue of eligibility of the project for the election, must be able to support the project's eligibility through the production of all relevant documentation in the owner's possession that pertains to the original design of the project. Comment. One commenter stated that the final rule must explicitly allow individual States to decide the question of how State law will regulate a permissive election of elderly selection preferences because subtitle D permits the election ``notwithstanding any other provision of law.'' The commenter suggested that the following language be included in the rule: ``Nothing in this rule is intended to limit any State or local law that affords disabled families greater access than the minimum required by this section to projects eligible for the preference provided by this section, nor is it intended to relieve an owner of fair housing obligations imposed by State or local law.'' Response. The ``notwithstanding any other provision of law'' language of subtitle D (see first sentence of sections 651 and 652 of subtitle D; 42 U.S.C. 13611 and 13612) is not intended, as indicated by the commenter, to restrict or limit implementation of the elderly preference as authorized by subtitle D by requiring an owner to ensure that implementation of the subtitle D preferences is not inconsistent with other statutes and regulations that may address the issue of the degree of access to covered section 8 housing by non-elderly persons with disabilities. The ``notwithstanding any other provision of law'' is intended to do just the opposite, which is to allow an owner of a covered section 8 project to implement the subtitle D preferences and reservation of units in the manner authorized by subtitle D without concern whether other laws may provide for a different implementation of an elderly preference, or a greater percentage of units to be reserved for non-elderly disabled persons. Comment. One commenter stated that the final rule must make clear that a zero reservation of units for disabled families is unacceptable. Two commenters objected to the statement in the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule that if a covered project did not have any disabled families residing in the project on the two dates specified in the statute, the owner would not be required to reserve any units for disabled families. Response. Subtitle D clearly allows for zero reservation of units. The statute does not impose a minimum percentage of units to be reserved for nonelderly disabled families, and the subtitle D rule reflects this statutory scheme. Subtitle D (section 652(b) of the HCD Act of 1992) provides as follows: (b) Number of Units _Each owner required to reserve units in a project for occupancy under subsection (a) shall reserve a number of units in the project that is not less than the lesser of_ (1) the number of units equivalent to the higher of_ (A) the percentage of units in the project that were occupied by such disabled families upon the date of enactment of this Act; or (B) the percentage of units in the project that were occupied by such families upon January 1, 1992; or (2) 10 percent of the number of units in the project.
