FR941130-1-00054 FR941130-1-00011 * * * * * PART 26_[AMENDED] 15. Section 26.8 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §26.8 Applications. (a)(1) No investigation or testing will be undertaken by MSHA except pursuant to a written application, in duplicate, accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration to cover the fees, and all prescribed drawings, specifications, and related material. The application and all related matters and all correspondence concerning it shall be sent to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under §6.20 of this chapter. * * * * * 16. Section 26.19 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §26.19 Changes after certification. * * * * * (a)(1) Application shall be made, as for an original certification, requesting that the existing certification be extended to cover the proposed change. The application shall be accompanied by drawings and specifications and related material as in the case of an original application. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 27_[AMENDED] 17. Section 27.4 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §27.4 Applications. (a)(1) No investigation or testing for certification will be undertaken by MSHA except pursuant to a written application, in duplicate, accompanied by all drawings, specifications, descriptions, and related materials and also a check, bank draft, or money order payable to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, to cover the fees. The application and all related matters and correspondence concerning it shall be addressed to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL)) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under §6.20 of this chapter. * * * * * 18. Section 27.11 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §27.11 Extension of certification. * * * * * (a)(1) Application shall be made as for an original certification, requesting that the existing certification be extended to cover the proposed changes. The application shall include complete drawings, specifications, and related data, showing the changes in detail. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 29_[AMENDED] 19. Section 29.11 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §29.11 Contents of application. (a)(1) Each application for approval shall contain a complete written description, including operating instructions, of the analyzer or detector for which approval is requested together with a set of drawings and specifications showing full details of construction of the instrument and of the materials used. Drawings and specifications (and lists thereof) shall be submitted in duplicate. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL.
