FR940426-2-00129 FR940426-2-00078 Those commenters opposed to this requirement contended that it is burdensome and unnecessary, while those in favor argued that it forces systems to review routes on a regular basis, giving private operators an opportunity to make their case. One transit system commenter noted that the requirement was ``oddly redundant'' since all of its service already was provided by the private sector, and noted that it was a burden because of the inordinate amount of staff time required to complete the task. A Senator stated that the agency's proposed action ``wisely reduces burdensome paper work and other restrictive requirements, while retaining options of private enterprise participation.'' A large transit system stated that the current requirements entail a significant administrative burden for many transit agencies with large and complex route structures, necessitating the diversion of significant resources to conducting reviews on a three-year cycle. Another transit operator stated that the requirement places an inordinate planning burden on it, without any corresponding benefits. Rather than such a mandated approach, this operator supported route analysis based on local needs and considerations and noted that it carries on an ongoing analysis of service levels required to meet demand. Commenters supporting this requirement, in contrast, contended that contracting out has saved significant sums and that the three-year review period is necessary to realize these savings, as well as for the agency to satisfy the private enterprise provisions in the statute. One commenter stated that the three-year review helps to ensure efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of transit services. Competition, this commenter noted, requires periodic review of results. Whatever FTA's view on three-year reviews of routes, this commenter continued, the claim that they are burdensome is without foundation. 5. Appeal Process The private sector circulars provide that both recipients and MPOs should develop a process for the resolution of disputes with private operators, with an appeal to FTA available to private operators if they fail to resolve disputes at the local level. In the Notice, FTA indicated that since it would be conducting regular reviews of grantee compliance with planning requirements, a formal appeal process leading to FTA did not appear necessary, although the agency is always available to receive reports of planning process failures. This aspect of the Notice did not generate much specific comment, but appeared to be included in the general opposition to ``burdensome'' requirements on the part of some commenters, and on the other hand, to be one of the elements that those in favor of the existing guidance support. One commenter noted that, in response to a Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request, it was provided with FTA's private sector complaint decisions: of the twelve complaints, eight were dismissed for failure to state a cognizable claim; two were remanded for failure to have a local dispute process; and two included findings of violations with no penalties imposed. This record, the commenter argued, underscores the lack of burden created by the FTA appellate process. IV. FTA Response To Comments A. Procedural and Legal Adequacy of the Notice 1. Procedural Objections Several commenters objected to the Notice as failing to meet the rulemaking requirement of section 12(i)(3) of the FT Act: ``The Secretary shall propose or implement rules governing activities under this Act only in accordance with this section except for routine matters and matters having no significant impact.'' They pointed out that in the Notice, FTA acknowledged that the proposed recision of its private enterprise guidance is ``a relatively significant change''; consequently, they argued, the section 12(i)(3) rulemaking requirement applies to this proceeding. Section 12 defines a ``rule'' as a ``statement of general or particular applicability designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe law or policy in carrying out provisions of this Act'' and requires the following procedures: (i) Rulemaking procedures. (1) Procedures. The Secretary shall provide an agenda listing all areas in which the Secretary intends to propose rules governing activities under this chapter within the following twelve-month period. The Secretary shall publish the proposed agenda in the Federal Register as part of the Secretary's semi-annual rulemaking agenda which lists rulemaking activities of (FTA). The Secretary shall also transmit the Agenda required by the first sentence of this paragraph to [various committees] on the day that the Secretary's semi-annual rulemaking agenda is published in the Federal Register . (2) Views. Except for emergency rules, the Secretary shall give interested parties not less than sixty days to participate in any rulemaking under this chapter through submission of written data, views, arguments with or without the opportunity for oral presentation, except when the Secretary for good cause finds that public notice and comment are unnecessary due to the routine nature or matter or insignificant impact of the rule, or that an emergency rule should be promulgated. The Secretary may extend the 60-day period if the Secretary determines that such a period is insufficient for diligent persons to prepare comments or that other circumstances justify an extension of time. An emergency rule shall terminate 120 days after the date on which it is promulgated. (3) Limitation.
