FR940325-1-00048 FR940325-1-00008 I. Multiple Resource Advisory Councils The working group recommends that Multiple Resource Advisory Councils be created in order to advise the BLM on a wide variety of public lands issues, including grazing. Group consensus exists that these councils should: •Focus on the full array of ecosystem and multiple use issues associated with federal lands. •Have up to 15 members appointed on a nonpartisan basis by the Interior Secretary. In making the appointments, the Secretary shall consider the recommendations of the Governor. Membership shall be self-nominated. Members could be nonresidents. Nominations will be accompanied by letters of recommendation from local interest groups which the nominee will be representing. At least one member will be a local elected official. •Require that members bring to the table; (1) a commitment to collaborate, (2) relevant experience or expertise, and (3) a commitment to success and to apply the law. •Require that, in the aggregate, council membership must represent the full array of issues and interests, custom and culture related to federal land use, management, protection, and a general understanding of the federal laws and regulations governing these lands. •Participate directly and effectively in the preparation and amendment of resource management plans. •Serve as a link between broad national policy direction and the more specific local, on-the-ground actions and public input. •Have an effective role with respect to influencing or guiding decisions about the implementation of resource area plans. •Require that all council members attend a ``rangeland ecosystem course of instruction'' within three months of their appointment. (The working group agreed to an acceptable standardized curriculum and process_such as the Rangeland Ecosystem Awareness Program developed by a subgroup_with a full understanding of the associated costs and a number of the details yet to be worked out.) •Each council shall develop a policy on attendance to encourage full participation of all members. Jurisdictional Level Since the purpose of Multiple Resource Advisory Councils is to foster broader public input in planning and management activities by federal public lands agencies, it makes sense for Councils to operate at a Jurisdictional level that is: (1) Close to local communities, and (2) close to the land planning decisions made by federal agencies while still ensuring that they are readily available and open to public comment. The Colorado working group believes that to be effective in the State of Colorado, these advisory bodies need to be created at the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) District level. As appropriate, the formation of these Councils should also allow for the integration of both BLM and Forest Service units into one Council, and as the respective agencies move toward management and planning on an ecosystem basis, the Councils should re-align accordingly. A governor or a Multiple Resource Advisory Council could petition the Secretary to authorize these Councils at a BLM Resource Area level if that was thought to be desirable. A Rangeland Resource Team (described below) could make such a request to the Multiple Resource Advisory Council. Membership All interests, uses, and values should be represented to the extent possible, and a balanced composition should be achieved. The District BLM manager (or his/her designee) would be non-voting ex-officio members of the Council. Members would not be required to reside in the counties served by the respective BLM District. Members would be required to demonstrate relevant experience and knowledge of the lands and communities in their Jurisdictional area. A single individual could serve on only one Council. Functions The council would be advisory in nature. Council members would be involved in the preparation, amendment and implementation of federal agency land management plans in an advisory capacity. If the Council disagreed with a federal land manager's decision that relates to one of the Council's functions, the Council would have the authority to submit a request for review of the decision to the Secretary. The Secretary's office would have discretion on the timeliness of a response, although a date certain could be encouraged (20 to 30 days). A Council's opportunity to influence land management decisions shall be in compliance with the public participation process outlined by federal laws (The National Environmental Policy Act, the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the Administrative Procedure Act, etc.) Opportunities to streamline and simplify these procedures need to be explored (perhaps by fully utilizing other authorities noted in the Federal Land Policy and Management Act and the Public Rangelands Improvement Act). The Council would have the authority to designate Rangeland Resource Teams (described below) and Technical Review Teams to address specific issues or problems in the District and/or serve as fact-finding teams. Councils should work to promote better public participation and engagement in land management decisions, and to foster conflict resolution through open dialogue and collaboration instead of litigation and bureaucratic appeal. Creation If it is thought to be desirable to authorize Multiple Resource Advisory Councils at other levels (i.e., below the BLM District level), a governor or Multiple Resource Advisory Council could make that request to the Secretary, or the Rangeland Resource Team could make such a request to a Multiple Resource Advisory Council. Multiple Resource Advisory Councils could be created or ``chartered'' in one of three ways: 1. By local initiative and official appointment by the State BLM Director. 2. By local initiative and appointment by the Secretary. 3. By the Secretary with due consultation given to any recommendations offered by the Governor.
