FR940825-0-00095 FR940825-0-00016 (2) Advances of Federal funds shall be deposited and maintained in insured accounts whenever possible. (j) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for women-owned and minority-owned business enterprises, recipients are encouraged to use women-owned and minority-owned banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by women or minority group members). (k) Recipients shall maintain advances of Federal funds in interest bearing accounts, unless one of the following conditions apply: (1) The recipient receives less than $120,000 in Federal awards per year. (2) The best reasonably available interest bearing account would not be expected to earn interest in excess of $250 per year on Federal cash balances. (3) The depository would require an average or minimum balance so high that it would not be feasible within the expected Federal and non-Federal cash resources. (l) For those entities where CMIA and its implementing regulations do not apply ( see 31 CFR part 205), interest earned on Federal advances deposited in interest bearing accounts shall be remitted annually to the Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, P.O. Box 6021, Rockville, MD 20852. Recipients with Electronic Funds Transfer capability should use an electronic medium such as the FEDWIRE Deposit System. Interest amounts up to $250 per year may be retained by the recipient for administrative expense. State universities and hospitals shall comply with CMIA, as it pertains to interest. If an entity subject to CMIA uses its own funds to pay pre-award costs for discretionary awards without prior written approval from the HHS awarding agency, it waives its right to recover the interest under CMIA. (See ยง74.25(d)). (m) PMS&hyph;270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement. Recipients shall use the PMS&hyph;270 to request advances or reimbursement for all programs when electronic funds transfer or predetermined advance methods are not used. ยง74.23 Cost sharing or matching. (a) To be accepted, all cost sharing or matching contributions, including cash and third party in-kind, shall meet all of the following criteria: (1) Are verifiable from the recipient's records; (2) Are not included as contributions for any other federally-assisted project or program; (3) Are necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives; (4) Are allowable under the applicable cost principles; (5) Are not paid by the Federal Government under another award, except where authorized by Federal statute to be used for cost sharing or matching; (6) Are provided for in the approved budget; and (7) Conform to other provisions of this part, as applicable. (b) Unrecovered indirect costs may be included as part of cost sharing or matching. (c) Values for recipient contributions of services and property shall be established in accordance with the applicable cost principles. If the HHS awarding agency authorizes recipients to donate buildings or land for construction/facilities acquisition projects or long-term use, the value of the donated property for cost sharing or matching shall be the lesser of: (1) The certified value of the remaining life of the property recorded in the recipient's accounting records at the time of donation; or (2) The current fair market value. However, when there is sufficient justification, the HHS awarding agency may approve the use of the current fair market value of the donated property, even if it exceeds the certified value at the time of donation to the project. (d) Volunteer services furnished by professional and technical personnel, consultants, and other skilled and unskilled labor may be counted as cost sharing or matching if the service is an integral and necessary part of an approved project or program. Rates for volunteer services shall be consistent with those paid for similar work in the recipient's organization. In those instances in which the required skills are not found in the recipient's organization, rates shall be consistent with those paid for similar work in the labor market in which the recipient competes for the kind of services involved. In either case, paid fringe benefits that are reasonable, allowable, and allocable may be included in the valuation.
