FR940112-2-00140 FR940112-2-00100 Wednesday January 12, 1994 Part VII Department of Commerce National Institute of Standards and Technology Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 8␣/␣Wednesday, January 12, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Institute of Standards and Technology [Docket No. 93110&hyph;3310] Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Technology Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. (This information is provided for planning purposes only, and is not a solicitation for proposals) SUMMARY: This notice describes three projects to be conducted by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) in FY94, under its Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP) program, to provide planning and initial implementation assistance for manufacturing extension programs. These projects correspond to the State Technology Extension Program (STEP) component of MEP, and are intended to help states improve the planning, coordination, and implementation of their technology extension activities. In conjunction with this notice, the MEP program office will conduct workshops and make MEP staff available to describe fully the projects in advance of a formal solicitation for proposals. The three projects are: Program Planning: To support the creation of a program plan for a state-wide, coordinated technology extension system to enhance the competitiveness of small and medium-sized manufacturers through the application of technology. Program Implementation: To support the initial implementation of a comprehensive state-wide industrial extension program or the pilot testing of new program and service concepts to help small and medium-sized manufacturers improve productivity and competitiveness. Regional Linkages: To support inter-state or multi-state efforts to expand the scope and enhance the effectiveness of technical assistance services available regionally to small and medium-sized manufacturers. Program Planning projects are open to all states, regardless of state size, industrial density/sparseness, or number of existing industrial assistance programs. For Program Implementation and Regional Linkages projects, NIST plans to give priority consideration to projects having the best potential to benefit areas with relatively sparse distribution of industry, or low industry density areas that do not lend themselves to large extension centers as a method of service delivery. DATES: The following schedule is anticipated but is subject to change: * January 12, 1994_Program announcement published in the Federal Register . All potential applicants will have an opportunity for dialogue with NIST MEP staff and questions will be accepted prior to notice requesting proposals. * January 31, 1994_Informational workshop at NIST to address questions about the MEP program. MEP staff will be available to meet with representatives from individual states.
