FR941013-0-00020 FR941013-0-00006 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;25] Modification of Class D Airspace; NAS Glenview, IL, and Establishment of Class D and Class E Airspace; Wheeling, IL AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This action modifies the Class D airspace area at Glenview Naval Air Station (NAS), IL, by amending the area's effective hours to coincide with the associated air traffic control tower's hours of operation. This action also establishes Class D and E airspace at Palwaukee Municipal Airport, Wheeling, IL. Wheeling, IL, previously had airspace coverage from the full-time Class D airspace area at NAS Glenview, IL. The part-time Class D airspace area at NAS Glenview, IL, however, is not adequate for Wheeling, IL. The Wheeling, IL, Class D airspace effective hours will coincide with the associated air traffic control tower's hours of operation and the Class E airspace will be effective when the associated air traffic control tower is closed. The intent of this action is to establish Class D airspace areas when two-way radio communications with the associated air traffic control tower is required, and to provide adequate Class E airspace at Wheeling, IL, for instrument approach procedures when the control tower is closed. In addition, the airspace description for Glenview, IL, has been editorially modified to describe the airspace in relation to the Airport Reference Point (ARP). DATES: Effective date_0901 UTC, December 8, 1994. Comment date: Comments must be received on or before November 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the rule in triplicate to: Manager, Air Traffic Division, System Management Br., AGL&hyph;530, Docket No. 94&hyph;AGL&hyph;25, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 E. Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the address listed above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeffrey L. Griffith, Air Traffic Division, System Management Branch, AGL&hyph;530, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018, telephone (708) 294&hyph;7459. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments on the Rule Although this action is a final rule, and was not preceded by notice and public procedure, comments are invited on the rule. This rule will become effective on the date specified in the DATES section. However, after the review of any comments and, if the FAA finds that further changes are appropriate, it will initiate rulemaking proceedings to extend the effective date of the rule or to amend the regulation. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in evaluating the effects of the rule, and in determining whether additional rulemaking is required. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the rule which might suggest the need to modify the rule. The Rule This amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) modifies the Class D airspace area at NAS Glenview, IL, by amending the area's effective hours to coincide with the associated air traffic control tower's hours of operation. Prior to Airspace Reclassification, an airport traffic area (ATA) and a control zone (CZ) existed at NAS Glenview, IL. However, Airspace Reclassification, effective September 16, 1993, discontinued the use of the term ``airport traffic area'' and ``control zone,'' replacing them with the designation ``Class D airspace.'' The former CZ was continuous, while the former ATA was contingent upon the operation of the air traffic control tower. The consolidation of the ATA and CZ into a single Class D airspace designation makes it necessary to modify the effective hours of the Class D airspace to coincide with the control tower's hours of operation. This action also establishes Class D and E airspace at Palwaukee Municipal Airport, Wheeling, IL. Wheeling, IL, previously had airspace coverage from the full-time Class D airspace area at NAS Glenview, IL. The part-time Class D airspace area at NAS Glenview, IL, however, is not adequate for Wheeling, IL. The Wheeling, IL, Class D airspace effective hours will coincide with the associated air traffic control tower's hours of operation and the Class E airspace will be effective when the associated air traffic control tower is closed. The intent of this action is to establish Class D airspace areas when two-way radio communications is required with the associated air traffic control towers during the control towers hours of operation, and to provide adequate Class E airspace at Wheeling, IL, for instrument approach procedures when the control tower is closed. The legal description for Glenview, IL, has been editorially modified to describe the airspace in relation to the ARP rather than the current description that uses the Northbrook, IL, VORTAC. The SIAP for Palwaukee, IL, which was previously included in the Glenview, IL, Class D airspace designation, used the Northbrook VORTAC. With the establishment of separate Class D airspace areas for Wheeling, IL, and Glenview, IL, it is necessary to editorially modify the Glenview, IL, Class D airspace designation. This modification does not change the airspace. The coordinates for this airspace docket are based on North American Datum 83. Class D and E airspace designations are published in Paragraphs 5000 and 6002, respectively, of FAA Order 7400.9B dated July 18, 1994, and effective September 16, 1994, which is incorporated by reference in 14 CFR 71.1. The Class D and E airspace designations listed in this document will be published subsequently in the Order. Under the circumstances presented, the FAA concludes that there is an immediate need to modify the NAS Glenview, IL, Class D airspace area and establish the Wheeling, IL, Class D and E airspace areas in order to promote the safe and efficient handling of air traffic in the area. Therefore, I find that notice and public procedures under 5 U.S.C. 553(b) are impracticable and contrary to the public interest. The FAA has determined that this regulation only involves an established body of technical regulations for which frequent and routine amendments are necessary to keep them operationally current. It, therefore_(1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979); and (3) does not warrant preparation of a regulatory evaluation as the anticipated impact is so minimal. Since this is a routine matter that will only effect air traffic procedures and air navigation, it is certified that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 71 Airspace, Incorporation by reference, Navigation (air). Adoption of the Amendment In consideration of the foregoing, the Federal Aviation Administration amends 14 CFR part 71 as follows: PART 71_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 71 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. app. 1348(a), 1354(a), 1510; E.O. 10854, 24 FR 9565, 3 CFR, 1959&hyph;1963 Comp., p. 389; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); 14 CFR 11.69. §71.1 [Amended] 2. The incorporation by reference in 14 CFR 71.1 of the Federal Aviation Administration Order 7400.9B, Airspace Designations and Reporting Points, dated July 18, 1994, and effective September 16, 1994, is amended as follows: Paragraph 5000␣General * * * * *
