FR940505-1-00204 FR940505-1-00012 Appendix I. Enhanced In-Use Compliance Program A. Light-Duty Vehicles and Trucks 1. Introduction As described in Section III.D.2.a and b of this preamble, VOC and NO X emissions from light-duty vehicles (LDVs) and trucks (LDTs) represented significant fractions of the total VOC and NO X emission inventories in the three FIP areas in 1990. Light-duty vehicles have remained a major source of emissions even though emission standards for light-duty vehicle exhaust hydrocarbon emissions have dropped more than 90 percent since 1970. The continuing high emissions derive from increases in VMT, the long life of vehicles in the temperate California climate and the failure of many current in-use vehicles to meet the standards to which they are certified when new. California has adopted very stringent light-duty vehicle emission certification standards known as the LEV program. This program will assure that new vehicles sold in California will have very low emissions. This will be accomplished through use of advanced emission controls and a new onboard diagnostic (OBD) requirement which is intended by CARB to identify for the driver and the repair technician whenever an emission control system has degraded sufficiently to increase emissions 50 percent above the certification standards. EPA expects the California Low Emission Vehicle (LEV) program will substantially reduce emissions of cars and light-duty trucks, compared to the federal standards. However, despite the use of advanced technologies and the OBD requirements, CARB projects LEVs will exceed their certification standards in-use, although, for the reasons noted in Section III.D.1.a(2), by a much smaller margin than has occurred in the past. Emissions above the certification standards, referred to as excess emissions, will occur because some models may experience more in-use deterioration than expected, or because individual vehicles experience component failure or improper maintenance which is not immediately corrected by the various existing in-use compliance programs, including enhanced I/M. Because the magnitude of the emission reductions needed for attainment is so great, the adoption of further measures to reduce these remaining excess in-use emissions will help reach attainment of the ozone standard. EPA is therefore seeking comments on the need for and benefits of adopting an enhanced in-use compliance program which would provide extra emission reductions above and beyond the substantial reduction provided by the California LEV program, and cause in-use emissions to approach the certification standards. EPA believes that much of the responsibility to ensure low in-use emissions must rest with vehicle manufacturers, since owners, although they have a significant part to play cannot ensure performance that is not available from the hardware. Traditionally, the incentive for manufacturers to build emissions durability into their vehicles has been limited. Owners do not have the ability, nor often the interest, to ensure their emissions control equipment is performing properly. This section presents EPA's proposed enhanced in-use compliance program for LDVs, LDTs and certain medium-duty vehicles (MDVs). MDVs, as defined by CARB, have a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) between 6000 and 14,000 pounds. For those MDVs above 8500 pounds GVWR, CARB gives manufacturers the option of certifying as a specific and complete vehicle, or as a heavy-duty engine which can be placed in any heavy-duty vehicle. Since MDVs certified as complete vehicles are much more analogous to LDVs and LDTs than heavy-duty engines, chassis-certified MDVs are being included here in the enhanced in-use compliance program for light-duty vehicles and trucks. The enhanced in-use compliance programs for heavy-duty engines and nonroad engines are similar in purpose and are presented in Sections B. and C. of this appendix below. The light-duty enhanced in-use compliance program attempts to encourage manufacturers to build additional durability into their emission control equipment by increasing the manufacturers responsibility for repairing problem vehicles identified by the inspection and maintenance (I/M) and recall programs. The I/M program is revised by shifting responsibility for repair to manufacturers if a significant percentage of vehicles are not performing close to certification levels in use. The potential responsibility shift should encourage manufacturers to build additional durability and improved repairability into their vehicles. The lower allowable I/M emission levels will ensure that vehicles are repaired if not performing satisfactorily. Also, the recall program is extended for the full useful life and all vehicles are tested and included provided they have not been obviously tampered or abused. Additionally, MDV emissions standards are reduced as significantly as light-duty standards have already been reduced. 2. New Vehicle Program New vehicle certification, and particularly the associated emission standards, play an important role in defining the types of emission control hardware placed on vehicles. These standards also essentially define the best level of emission control that can be expected from in-use vehicles. The majority of current in-use emissions come not from vehicles meeting their emission standards, but from vehicles which exceed their standards. EPA believes that the CARB LEV program with enhanced I/M will substantially reduce the occurrence of vehicles which exceed their standards by a substantial margin. However, emission predictions indicate that on average vehicles will not meet their emission standards in use. Therefore, the focus of EPA's proposed enhanced in-use compliance program is on two programs, recall and I/M, which can provide additional incentives to vehicle manufacturers to build the lowest emitting vehicles possible. However, no changes to CARB's motor vehicle control program are necessary to implement these two approaches to an enhanced in-use compliance program for new LDVs, LDTs and MDVs. EPA is proposing that the enhanced in-use compliance program be applied to all new vehicles that are defined under California regulations as passenger cars, light-duty trucks, or medium-duty vehicles, beginning in model year 1999. This would include all on-highway vehicles up to 14,000 pounds GVWR, with the exception of those MDVs which are certified as engines under both CARB's program and EPA's enhanced in-use compliance program described in Section B. Any of these vehicles offered for sale or first registered in California would need to comply with the enhanced in-use standards described below.
