FR940805-2-00137 FR940805-2-00073 Friday August 5, 1994 Part IV Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of Health Recombinant DNA Research: Actions Under the Guidelines; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 150␣/␣Friday, August 5, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES National Institutes of Health Recombinant DNA Research: Actions Under the Guidelines AGENCY: National Institutes of Health, PHS, DHHS. ACTION: Notice of Actions Under the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules. SUMMARY: This notice sets forth three actions to be taken by the Director, National Institutes of Health (NIH), under the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules ( Federal Register , July 5, 1994, Part IV). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Additional information can be obtained from Dr. Nelson A. Wivel, Director, Office of Recombinant DNA Activities (ORDA), Office of Science Policy and Technology Transfer, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Today three actions are being promulgated under the NIH Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules. These three proposed actions were published for comment in the Federal Register of May 11, 1994 (59 FR 24618), and reviewed and recommended for approval by the NIH Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee (RAC) at its meeting on June 9&hyph;10, 1994. I. Background Information and Decisions on Actions Under the NIH Guidelines A. Amendment to Appendix M&hyph;I&hyph;D of the NIH Guidelines Regarding Informed Consent for Human Gene Transfer Protocols During the December 2&hyph;3, 1993, Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee meeting, Dr. Gary Ellis, Director of the Office for Protection from Research Risks (OPRR), NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, responded to the written comments submitted by Dr. Zallen, Chair of the Working Group on Informed Consent Issues. Dr. Ellis noted the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee's concern regarding specific issues that should be addressed in human gene transfer protocol Informed Consent documents, i.e., request for autopsy, recommendations for male/female contraception, separate Informed Consent documents when the gene therapy aspects of the protocols are independent of an ongoing clinical protocol, commitment to long-term patient follow-up, and financial responsibility of the institution for all research-related costs. During his presentation, Dr. Ellis provided the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee with background information regarding the roles of both OPRR and local Institutional Review Boards (IRB) in the review of research proposals involving human subjects. Dr. Ellis recommended that the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee draft a letter outlining its specific recommendations to OPRR for distribution and consideration by the local IRBs. In a memorandum dated December 23, 1993, Dr. Ellis further clarified the avenues that should be pursued by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee with regard to translating its concern about the ``quality and content of informed consent documents into constructive changes in the informed consent process,'' specifically in relation to human gene transfer. Dr. Ellis recommended that the NIH Guidelines should be amended to introduce consistency in Informed Consent document language.
