FR940725-0-00046 FR940725-0-00008 (k) Developmental delay. A significant discrepancy in the actual functioning of an infant or toddler when compared with the functioning of a nondisabled infant or toddler of the same chronological age in any of the following areas of development: Physical development, cognitive development, communication development, social or emotional development, and adaptive development as measured using standardized evaluation instruments and confirmed by clinical observation and judgment. A significant discrepancy exists when the one area of development is delayed by 25 percent or 2 standard deviations or more below the mean or when two areas of development are each delayed by 20 percent or 11/2 standard deviations or more below the mean. (Chronological age should be corrected for prematurity until 24 months of age.) (l) Early intervention service coordination services. Case management services that include integration and oversight of the scheduling and accomplishment of evaluation and delivery of early intervention services to an infant or toddler with a disability and his or her family. (m) Early intervention services. Developmental services that: (1) Are provided under the supervision of a military medical department. (2) Are provided using Military Health Service System and community resources. (i) Evaluation IFSP development and revision, and service coordination services are provided at no cost to the infant's or toddler's parents. (ii) Incidental fees (e.g., child care fees) that are normally charged to infants, toddlers, and children without disabilities or their parents may be charged. (3) Are designed to meet the developmental needs of an infant or toddler with a disability in any one or more of the following areas: Physical development, cognitive development, communication development, social or emotional development, or adaptive development. (4) Meet the standards developed by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)). (5) Include the following services: Family training, counseling, and home visits; special instruction; speech pathology and audiology; occupational therapy; physical therapy; psychological services; early intervention program coordination services; medical services only for diagnostic or evaluation purposes; early identification, screening, and assessment services; vision services; and social work services. Also included are assistive technology devices and assistive technology services; health services necessary to enable the infant or toddler to benefit from the above early intervention services; and transportation and related costs that are necessary to enable an infant or toddler and the infant's or toddler's family to receive early intervention services. (6) Are provided by qualified personnel, including: Special educators; speech and language pathologists and audiologists; occupational therapists; physical therapists; psychologists; social workers; nurses' nutritionists; family therapists; orientation and mobility specialists; and pediatricians and other physicians. (7) To the maximum extent appropriate, are provided in natural environments, including the home and community settings in which infants and toddlers without disabilities participate. (8) Are provided in conformity with an IFSP. (n) Evaluation. Procedures used to determine whether an individual (birth through 21 inclusive) has a disability under this part and the nature and extent of the early intervention services and special education and related services that the individual needs. These procedures must be used selectively with an individual and may not include basic tests administered to, or used with, all infants, toddlers, preschool children or children in a school, grade, class, program, or other grouping. (o) Family training, counseling, and home visits. Services provided, as appropriate, by social workers, psychologists, and other qualified personnel to assist the family of an infant or toddler eligible for early intervention services in understanding the special needs of the child and enhancing the infant or toddler's development.
