FR940720-0-00117 FR940720-0-00007 Neither reason for applying the arbitrary and capricious standard of review applies to California's primary use determinations. California does not have unique expertise in determining the use of nonroad engines and equipment. Nor is there any indication that Congress sought to accord California discretion to determine the scope of federal preemption. Indeed the fact that Congress prohibited all state regulation of certain categories of new nonroad equipment and required California to obtain EPA authorization to regulate any other categories suggests a strong congressional interest in limiting state regulation affecting makers of new nonroad engines and equipment. While preemption provisions are generally construed narrowly, congressional intent to prohibit states from regulating in certain areas must also be safeguarded. EPA believes the arbitrary and capricious standard of review would not sufficiently reflect congressional intent to prohibit state regulation of farm and construction equipment. At the same time, EPA does not believe that the much stricter clear and compelling evidence standard suggested by CIAQC is the appropriate standard of review. CIAQC argued that in Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association, Inc., 627 F.2d 1095, (D.C. Cir. 1979) ( MEMA I ), the court found that the Administrator's use of a clear and compelling evidence standard to evaluate California's request for a waiver for enforcement procedures was valid. EPA disagrees with CIAQC's application of MEMA I. As an initial matter, MEMA I does not deal with the threshold matter of the scope of preemption. On such matters the court is silent as to the appropriate standard of review beyond providing general guiding principles. Instead, the court focuses on the standard of review to be employed by EPA on California's protectiveness determination. In fact, the section of the decision cited by CIAQC focuses on this issue, not on the issue of preemption. There the court not only states that California's determination is presumed to satisfy the waiver requirements, but that the burden of proving otherwise falls on the party attacking the determination. It is in this context that the court notes that the Administrator determined that there must be ``clear and compelling evidence'' to show that California's proposed procedures undermine the protectiveness of California's standards. It is in the context of a party challenging California's protectiveness determination that the clear and compelling standard comes into play. Thus, EPA believes that the clear and compelling standard is neither applicable nor appropriate for its review of CARB's primary use determination. The Agency considers the preponderance of the evidence standard of review to be appropriate for its review of California's primary use determination. If EPA were to make the determination itself, it would apply such a test in making it. There is no reason to apply a different test simply because California has made an initial determination. Public commenters may supplement the record assembled by California in support of its determination, and the Agency will weigh all the evidence in reviewing California's determination. To the extent California's determination is supported by a preponderance of the evidence in the record, EPA will accept it. Several commenters stated that EPA was denying interested parties their due process rights by attempting to consider California's request for authorization for its Utility Engine Rule at the same time it is seeking comment on its proposed criteria for authorizing nonroad requests. The commenters argued that a final rule under section 209(e) was necessary to comment meaningfully on the CARB authorization request. EPA believes parties should be given another opportunity to comment on California's utility engine rule after today's rule implementing section 209(e) has become final. Thus, EPA will publish in the Federal Register a Notice of Opportunity for Public Hearing and Request for Comments regarding California's request for authorization of its Utility Engine Rule. Interested parties will have the opportunity to submit written comments, and if requested, EPA will hold a hearing. This will provide interested parties with an opportunity to comment on California's request after today's rule is finalized. L. Executive Order 12866 In the NPRM, EPA stated it had determined that the proposed rule is not ``major'' within the criteria set forth in section 1(b) of Executive Order (E.O.) 12291 and was therefore not required to prepare a Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA). Since the NPRM E.O. 12291 has been replaced by Executive Order 12866.
