FR940228-1-00032 FR940228-1-00003 (b) The licensee shall maintain copies of current operating and emergency procedures in accordance with §34.81. 36. Section 34.46 is added to read as follows: §34.46 Supervision of radiographers' assistants. Whenever a radiographer's assistant uses radiographic exposure devices, uses sealed sources or related source handling tools, or conducts radiation surveys required by §34.49(b) to determine that the sealed source has returned to the shielded position after an exposure, the assistant shall be under the personal supervision of a radiographer. The personal supervision must include: (a) The radiographer's personal presence at the site where the sealed sources are being used; (b) The ability of the radiographer to give immediate assistance if required; and (c) The radiographer's watching the assistant's performance of the operations referred to in this section. 37. Section 34.47 is added to read as follows: §34.47 Personnel monitoring. (a) The licensee may not permit any individual to act as a radiographer or a radiographer's assistant unless, at all times during radiographic operations, each individual wears a direct reading pocket dosimeter, an operating alarm ratemeter, and either a film badge or a thermoluminescent dosimeter (TLD). At permanent radiography installations where other appropriate alarming or warning devices are in routine use, the wearing of an alarming ratemeter is not required. (1) Pocket dosimeters must have a range from zero to 2 millisieverts (200 millirems) and must be recharged at the start of each shift. (2) Each film badge and TLD must be assigned to and worn by only one individual. (3) Film badges and TLDs must be replaced at least monthly. (4) After replacement, each film badge or TLD must be promptly processed. (b) Pocket dosimeters must be read and the exposures recorded at the beginning and end of each shift, and records must be maintained in accordance with §34.83. (c) Pocket dosimeters must be checked at periods not to exceed 12 months for correct response to radiation, and records must be maintained in accordance with §34.83. Acceptable dosimeters must read within plus or minus 30 percent of the true radiation exposure. (d) If an individual's pocket dosimeter is found to be off-scale and the possibility of radiation exposure cannot be ruled out as the cause, the individual's film badge or TLD must be sent immediately for processing. In addition, the individual may not work with licensed material until a determination of the individual's radiation exposure has been made. This determination must be made by the RSO or the RSO's designee. The results of this determination must be included in the records maintained in accordance with §34.83. (e) If a film badge or TLD is lost or damaged, the worker shall cease work immediately until a replacement film badge or TLD is provided and the exposure is calculated for the time period from issuance to loss or damage of the film badge or TLD. The results of the calculated exposure and the time period for which the film badge or TLD was lost or damaged must be included in the records maintained in accordance with §34.83. (f) Reports received from the film badge or TLD processor must be retained in accordance with §34.83. (g) Each alarm ratemeter must_ (1) Be checked to ensure that the alarm functions properly (sounds) before using at the start of each shift; (2) Be set to give an alarm signal at a preset dose rate of 5 mSv/hr (500 mrem/hr); with an accuracy of plus or minus 20 percent of the true radiation dose rate. (3) Be adequate to alert the individual regardless of the environmental conditions (e.g., high ambient noise levels). (4) Require special means to change the preset alarm function; and (5) Be calibrated at periods not to exceed 12 months for correct response to radiation. The licensee shall maintain records of alarm ratemeter calibrations in accordance with §34.83. 38. Section 34.49 is added to read as follows: §34.49 Radiation surveys. The licensee shall: (a) Conduct surveys with a calibrated and operable radiation survey instrument that meets the requirements of §34.25.
