FR941121-0-00127 FR941121-0-00013 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 650 [Docket No. 94111&hyph;4311; I.D. 102494B] Atlantic Sea Scallop Fishery AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this final rule to implement Framework Adjustment 2 to the Atlantic Sea Scallop Fishery Management Plan (FMP). This rule implements an exemption from Federal gear regulations for vessels when fishing in state waters under a state scallop management program. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of Amendment 4 to the FMP, and its regulatory impact review (RIR), initial regulatory flexibility analysis (IRFA), final supplemental environmental impact statement (FSEIS), and Framework Adjustment 2 are available from Douglas Marshall, Executive Director, New England Fishery Management Council, 5 Broadway, Saugus, MA 01906&hyph;1097. Comments regarding the burden-hour estimates or any other aspect of the collection-of-information requirements contained in this final rule should be sent to Allen E. Peterson, Jr., Acting Regional Director, One Blackburn Drive, Gloucester, MA 01930, and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget (OMB) (Attention NOAA Desk Officer), Washington, D.C. 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul H. Jones, Fishery Policy Analyst, 508&hyph;281&hyph;9273. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Amendment 4 to the FMP was approved on November 5, 1993, and implemented on March 1, 1994. Amendment 4 changed the primary management strategy from a meat count (size) control to effort control. The FMP controls total fishing effort through limited entry and a schedule of reductions in allowable time at sea. Supplemental measures include gear restrictions, limits on the number of crew members, and vessel restrictions. There are also catch limits for vessels not in the limited access fishery and a framework procedure for adjusting all the management measures in the FMP. This framework adjustment exempts Federal permit holders from Federal gear restrictions when fishing in state waters under a state management program that has been determined by NMFS not to jeopardize the fishing mortality/effort reduction objectives of the FMP. The principal gear restrictions from which participants in the program are exempted are minimum ring size requirements, restrictions on dredge width, the use of chafing gear, ring configuration and linkage restrictions, and restrictions on spare dredges and nets. Current state management measures in Maine and Massachusetts and the restrictions proposed by New Hampshire have been determined by NMFS not to jeopardize the fishing mortality/effort reduction objectives of the FMP. All have restrictions that are adequate to address Federal conservation and management concerns because they have overall gear requirements that are more restrictive than Federal regulations and because they apply to scallop resources that are predominantly in state waters. Massachusetts and New Hampshire management measures, in particular, are more restrictive because both include a minimum 31/4-inch (83-mm) ring size requirement in addition to other restrictions on dredge size. The Gulf of Maine and Cape Cod stocks of sea scallops are separate from the major stocks on Georges Bank and in the Mid-Atlantic area, and therefore are not included in the rebuilding program for the fishery. Based on landings, approximately 80 percent of the Gulf of Maine fishery takes place in state waters and its management is predominately a state responsibility.
