FR940414-2-00154 FR940414-2-00084 2. Note: All claims assessed for $50 or $100 (1 or 2 days late) will receive no mitigation. 3. If a carrier has a poor record of compliance with shipper's export declaration filing requirements as compared to other carriers in a district, and mitigation in accordance with subparagraph (B)(1) above has had no deterrent effect, relief from the claim for liquidated damages may be denied. VII. Guidelines for Cancellation of Claims Arising From Violation of Warehouse Proprietor's Bond (19 CFR Part 19, 19 CFR 113.63) The following guidelines apply to violations involving bonded warehouse proprietors and duty-free store operators. A. Defaults Involving Merchandise. Defaults involving merchandise include violations involving merchandise which: 1. Cannot be located or accounted for in a bonded warehouse. 2. Has been removed from a bonded warehouse without a Customs permit. 3. Has been deposited, manipulated, manufactured, or destroyed in a bonded warehouse: a. Without proper Customs permit; b. Not in accordance with the description of the activity in the permit; or c. In the case of Class 6 warehouses, not manufactured in accordance with the formula specified in section 19.13(e) of the Customs Regulations (19 CFR 19.13(e)). B. Defaults Not Involving Merchandise. Defaults not involving merchandise include those instances of failure, other than those involving merchandise, to comply with Customs laws and regulations. The same act shall not be regarded as both a default involving merchandise and a default not involving merchandise. C. Defaults Involving Merchandise; Petitions. Petitions received in cases arising from defaults involving merchandise should be processed in accordance with the following. 1. If the breach resulted from clerical error or mistake (a non-negligent inadvertent error), the claim should be cancelled without payment. 2. If the breach resulted from negligence but no threat to the revenue occurred (e.g., the merchandise was not manipulated in accordance with the permit to manipulate) the claim should be cancelled upon payment of an amount between one and 15 percent of the value of the merchandise involved in the breach, but not less than $100 nor more than $10,000. If the merchandise involved in the breach is restricted merchandise, that shall be considered an aggravating factor which shall result in mitigation on the higher end of the range. 3. If the breach resulted from negligence and a potential loss of revenue resulted (e.g., merchandise cannot be located in the warehouse, merchandise is removed from the warehouse without a permit), the claim shall be cancelled upon payment of an amount between one and three times the loss of revenue (loss of revenue to include duties, fees and taxes), but not less than $100. If the merchandise involved in the breach is restricted merchandise, the claim shall be cancelled upon payment of an amount between three and five times the loss revenue but in no case less than 10 percent of the value of such merchandise. 4. If the breach is intentional (e.g., the warehouse proprietor conspires to remove merchandise from the warehouse without proper entry), there will be no relief granted from liquidated damages. 5. Aggravating factors. a. Principal's failure or refusal to cooperate with Customs. b. Large number of violations compared to number of transactions handled. c. Experience of principal. d. Principal's carelessness or willful disregard toward its responsibilities. 6. Mitigating factors. a. Contributory error by Customs. b. Small number of violations compared to number of transactions handled. c. Remedial action taken by principal. d. Cooperation with Customs. e. Lack of experience of principal.
