FR940404-1-00028 FR940404-1-00013 (c) Early retirement. Retirement from active duty with at least 15 but fewer than 20 years of service, as provided by section 4403 of Public Law 102&hyph;484. (d) Public and community service organization. Government or private organizations that provide or coordinate the provision of the following services: (1) Elementary, secondary, or post secondary school teaching or administration. (2) Support of teachers or school administrators. (3) Law enforcement. (4) Public health care. (5) Social services. (6) Public safety. (7) Emergency relief. (8) Public housing. (9) Conservation. (10) Environment. (11) Job training. (12) Other public and community service not listed previously, but consistent with or related to services described in paragraphs (d) (1) through (11) of this section. (e) Public service employment. Work in a Federal, state or local government organization which provides or coordinates services listed in paragraphs (d) (1) through (12) of this section. (f) Separation. Normal separation from active duty or civil service, military retirement with 20 or more year's service, release from active military service, and reduction in force. (g) Transition assistance program counselor. A person charged with the responsibility of conducting transition programs. Examples include personnel assigned to family centers, military or civilian personnel offices, unit transition counselors, and as command career counselors. §77.4 Policy. It is DoD policy that: (a) All separating Service members and former members shall be encouraged to enter public or community service employment. (b) Service members determined to be eligible by the Secretary of their Military Department for, and who do request retirement with fewer than 20 years of service, are required by section 4403 of Public Law 102&hyph;484 to register for public and community service employment. (1) This registration normally shall take place not earlier than 90 days before retirement or terminal/transition leave. (2) In order to have their military retired pay and Survivor Benefit Plan base amount (if applicable) recomputed in accordance with DoD Instruction 1340.19 1 early retirees must be employed with a DoD-registered public or community service organization that provides the services listed in §§77.3 (d)(1) through (d)(12), or that coordinates the provision of services listed in §§77.3 (d)(1) through (d)(12). 1 Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. (c) DoD civilian personnel leaving the Government, their spouses, and spouses of Service members who are seeking employment shall be encouraged to register for public and community service employment. §77.5 Responsibilities. (a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall: (1) Monitor compliance with this rule. (2) Establish policy and provide guidance related to public and community service employment. (3) Provide program information to the public on the Department of Defense's public and community service employment program. (4) Ensure that the Director, Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC): (i) Maintains the Public and Community Service Organizational Registry. (ii) Maintains the Public and Community Service Personnel Registry. (5) Decide the status of requests for reconsideration from employers resubmitting their request to be included on the Public and Community Service Organizational Registry, but whose first request was disapproved. (b) The Secretaries of the Military Departments shall: (1) Ensure compliance with this rule. (2) Encourage public and community service employment for separating Service members, their spouses, DoD civilian personnel leaving the Government, and their spouses. (3) Coordinate with the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness before promulgating public and community service employment policies and regulations. §77.6 Procedures. (a) Military personnel offices shall advise Service members desiring to apply for early retirement that they shall register, normally within 90 days of their retirement date, for public and community service (PACS) employment, and refer them to a Transition Assistance Program Counselor for registration. (b) Personnel offices shall advise separating Service members, DoD civilian personnel leaving the Government, and their spouses to contact a Transition Assistance Program Counselor about PACS employment and registration. (c) Transition Assistance Program Counselors shall counsel separating Service members (during preseparation counseling established by DoD Instruction 1332.36 2 ), DoD civilian personnel leaving the Government, and their spouses on PACS employment. Counselors shall update into the Defense Outplacement Referral System (DORS) database Service members requesting early retirement and other DoD personnel or spouses who request registration. Transition Assistance Program Counselors shall use DD Form 2580 (appendix A of this part) to register personnel for PACS employment. In addition, Counselors shall ensure that Service members who are requesting early retirement are advised that: 2 See footnote 1 to §77.4(b)(2).
