FR940419-2-00166 FR940419-2-00087 3. Allowing a phased approach to implementation of CSO controls considering a community's financial capability; and 4. Review and revision, as appropriate, of water quality standards and their implementation procedures when developing CSO control plans to reflect the site-specific wet weather impacts of CSOs. This Policy is being issued in support of EPA's regulations and policy initiatives. This Policy is Agency guidance only and does not establish or affect legal rights or obligations. It does not establish a binding norm and is not finally determinative of the issues addressed. Agency decisions in any particular case will be made by applying the law and regulations on the basis of specific facts when permits are issued. The Administration has recommended that the 1994 amendments to the CWA endorse this final Policy. B. Application of Policy The permitting provisions of this Policy apply to all CSSs that overflow as a result of storm water flow, including snow melt runoff (40 CFR 122.26(b)(13)). Discharges from CSSs during dry weather are prohibited by the CWA. Accordingly, the permitting provisions of this Policy do not apply to CSOs during dry weather. Dry weather flow is the flow in a combined sewer that results from domestic sewage, groundwater infiltration, commercial and industrial wastewaters, and any other non-precipitation related flows (e.g., tidal infiltration). In addition to the permitting provisions, the Enforcement and Compliance section of this Policy describes an enforcement initiative being developed for overflows that occur during dry weather. Consistent with the 1989 Strategy, 30 States that submitted CSO permitting strategies have received EPA approval or, in the case of one State, conditional approval of its strategy. States and EPA Regional Offices should review these strategies and negotiate appropriate revisions to them to implement this Policy. Permitting authorities are encouraged to evaluate water pollution control needs on a watershed management basis and coordinate CSO control efforts with other point and nonpoint source control activities. C. Effect on Current CSO Control Efforts EPA recognizes that extensive work has been done by many Regions, States, and municipalities to abate CSOs. As such, portions of this Policy may already have been addressed by permittees' previous efforts to control CSOs. Therefore, portions of this Policy may not apply, as determined by the permitting authority on a case-by-case basis, under the following circumstances: 1. Any permittee that, on the date of publication of this final Policy, has completed or substantially completed construction of CSO control facilities that are designed to meet WQS and protect designated uses, and where it has been determined that WQS are being or will be attained, is not covered by the initial planning and construction provisions in this Policy; however, the operational plan and post-construction monitoring provisions continue to apply. If, after monitoring, it is determined that WQS are not being attained, the permittee should be required to submit a revised CSO control plan that, once implemented, will attain WQS. 2. Any permittee that, on the date of publication of this final Policy, has substantially developed or is implementing a CSO control program pursuant to an existing permit or enforcement order, and such program is considered by the NPDES permitting authority to be adequate to meet WQS and protect designated uses and is reasonably equivalent to the treatment objectives of this Policy, should complete those facilities without further planning activities otherwise expected by this Policy. Such programs, however, should be reviewed and modified to be consistent with the sensitive area, financial capability, and post-construction monitoring provisions of this Policy. 3. Any permittee that has previously constructed CSO control facilities in an effort to comply with WQS but has failed to meet such applicable standards or to protect designated uses due to remaining CSOs may receive consideration for such efforts in future permits or enforceable orders for long-term CSO control planning, design and implementation. In the case of any ongoing or substantially completed CSO control effort, the NPDES permit or other enforceable mechanism, as appropriate, should be revised to include all appropriate permit requirements consistent with Section IV.B. of this Policy.
