FR940505-1-00412 FR940505-1-00012 (7) Test Methods. (i) Any owner or operator that chooses to comply with the standard specified in paragraph (n)(3)(i)(A) of this section shall perform an initial compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the standard in accordance with the applicable requirements of §60.8, and shall also comply with the following: (A) Each emission test run shall be conducted while the unit is operated at maximum operating capacity. No emission test shall be conducted during start-up, shutdown, or under breakdown conditions for the purpose of demonstrating compliance with this section. (B) Sampling and analytical procedures shall be conducted in accordance with the applicable EPA Reference Methods and Submethods described in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60. (C) The 70 ppm emission limit specified in paragraph (n)(3)(i)(A) of this section shall be corrected to 12 percent volume stack gas CO 2 on a rolling 3 hour average dry basis. (ii) Any owner or operator that chooses to comply with the standard specified in paragraph (n)(3)(i)(B) of this section shall perform an initial compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the standard in accordance with the applicable requirements of §60.8, and shall also comply with the following: (A) The requirements of paragraphs (n)(7)(i)(A) and (B) of this section. (B) The 50 percent NO X emission reduction specified in paragraph (n)(3)(i)(B) of this section shall be calculated based on the pre- and post-controlled ppm NO X concentration referenced at 12 percent volume stack gas CO 2 on a rolling 3 hour average dry basis. The pre-controlled ppm NO X concentration to be used in demonstrating the 50 percent reduction shall be the ppm NO X concentration submitted to the Administrator in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (n)(6)(i)(A)( 2 ) of this section. After demonstrating a 50 percent reduction by means of a post-controlled emissions test, the post-controlled NO X concentration shall be used to establish the outlet ppm NO X emission limit for determining subsequent compliance. The ppm NO X emission limit shall be corrected to 12 percent volume stack gas CO 2 on a rolling 3 hour average dry basis. The outlet ppm NO X emission limit established for determining subsequent compliance shall be documented in the applicable certification report required under paragraph (n)(6)(i)(C) of this section. (iii) Any owner or operator that is subject to the requirements of paragraph (n)(3)(ii) of this section shall perform a test for CO emissions during the initial compliance test for NO X emissions to establish a ppm CO emission limit that represents good operating and combustion practices for the fuel(s) burned in the unit. Sampling of CO emissions shall be performed at the outlet of the control system in accordance with the applicable requirements of §60.8 and the applicable EPA Reference Methods and Submethods described in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60. The ppm CO emissions shall be corrected to 12 percent volume stack gas CO 2 on a rolling 3 hour average dry basis. The outlet ppm CO emission limit established for determining subsequent compliance shall be documented in the applicable certification report required under paragraph (n)(6)(i)(C) of this section. (o) Emissions of oxides of nitrogen from stationary gas turbines. (1) Applicability. For the purposes of paragraph (o) of this section, the affected area includes the Sacramento Metro Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. Any owner or operator of a stationary gas turbine with a rated heat output capacity equal to or greater than 0.3 megawatt (MW) shall comply with the applicable requirements of paragraphs (o) (1) through (7) of this section. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (o) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. British thermal unit (Btu) means the amount of heat required to raise the temperature of one pound of water from 59 ○F to 60 ○F at one atmosphere. Chemical processing stationary gas turbine unit means a gas turbine that vents its exhaust gases into the operating stream of a chemical process. Cogeneration cycle stationary gas turbine unit means a gas turbine that is operated both for the simultaneous production of shaft work and for the recovery of useful thermal energy from the exhaust gases or waste steam as defined by Section 25134 of the California Public Resources Code. Combined cycle stationary gas turbine unit means a gas turbine that is operated both for the production of electrical energy from shaft work and the useful energy produced from heat recovered from its exhaust gases. Emergency standby stationary gas turbine unit means a gas turbine that is operated only as a mechanical or electrical power source for a facility when the primary power source has been rendered inoperable, except due to power interruption pursuant to an interruptible power supply agreement. This does not include utility company electrical power plant units. Exhaust after treatment means a control method for the post- combustion reduction of NO X emissions, such as selective catalytic reduction. Higher heating value (HHV) means the total heat liberated per mass of fuel burned (Btu per pound), when fuel and dry air at standard conditions undergo complete combustion and all resultant products are brought to their standard states at standard conditions. If certification of the HHV is not provided by the third party fuel supplier, it shall be determined by one of the following test methods: ASTM D2015&hyph;85 for solid fuels; ASTM D240&hyph;87 or ASTM D2382&hyph;88 for liquid hydrocarbon fuels; or ASTM D1826&hyph;88 or ASTM D1945&hyph;81 in conjunction with ASTM D3588&hyph;89 for gaseous fuels. LHV means the lower heating value of a fuel. NO X emissions means the sum of nitric oxides and nitrogen dioxide in the flue gas, collectively expressed as nitrogen dioxide.
