FR940919-2-00107 FR940919-2-00046 The ability of decisionmakers to conduct thorough interviews and evidence evaluation, and timely and accurate claim adjudication is predicated on the implementation of the functionality provided by the IWS/LAN hardware and software components, and the decision support features of the Modernized Disability System. Expert system software will be included in SSA claim processing systems to assist disability decisionmakers in the analysis and evaluation of complex eligibility factors, and to ensure that the correct procedures for disability evaluation are followed. While conducting interviews, disability decisionmakers will rely on decision support features that ask impairment-specific questions. The decision support system will use the accumulated data of the electronic record to assist in the preparation of the predecision notice, the statement of the claim, and decisions rendered on appeal. Where disability decision team members cannot be physically co-located, they can remain in communication by using two-way TV and other videoconferencing technologies. Disability policy will be developed and stored in a format that can be integrated into computer systems as the source of context-sensitive help screens and decision-support messages. Quality assurance features fully supported by the Modernized Disability System will be integrated throughout the new process. For example, the national end-of-line quality review sample will be electronically selected and automatically routed to appropriate staff. In-line programmatic quality assurance, enhanced by the use of decision support systems, will be programmed into the computer applications and will help to identify errors of both oversight and substance, and also support routine analysis to aid in avoiding future similar errors. An on-line technical review will occur each time information is added to the electronic record. Quality assurance and productivity measures will be incorporated in a new, total-process management information system. Meaningful, timely management information for the disability process is dependent on a seamless data processing system used by all components which affords a common case control system and a common data base. SSA's claim processing systems integrated on an Agency-wide IWS/LAN platform will provide this seamless environment. Cost and Benefits Introduction SSA's strategy of coming to closure on an ideal, high-level disability process design before undertaking detailed operational and implementation planning has been consistent from the beginning of the reengineering project. Although this project management approach served SSA well, it has made the very necessary task of cost/benefit projections unusually challenging. The following cost/benefit forecasts will need to evolve as implementation details are developed. The administrative cost numbers presented here cannot be applied to SSA's administrative budget without further analysis. SSA will move forward on all aspects of the process redesign plan; however, because of the extensive research and development required for implementation of the simplified disability determination methodology, we have not considered the effect of this redesign feature in our cost/benefit planning. In addition, because the ability of a single employee to master the disability claim manager position is dependent on full adoption of a simplified disability determination methodology, the impact from that process redesign feature has also been separated out from our cost/benefit planning at this time. Service Improvements Service to the public, as defined by average processing time, would improve dramatically_from around 150 days to pay an initial disability claim today to 60 days after implementation of the new process. Hearing processing time would also improve from about 550 days to 225 days. These figures were derived from running a computer simulation model of the new process. Program Costs Under the supposition that SSA's current initial claim and administrative appeal process leads to correct disability determinations within the proper universe of people today, and because SSA is not proposing any changes in the statutory definition of disability, the redesigned process in and of itself would have no long-term effect on program outlays. Administrative Costs and Savings The project life period for implementing disability reengineering is from October 1, 1994 to September 30, 2000. However, the full benefits from the redesigned process will not be realized until September 30, 2001. Cumulative administrative costs during the life of the project are estimated at $148 million. The largest percentage of these costs will be directed to special workforce training on the new process_a critical enabler if the redesign plan is to work. The redesign will not require additional investments in information technology spending over current SSA plans. Cumulative administrative savings through FY 2001 are estimated at $852 million. The bulk of these savings will come from more efficient use of Federal and State workyears to process the anticipated disability initial claim and appeal workloads during the project life period. This savings estimate does not factor in Agency resource needs for working existing backlogged disability cases. Subtracting cumulative administrative costs of $148 million from cumulative savings of $852 million will result in a pay back to the government of $704 million through FY 2001. Ongoing administrative cost savings will be over $305 million annually, beginning in FY 2001. This figure includes spending increases for enhanced employee education, better office security, and expanded claimant services. The administrative cost savings associated with this project_$704 million during the implementation period, and $305 million annually, thereafter_will allow the Agency to reallocate existing resources to give more attention to other important workloads. SSA's workforce profile, with respect to disability process workloads, would include at least the same number of professional positions currently employed at the federal and state level. However, the overall design, if fully implemented with all the process enablers_especially enhanced automation_would require fewer clerical and support positions to handle projected workloads. Conclusion SSA is committed to implementing a new disability determination process that will deliver significantly improved service to the public, remain neutral with respect to program dollar outlays, and will be more efficient to administer. Administrative cost savings from the process will allow the Agency to reallocate resources to give increased attention to other important workloads. However, the redesigned process cannot be implemented without the full funding, development, and installation of a new case processing computer system. In addition, unless SSA invests substantially more funds for research and development of the simplified disability determination methodology, the full benefits of the redesigned process_including better public service and the potential for even greater long-term administrative efficiencies_will not be possible. Implementation Strategy
