FR940124-2-00040 FR940124-2-00034 Antitrust Division Notice Pursuant to the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993 Gas-Fueled Railway Research Program Demonstration Project Notice is hereby given that, on December 30, 1993, pursuant to Section 6(a) of the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993, 15 U.S.C. 4301 et seq. (``the Act''), Southwest Research Institute (``SwRI'') has filed written notifications simultaneously with the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission disclosing (1) The identities of the parties and (2) The nature and objectives of the project. The notifications were filed for the purpose of invoking the Act's provisions limiting the recovery of antitrust plaintiffs to actual damages under specified circumstances. Pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Act, the identities of the parties are Gas Research Institute, Chicago, IL; General Motors Corporation, Electro-Motive Division, La Grange, IL; South Coast Air Quality Management District, Diamond Bar, CA; Southern California Gas Company, Los Angeles, CA; and Southern California Regional Rail Authority, Los Angeles, CA. The project's general areas of planned activities are to develop and demonstrate natural gas locomotive engines as low cost, low pollution alternatives to diesel powered locomotive engines through the quantification of emissions benefits and performance trade-offs associated with existing natural gas engines conversion technologies utilizing a single-cylinder engine; applying technology derived from use of the single-cylinder engine to a multi-cylinder EMD locomotive engine; integrating the locomotive engine with on-board control and support systems in a fully operational locomotive; testing the durability of a developed prototype natural gas locomotive engine to minimize fuel system failures which may occur in planned field demonstrations both on urban passenger and cross country freight locomotives; and evaluating advanced exhaust aftertreatment technologies such as catalytic aftertreatment and electronic NO x suppression system originally developed for diesel fuel systems. Membership in the project remains open, and the parties intend to file additional written notification disclosing all changes in membership to the project. Joseph H. Widmar, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1513 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
