FR940805-2-00141 FR940805-2-00073 On April 29, 1994, Dr. Nelson Wivel of the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, requested that Appendix M&hyph;VI, Procedures to be Followed for Expedited Review of Single Patient Human Gene Transfer Experiments, be amended to clarify submission requirements. The Procedures to be Followed for Expedited Review of Single Patient Human Gene Transfer Experiments currently reads: ``Appendix M&hyph;VI&hyph;D. Regardless of the method of review, the Points to Consider is the standard of review for all gene transfer protocols.'' The proposed amendment reads: ``Appendix M&hyph;VI&hyph;D. Regardless of the method of review, the Points to Consider is the standard of review for all gene transfer protocols; therefore, submission of the response to the Points to Consider is required.'' The proposed amendment was reviewed by the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee during the June 9&hyph;10, 1994, meeting. The Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee approved a motion to accept the proposed amendment to Appendix M&hyph;VI, Procedures to be Followed for Expedited Review of Single Patient Human Gene Transfer Experiments, by a vote of 13 in favor, 0 opposed, and no abstentions. I accept this recommendation, and Appendix M&hyph;VI, Procedures to be Followed for Expedited Review of Single Patient Human Gene Transfer Experiments, of the NIH Guidelines will be amended accordingly. C. Deletion of Appendix L of the NIH Guidelines Regarding Release into the Environment On April 29, 1994, Dr. Nelson Wivel of the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, requested that Appendix L, Release into the Environment of Certain Plants, be deleted from the NIH Guidelines based on the following: (1) Section I of the NIH Guidelines allows experiments to proceed that are reviewed and approved by another Federal agency that has jurisdiction for review and approval without the necessity for NIH review or approval (52 FR 31849); (2) the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee has not reviewed any deliberate release experiment involving recombinant DNA since 1984; (3) at its May 30&hyph;31, 1991, meeting, the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee recommended that Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2 be deleted from the NIH Guidelines; and (4) experiments involving deliberate release into the environment are currently reviewed within the framework of existing Federal regulations, as administered by the Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Section I of the NIH Guidelines was amended on August 24, 1987, such that any recombinant DNA experiment (other than human gene transfer) may proceed without Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee and NIH approval if it has been reviewed and approved by another Federal agency that has jurisdiction over such a proposal. The amended version (52 FR 31849) of Section I reads as follows: Section I&hyph;A. Purpose ``*␣*␣*Any recombinant DNA experiment, which according to the NIH Guidelines requires approval by the NIH, must be submitted to the NIH or to another Federal agency that has jurisdiction for review and approval. Once approval, or other applicable clearances, have been obtained from a Federal agency other than the NIH (whether the experiment is referred to that agency by the NIH or sent directly there by the submitter), the experiment may proceed without the necessity for NIH review or approval*␣*␣*.'' On December 6, 1990, the Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee Planning Subcommittee recommended that the requirement for Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee review of experiments involving deliberate environmental release of organisms containing recombinant DNA be eliminated from the NIH Guidelines. This recommendation reflected the fact that the Federal regulatory agencies, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Environmental Protection Agency, are responsible for the review and approval of environmental release experiments. The Recombinant DNA Advisory Committee reviewed the request and recommended that the following sections be deleted from the NIH Guidelines (Actions Under the Guidelines, Federal Register , July 5, Part III): Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2. Deliberate release into the environment of any organism containing recombinant DNA except those listed below. The term ``deliberate release'' is defined as a planned introduction of recombinant DNA-containing microorganisms, plants, or animals into the environment. Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2&hyph;a. Introductions conducted under conditions considered to be accepted scientific practices in which there is adequate evidence of biological and/or physical control of the recombinant DNA-containing organisms. The nature of such evidence is described in Appendix L. Section III&hyph;A&hyph;2&hyph;b. Deletion derivatives and single base changes not otherwise covered by the NIH Guidelines.
