FR940725-1-00009 FR940725-1-00002 C. Basle Supervisors' Committee Proposal Since the Basle Accord was adopted, a number of studies have confirmed that close-out netting provisions can serve to reduce counterparty risk. In response to the conclusions of these studies, as well as to industry support for greater acceptance of netting contracts under the risk-based capital framework, the Basle Supervisors' Committee issued a consultative paper on April 30, 1993, proposing an expanded recognition of netting arrangements in the Basle Accord. 9 Under the proposal, for purposes of determining the current exposure amount of rate contracts subject to legally enforceable bilateral close-out netting provisions (that is, close-out netting provisions with a single counterparty), an institution could net the contracts' positive and negative mark-to-market values. 9 The paper is entitled ``The Prudential Supervision of Netting, Market Risks and Interest Rate Risk.'' The section applicable to netting is subtitled ``The Supervisory Recognition of Netting for Capital Adequacy Purposes.'' Specifically, the Basle proposal states that a bank would be able to net rate contracts subject to a legally valid bilateral netting contract for risk-based capital purposes if it satisfied the appropriate national supervisor(s) that: (1) in the event of a counterparty's failure to perform due to default, bankruptcy or liquidation, the banking organization's claim (or obligation) would be to receive (or pay) only the net value of the sum of unrealized gains and losses on included transactions; (2) it has obtained written and reasoned legal opinions stating that in the event of legal challenge, the netting would be upheld in all relevant jurisdictions; and (3) it has procedures in place to ensure that the netting arrangements are kept under review in light of changes in relevant law. The Basle Supervisors' Committee agreed that if a national supervisor is satisfied that a bilateral netting contract meets these minimum criteria, the netting contract may be recognized for risk-based capital purposes without raising safety and soundness concerns. The Basle Supervisors' Committee proposal includes a footnote stating that if any of the relevant supervisors is dissatisfied with the status of the enforceability of a netting contract under its laws, the netting contract would not be recognized for risk-based capital purposes by either counterparty. In addition, the Basle Supervisors' Committee is proposing that any netting contract that includes a walkaway clause be disqualified as an acceptable netting contract for risk-based capital purposes. A walkaway clause is a provision in a netting contract that permits the non-defaulting counterparty to make only limited payments, or no payments at all, to the estate of the defaulter even if the defaulter is a net creditor under the contract. Under the proposal, a state nonmember bank would calculate one current exposure under each qualifying bilateral netting contract. The current exposure would be determined by adding together (netting) the positive and negative market values for all individual interest rate and exchange rate transactions subject to the netting contract. If the net market value is positive, that value would equal the current exposure. If the net market value is negative or zero, the current exposure would be zero. The add-on for potential future credit exposure would be determined by calculating individual potential future exposures for each underlying contract subject to the netting contract in accordance with the procedure already in place in the Basle Accord. 10 A bank would then add together the potential future credit exposure amount (always a positive value) of each individual contract subject to the netting arrangement to arrive at the total potential future exposure it has under those contracts with the counterparty. The total potential future exposure would be added to the net current exposure to arrive at one credit equivalent amount that would be assigned to the appropriate risk category. 10 Under the proposal, a state nonmember bank could net in this manner for risk-based capital purposes if it uses, as all U.S. banking organizations are required to use, the current exposure method for calculating credit equivalent amounts of rate contracts. Banks using the original exposure method would use revised conversion factors until market risk-related capital requirements are implemented, at which time the original exposure method will no longer be available for netted transactions.
