FR940825-0-00099 FR940825-0-00016 (f) For construction awards, recipients shall obtain prior written approval promptly from the HHS awarding agency for budget revisions whenever: (1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the project or program; (2) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project; or (3) A revision is desired which involves specific costs for which prior written approval requirements apply in keeping with the applicable cost principles listed in ยง74.27. (g) When an HHS awarding agency makes an award that provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, it may require the recipient to obtain prior approval before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported. (h) For both construction and nonconstruction awards, recipients shall notify the HHS awarding agency in writing promptly whenever the amount of Federal authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the recipient for the project period by more than $5000 or five percent of the Federal award, whichever is greater. This notification shall not be required if an application for additional funding is submitted for a continuation award. (i) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, HHS awarding agencies shall notify the recipient whether its requested budget revisions have been approved. If the requested revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, the HHS awarding agency must inform the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect a decision. (j) When requesting approval for budget changes, recipients shall make their requests in writing. (k) All approvals granted in keeping with the provisions of this section shall not be valid unless they are in writing, and signed by at least one of the following HHS officials: (1) The Head of the HHS Operating or Staff Division that made the award or subordinate official with proper delegated authority from the Head, including the Head of the Regional Office of the HHS Operating or Staff Division that made the award; or (2) The responsible Grants Officer of the HHS Operating or Staff Division that made the award or an individual duly authorized by the Grants Officer. ยง74.26 Non-Federal audits. (a) Recipients and subrecipients that are institutions of higher education, hospitals affiliated with institutions of higher education, other nonprofit organizations, and commercial organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in OMB Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Non-Profit Institutions.'' (See appendix I to this part.) (b)(1) OMB Circular A&hyph;133 exempts hospitals not affiliated with an institution of higher education. In determining whether this exemption applies, the term affiliated includes all situations where: (i) A hospital or an institution of higher education has an ownership interest in the other entity or some other party (other than a State or local unit of government) has an ownership interest in each of them; or (ii) An affiliation agreement exists; or (iii) Federal research or training awards to a hospital or institution of higher education are performed in whole or in part in the facilities of, or involve the staff of, the other entity. (2) Hospitals not covered by the audit provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;133 are subject to the audit requirements of the HHS awarding agency. (c) State and local governments shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act, 31 U.S.C. 7501&hyph;07, and OMB Circular A&hyph;128, ``Audits of State and Local Governments.'' (See appendix J to this part.) (d) All copies of audit reports that a recipient is required, under OMB Circulars A&hyph;128 or A&hyph;133, to submit to the HHS awarding agency shall be addressed to the National External Audit Resources Unit, 323 West 8th St., Lucas Place_Rm. 514, Kansas City, MO 64105. The HHS Office of Inspector General will distribute copies as appropriate within HHS. Recipients, therefore, are not required to send their audit reports to any other HHS official.
