FR940114-1-00045 FR940114-1-00008 Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 19 Speed Control Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should have, as part of a comprehensive highway safety program, an effective speed control program that encourages its citizens to voluntarily comply with speed limits. The program should stress systematic and rational establishment of speed limits, a law enforcement commitment to controlling speed on all public roads, a commitment to utilize both traditional methods and state-of-the art equipment in setting and enforcing speed limits, and a strong public information and education program aimed at increasing driver compliance with speed limits. I. Program Management State and local law enforcement agencies, transportation departments, and the State Highway Safety Agency (SHSA) should establish speed control as a priority within their total highway safety program. The speed control program should contain the following elements: program management, procedures for establishing reasonable speed limits, coordinated enforcement efforts, public information and education, identification and utilization of new technology, legislative coordination and commitment, training, and evaluation. When planning and developing a program to address speed control, the issue of speed should be examined in light of the empirical data available, current methods for setting speed limits, and the current public perception of speed compliance. Added to these elements is the law enforcement response, including the resources available to enforcement agencies. Only after these components have been examined and defined can the goals of a speed control program be formulated. In carrying out its responsibility of centralized program planning and coordination, the State should: Develop and implement a comprehensive speed control plan in cooperation with law enforcement leaders, traffic engineers, educators, and leaders of the community; Provide leadership, training, and technical assistance to State and local law enforcement agencies and highway/traffic agencies; Generate broad based support for speed control programs through education on the scope and severity of the problem; and Integrate speed control into the overall traffic enforcement and engineering program. II. Enforcement Program Each State should strongly emphasize speed enforcement as part of its overall traffic enforcement program. The speed enforcement program should include enforcement strategies and other components of a comprehensive approach to address the speed issue. The plan should address the following concepts: Including public information and education components along with vigorous enforcement in State and local anti-speeding programs; Collecting data to help in problem identification and evaluation; Identifying high risk crash locations where speed is a contributing factor in crashes; Integrating speed control programs into related highway safety activities such as drunk driving prevention, safety belt and safety programs for young people; Targeting anti-speeding programs to address specific audiences and situations: young drivers, males, nighttime, adverse weather and traffic conditions, drunk driving, CMV drivers, school zones, construction and maintenance work zones, roads and streets with major potential conflicts in traffic and with pedestrians, and so on; Using speed measuring devices that are both efficient and cost effective, including new speed measurement technology such as laser speed measuring devices, electronic signing and photo-radar; and Training officers in the proper use of equipment and educating other members of the criminal justice system, such as judges and prosecutors, on the principles of devices using new technology. III. Setting of Speed Limits States and local governments should undertake comprehensive efforts to identify rational criteria for establishing speed limits and should include strategies to address the speed issue. These efforts should include: Identification of criteria used to establish speed limits including the recognition of unique operational characteristics of CMV's; Use of state-of-the art technology to collect data to establish speed limits; Use of variable message speed limit signs to reinforce the appropriate speed limit for prevailing conditions; Identification of high hazard locations where speeding is a contributing factor;
