FR940425-1-00022 FR940425-1-00007 Heat buildup in tires is generally caused by vehicle overloading, high speed operation, and/or tire underinflation. Sustained high temperature can cause structural degeneration of the material of the tire and result in reduced tire life or potential catastrophic tire failure. A tire's resistance to temperature buildup is graded under the UTQGS as ``A'', ``B'', or ``C'', with ``A'' being the best and ``C'' being the minimum standard of performance. Tires of high quality, as a result of superior design and construction, can be expected to last longer without failure when subjected to sustained high speed operation. NHTSA tests tires for temperature resistance using the same laboratory test wheel utilized in testing a tire's high speed performance under Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) No. 109, New Pneumatic Tires. The high speed performance test under FMVSS 109 is run at speeds of up to 85 mph. The temperature resistance test under the UTQGS, however, is run at speeds of up to 115 mph. A tire graded ``A'' has successfully completed the test procedure at a sustained speed of 115 mph on the test wheel. A grade of ``B'' means that the tire has successfully completed the test procedure at speeds between 100 mph and 115 mph; and a ``C'' grade indicates satisfactory completion of the test at speeds exceeding 85 mph but at or below 100 mph. Of the 2,100 tires graded in 1993, 30 percent were graded ``C'', 50 percent were graded ``B'', and 20 percent were graded ``A''. NHTSA considers temperature resistance a valid safety concern and is unaware of any problems with the ratings. While important from a motor vehicle safety standpoint, however, the significance of temperature resistance is not so widely understood by consumers as the treadwear and traction ratings. In light of this fact, and recent interest in a rolling resistance grade, the agency is considering whether a rolling resistance grade could provide equivalent safety information to the temperature resistance grade and thereby negate the need for temperature resistance grading. The issue of a rolling resistance grade arose at the White House Conference on Global Climate Change on June 10 and 11, 1993. At the White House Conference, a number of measures to reduce greenhouse gasses were discussed. One of the many measures related to vehicle fuel economy was the increased use of low rolling resistance tires in the aftermarket. Michelin presented a paper on that issue at a meeting of the Auto and Light Truck Workshop of the Transportation Working Group of the White House Conference on Global Climate Change on July 1, 1993. Michelin asserted that the average rolling resistance for all-season radial original equipment manufacturer (OEM) tires was 22.6 percent less than that for all-season radial replacement tires. Further, if replacement tires had the same rolling resistance as OEM tires, a 4 percent overall improvement in fuel economy could be realized. Finally, Michelin announced a manufacturing process by which low rolling resistance tires could be produced with no increase in inflation pressures. As a result of the conference, the Administration issued a report on a series of initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, entitled The Climate Change Action Plan, on October 19, 1993. Among other things, the Plan calls for reduction of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions to 1990 levels by the year 2000. The Plan contains nearly 50 initiatives to accomplish that goal. One of those initiatives calls for DOT, through NHTSA, to issue new rules and test procedures requiring tire manufacturers to test and label tires relative to their rolling resistance. This request for comments is part of NHTSA's commitment to The Climate Change Action Plan. Because the UTQGS are not applicable to truck tires, NHTSA's Office of Research and Development will, in a separate but related action, work with truck tire manufacturers and truck fleet and owner organizations to promote a voluntary truck tire rolling resistance program. The agency also notes that one of the factors that causes heat generation in tires also causes higher rolling resistance. Indeed, the friction resulting from a tire's rolling resistance is the immediate cause of heat generation in the tire. Rolling resistance is measured in a procedure similar to that used for determining temperature resistance. The rolling resistance test consists of running a tire under load on a laboratory test wheel. The energy consumed in and recovered from running the tire is measured and the difference is the heat energy lost which is a measure of rolling resistance. The smaller the difference, the more fuel efficient the tire. Since rolling resistance and temperature resistance are related and are measured by similar tests, it is necessary to determine whether any safety benefits would be lost by substituting rolling resistance for temperature resistance in the UTQGS. FMVSS No. 109 would continue to ensure that all tires are capable of operating safely at speeds up to 85 mph, thereby establishing a minimum safety threshold. Further, fuel efficiency could be expected to generate more interest and be more easily understood by consumers than temperature resistance, thereby enhancing the usefulness of the UTQGS to the consumers it is intended to assist. However, the agency requests comments on this issue. NHTSA believes that there is a strong relationship between rolling resistance and fuel consumption. Rolling resistance data generated under existing SAE test procedures could be used for quantifying the correlation with fuel consumption. SAE Recommended Practices J1269 and J1270 specify rolling resistance measurement procedures for passenger car tires. The agency would welcome data that could be used to demonstrate how reductions in tire rolling resistance values translate into improvements in ``real world'' fuel economy. IV. Issues for NHTSA Evaluation As stated above, the objective of the UTQGS is to provide meaningful, comparative information to consumers that will assist them in making informed selections when purchasing passenger car tires. In addition, the UTQGS should stimulate competitive forces in the marketplace, resulting in better tire performance. By improving the UTQGS, NHTSA believes it can achieve those goals. The agency is hopeful, therefore, that this notice will elicit useful comments and suggestions on the UTQGS issues discussed above. NHTSA's major concerns are whether to propose changes to deal with treadwear grades that are becoming extremely high and therefore of diminishing credibility; whether to propose raising the thresholds for traction grades; and whether it is more appropriate under the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act for the agency to propose adding rolling resistance to the UTQGS as a fourth grading category or substituting it for temperature resistance. NHTSA specifically requests comments on the following issues: 1. Does the existing system for measuring treadwear result in misleading grades? Why? 2. Should a new system be developed for establishing treadwear grades? What system?
