FR940217-2-00027 FR940217-2-00019 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Implementation Plan for the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy announces the availability of the Implementation Plan for the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement. The purpose of the Implementation Plan is to record the results of the public scoping and public participation processes and to serve as a plan for the preparation of the Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement. The Implementation Plan also states the alternatives and issues to be evaluated in the Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information on the Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement, contact: Glen L. Sjoblom, Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary, Environmental Restoration and Waste Management (EM&hyph;1), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585, 202&hyph;586&hyph;0396. To request copies of the Implementation Plan, call 1&hyph;800&hyph;379&hyph;5441. For information on the Department's National Environmental Policy Act process, contact: Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight (EH&hyph;25), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585, 202&hyph;586&hyph;4600 or leave a message at 1&hyph;800&hyph;472&hyph;2756. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On October 22, 1990, the Department of Energy issued a Notice of Intent in the Federal Register (55 FR 42693) to prepare the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement. In the Notice of Intent, the Department identified the proposed action of implementing an integrated environmental restoration and waste management program, and requested comments on the scope of the Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement. A public comment period was held from October 22, 1990, to February 19, 1991. Beginning on December 3, 1990, the Department held 23 scoping meetings at various locations across the country to provide an opportunity for public participation by interested individuals and organizations, and other governmental agencies. During the public comment period, over 1,200 parties provided approximately 7,000 comments, either by participating in the meetings or by submitting materials and letters to the Department. On February 4, 1992, the Department announced in the Federal Register (57 FR 4193) the availability of a Draft Implementation Plan and an additional opportunity for public review and comment. The public comment period on the Draft Implementation Plan was held from February 4, 1992, to April 10, 1992. Beginning on March 17, 1992, the Department conducted six regional workshops on the Draft Implementation Plan. More than 1,000 comments were received on the Draft Implementation Plan. After the close of the Draft Implementation Plan comment period, the Department revised the Plan and provided it to the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Advisory Committee for review and comment. The Committee is composed of individuals from universities, trade associations, state and local governments, Indian Nations, labor unions, environmental groups, and other interested parties. On December 21, 1992, the Committee submitted its formal recommendations on the Draft Implementation Plan. After responding to the Committee's recommendations and discussing further revisions with the Committee, the Department further revised the Implementation Plan. The Implementation Plan now considers all the issues from the public scoping process, the public review and comment period on the Draft Implementation Plan, and the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Advisory Committee's review and recommendations. Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement Alternatives The programmatic alternatives for environmental restoration to be evaluated in the Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement are structured in terms of the factors that affect the selection of remediation goals. In addition to a No Action baseline alternative, four other alternatives will be evaluated: (1) An alternative reflecting the current application of ``applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements'' under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act; (2) an alternative emphasizing foreseeable land use to better define likely exposure scenarios and appropriate waste management strategies; (3) an alternative equally balancing remedial worker and transportation risks with the risk to a site's surrounding population; and (4) an alternative emphasizing foreseeable land use to establish initial remediation objectives while also emphasizing worker and transport risks. Evaluation of these five alternatives is intended to provide input into the development of Department of Energy policies relevant to undertaking future environmental restoration that would incorporate consideration of land use and all major elements of human health risks.
