FR941220-0-00101 FR941220-0-00014 (1) A worker whose job, wages, or working conditions are adversely affected by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application; (2) A bargaining representative for workers whose jobs, wages, or working conditions are adversely affected by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application; (3) A competitor adversely affected by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application; and (4) A government agency which has a program that is impacted by the employer's alleged non-compliance with the labor condition application. Area of intended employment means the area within normal commuting distance of the place (address) of employment where the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant is or will be employed. If the place of employment is within a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), any place within the MSA is deemed to be within normal commuting distance of the place of employment. ( See definition of ``place of employment.'') Attorney General means the chief official of the U.S. Department of Justice or the Attorney General's designee. Authorized agent and authorized representative mean an official of the employer who has the legal authority to commit the employer to the statements in the labor condition application. Certification means the determination by a certifying officer that a labor condition application is not incomplete and does not contain obvious inaccuracies. Certify means the act of making a certification. Certifying Officer and Regional Certifying Officer mean a Department of Labor official, or such official's designee, who makes determinations about whether or not to certify labor condition applications. Chief Administrative Law Judge (Chief ALJ) means the chief official of the Office of the Administrative Law Judges of the Department of Labor or the Chief Administrative Law Judge's designee. Department and DOL mean the United States Department of Labor. Division means the Wage and Hour Division of the Employment Standards Administration, DOL. Employer means a person, firm, corporation, contractor, or other association or organization in the United States: (1) Which suffers or permits a person to work within the United States; (2) Which has an employer-employee relationship with respect to employees under this part, as indicated by the fact that it may hire, pay, fire, supervise or otherwise control the work of any such employee; and (3) Which has an Internal Revenue Service tax identification number. Employment and Training Administration (ETA) means the agency within the Department which includes the United States Employment Service (USES). Employment Standards Administration (ESA) means the agency within the Department which includes the Wage and Hour Division. Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) means the component of the Department of Justice which makes the determination under the INA on whether to grant visa petitions of employers seeking the admission of nonimmigrants under H&hyph;1B visas for the purpose of employment. INA means the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended, 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq. Independent authoritative source means a professional, business, trade, educational or governmental association, organization, or other similar entity, not owned or controlled by the employer, which has recognized expertise in an occupational field. Independent authoritative source survey means a survey of wages conducted by an independent authoritative source and published in a book, newspaper, periodical, loose-leaf service, newsletter, or other similar medium, within the 24-month period immediately preceding the filing of the employer's application. Such survey shall: (1) Reflect the average wage paid to workers similarly employed in the area of intended employment; (2) Be based upon recently collected data_ e.g., within the 24-month period immediately preceding the date of publication of the survey; and (3) Represent the latest published prevailing wage finding by the authoritative source for the occupation in the area of intended employment. Interested party means a person or entity who or which may be affected by the actions of an H&hyph;1B employer or by the outcome of a particular investigation and includes any person, organization, or entity who or which has notified the Department of his/her/its interest or concern in the Administrator's determination. Lockout means a labor dispute involving a work stoppage, wherein an employer withholds work from its employees in order to gain a concession from them. Occupation means the occupational or job classification in which the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant is to be employed. Period of intended employment means the time period between the starting and ending dates inclusive of the H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant's intended period of employment in the occupational classification at the place of employment as set forth in the labor condition application.
