FR940617-0-00192 FR940617-0-00026 (a) Automatic data collection equipment requirements. The analyzer response may be read by automatic data collection (ADC) equipment such as computers, data loggers, and so forth. If ADC equipment is used, the following is required: (1) For bag sample analysis, the analyzer response must be stable at greater than 99 percent of the final reading for the dilute exhaust sample bag. A single value representing the average chart deflection over a 10-second stabilized period shall be stored. (2) For continuous analysis systems, a single value representing the average integrated concentration over a cycle shall be stored. (3) The chart deflections or average integrated concentrations required in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section may be stored on long-term computer storage devices such as computer tapes, storage discs, punch cards, and so forth, or they may be printed in a listing for storage. In either case a chart recorder is not required and records from a chart recorder, if they exist, need not be stored. (4) If ADC equipment is used to interpret analyzer values, the ADC equipment is subject to the calibration specifications of the analyzer as if the ADC equipment is part of analyzer system. (b) Data records from any one or a combination of analyzers may be stored as chart recorder records. (c) Bag sample analysis. For bag sample analysis perform the following sequence: (1) Warm up and stabilize the analyzers; clean and/or replace filter elements, conditioning columns (if used), and so forth, as necessary. (2) Obtain a stable zero reading. (3) Zero and span the analyzers with zero and span gases. The span gases must have concentrations between 75 and 100 percent of full-scale chart deflection. The flow rates and system pressures during spanning shall be approximately the same as those encountered during sampling. A sample bag may be used to identify the required analyzer range. (4) Recheck zero response. If this zero response differs from the zero response recorded in paragraph (c)(3) of this section by more than 1 percent of full scale, then paragraphs (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this section must be repeated. (5) If a chart recorder is used, identify and record the most recent zero and span response as the pre-analysis values. (6) If ADC equipment is used, electronically record the most recent zero and span response as the pre-analysis values. (7) Measure HC, CO, CO 2 , and NO X background concentrations in the sample bag(s) with approximately the same flow rates and pressures used in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. (Constituents measured continuously do not require bag analysis.) (8) A post-analysis zero and span check of each range must be performed and the values recorded. The number of events that may occur between the pre- and post-analysis checks is not specified. However, the difference between pre-analysis zero and span values (recorded in paragraph (c)(5) or (c)(6) of this section) versus those recorded for the post-analysis check may not exceed the zero drift limit or the span drift limit of 2 percent of full-scale chart deflection for any range used. Otherwise the test is void. (d) Continuous sample analysis. For continuous sample analysis perform the following sequence: (1) Warm up and stabilize the analyzers; clean and/or replace filter elements, conditioning columns (if used), and so forth, as necessary. (2) Leak check portions of the sampling system that operate at negative gauge pressures when sampling, and allow heated sample lines, filters, pumps, and so forth to stabilize at operating temperature. (3) Optional: Perform a hangup check for the HFID sampling system: (i) Zero the analyzer using zero air introduced at the analyzer port.
