FR940204-1-00066 FR940204-1-00013 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The callippe silverspot butterfly ( Speyeria callippe callippe ) is a member of the Nymphalidae family. The animal was described by J.A. Boisduval (1852) from specimens collected during the month of June by Pierre Lorquin in San Francisco, California (dos Passos and Grey 1947). Arnold (1983, 1985) conducted taxonomic studies on the subspecies of Speyeria callippe using wing characters. His investigation concluded that the species consisted of 3 subspecies rather than the widely recognized and accepted 16 subspecies. Based on his study, the range of Speyeria callippe callippe would extend from Oregon to southern California and east into the Great Basin (Arnold 1985). A comprehensive analysis of this species found that the original classification remains more appropriate and that subspecies callippe is restricted to the northern San Francisco Bay region (Hammond 1986, Murphy undated). Hammond determined that the analysis by Arnold used invalid morphological characteristics. The Service recognizes the conclusions of Hammond (1986) and the distribution of the callippe silverspot butterfly as described by Sterling Mattoon (Sterling Mattoon, amateur lepidopterist, in litt., 1991). The callippe silverspot butterfly is a medium-sized butterfly with a wingspan of approximately 55 millimeters (2.17 inches). The upper wings are brown with extensive black spots and lines, and the basal areas are extremely melanic (dark-colored). The undersides are brown, orange-brown, and tan with black lines and distinctive black and bright silver spots. The basal areas of the wings and body are densely pubescent (hairy). The discal area on the upper wings of the callippe silverspot butterfly is darker and more extensively yellow on the hindwings than the related Lilian's silverspot butterfly ( Speyeria callippe liliana ). The callippe silverspot butterfly is larger and has a darker ground color with more melanic areas on the basal areas of the wings than Comstock's silverspot butterfly ( Speyeria callippe comstocki ). The callippe silverspot butterfly is found in native grassland and adjacent habitats (Steiner 1990; Mattoon, in litt., 1991; Thomas Reid Associates 1982). The females lay their eggs on the dry remains of the larval foodplant, Johnny jump-up ( Viola pedunculata ), or on the surrounding debris (Arnold 1981, Thomas Reid Associates 1982). Upon hatching after about a week, the larvae eat their egg shells. The caterpillars wander a short distance and spin a silk pad upon which they spend the summer and winter. The larvae are dark-colored with many branching sharp spines on the back. Upon termination of diapause in the spring, the caterpillars immediately seek out the foodplant. In May, after having gone through five instars (i.e., skin sheddings), the larvae form pupa within a chamber of leaves that they have drawn together with silk. The adults emerge in about 2 weeks and live for approximately 3 weeks. Depending upon environmental conditions, the flight period of this single-brooded butterfly ranges from mid-May to late July. The adults exhibit hilltopping behavior, a phenomenon in which males and females seek a topographic summit to mate (Shields 1967). The callippe silverspot butterfly was known historically to occur in seven populations in the San Francisco Bay region. This animal does not occur north of the Golden Gate or Carquinez Straits (Mattoon, in litt., 1991; Paul Opler, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, pers. comm., 1992). The historic range of the callippe silverspot butterfly includes the inner coast range on the eastern shore of San Francisco Bay from northwestern Contra Costa County south to the Castro Valley area in Alameda County. On the west side of the Bay, it ranged from San Francisco south to the vicinity of La Honda in San Mateo County. Five colonies, including the one located at Twin Peaks in San Francisco, were extirpated. The remaining colonies exist on mostly privately owned land, but also on city, county, and State owned land. Currently, extant colonies are known only from San Bruno Mountain in San Mateo County and a city park (Mattoon, in litt., 1991). Behren's silverspot butterfly ( Speyeria zerene behrensii ) is a member of the Nymphalidae family. William H. Edwards described this taxon in 1869 based on an adult male collected by an unknown lepidopterist in Mendocino, California (dos Passos and Grey 1947, Edwards 1869). It is a medium-sized butterfly with a wingspan of approximately 55 millimeters (2.17 inches). The upper surfaces are golden brown with numerous black spots and lines. The undersides are brown, orange-brown, and tan with black lines and distinctive silver and black spots. The basal areas of the wings and body are densely pubescent.
