FR941116-2-00117 FR941116-2-00086 Federal Register /Vol. 59, No. 220/Wednesday, November 16, 1994/Sunshine Act Meetings Vol. 59, No. 220 Wednesday, November 16, 1994 DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD Pursuant to the provisions of the ``Government in the Sunshine Act'' (5 U.S.C. 552b), notice is hereby given of a meeting of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board described below concerning the Board's fifth annual report to be submitted to Congress under 42 U.S.C. 2286e note. TIME AND DATE: 9:30 a.m., December 6, 1994. PLACE: Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW, Suite 700, Washington, DC 20004. STATUS: Open. The Board has determined that an open meeting furthers the public interests underlying both the Government in the Sunshine Act and the Board's enabling legislation. MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED: This open meeting will be conducted pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 2286b and is intended to obtain information from the Department of Energy that will assist the Board in preparing its fifth annual report to be submitted to Congress under section 316(a) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert M. Anderson, General Counsel, Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board, 625 Indiana Avenue, NW, Suite 700, Washington, DC 20004, (202) 208&hyph;6387. This is not a toll free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: An independent agency within the Executive Branch, the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board provides advice and recommendations to the President and the Secretary of Energy regarding public health and safety issues at Department of Energy (DOE) defense nuclear facilities. Broadly, the Board reviews operations, practices, and occurrences at DOE's defense nuclear facilities and makes recommendations to the Secretary of Energy that are necessary to protect public health and safety. If, as a result of its reviews, the Board determines that an imminent or severe threat to public health or safety exists, the Board is required to transmit its recommendations directly to the President, as well as to the Secretaries of Energy and Defense. The Board's enabling statute, 42 U.S.C. 2286, requires the Board to review and evaluate the content and implementation of health and safety standards, including DOE'S Orders, rules, and other safety requirements, relating to the design, construction, operation, and decommissioning of DOE's defense nuclear facilities. The Board must then recommend to the Secretary of Energy any specific measures, such as changes in the content and implementation of those standards, that the Board believes should be adopted to ensure that the public health and safety are adequately protected. The Board is also required to review the design of new defense nuclear facilities, and to recommend changes necessary to protect health and safety. The Board may conduct investigations, issue subpoenas, hold public hearings, gather information, conduct studies, establish reporting requirements for DOE, and take other actions in furtherance of its review of health and safety issues at defense nuclear facilities. The ancillary functions of the Board and its staff all relate to the accomplishment of the Board's primary functions, which is to assist DOE in identifying and correcting health and safety problems at defense nuclear facilities. This public meeting is being held to obtain information from the Department of Energy that will assist the Board in preparing its fifth annual report to be submitted to Congress under 42 U.S.C. 2286e note. The Board's fifth annual report must include: ``(1) an assessment of the degree to which the overall administration of the Board's activities are believed to meet the objectives of Congress in establishing the Board; (2) recommendations for continuation, termination, or modification of the Board's functions and programs, including recommendation for transition to some other independent oversight arrangement if it is advisable ; and (3) recommendations for appropriate transition requirements in the event that modifications are recommended.'' The Secretary of Energy, her designated representatives and other witnesses will be called to assist the Board in answering these questions. Among the topics witnesses will be asked to testify on are the following: 1. Whether the Board has assisted the Department of Energy in identifying significant nuclear safety problems and helped the Department in correcting such problems through the recommendation process. 2. Whether DOE believes the objectives of Congress in establishing the Board are being met. 3. Whether the Board's activities over the past five years, or the new mission of the defense nuclear complex, indicate that Congress should provide for some other regulatory or oversight arrangement. 4. The transition requirements if some other regulatory or oversight arrangement is appropriate. 5. Descriptions of the basic safety management system that the DOE currently has in place for satisfying its responsibilities under the Atomic Energy Act ``to protect or to minimize danger to life and property.'' 6. The role of oversight and enforcement of safety requirements in regulating DOE's defense nuclear facilities. This discussion should provide the Board with an understanding of DOE's recently revised policy and programs for oversight and enforcement dealing with contractor noncompliance with DOE's health and safety Orders, rules and regulations. The presentation should include DOE's assessment of the impact DOE's past oversight and enforcement programs have had upon DOE's efforts to protect the public and safety at its defense nuclear facilities and any prospective changes that may be contemplated. The Board specifically reserves its right to further schedule and otherwise regulate the course of the meeting, to recess, reconvene, postpone or adjourn the meeting, conduct further reviews, and otherwise exercise its power under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. Dated: November 14, 1994. Robert M. Andersen, General Counsel. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28491 Filed 11&hyph;14&hyph;94; 3:57 pm] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;KD&hyph;M
