FR940505-1-00400 FR940505-1-00012 ( ii ) For permanent (non-decal) signs, two single-sided or one double-sided sign(s) per two (2) dispensers. ( iii ) All signs shall be readable from a distance of 6 feet or more. (F) A dispenser that is never used to fuel motor vehicles shall have a sign posted on it restricting its use for vehicles. (G) Gasoline shall not be stored in open container(s) of any size or handled in any other manner (spillage, spraying, etc.) that permit gasoline or gasoline vapors to enter the atmosphere, contaminate the ground, or the sewer. (H) The failure of an owner/operator to meet any requirements of paragraphs (j)(3) (i), (ii), or (iii) of this section shall constitute a violation. Such equipment determined to be in violation shall be tagged ``Out-of-Order.'' (I) Except during repair activity, the ``Out-of-Order'' tag specified in paragraph (j)(3)(iii)(H) of this section shall not be removed and the tagged equipment shall not be used, permitted to be used, or provided for use unless all of the following conditions are satisfied: ( 1 ) The tagged equipment has been repaired, replaced, or adjusted, as necessary; ( 2 ) The District, Office of Operations, has been notified of the repairs by completing and signing the form supplied by the District; ( 3 ) The tagged equipment has been reinspected and/or authorized for use by the District. ( 4 ) Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the transfer of gasoline into or from any stationary tank if its monthly throughput is used exclusively for the fueling of implements of husbandry, such as vehicles defined in Division 16 (Section 36000 et seq. ) of the California Vehicle Code, provided such a tank is equipped with a submerged fill tube and its storage capacity is less than or equal to 550 gallons (2,082 liters). (5) Compliance Schedule. (i) The owner/operator of a new facility subject to this section shall comply with the provisions of this section at the time gasoline receiving and/or dispensing is initiated. (ii) The owner/operator of any altered and/or repaired facility, who was previously exempted from Phase I or Phase II vapor control requirements shall comply with the provisions of this section at the time gasoline receiving and/or dispensing is initiated after completion of the alteration and/or repair. (iii) The owner/operator of any other existing facility, who was previously exempt from Phase I or Phase II vapor control requirements, and who has not earlier been required to come into compliance, shall achieve compliance by January 1, 1996. (6) Testing. (i) For new or altered gasoline storage or dispensing facilities, once the system is in operational condition and ready for use, testing to verify the proper installation and function of the entire system (both infrastructure plumbing and aboveground equipment) shall be conducted. Tests of Phase II systems at gasoline dispensing stations shall be conducted in accordance with the following test procedures as found in appendix J of the EPA document, ``Technical Guidance_Stage II Vapor Recovery Systems for Control of Vehicle Refueling Emissions a Gasoline Dispensing Facilities,'' Vol. II (EPA&hyph;450/3&hyph;91&hyph;022b), November 1991: (A) Bay Area Source Test Procedure ST&hyph;30, Leak Test Procedure, or San Diego Test Procedure TP&hyph;91&hyph;1, Pressure Decay/Leak Test Procedure. In addition, CARB Test Procedure TP&hyph;201.3 may be used. (B) Bay Area Source Test Procedure ST&hyph;27, Dynamic Back Pressure, or San Diego Test Procedure TP&hyph;91&hyph;2, Pressure Drop vs Flow/liquid Blockage Test Procedure. In addition, CARB Test Procedure TP&hyph;201.2 may be used; and (C) Bay Area Source Test Procedure ST&hyph;37, Liquid Removal Devices. (ii) In addition to the above tests, Phase I efficiency testing will be done in accordance with CARB TP&hyph;201.1. (iii) Testing may be done by the facility or by a testing company provided that the testing meets the minimum criteria established by CARB for such tests. (iv) Reverification of the function of the Phase I or Phase II vapor recovery system shall be performed as shown below or upon alteration or repair of any gasoline storage or dispensing facility. Functional tests may also be performed upon request by EPA or the local Air Pollution Control District. Where multiple tests are specified, a leak or blockage found by any method constitutes a violation of this section.
