FR941110-0-00191 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Several commenters suggested that we provide that if a facility wants its financial condition considered it must fully disclose all financial information. Response: As stated above, it is a statutory requirement that a facility's financial condition be considered as a factor to determine the amount of the civil money penalty. We do not specify in the regulation what we will examine in determining the facility's financial condition, because these factors are unique for each facility. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the facility to furnish the information it believes appropriately represents its financial status. We consider a facility's financial condition in conjunction with the other factors specified in the rule when determining the amount of a civil money penalty, because it is not our intent to put facilities out of business, and the amount of the civil money penalty is determined on a case by case basis. Comment: We received a suggestion to remove the facility's financial condition as a factor in determining the amount of the civil money penalty but to permit the facility an opportunity to negotiate a payment schedule if it can demonstrate that the civil money penalty would cause financial hardship after the assessment and final adjudication of a civil money penalty. Response: We do not accept this comment. First, as previously stated, it is a statutory requirement to consider a facility's financial condition as a factor in determining the amount of the penalty. Second, to negotiate a payment schedule based on the facility's financial condition after the assessment and final adjudication of a civil money penalty would not be necessary since the facility's financial condition has already been considered in the determination of the penalty amount. Comment: Many commenters submitted examples of existing State civil money penalty systems which assigned a specific dollar amount per bed to each scope and severity level or assigned a maximum daily fine amount for each scope and severity level. Another commenter asked that we clarify that there will not be a correlation between the number of beds and the amount of the civil money penalty. Response: We are revising §§488.404 and 488.408 to correlate the seriousness of the deficiencies with the selection of remedies when HCFA or the State chooses to impose a remedy. (See explanation at §488.404, Factors to be considered in selecting remedies and §488.408, Selection of remedies.) Civil money penalties may be used for deficiencies constituting immediate jeopardy. Civil money penalties may also be used for deficiencies which constitute no actual harm but have a potential for more than minimal harm; or for deficiencies that constitute actual harm. We do not accept the comment suggesting assigning a dollar amount per bed because the regulation, in accordance with section 1128A of the Act, requires a consideration of a facility's financial condition in the determination of the civil money penalty amount. We assume that a primary reason some States compute civil money penalty amounts based on the number of beds is to take into account the financial condition of facilities, that is, the larger facilities would be presumed to have a greater availability of cash than the smaller facilities. This is not necessarily the case, and even if it were a valid consideration in some cases, to take this relationship into account would be to consider financial condition twice. Nor have we assigned a specific dollar amount for each degree of seriousness.
