FR940216-1-00021 FR940216-1-00008 Section 261.15␣Admission, Recreation Use and Special Recreation Permit Fees This section would be revised to require forest visitors to comply with the ``posted fee payment instructions'' at developed sites and facilities. This proposed revision would close a legal gap in the current rule which prohibits ``failing to pay.'' This change responds to several court decisions which have held that existing 36 CFR 261.15 requires payment, but does not require compliance with any other payment instructions posted at each site. Section 261.22␣Buildings Used in Furtherance of the Administration of the National Forest System or Forest Service Programs This section would be added to the subpart to protect Forest Service employees and facilities. The proposed addition paraphrases the current General Services Administration building regulations at 41 CFR subpart 101&hyph;20.3. Subpart B_Prohibitions in Areas Designated by Order This subpart grants authority to Regional Foresters and Forest Supervisors to issue orders and regulations prohibiting certain acts in specific areas. An explanation of the proposed revisions to this subpart follows by section. Section 261.50␣Orders Consistent with other revisions proposed throughout Subpart A, paragraph (e)(1) would be revised to include the words ``special use authorization,'' ``contract,'' ``approved plan of operations'', and ``Federal law or regulation'' as the list of either authorizing documents used by the Forest Service or to make clear that the order may also exempt persons with authorization given by law or regulation. Section 261.53␣Special Closures This section states, that when provided by an order, it is prohibited to go into or be in an area which is closed for the protection of certain animal populations or biological communities, management activities, or public health and safety. Paragraph (a) currently states ``threatened, endangered, rare, unique, or vanishing species of plants, animals, birds or fish.'' The proposed revision would remove all the categories which are currently listed and be revised to include simply ``plants, animals, birds, fish or shellfish.'' This revision is needed as the current listed categories are too narrow to provide effective protection to certain species of animals during different times of year. For example, the agency may wish to close a sensitive elk calving area during a specific time of year, but are currently unable to do so because elk are not ``threatened or endangered, etc.'' The proposed revision would remedy this situation. Section 261.54␣Forest Development Roads Three changes are proposed to this section. Paragraph (a) currently prohibits the use of any type of vehicle upon the issuance of an order. This rule would be revised by adding the words ``or possessing'' to the current text. In many cases, local county ordinances prohibit the possession of certain types of vehicles on lands either adjacent to or within a sensitive area, for example, the possession of tracked vehicles or modified off-road vehicles within a special wildlife or waterfowl habitat nesting area. The addition would allow a Regional Forester or Forest Supervisor to issue a specific order that prohibits the possession of a certain class of vehicle, if needed to be consistent with a Forest Land and Resource Management Plan or to support a local ordinance. Paragraph (c) currently prohibits using a road for commercial hauling without a permit or written authorization upon the issuance of an order. The rule would be revised by adding the words ``or other commercial activities'' to the current text. Authorization for commercial use of Forest development roads should not be limited to hauling a product; other commercial use such as transporting heavy equipment should also be subject to this requirement. Finally, paragraph (f), which prohibits careless or reckless driving, would be removed because, as previously noted, it is proposed to make this a general prohibition in §261.12.
