FR940525-1-00006 FR940525-1-00004 II. Provisions of the Proposed Regulations A. Due Dates for Filing Cost Report This proposed rule would increase the amount of time a provider has to file its cost report. Presently, under §413.24(f)(2)(i), a provider must file its cost report on or before the last day of the third month following the close of the period covered by the report. Under this proposed rule, the provider would be required to file an acceptable cost report, as defined at new §413.24(f)(5), on or before the last day of the fifth month following the close of the period covered by the report (that is, if a provider's cost reporting period ends June 30, 1994, the provider would have from July 1, 1994 through November 30, 1994 to file its cost report.) For cost reporting periods ending on a day other than the last day of a month, cost reports would be due 150 days after the last day of the cost reporting period. (In accordance with §405.376(e)(3), interest would not begin to accrue until the day following the due date of the report.) In proposing this change, we are responding to objections from providers to the current 3-month time frame, which many providers believe creates an undue burden on their financial departments. For example, in a recent cost report extension survey report, many providers cited problems in getting accurate PS&R data as a primary reason for requesting an extension. Under this proposed rule, the additional time providers would have to submit their cost reports also would allow the intermediaries additional time to prepare the necessary PS&R reports. With the additional time, we believe that the intermediaries would be able to provide more accurate and complete PS&R data to the providers, which would, in turn, result in providers requiring less time to reconcile the PS&R data with their records. The providers also would have additional time to prepare their books and records, complete the necessary audits and develop financial statements and reports that are needed before providers can complete the cost reporting forms. We are also proposing to change the regulations at §413.24(f)(2)(ii) that allow an intermediary to grant, for good cause, a 30-day extension of the due date after first obtaining the approval of HCFA. Since we believe that the time frame we are proposing for the filing of the cost report (5 months) is sufficient, we propose that extensions may be granted by the intermediary only when a provider's operations are significantly adversely affected due to extraordinary circumstances over which the provider has no control. An example of such extraordinary circumstances might be a flood or a fire that forced a provider to cease operations and transfer its patients temporarily to other providers outside of the impacted area. The intermediary would still be required to obtain HCFA approval. We are also proposing to delete §413.24(f)(2)(iii), which now states that the cost report from a provider that voluntarily or involuntarily ceases to participate in the Medicare program or experiences a change of ownership is due no later than 45 days following the effective date of the termination of the provider agreement or change of ownership. We do not believe the current 45-day period is sufficient time for these providers to file a final cost report. Instead, as a result of the proposed deletion of §413.24(f)(2)(iii), providers in these cirumstances would be permitted the same amount of time to file a cost report as other providers. B. Acceptable Cost Report Submissions We are also proposing to define at §413.24(f)(5) what HCFA considers to be an acceptable cost report submission. Provisions of the proposed definition are as follows: •All providers: The provider must complete and submit the required cost reporting forms, including all necessary signatures, and also must submit all supporting documentation required by the intermediary (for example, the working trial balance; HCFA Form 339, Provider Cost Report Reimbursement Questionnaire; and copies of audited financial statements). •Providers that are required to file electronic cost reports: In addition to completing and submitting the required cost reporting forms and supporting documentation, the provider also must submit its cost reports in an electronic cost report format in conformance with the requirements contained in section 130 of the Electronic Cost Report (ECR) Specifications Manual (unless the hospital has received an exemption from HCFA.) These requirements include the electronic file passing all of the fatal (level 1) edits contained in the ECR Specifications Manual. An acceptable cost report submission also must include all of the appropriate signatures. (Additional instructions concerning electronic submission of cost reports can be found at §413.24(f)(4), as set forth in our final rule with comment period published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register . In addition, we would specify that the intermediary is to make a determination of acceptability within 30 days of receipt of the cost report. If the intermediary considers the cost report unacceptable, the intermediary returns it to the provider with a letter explaining the reasons for the rejection (for example, the cost report failed a fatal edit or included incomplete documentation). When the cost report is rejected, it is deemed an unacceptable submission and treated as if a report had never been filed. The intermediary would also inform the provider of the consequences of filing a late cost report, that is, interest would be assessed on all overpayments and the provider's interim payments would be suspended. Given the additional filing time, we believe providers should have sufficient time to complete and submit an acceptable cost report. Thus, we are suspending all payments if the cost report is not filed within the 5-month timeframe. The provider should make the necessary corrections to the cost report and resubmit the cost report to the intermediary as quickly as possible.
