FR940830-0-00049 FR940830-0-00009 (c) *␣*␣* (1) Have a system for providing notice to eligible persons as required by §124.504(c), §124.513(b)(2), §124.514(b)(2), or §124.516(b)(2)(ii)(A), as applicable; * * * * * 8. In subpart F, §124.516 is redesignated as §124.517. 9. A new §124.516 is added to subpart F, to read as follows: §124.516 Charitable facility compliance alternative. (a) Effect of certification. The Secretary may certify a facility which meets the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section as a ``charitable facility.'' A facility which is so certified is not required to comply with this subpart except as otherwise herein provided. (b) Criteria for qualification. A facility may qualify for certification under this section if it meets the criteria of either paragraph (b)(1) or paragraph (b)(2) of this section: (1) It received, for the three most recent fiscal years, no monies directly from patients with incomes up to double the current poverty line issued by the Secretary pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 9902, exclusive of amounts charged or received for purposes of claiming reimbursement under third party insurance or governmental programs, such as Medicaid or Medicare deductible or coinsurance amounts; or (2)(i) It received, for the three most recent fiscal years, at least 10 percent of its total operating revenue (net patient revenue plus other operating revenue, exclusive of any amounts received, or if not received, claimed, as reimbursement under titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act) from philanthropic sources to cover operating deficits attributable to the provision of discounted services. Philanthropic sources include private trusts, foundations, churches, charitable organizations, state and/or local funding, and individual donors; and either_ (ii) (A) Provides health services without charge or at a substantially reduced rate (exclusive of amounts charged or received for purposes of claiming reimbursement under third party insurance or governmental programs, such as Medicaid or Medicare deductible or coinsurance amounts) to persons who are determined by the facility to qualify therefor under a program of discounted health services. A ``program of discounted health services'' must provide for financial and other objective eligibility criteria and procedures, including notice prior to nonemergency service, that assure effective opportunity for all persons to apply for and obtain a determination of eligibility for such services including a determination prior to service where requested; or (B) Makes all services of the facility available to all persons at no more than a nominal charge, exclusive of amounts charged or received for purposes of claiming reimbursement under third party insurance or governmental programs, such as Medicaid or Medicare deductible or coinsurance amounts.
