FR940927-2-00032 FR940927-2-00024 B. All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in its possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into question such representation, or the basis relied upon for such representation, including complaints from consumers. IV It is further ordered that the respondent shall distribute a copy of this Order to each of its operating divisions and to each of its officers, agents, or employees engaged in the preparation and placement of advertisements, promotional materials, product labels or other such sales materials covered by this Order. V It is further ordered that respondent shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporation such as a dissolution, assignment, or sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, the creation or dissolution of subsidiaries, or any other change in the corporation which may affect compliance obligations under this Order. VI It is further ordered that respondent shall, within sixty (60) days after service of this Order upon it, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has complied with this Order. Analysis of Proposed Consent Order to Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted, subject to final approval, an agreement containing a consent order from Chemopharm Laboratory, Inc., d/b/a CP Industries, an Utah corporation (``CP Industries'' or ``respondent''). Upon this agreement, the respondent will cease and desist from claiming that any product is environmentally safe, protects the total environment, otherwise offers any environmental benefit, or provides the environmental benefits of Calcium Magnesium Acetate (``CMA''), unless such representation is true and, at the time of making such representation, it possesses adequate substantiation. The proposed consent agreement also prohibits CP Industries from misrepresenting the results of any test or study. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixy (60) days for receipt of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement and take other appropriate action or make final the proposed order contained in the agreement. This matter concerns claims made for CP Industries' Superior Sno-N-Ice Melter product. The complaint accompanying the proposed consent order alleges, in part, that the respondent engaged in deceptive acts and practices in violation of Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act. According to the complaint, the respondent represented that Superior Sno-N-Ice Melter does not harm or damage the environment; that Superior Sno-N-Ice Melter provides the environmental benefits of CMA; that scientific studies of CMA demonstrate that Superior Sno-N-Ice is beneficial to the environment; and that it had a reasonable basis for these claims. In fact, Superior Sno-N-Ice Melter contains about 95% sodium chloride (i.e., rock salt) which does harm or damage the environment. Therefore, Superior Sno-N-Ice does harm or damage the environment; Superior Sno-N-Ice Melter does not provide the environmental benefits of CMA; and scientific studies of CMA do not demonstrate that Superior Sno-N-Ice Melter is beneficial to the environment. The complaint therefore alleges that the claims are false and misleading and also alleges that CP Industries lacked a reasonable basis for making the claims. The consent order contains provisions designed to prevent the respondents from engaging in similar allegedly illegal acts and practices in the future. Paragraph I of the proposed consent order requires CP Industries to cease representing that any product is ``environmentally safe,'' ``protects the total environment,'' or otherwise offers any environmental benefit; or that any product provides the environmental benefits of CMA, unless such representation is true and substantiated. Paragraph II of the order prohibits CP Industries from misrepresenting the existence, contents, validity, results, conclusions, or interpretations of any test or study. The remaining parts of the proposed consent order require the respondent to maintain materials relied upon to substantiate claims covered by the order, to distribute copies of the order to each of its operating divisions and to certain company officials, to notify the Commission of any changes in corporate structure that might affect compliance with the order, and to file one or more compliance reports. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed consent order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Benjamin I. Berman, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23878 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
