FR940817-1-00039 FR940817-1-00013 Establishment of a Requirement for Aviation Maintenance Technicians To Pass a Written Test on all Applicable Provisions of Chapter 14 Current regulations require an applicant for a mechanic (aviation maintenance technician) certificate to pass a written test that includes the applicable provisions of Parts 43 and 91 of this chapter. Because contemporary maintenance operations require the applicant to understand certification and maintenance regulations other than those found solely in Parts 43 and 91, the FAA proposes amending the knowledge requirements for the certificate to require an applicant to pass a written test on the applicable provisions of the entire chapter. Clarification of Requirement To Pass all Sections of the Written Test Before Applying for the Oral and Practical Tests There has been some confusion among applicants for the mechanic (aviation maintenance technician) certificate who are not enrolled at Part-147-approved aviation maintenance technician schools regarding the language of §65.75(b). This section requires an individual to pass each section of the written test before applying for the oral and practical tests prescribed by §65.79. The FAA believes that it is essential that the applicant display knowledge of the equipment and procedures to be used by the applicant before the oral and practical tests are given. The applicant must possess adequate knowledge before being permitted to take the oral and practical tests, because it is this knowledge that enables an applicant to solve practical problems and demonstrate the ability to perform the work of a certificated aviation maintenance technician. In addition, when taking an oral or practical test, an applicant for a certificate must handle complex equipment; a lack of knowledge about the use of that equipment could injure the applicant or others. Therefore, the FAA has clarified the current requirement by proposing amendatory language that would require all applicants, except students at an approved Part 147 aviation maintenance school, to pass all sections of the written test before applying for the oral and practical tests. Recognition of New Written Testing Methods In the area of written testing, the FAA recognizes recent developments in training and testing technology. Because the results of some written tests, such as those from recently approved computer-based testing, can be made immediately available to the applicant, the FAA proposes that a report of the written test be made available, as opposed to sent, to an applicant who has taken the examination using computer-based testing. Specification of Experience Requirements in Hours The FAA proposes that experience requirements for aviation maintenance personnel, currently expressed in months, be expressed in an equivalent number of hours. A change to the hourly experience requirements would give the FAA and the aviation industry a simpler method of measuring and verifying work experience. The proposed revision also would enable aviation maintenance personnel working in part-time positions to better quantify their work experience. FAA Order 8300.10, Airworthiness Inspector's Handbook, currently permits the practice of measuring part-time experience requirements in hours. The proposed rule would expand this current practice by measuring both part-time and full-time experience in hours. Equivalent levels of full time experience are: 6 months/1000 hours; 18 months/3000 hours; 30 months/5000 hours. Establishment of Basic Competency Requirements Currently §65.79, Skill requirements, requires an applicant for a mechanic certificate to pass an oral and practical test covering the applicant's skills in performing practical projects covered by the written test. Because of the complexity of current aviation maintenance operations, the FAA proposes to establish a broad-based competency requirement in §66.79 that encompasses more than the skill requirements included in the current regulation. Current interpretations of the existing regulation tend to emphasize the evaluation of basic skills that often concentrate solely on tasks involving manual dexterity. Although mastery of these basic skills is invaluable, the FAA asserts that a more comprehensive level of competency, based on current aviation maintenance practices, is required of aviation maintenance technicians. The proposed rule would expand the evaluation of aviation maintenance technician applicants to include a demonstration of competency in technical tasks and aircraft maintenance more appropriate to the current aviation environment and the certificate and rating sought. Use of Equipment-Specific Training to Qualify for Certificate Privileges Through the use of equipment-specific training, the proposal would provide the holder of an aviation maintenance technician certificate with an additional means to remain qualified to approve and return to service any aircraft, appliance, or part for which that person is rated and to supervise the maintenance, preventive maintenance, alteration, and return to service of these aircraft, appliances, and parts. Under the current regulation, a certificate holder may supervise maintenance operations or approve and return to service an aircraft, appliance, or part if the certificate holder has: (1) previously performed the work; (2) performed the work to the satisfaction of the Administrator; or (3) performed the work under the direct supervision of a certificated mechanic or repairman who has had previous experience with that specific task. The proposal would allow the aviation maintenance technician to use equipment-specific training to obtain the competency necessary to supervise these operations or approve an item for return to service without previously having performed the work that is anticipated. Through the adoption of equipment-specific training to satisfy this experience requirement, the FAA recognized enhancements in aviation maintenance training that can provide the aviation maintenance technician with technical knowledge equal to knowledge gained in the work environment. However, in allowing training to replace actual work experience, the FAA would require a high level of specificity between the training and the actual work to be preformed or supervised. Therefore, the proposal would require that the training used to satisfy this requirement be unique to the specific equipment on which the work is to be performed. A course of instruction detailing the maintenance practices for the same make and model aircraft on which an aviation maintenance technician will perform work, or a course of instruction detailing the overhaul procedures for a specific part or appliance, for example, would satisfy the provisions of the proposed rule. Such courses may be provided by any manufacturer, individual, or organization whose training has been found acceptable to the Administrator. Training of a more general nature, which may be used to satisfy currency requirements as proposed in §66.83, may not be sufficiently specific to allow an aviation maintenance technician to perform work on a specific aircraft, part, or appliance. For example, a course in the FAR applicable to maintenance procedures would not satisfy the provisions of proposed §66.81 but could be used to satisfy the provisions of proposed §66.83. The FAA also proposes to clarify the intent of the current regulation by proposing amendatory language that would allow a certificate holder, who desires to exercise supervisory, return to service, or approval responsibilities, to demonstrate the ability to perform the work to the satisfaction of the Administrator. The current regulation requires actual performance of the work.
