FR940803-2-00087 FR940803-2-00069 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration [Docket No. 94&hyph;29; Notice 2] B.A.T. Incorporated; Grant of Petition for Temporary Exemption From Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 208 B.A.T. (``Battery Automated Transportation'') Inc. of West Valley City, Utah, petitioned to be exempted from Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 208 Occupant Crash Protection for Geo Metro sedans that it converts to electric power. The basis of the petition was that an exemption will facilitate the development and field evaluation of low-emission motor vehicles. Notice of receipt of the petition was published on May 25, 1994, and an opportunity afforded for comment (59 FR 27100). This notice grants the petition. Petitioner has already been excused from compliance with the crash test provision of Standard No. 208 by NHTSA Temporary Exemption No. 93&hyph;3 which expires August 1, 1995 (see 58 FR 45549). Although that exemption is not vehicle-specific by its terms, petition had been made only on behalf of 1993 model Ford Ranger pickup trucks to be converted to electric power. Thus, rather than providing the petitioner with an interpretation that the current exemption extends to sedans as well as pickups, NHTSA concluded that the public should be offered an opportunity to comment on B.A.T.'s latest request. As before, the basis of the petition is that a temporary exemption would facilitate the development and field evaluation of a low-emission motor vehicle, as provided by 49 CFR 555.6(c). The petitioner will not manufacture more than 2,500 vehicles during any 12-month period that the exemption is in effect. Although the Geo Metro is certified by its original manufacturer as conforming with all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards, petitioner has determined that the vehicles may not conform, after their modification, with ``the requirements of crash tests of'' Standard No. 208 Occupant Crash Protection. The petitioner intends to make arrangements with the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory to do computer simulated crash testing. Any changes that are shown to be necessary will be incorporated in all future versions ``and will voluntarily be retrofitted in earlier units.'' Although the petitioner has not provided specific arguments that an exemption would not unreasonably degrade the safety of the vehicle, it believes that electric vehicles are safer because they carry no flammable substances and do not have ``a very hot catalytic converter close to the gasoline tank.'' B.A.T. conversions do not ``emit hydrogen gas from the batteries due to the addition of hydrocaps which catalyze any hydrogen gas formed when charging or discharging.'' Further, ``BAT `Ultra Force' catalyst sharply reduces any gassing that might otherwise occur.''
