FR940407-0-00099 FR940407-0-00014 (D) Operation and maintenance procedures and/or other work practices designed to prevent, identify, or remedy noncomplying conditions. (E) Manual or automated recordkeeping of material usage, inventories, throughput, production, or levels of required activities. (F) Any combination of these methods. EIP's shall require that responsible parties at each facility in the EIP program certify reported information. (ii) Procedures for determining required data, including the emissions contribution from affected sources, for periods for which required data monitoring is not performed, data are otherwise missing, or data have been demonstrated to have been inaccurately determined. (3) Any other applicable strategy-specific requirements. (f) Projected results and audit/reconciliation procedures. (1) The SIP submittal shall include projections of the emissions reductions associated with the implementation of the program. These projected results shall be related to and consistent with the assumptions used to develop the area's attainment demonstration and maintenance plan, as applicable. For programs designed to produce emissions reductions creditable towards RFP milestones, projected emissions reductions shall be related to the RFP baseline and consistent with the area's RFP compliance demonstration. The State shall provide sufficient supporting information that shows how affected sources are or will be addressed in the emissions inventory, RFP plan, and attainment demonstration or maintenance plan, as applicable. (i) For emission-limiting programs, the projected results shall be consistent with the reductions in mass emissions or emissions-related parameters specified in the program design. (ii) For market-response programs, the projected results shall be based on market analyses relating levels of targeted emissions and/or emission-related activities to program design parameters. (iii) For directionally-sound programs, the projected results may be descriptive and shall be consistent with the area's attainment demonstration or maintenance plan. (2) Quantitative projected results shall be adjusted through the use of two uncertainty factors, as appropriate, to reflect uncertainties inherent in both the extent to which sources will comply with program requirements and the overall program design. (i) Uncertainty resulting from incomplete compliance shall be addressed through the use of a rule compliance factor. (ii) Programmatic uncertainty shall be addressed through the use of a program uncertainty factor. Any presumptive norms set by the EPA shall be used unless an adequate justification for an alternative factor is included in supporting information to be supplied with the SIP submittal. In the absence of any EPA-specified presumptive norms, the State shall provide an adequate justification for the selected factors as part of the supporting information to be supplied with the SIP submittal. (3) Unless otherwise provided in program-specific guidance issued by the EPA, EIP's for which SIP credit is taken shall include audit procedures to evaluate program implementation and track program results in terms of both actual emissions reductions, and, to the extent practicable, cost savings relative to traditional regulatory program requirements realized during program implementation. Such audits shall be conducted at specified time intervals, not to exceed three years. The State shall provide timely post-audit reports to the EPA. (i) For emission-limiting EIP's, the State shall commit to ensure the timely implementation of programmatic revisions or other measures which the State, in response to the audit, deems necessary for the successful operation of the program in the context of overall RFP and attainment requirements. (ii) For market-response EIP's, reconciliation procedures that identify a range of appropriate actions or revisions to program requirements that will make up for any shortfall between credited results (i.e., projected results, as adjusted by the two uncertainty factors described above) and actual results obtained during program implementation shall be submitted together with the program audit provisions. Such measures must be federally enforceable, as appropriate, and automatically executing to the extent necessary to make up the shortfall within a specified period of time, consistent with relevant RFP and attainment requirements.
