FR941107-2-00148 FR941107-2-00086 A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to extend the pilot program under which the BSE has adopted certain procedures to mirror those of the primary market for the handling of MOC orders on Expiration Fridays and Quarterly Index Expiration Days so that the BSE does not become a haven for MOC orders that are prohibited on the NYSE. 6 In this way, all orders sent to the Exchange will receive equal treatment with orders sent to the NYSE. The proposed procedures include (a) prohibiting the cancellation or reduction of any MOC order in any NYSE stock after 3:40 p.m. on Expiration Fridays and Quarterly Index Expiration Days, (b) providing a 3:40 p.m. deadline for the entry of MOC orders, in all NYSE stocks, related to a strategy involving any stock index future, stock index option or option on stock index futures in expiring contracts, (c) publication of MOC order imbalances of 50,000 shares or more in the pilot stocks as soon as practicable after 3:40 p.m. and (d) providing for the entry of MOC orders after 3:40 p.m. in the pilot stocks only to offset published imbalances. With respect to item (a) above, the Exchange will permit cancellations of MOC orders after 3:40 p.m. in those instances where a legitimate error has been made. The term ``pilot stocks'' refers to the list of stocks designated by the NYSE as pilot stocks for purposes of its auxiliary closing procedures. 7 The Exchange is seeking a one-year extension of the current pilot program to expire on October 31, 1995. 6 Commission approval of the BSE's MOC order procedures expires on October 31, 1994. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33639 (February 17, 1994), 59 FR 9295 (February 25, 1994) (File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;04) (``BSE Pilot Approval Order''). The Exchange has requested a one-year extension of the pilot program to expire on October 31, 1995. See Amendment No. 1, supra, note 1. The Exchange also has requested accelerated approval of the proposed rule change in order to allow the pilot program to continue without interruption. 7 As designated by the NYSE, the Expiration Friday pilot stocks consist of the 50 most highly capitalized Standard & Poors (``S&P'') 500 stocks and any component stocks of the Major Market Index (``MMI'') not included therein. See 1993 Auxiliary Closing Procedures Approval Order, supra, note 5. The Quarterly Index Expiration Day pilot stocks consist of the 50 most highly capitalized S&P 500 stocks, any component stocks of the MMI not included therein and the 10 highest weighted S&P Midcap 400 stocks. Id. 2. Statutory Basis The statutory basis for the proposed rule change is Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest; and is not designed to permit unfair discrimination between customers, issuers, brokers, or dealers. The BSE believes that, if investors, whose orders are banned on the NYSE because of current market conditions, are able to reroute those orders to the Exchange for execution on the BSE without regard to current market conditions, there could be a negative impact on the overall market as a result of the execution of those orders. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received comments on the proposed rule change. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the BSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;94&hyph;13 and should be submitted by November 28, 1994.
