FR940810-1-00002 FR940810-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of the Secretary 14 CFR Parts 257 and 399 [Docket Nos. 49702 and 48710; Notice 94&hyph;11] RIN 2105&hyph;AC10 Disclosure of Code-Sharing Arrangements and Long-Term Wet Leases AGENCY: Department of Transportation; Office of the Secretary. ACTION: Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM); Denial of petition for rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Department proposes to strengthen its current rules requiring airlines to notify consumers of the existence of a code-sharing arrangement or long-term wet lease whereby the operator of a flight differs from the airline in whose name the transportation was sold. This action is being taken to ensure that consumers have pertinent information about airline code-sharing arrangements and long-term wet leases on domestic and international flights. The Department is proposing: (1) to require ticket agents (including travel agents) doing business in the United States and foreign air carriers, as well as U.S. air carriers, to give consumers reasonable and timely notice that the travel they are considering purchasing will be provided by an airline different from the airline holding out the transportation, and to disclose the identity of the airline that will actually operate the aircraft; and (2) for tickets issued in the United States, to require U.S. and foreign air carriers and ticket agents (including travel agents) to provide written notice of the transporting carrier's identity at the time of sale of transportation involving a code-sharing or long-term wet-lease arrangement. The Department also wants to consider seriously a requirement to print the transporting carrier's identity on the flight coupon for services involving a code-sharing or long-term wet-lease arrangement. The Department is making this proposal on its own initiative. In addition, the Department is denying a petition filed in Docket 48710 by Donald Pevsner that requested a complete ban on code-sharing arrangements. DATES: The Department requests comments by October 11, 1994. Reply comments should be filed by November 8, 1994. The Department will consider late-filed comments only to the extent practicable. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Docket Clerk, Docket No. 49702, Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street S.W., Room 4107, Washington, DC 20590. To facilitate consideration of the comments, we ask commenters to file twelve copies of each comment. We encourage commenters who wish to do so also to submit comments to the Department through the Internet; our Internet address is dot_dockets@postmaster.dot.gov. 1 Note, however, that at this time the Department considers only the paper copies filed with the Docket Clerk to be the official comments. Comments will be available for inspection at this address from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Commenters who wish the Department to acknowledge the receipt of their comments should include a stamped, self-addressed postcard with their comments. The Docket Clerk will date-stamp the postcard and mail it back to the commenter. 1 Our X.400 e-mail address is G=DOT/S=dockets/OU1=qmail/O=hq/p=gov+dot/a=attmail/c=us. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia N. Snyder, Office of International Law, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street SW, Room 10105, Washington, DC 20590. (202) 366&hyph;9179. The Department of Transportation studies noted in this NPRM may be reviewed in the Department's technical library, 400 7th Street SW, Room 2200, Washington, DC 20590, between 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday; phone (202) 366&hyph;0746. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Several sources of information on airline services widely used in the United States_most notably the Official Airline Guide and computer reservations systems `` use a two-character airline designator code to identify the carrier operating a flight. Code-sharing is the term given to a common airline industry marketing practice where, by mutual agreement between cooperating carriers, at least one of the airline designator codes used on a flight is different from that of the airline operating the aircraft. In one version, two or more airlines each use their own designator codes on the same aircraft operation. Although only one airline operates the flight, each airline in a code-sharing arrangement may hold out, market and sell the flight as its own in published schedules. The term ``code-sharing'' also refers to other arrangements where the code on a passenger's ticket is not that of the operator of the flight, but where the operator does not also hold out the service in its own name. Such code-sharing arrangements are common between commuter air carriers and their larger affiliates. Arrangements falling into this category are similar to leases of aircraft and crew (wet leases). The Department regulates all international code-sharing arrangements as wet leases under 14 CFR Parts 207, 208, 212 and 218. Although code-sharing and wet-lease arrangements can offer significant consumer benefits, they can also be misleading unless consumers know that the transportation they are buying will not be provided by the airline whose designator code is shown on the ticket and unless they know the identity of the airline on which they will be flying. The recent growth in use of code-sharing, wet-leasing and similar marketing tools, particularly in international air transportation, has given the Department concern about whether the current disclosure rules (described below) protect the public interest adequately. This notice proposes to strengthen the rules and requests public comment. Benefits of Code-Sharing Services In its examination of domestic airline interline practices, the Department noted that only 10% of passengers on certificated air carriers used interline services, indicating the strong preference of passengers on connecting flights for on-line service. Interline Practices in the Airline Industry at 24 (January 1986). There may be even fewer today. Data for the quarter ended September 30, 1993, show that interline passengers account for approximately 2.3% of total passengers based on the Department's Passenger Origin and Destination Survey. Code-sharing arrangements, which enable airlines to hold out multi-carrier connections as on-line service, are, in part, a market response to this demand for on-line service. Often, code-sharing partners offer services similar to those available for on-line connections with the goal of offering ``seamless'' service (i.e., service where the transfers from flight to flight or airline to airline are facilitated). They may, for example, locate gates near each other to make connections more convenient, or coordinate baggage handling to give greater assurance that baggage will be properly handled.
