FR940314-0-00010 FR940314-0-00003 (2) Southeast Alabama Regional Planning and Development Commission. (3) Coastal Area District Development Authority. (4) LaCreek Electric Association, Inc. (5) Nebraska Rural Electric Association. (6) National Rural Electric Cooperative Association. (7) National Telephone Cooperative Association. (8) Edison Electric Institute. (9) East River Electric Power Cooperative. (10) Carolina Electric Cooperatives. (11) Sequachee Valley Electric Cooperative. (12) Mid-Cumberland Area Development Corporation. (13) Mid-East Commission. (14) McIntosh Trail Regional Development Center. (15) North Dakota Association of Rural Electric Cooperatives/North Dakota Association of Telephone Cooperatives. (16) Greater Egypt Regional Planning. (17) Southwest Tennessee Development District. (18) Southwest Arkansas Planning and Development District. (19) Eastern Panhandle Regional Planning and Development Council. (20) Northeast South Dakota Energy Conservation Corporation. (21) National Association of Development Organizations. (22) North Dakota Commissioner of Agriculture. (23) Region Nine Development Commission. (24) Purchase Area Development District. The comments from various organizations including REA Borrowers, electric and telephone utility trade organizations, economic development organizations and state governments reflected broad support for the proposed rule. Most of the organizations made specific recommendations on the proposed rule. REA has considered all comments in finalizing this regulation. A number of the comments were from entities that administer existing Revolving Loan Funds (RLFs) or organizations representing entities that administer revolving loan programs. These organizations feel that grants should not be directed to REA Borrowers exclusively, but also to existing organizations not financed by REA that operate RLFs, since REA Borrowers do not serve all of rural America. They also are concerned that they would be unable to compete with the REA Borrowers' revolving funds zero-interest rate loans. First, grants, as well as zero-interest loans administered exclusively through REA Borrowers are in accordance with directives established in the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1987, (Pub. L. 100&hyph;102, 101 Stat. 1330&hyph;20). This law was created in a context where electric and telephone Borrowers who had made prepayments on loans into cushion of credit accounts could utilize a Rural Development Subaccount to collectively draw from the interest earnings from the Borrowers' cumulative credit resources to reinvest into local economic development projects. The provisions of the proposed rule making grant funds available exclusively to REA Borrowers, as a result of their prepayments, are governed by legislation. REA acknowledges, however, that many rural development organizations are well qualified to administer grant funds, and they provide a valuable resource for local or regional rural economic development efforts. REA will strongly encourage Borrowers operating revolving loan funds to collaborate with existing organizations involved in rural development activities, and those organizations are urged to work with REA Borrowers in facilitating rural development projects. This collaboration and assistance could include performing local or regional studies to identify area economic development needs, assisting community leaders and other project owners in planning and implementing projects, loan packaging, technical assistance to REA Borrowers in reviewing loan applications and administering the revolving loan fund, and coordinating efforts between other entities, including public and private lending institutions, that provide assistance and/or funding to rural development projects. REA also encourages state Rural Development Councils to become active participants in planning rural development projects and coordinating activities between local governments, economic development districts, REA Borrowers and other entities operating RLFs. However, although collaboration between REA Borrowers and other enitities is strongly encouraged, legislation requires that REA Borrowers retain the ultimate decision-making authority and responsibility for REA rural development loan and grant funds. Regarding possible competition between REA Borrowers and other lenders, it should be emphasized that REA does not intend for REA Borrowers to compete with or replace existing services of RLFs, or other public or private lenders, but merely to augment or supplement those sources of funds. To clarify this policy, and ensure effective implementation, ยง1703.22(b) has been revised to require Borrowers, within their RLF rural development plan, to document coordination of lending activities with local organizations operating RLFs and other area lenders. The rule requires such documentation to indicate that Borrowers will not compete with, but will supplement other legal sources of financing. Rural development plan documentation which complies with REA policy will be stipulated in RLF agreements between Borrowers and REA. Some commenters expressed concern that the administrative burden for operating RLFs would be too great and REA Borrowers may choose not to participate. REA has minimized administrative requirements; thus the burden should be no greater for the RLFs than for zero-interest loans. Although the REA Borrowers will decide whether or not to establish RLFs, REA believes the potential of significant benefits to rural residents through the RLF provisions will encourage participation.
