FR940106-0-00098 FR940106-0-00021 (1) Layoffs. The facility shall attest that it has not laid off nurses during the 12-month period prior to submitting the attestation. A facility which lays off a registered nurse other than a staff nurse still meets the ``no layoff'' requirement if, in its attestation it attests that it will not replace the nurse with an H&hyph;1A nurse (either through promotion or otherwise) for a period of 1 year after the date of the layoff. (2) Nursing shortage. (i) The facility shall attest to one of the following: (A) It has a current nurse vacancy rate of 7 percent or more. An explanatory statement does not have to be submitted for this attestation element, but documentation to support this attestation shall be maintained at the facility and shall be available for review in accordance with ยง XXX .350(b). (B) It is unable to utilize 7 percent or more of its total beds due to a shortage of nurses. An explanatory statement does not have to be submitted for this attestation element, but supporting documentation for this attestation shall be maintained at the facility and shall be available for review in accordance with ยง XXX .350(b). (C) It has had to eliminate or curtail the delivery of essential health care services due to a shortage of nurses, and provide brief explanatory information about the essential services eliminated or curtailed by the facility due to a nursing shortage, what documentation is available at the facility to substantiate this attestation, where this documentation is located and can be reviewed, and the applicable time period of the documentation. (D) It has been unable to effect established plans to provide needed new health care services in the community due to a shortage of nurses, and provide brief explanatory information about needed new services that have not been implemented by the facility due to a nursing shortage and which will be implemented with the availability of H&hyph;1A nurses, what documentation is available at the facility to substantiate this attestation, where this documentation is located and can be reviewed, and the applicable time period of the documentation. (ii) Other substantial disruption. When an attesting facility finds that the indicators in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) (A) through (D) of this section cannot be demonstrated, or that such indicators are inappropriate to that facility, but that without the services of H&hyph;1A nurses, substantial disruption in the delivery of health care services of the facility still would occur due to a shortage or nurses, the facility shall provide an explanation of how a shortage of nurses has caused a ``substantial disruption'' in the delivery of its health care services. Such explanation shall be sufficient to provide a clear showing of ``substantial disruption'' in the delivery of specific health care services due to a shortage of nurses, and shall clearly explain why the indicators in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) (A) through (D) of this section cannot be met by or are inappropriate to that facility. In addition to the documentation required to be maintained by attesting facilities described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, facilities attesting under this paragraph also shall maintain and make available for inspection (as described elsewhere in this section) such additional documentation as is necessary to substantiate such claim of substantial disruption. (3) Documentation of facility's nursing positions. The attesting facility shall maintain and make available for inspection (as described in ยง XXX .350(b)) documentation substantiating: (i) The total number of nursing positions at the facility; (ii) The number of nursing vacancies at the facility during a 12-month period ending no later than 3 months prior to submittal of the attestation; (iii) The number of nurses who left the facility during the same 12-month period; (iv) The number of nurses hired by the facility during the same 12-month period; (v) The overall staffing pattern for nursing positions at the facility; and
