FR940418-1-00046 FR940418-1-00012 Campus-based aid means the Federal financial aid programs [i.e., Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants (SEOG), College Work-Study (CWS), and Perkins Loan] administered by the Financial Aid Office. Continuing student means a grant recipient who is currently enrolled in an eligible institution, and is maintaining satisfactory progress in his or her course of study according to the institution's standards of satisfactory progress. Department of Education means the United States Department of Education. Director means the Director, Office of Indian Education Programs, Bureau of Indian Affairs. Eligible institution means an institution of higher education that is accredited by a national or regional accrediting agency or is a candidate for accreditation, or is a Tribally Controlled Community College or has qualified under the three institutional certification method, established under section 1201(a)(5)(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)). Financial Aid Office means the office of an institution of higher education that has responsibility for institutionally administered financial aid. Financial aid package means the institution's document(s) that identifies (identify) the amounts and types of financial aid awarded by the institution and the amount of unmet need. Full-time student means an enrolled student who is carrying a full-time academic workload (other than by correspondence) as determined by the eligible institution, under standards applicable to all students enrolled in that student's particular program. Higher Education Office means the Bureau Education Line Office administering funds appropriated to the Bureau for higher education grants to eligible Indian students. Indian means a person who is a member of, or is at least a 1/4 degree Indian blood descendent of a member of, a federally recognized Indian tribe eligible to receive services from the Department of the Interior. Indian tribe means any Indian Tribe, Band, Nation, Rancheria, Pueblo, Colony or Community, including any Alaska Native village, that is Federally recognized by the United States Government, through the Secretary of the Interior, for special programs and services provided by the Secretary to Indians because of their status as Indians. Near reservation means those areas or communities adjacent or contiguous to reservations which are designated by the Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs upon recommendations of the local BIA Superintendent. These recommendations shall be based upon consultation with the tribal governing body of those reservations, as locales appropriate for the extension of financial assistance and/or social services, on the basis of the following general criteria: (a) Number of Indian people native to the reservation residing in the area; (b) Written designation by the tribal governing body that members of their tribe and family members who are Indian residing in the area are socially, culturally and economically affiliated with their tribe and reservation; (c) Geographical proximity of the area to the reservation; and (d) Administrative feasibility of providing an adequate level of services to the area. The Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs shall designate each approved area and publish the designations in the Federal Register . Pell Grant Program means the program of financial aid for undergraduate students authorized by Title IV&hyph;A Subpart 1 of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, and governed by regulations contained in 34 CFR part 690. Program plan means an individualized course of study in which the student, in conjunction with the degree granting institution of higher education, outlines the required courses for the desired degree. Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior. Unmet need means the difference between the student's cost of education and the resources available to defray those costs. Resources available include federal, state and institutional financial aid, excluding Bureau grants. The Higher Education Office may adjust the unmet need in accordance with the criteria found in 34 CFR part 668. ยง40.3 Program objective. The objective of the Bureau's Higher Education Grant Program is to provide financial aid to eligible Indian students to obtain an undergraduate degree from an eligible institution. ยง40.4 Information collection. The information and record-keeping requirements contained in this Part have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval as required by 44 U.S.C. 350 1 et seq. The collection of information will not be required until it has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget. The information is collected to determine the eligibility of Indian applicants. The reporting burden of this form is estimated to be an average of three hours per response, which includes time needed for review, gathering and maintaining this form. The information will be used to award grants to Indians for student assistance. ยง40.5 Prioritization of grants. The Bureau's Higher Education Grant Program shall be implemented for the benefit of eligible Indians, in accordance with a priority plan established for/by the tribes affected by the program. The tribe may decide to set standards in addition to those established under this part.
