FR941012-0-00143 FR941012-0-00011 Paragraph (h)(6)(iv) of the final rule requires that each log be placed on the transport vehicle in an orderly manner and tightly secured. This provision parallels the requirement contained in the proposed rule. There were no comments opposing this provision. OSHA believes that this provision is necessary to protect employees from the hazards that result from haphazard loading and inadequately securing the load. For example, when the load is not properly stacked and/or tightly secured, logs can swing in the tie downs and hit an employee. In addition, the load can shift and cause both the trailer and transport machine or vehicle to rollover. Proper stowage of vehicle loads has the added advantage of providing, in most cases, a more compact load with a lower center of gravity, one that is safer to move. Paragraph (h)(6)(v) of the final rule requires that the load be positioned to prevent slippage or loss during handling and transport. This requirement parallels the provision contained in the proposed rule. OSHA did not receive any comments opposing this provision. A load that is improperly positioned can roll or shift at any time, thereby potentially endangering any employee who might be close at hand. Paragraph (h)(6)(vi) of the final rule requires that each stake and chock used to trip loads must be constructed so the tripping mechanism is activated on the side opposite the release of the load. OSHA has adopted this provision from the proposed rule. The 1978 ANSI logging standard also contained a similar provision. There were no comments opposing this provision. OSHA believes this provision is necessary to protect employees from sudden or unexpected shifts or movements of the logs when a load is released. Only by keeping employees out of the potential paths of the shifting or moving logs can there be assurance that the employee will not be struck by a log. Paragraph (h)(6)(vii) of the final rule requires that each tie down be left in place over the peak log to secure the logs until the unloading lines or other equivalent protection have been put in place. This provision also specifies that a stake of sufficient strength to withstand forces of shifting logs shall be considered to provide protection equivalent to a tie down, provided that the logs are not loaded higher than the stake. This provision parallels the requirement contained in the proposed rule. The West Virginia Forestry Association supported this provision (Ex. 5&hyph;54). They said that several recent serious logging accidents had occurred in their state because logs loaded too high have fallen off the transport vehicle. Due to the vibration of the load during transport, the load can shift or move so that when the restraints are removed, the load will roll or otherwise fall off the truck, thereby endangering the employee who must remove the restraints. For this reason, OSHA has specified the necessary and appropriate work practices that must be followed to ensure the safe unloading of transport vehicles. Paragraph (h)(6)(viii) of the final rule requires that each tie down be released only from the side on which the unloading machine operates. This provision also permits two exceptions to this requirement in situations when the tie down is released by a remote control device and when the employee making the release is protected by racks, stanchions or other protection the employer demonstrates is capable of withstanding the force of moving and shifting logs. This requirement parallels the provision contained in the proposed rule and the 1978 ANSI logging standard. Several commenters suggested that the exceptions to the release requirement be eliminated (Ex. 5&hyph;21, 5&hyph;36, 5&hyph;74 through 5&hyph;92). However, these commenters did not provide any discussion to support their position. OSHA believes that adequate protection is provided in the alternate releasing methods that are excepted from this provision to protect the machine or vehicle operator from being hit by moving or shifting trees or logs. Transport Paragraph (h)(7) of the final rule requires the transport vehicle operator to assure that each tie down is tight before transporting the load. In addition, this paragraph requires that while en route, the operator shall check and tighten tie downs whenever there is reason to believe that the tie downs have loosened or the load has shifted. The proposed rule also contained a provision requiring the transport operator to assure that tie downs have been tightened and to check and tighten the tie downs as necessary while en route. The 1978 ANSI logging standard contained a provision similar to the proposed rule.
