FR941107-2-00180 FR941107-2-00097 Significant challenges face carriers wishing to develop international networks using their own direct services. They need: •Substantial access not only to key hub cities overseas, but also through and beyond them to numerous other cities, mostly in third countries. This type of access is not readily obtainable in today's bilateral system of negotiating air rights, since governments can only exchange access rights to their own countries and cannot, between themselves, deliver access to third countries, thus requiring piecemeal negotiating efforts to build the necessary package of rights; •Access to a large number of gates and takeoff/landing slots, frequently at some of the world's most congested airports. It may become increasingly difficult for carriers to gain effective, direct access to certain airport facilities, including some in the United States; •Considerable financial resources to establish and sustain commercially successful overseas hub systems; and •The ability to obtain infrastructure and establish market presence in a new region quickly. Existing foreign investment laws can effectively preclude airlines from entering new markets in one of the most efficient means available: merger or acquisition. Some carriers are taking on these challenges directly and are striving to develop their own global systems of direct service. Other carriers have chosen to side-step the obstacles, turning instead to a new network-building technique: cross-border marketing alliances that link traffic flows between established hub-and-spoke systems in key cities of the Western Hemisphere, Europe and Asia. Some of these alliances involve cross ownership, while others do not. Under this strategy, the linking of hubs requires indirect market access through code-sharing or other cooperative marketing arrangements. Although code sharing has become a widely-used marketing device for airlines and is currently the most prevalent form of commercial arrangement, further evolution of the industry and its regulatory environment may lead to new marketing practices that could supplement or supplant code sharing. Code sharing and other cooperative marketing arrangements can provide a cost-efficient way for carriers to enter new markets, expand their systems and obtain additional flow traffic to support their other operations by using existing facilities and scheduled operations. Because these cooperative arrangements can give the airline partners new or additional access to more markets, the partners will gain traffic, some stimulated by the new service, and some diverted from incumbents. In this way, cooperative arrangements can enhance the competitive positions of both partners in such a relationship. Increased international code-sharing and other cooperative arrangements can benefit consumers by increasing international service options and enhancing competition between carriers, particularly for traffic to or from cities behind major gateways. By stimulating traffic, the increased competition and service options should expand the overall international market and increase overall opportunities for the aviation industry. U.S. airlines should be major beneficiaries of this expansion and the concomitant increased service opportunities, given their competitive advantages. Moreover, code sharing should also enhance domestic competition. Many international passengers traveling to or from U.S. interior cities use domestic services for some portion of their international journey. Code sharing should increase competition among domestic carriers to carry those passengers on the domestic segment of their international journey. Although we expect the expansion of cooperative arrangements to be largely beneficial, there may be some negative effects. The greater traffic access of participants may give them considerable competitive muscle, and we may need to watch for harmful effects on competition. Global systems and the growing use of code sharing may put significant competitive pressure on carriers whose strategy does not include participation in such systems or in code-sharing alliances, or whose options to participate may be limited due to the lack of potential partners. Such carriers will have to develop other commercial responses to compete effectively. We expect these pressures and responses to lead to a restructuring of service and airlines, similar to the U.S. domestic experience in the 1980s. Overall, cities and consumers will probably enjoy improved service and access to the international transportation system, although some cities may have fewer or less convenient service options in some markets than they have today. Similarly, although some airlines will grow and prosper, others will not. Overall, this evolution should expand the level and quality of international air service for consumers. Code-sharing arrangements are designed to address the preference of passengers and shippers for on-line service from beginning to end through coordinated scheduling, baggage- and cargo-handling, and other elements of single-carrier service. However, innovative service products, such as code sharing, can only respond to consumer preferences accurately, and thereby enable the marketplace to function efficiently, if consumers make choices based on full information.
