FR940722-1-00022 FR940722-1-00008 B. State of South Dakota The State of South Dakota established authority through South Dakota Codified Law 34A&hyph;2&hyph;98 and 34A&hyph;2&hyph;99 to implement an underground storage tank program. The State developed and approved rules in the Administrative Rules of South Dakota that became effective November 30, 1987. On July 9, 1992, South Dakota submitted an official application for final approval. EPA reviewed and commented on the application and requested additional information to be included in the final application. Prior to its submission, South Dakota provided an opportunity for public notice and comment in the development of its underground storage tank program as required under ยง281.50(b). EPA has reviewed South Dakota's application, and has tentatively determined that the State's program meets all of the requirements necessary to qualify for final approval. Consequently, EPA intends to grant final approval to South Dakota to operate its program in lieu of the Federal program. This tentative determination to approve the South Dakota UST program does not extend to ``Indian Country,'' as defined in 18 U.S.C. Section 1151, including the following ``existing or former'' Indian reservations in the State of South Dakota: 1. Cheyenne River 2. Crow Creek 3. Flandreau 4. Lake Traverse (Sisseton-Wahpeton) 5. Lower Brule 6. Pine Ridge 7. Rosebud 8. Standing Rock 9. Yankton. Before EPA would be able to approve the State of South Dakota UST program for any portion of ``Indian Country,'' the State would have to provide an appropriate analysis of the State's jurisdiction to enforce in these areas. In order for a state to satisfy this requirement, it must demonstrate to the EPA's satisfaction that it had authority either pursuant to explicit Congressional authorization or applicable principles of Federal Indian Law to enforce its laws against existing and potential pollution sources within any geographical area for which it seeks program approval. EPA has reason to believe that disagreement exists with regard to the State's jurisdiction over ``Indian Country,'' and EPA is not satisfied that South Dakota has, at this time, made the requisite showing of its authority with respect to such lands. In withholding program approval for these areas, EPA is not making a determination that the State either has adequate jurisdiction or lacks such jurisdiction. Should the State of South Dakota choose to submit analysis with regard to its jurisdiction over all or part of ``Indian Country'' in the State, it may do so without prejudice. EPA's future evaluation of whether to approve the South Dakota program for ``Indian Country,'' to include Indian reservation lands, will be governed by EPA's judgment as to whether the State has demonstrated adequate authority to justify such approval, based upon its understanding of the relevant principles of Federal Indian law and sound administrative practice. The State may wish to consider EPA's discussion of the related issue of tribal jurisdiction found in the preamble to the Indian Water Quality Standards Regulation (see 56 FR 64876, December 12, 1991). On May 2, 1994, the State of South Dakota submitted to EPA an amendment to its UST program application. The amendment requests that South Dakota UST program approval be expanded to include UST activities on non-Indian lands for the former lands of the Yankton Sioux, Lake Traverse (Sisseton-Wahpeton) and parts of the Rosebud and Pine Ridge reservations. This amendment is presently being reviewed by EPA and will be treated as a revision to the South Dakota UST program proposed for approval today. A notice of the proposed EPA decision on this amendment will be published in the Federal Register for public comment at a later date. In accordance with Section 9004 of RCRA 42 U.S.C. 6991c and 40 CFR 281.50(e), the Agency will accept written comments on EPA's tentative determination until August 21, 1994. Copies of South Dakota's application are available for inspection and copying at the locations indicated in the Addresses section of this notice.
