FR940428-2-00131 FR940428-2-00061 The Exchange stated that requiring the submission of a Form U&hyph;5 would allow the Exchange to more precisely monitor the authority of registered persons to act on behalf of member firms and monitor the reasons for termination. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, which provides, in pertinent part, that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, and, in general, protect investors and the public interest. III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 7 Section 6(b)(5) requires that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. 7 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). The Commission believes that requiring members to report to the Exchange on Form U&hyph;5 following the termination of an associated person is consistent with the protection of investors and the public interest by assisting the Exchange in its oversight of industry personnel. The requirement for prompt submission of notices of termination should provide the Exchange with more accurate and timely reporting of information necessary for effective monitoring of personnel on the Exchange floor and other persons associated with members where the CHX is the DEA. The timely submission of this Form U&hyph;5 information should assist the Exchange in monitoring the continuous entry, movement, and departure of individuals associated with an Exchange member, as well as changes in their employment histories and the reasons for the termination. Such information will be useful to the Exchange in carrying out its responsibilities as DEA for members. This information also will be useful to the Exchange with respect to members where the CHX is not the DEA, but where registered associated persons of the member are active on the Exchange trading floor, by disclosing the reasons for the termination of various floor personnel and ensuring that the CHX has prompt notification of the termination. The Commission believes that the new provision that requires a member to provide a copy of the notice to the terminated person would allow such terminated person an opportunity to review the statements made on the Form U&hyph;5, which in turn, should help ensure the accuracy and completeness of the statements made on the Form. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)((2) of the Act, 8 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;33) is approved. 8 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;120124 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
