FR941012-1-00029 FR941012-1-00004 (2) The guarantee must be effective and all required submissions placed in the operating record before the initial receipt of waste or before the effective date of this section, whichever is later, in the case of closure and post-closure care, or no later than 120 days after the corrective action remedy has been selected in accordance with the requirements of ยง258.58. (3) The terms of the guarantee must provide that: (i) If the owner or operator fails to perform closure, post-closure care, and/or corrective action of a facility covered by the guarantee, the guarantor will: (A) Perform, or pay a third party to perform, closure, post-closure care, and/or corrective action as required (performance guarantee); or (B) Establish a fully funded trust fund as specified in paragraph (a) of this section in the name of the owner or operator (payment guarantee). (ii) The guarantee will remain in force unless the guarantor sends prior notice of cancellation by certified mail to the owner or operator and to the State Director. Cancellation may not occur, however, during the 120 days beginning on the date of receipt of the notice of cancellation by both the owner or operator and the State Director, as evidenced by the return receipts. (iii) If a guarantee is cancelled, the owner or operator must, within 90 days following receipt of the cancellation notice by the owner or operator and the State Director, obtain alternate financial assurance, place evidence of that alternate financial assurance in the facility operating record, and notify the State Director. If the owner or operator fails to provide alternate financial assurance within the 90-day period, the guarantor must provide that alternate assurance within 120 days, obtain alternative assurance, place evidence of the alternate assurance in the facility operating record, and notify the State Director. (4) If a corporate guarantor no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must, within 90 days following the close of the guarantor's fiscal year, obtain alternative assurance, place evidence of the alternate assurance in the facility operating record, and notify the State Director. If the owner or operator fails to provide alternate financial assurance within the 90-day period, the guarantor must provide that alternate assurance within 120 days following the close of the guarantor's fiscal year, obtain alternative assurance, place evidence of the alternate assurance in the facility operating record, and notify the State Director. (5) The owner or operator is no longer required to submit the items specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section when: (i) The owner or operator substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or (ii) The owner or operator is released from the requirements of this section in accordance with ยง258.71(b), ยง258.72(b), or ยง258.73(b). * * * * * PART 264_STANDARDS FOR OWNERS OR OPERATORS OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, STORAGE, AND DISPOSAL FACILITIES 1. The authority citation for part 264 continues to read as follows:
