FR940712-2-00095 FR940712-2-00065 [Release No. 34&hyph;34317; File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;21] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change by the Pacific Stock Exchange, Incorporated, Relating to a One Hundred Twenty (120) Day Extension of Municipal Bond Trading Pilot Program July 5, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on July 1, 1994, the Pacific Stock Exchange Incorporated (``PSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the Exchange. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons, and simultaneously publishing an order granting accelerated approval of the proposed rule change. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Pacific Stock Exchange Incorporated (``PSE'' or ``Exchange'') proposes to extend the municipal bond trading pilot program for an additional 120 days until November 2, 1994. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change On March 7, 1994, the Commission approved an Exchange proposal to establish new rules for the listing and trading of municipal securities on the Exchange. 1 The Commission approved the pilot for an interim period of 120 days through July 5, 1994. 2 The Exchange is now requesting a 120-day extension of the pilot in order to provide additional time for evaluation of the program. 1 See Exchange Act Release No. 33721 (March 7, 1994), 59 FR 11636 (March 11, 1994) (granting temporary accelerated approval to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;05). 2 Id. , 59 FR at 11638. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it will promote just and equitable principles of trade, foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling and processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, and, in general will contribute to the protection of investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organizations Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Exchange requests that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after publication of the notice in the Federal Register . PSE believes it appropriate to approve the proposed rule change so that it may have time to evaluate its program for listing qualified municipal securities. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change extending the PSE pilot program is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the PSE and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6, and the rules and regulations thereunder. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of the notice of filing thereof in that PSE requires additional time to evaluate the pilot before it can file a request for permanent approval of the listing of municipal securities. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;21 and should be submitted by August 2, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change be, and hereby is, approved through November 2, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16824 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
