FR940602-0-00012 FR940602-0-00002 IV. Regulatory Flexibility Act It is certified that this proposal will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Consequently, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 574 Administrative practice and procedure, Holding companies, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations, Securities. Accordingly, the Office of Thrift Supervision hereby amends part 574, subchapter D, chapter V, title 12, Code of Federal Regulations as set forth below: PART 574_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 574 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1467a, 1817, 1831i. 2. Section 574.6 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §574.6 Procedural requirements. (a) Form of application or notice. An application, notice, or informational filing required by §574.3 of this part shall be filed on the Application/Information Filing H&hyph;(e) XXXX form. (As specified in the form's instructions, the blank line following the H&hyph;(e) should be filled in by applicants with the appropriate ``1'', ``1&hyph;S'', ``2'', ``3'', or ``4'' depending on the type of application.) The specific application requirements for each type of filing are indicated on the form. An acquiror may request confidential treatment of portions of an application or notice only by complying with the requirements of paragraph (f) of this section. In the case of an application involving a merger (including a merger with an interim association) the Application/Information Filing H&hyph;(e) XXXX form shall be used in lieu of an application that otherwise would be required for such merger under §§546.2, 552.13, and 563.22 of this chapter. (1) H&hyph;(e)1. This application type shall be filed under §574.3(a) of this part by a company, other than a savings and loan holding company, for approval to acquire direct or indirect control of one savings association. (2) H&hyph;(e)1&hyph;S. This application type shall be filed under §574.3(a) of this part by a savings association for approval to reorganize into a holding company structure, provided that the proposed transaction satisfies each of the conditions for automatic approval specified in §574.7 (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this part. (3) H&hyph;(e)2. (i) This application type shall be filed under §574.3(a) of this part: (A) By a savings and loan holding company for approval to acquire and hold separately one or more savings associations; (B) By any other company for approval to acquire and hold separately more than one savings association; (C) By a savings and loan holding company for approval of an acquisition of shares issued by a savings association in a qualified stock issuance pursuant to §574.8 of this part; or (D) By any director, officer, or any individual who owns, controls, or holds with power to vote (or holds proxies representing) more than 25 percent of the voting shares of a savings and loan holding company for approval of an acquisition of one or more savings associations. (ii) The OTS may determine as a general matter or on a case-by-case basis not to require application information not relevant to transactions described in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) (C) and (D) of this section. * * * * * 3. Section 574.7 is amended by revising the section heading and paragraph (c) to read as follows: §574.7 Determination by the OTS. * * * * * (c) Application criteria. (1) The OTS may deny an application by a company or certain persons, described in paragraph (b) of this section, affiliated with a savings and loan holding company, to acquire control of a savings association, or by a savings and loan holding company to acquire a qualified stock issuance pursuant to §574.8 of this part: (i) If the OTS finds that the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the acquiror and association involved would be detrimental to the association or the insurance risk of the SAIF or BIF; or (ii) If the acquiror fails or refuses to furnish information requested by the OTS. (2) Consideration of the managerial resources of a company or savings association shall include consideration of the competence, experience, and integrity of the officers, directors, and controlling shareholders of the company or association. In connection with the applications filed pursuant to §§574.6 (a)(3) and (a)(4), and 574.8 of this part, the OTS will also consider the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Moreover, the OTS shall not approve any proposed acquisition: (i) Which would result in a monopoly, or which would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the savings and loan business in any part of the United States; (ii) The effect of which on any section of the country may be substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the OTS finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed acquisition are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the acquisition in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served; (iii) If the company fails to provide adequate assurances to the OTS that the company will make available to the OTS such information on the operations or activities of the company, and any affiliate of the company, as the OTS determines to be appropriate to determine and enforce compliance with the Home Owners' Loan Act; or (iv) In the case of an application by a foreign bank, if the foreign bank is not subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by the appropriate authorities in the home country of the foreign bank. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2)(iv), ``comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by the appropriate authorities'' shall be determined using the standards set forth at 12 CFR 211.24(c)(1)(ii). * * * * * Dated: March 1, 1994. By the Office of Thrift Supervision. Jonathan L. Fiechter, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13400 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6720&hyph;01&hyph;P
