FR941013-1-00075 FR941013-1-00010 F. Selection of Regulatory Alternatives 1. Regulatory Alternatives for Existing Sources Different regulatory alternatives for control of organic HAP emissions from existing sources at off-site waste and recovery operations facilities were defined. One regulatory alternative was defined by combining the MACT floor determinations for each of the five emission point types (labeled ``Regulatory Alternative 1''). Four additional regulatory alternatives for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category were defined which would provide increasingly greater amounts of total organic HAP emission reduction from the baseline level of organic HAP emissions (labeled ``Regulatory Alternative 2'' through ``Regulatory Alternative 5''). Additional organic HAP emission control requirements were added to the controls defined for Regulatory Alternative 1 in order of increasing emission control incremental cost effectiveness. Regulatory Alternative 1 requires application of air emission controls on tanks, containers, and treatment processes managing waste or recoverable material with a VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 100 ppmw as determined at the point of where the material first enters the facility. For tank and container emission points, Regulatory Alternative 1 requires use of a cover on each unit. For process vent emission points, Regulatory Alternative 1 requires connecting the process vent to a control device that reduces organic HAP emissions by 95 percent. For land disposal unit emission points, Regulatory Alternative 1 requires treatment of the wastes prior to disposal to reduce the waste VOHAP concentration to less than 100 ppmw. For equipment leak emission points, Regulatory Alternative 1 requires for equipment handling waste or recoverable material streams with a total organic HAP concentration equal to or greater than 10 percent implementation of a leak detection and repair (LDAR) program and certain equipment modifications. The requirements of the LDAR program and equipment modifications are consistent with the existing NSPS process equipment leak standards promulgated by the EPA under CAA section 111 (i.e., 40 CFR 60 subparts VV, GG, and KK) and for certain NESHAP process equipment leak standards promulgated under CAA section 112 (i.e., 40 CFR 61 subpart V). Regulatory Alternative 2 adds additional control requirements for containers. The control requirements for the other emission points remain the same as for Regulatory Alternative 1. In addition to using covers on containers, Regulatory Alternative 2 requires use of submerged fill when wastes or recoverable materials are transferred into containers by pumping. Regulatory Alternative 3 adds additional control requirements for tanks. The control requirements for the other emission points remain the same as for Regulatory Alternative 2. Tanks in which the organic HAP vapor pressure of the waste or recoverable material in the tank is equal to or greater than 5.2 kPa (approximately 0.75 psi) are required to use a cover and be vented to a control device that reduces organic HAP emissions by 95 percent. Tanks in which the organic HAP vapor pressure of the waste or recoverable material in the tank is less than 5.2 kPa use a cover without additional controls (i.e., a cover only without being vented to a control device). Regulatory Alternative 4 changes the LDAR program requirements for the equipment leak emission point category. The control requirements for the other emission points remain the same as for Regulatory Alternative 3. For Regulatory Alternative 4, the LDAR program would be conducted in accordance with procedures consistent with the Hazardous Organic NESHAP (HON) promulgated by the EPA under 40 CFR 63 subpart H.
