FR941230-1-00032 FR941230-1-00004 (B) Functionally and integrally related. Generally, a facility is not functionally and integrally related to a primary facility for this purpose if it is not a necessary component of the primary facility. Examples of facilities that are typically functionally and integrally related to other facilities in a manner that results in significant economic benefits are parking lots at airports, stadiums, and shopping centers, and utility and other infrastructure improvements for a new development, stadium, or airport. On the other hand, a parking lot in a large urban business district where there are many separate businesses typically does not produce significant benefits to any particular person. (ii) Priority rights or other preferential benefits. Use under an arrangement that conveys priority rights or other preferential benefits is not use on the same basis as the general public. Arrangements for a term of more than one month generally convey preferential benefits. Arrangements providing for use that is available to the general public at no charge or on the basis of rates that are generally applicable and uniformly applied do not convey priority rights or other preferential benefits. For this purpose, rates may be treated as generally applicable and uniformly applied even if_ (A) Different rates apply to different classes of users, such as volume purchasers, if the differences in rates are customary and reasonable; (B) Users are permitted to reserve short-term or incidental use in advance; (C) Existing users, each using less than 1 percent of a financed facility, possess rights of first refusal to renew their use at generally applicable, fair market value rates that are in effect at the time of renewal; and (D) A specially negotiated arrangement is entered into, but only if the user is prohibited by federal law from paying the generally applicable rates, and the terms of the arrangement are as comparable as reasonably possible to the generally applicable rates. (4) Special rules for system improvements. For improvements to existing public utility or infrastructure systems such as roads or sewers, but not discrete structures such as parking facilities ( system improvements ), whether the use of a system improvement is general public use may be determined by reference to the system as a whole if the system improvement is insubstantial, based either on aggregate cost or scope relative to the system as a whole within the jurisdiction of the issuer. Except in the case of improvements to roads, a system improvement is insubstantial for this purpose if the cost of the system improvement is less than 5 percent of the cost of the system as a whole. In addition, in determining whether the use of a system improvement by the general public is insubstantial, paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section (relating to use related to other facilities) does not apply. (5) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (e): Example 1. Governmentally owned and operated hotel. State C issues its bonds to purchase land and construct a hotel for use by the general public (that is, tourists, visitors, business travelers, etc.). The bond documents provide that C will own and operate the project for the period required to redeem the bonds. Use of the hotel by hotel guests who are travelling in connection with trades or businesses of nongovernmental persons is not a private business use of the hotel by these persons because it is general public use. Example 2. Toll road. State D issues its bonds to finance the construction of a toll road and the cost of erecting related facilities such as gasoline service stations and restaurants. These related facilities represent less than 10 percent of the total cost of the project and are to be leased or sold to nongovernmental persons. The road is to be owned and operated by D. The bonds do not satisfy the private business use test since less than 10 percent of the proceeds is to be used, directly or indirectly, in the trades or businesses of nongovernmental persons. The fact that vehicles owned by nongovernmental persons engaged in their trades or businesses may use the road in common with, or as a part of, the general public, is not material. Example 3. Contract with United States. G, a sewage collection and treatment district, operates facilities that were financed with its bonds. F, an agency of the United States, has a base located within G. Approximately 20 percent of G's facilities are used to treat sewage produced by F under a contract under which G uses its best efforts to charge F as closely as possible the same amount for its use of G's services as its other customers pay for the same amount of services, although those other customers pay for services based on standard district charges and tax levies. The use of G's facilities by F is general public use.
