FR941216-2-00038 FR941216-2-00024 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Department of the Air Force Notice of Intent To Prepare Environmental Impact Statement for the Conversion of F&hyph;15 Fighter Aircraft at Dobbins AFB, Marietta, Georgia, to B&hyph;1B Bomber Aircraft at Robins AFB, Warner Robins, GA The United States Air Force and the Air National Guard are announcing their intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to analyze the proposed action regarding the conversion of F&hyph;15 fighter aircraft at Dobbins AFB, Marietta, GA to B&hyph;1B bomber aircraft at Robins AFB, Warner Robins, GA. This will be known as the Robins B&hyph;1B EIS. The Air National Guard also proposes to modify training airspace that services the Savannah Combat Readiness Training Center (CRTC) area. Existing charted airspace which includes the Quick Thrust Military Operations Areas (MOAs), Fort Stewart MOAs, Gator MOAs, would be modified and named Coastal MOA. Restricted Area R&hyph;3007 would also be modified. These proposed modifications are primarily designed to accommodate realistic training requirements for military fighter units including Air Force, Navy and Marines and would also satisfy realistic training requirements of the B&hyph;1B. The proposed actions under consideration would address the conversion of the F&hyph;15 aircraft to B&hyph;1B aircraft and the resultant potential environmental impacts at both sites, the airspace training requirements for the B&hyph;1B in the region, and the modification of training airspace servicing the Savannah CRTC. The Air Force and Air National Guard are planning to conduct a series of Scoping meetings on the following dates and times at the indicated locations: 1. A. L. Burruss Auditorium, Southern College of Technology, Marietta, Georgia, January 5, 1995, 7:00 PM. 2. Wellston Center, 155 Maple Street, Warner Robins, Georgia, January 10 and 11, 1995, 7:00 PM 3. Altamaha Technical Institute Auditorium, Jesup, Georgia, January 12, 1995, 7:00 PM. The purpose of these meetings is to present information concerning the proposed actions and alternatives under consideration and to solicit public input with respect to issues to be addressed, effort to be expended, and alternatives that should be addressed in the EIS. Questions or clarifications concerning the proposal or any other information presented will be answered as they relate to the scope of the effort anticipated. The Scoping meetings will include opportunities for clarification of the proposal and statements from representatives of government agencies and the public. To ensure the maximum opportunity for public participation, initial presentations and questions by individuals will be limited to a maximum of five minutes until all those desiring an opportunity to speak have been accommodated. Additional presentations and questions will be accepted at the end of the meeting. Submission of written comments and questions will be accepted. Submission of written comments is encouraged but is not required. Written comments and questions of any length submitted at the meeting or during the scoping period will be considered in their entirety and will carry the same weight as oral comment. To ensure the Air Force and the Air National Guard have sufficient time to consider public input on issues and alternatives in the preparation of the Draft EIS, comments should be submitted to the address below by February 1, 1995. The Air Force and Air National Guard will accept comments at the address below at any time during the environmental impact analysis process. For further information concerning the preparation of the EIS for the Robins B&hyph;1B EIS, or to provide written comment, contact: Program Manager, Robins B&hyph;1 EIS, Air National Guard Readiness Center, ANGRC/CEVP, 3500 Fetchet Avenue, Andrews Air Force Base, MD 20331&hyph;5157. Patsy J. Conner, Air Force Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30979 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3910&hyph;01&hyph;P
