FR940527-1-00057 FR940527-1-00014 Rural-Density/Adjacent_A wage index in which each Statewide rural area is divided into as many as 4 areas depending on the adjacent/non-adjacent status of its non-MSA counties and whether county population densities are greater or less than 35 persons per square mile. As a basis of comparison for these alternatives, we also reviewed three variations of the current MSA-based wage index. Current MSA-based Indexes Geographic_The FY 1994 hospital wage index without the effects of geographic reclassification. Reclassification_The actual FY 1994 hospital wage index after reclassification. Estimated FY 1995_The FY 1994 hospital wage index revised to include an estimate of the effects of geographic reclassification in FY 1995 (based on FY 1990 data). We used three basic criteria to analyze each of the alternatives: (1) Wage Conformity Within Labor Markets. This criterion assesses the extent to which a wage index conforms to a hospital's own relative wage level. It also evaluates the extent to which a hospital's wages are aberrant for its labor market area (that is, are more than one standard deviation above the labor market wage index); (2) Wage Index Conformity Across Labor Markets (Boundary Problems). This criterion measures the extent to which the new labor market areas reflect uniform labor market conditions as indicated by the degree of similarity in the hospital wage rates across labor market areas. The boundaries should minimize inequitable treatment, that is, cases in which hospitals facing similar labor costs are grouped into different labor markets. (3) Distributional Equity Improvement. This criterion examines the impact of a labor market option to determine its effects on the distribution of hospital payments, and the extent to which the hospitals that would gain and lose under various proposals are already doing well or poorly under the current system. Redistribution of payments should fairly compensate both high-wage hospitals and low-wage hospitals. None of the options we initially reviewed were a significant improvement over the current reclassified wage index in terms of wage conformity within labor markets, wage conformity across labor markets, or distributional equity improvement. The following tables summarize our major results: Wage Conformity Within Labor Markets Table A displays the number of hospitals for which the difference between the area wage index value for a given alternative and the hospital's own relative wage index value (determined by dividing the hospital's average hourly wage by the national average hourly wage) is greater than .08 either positive or negative. A .08 difference in the wage index was selected as it represents approximately a $200 difference in payments per case. For each wage index option, the Lose and Gain columns show the number of hospitals for whom the difference represents a given decrease or increase in wage index value. Table B displays the number of hospitals whose wage index values are more than 108 percent above their labor market wage index value (that is, one standard deviation greater).
