FR940413-2-00144 FR940413-2-00070 C. Regulation of Municipal Securities Underwritings It appears that ``pay to play'' practices are considered by many municipal securities dealers to be an ordinary cost associated with obtaining municipal underwriting business. 30 The widespread perception of such practices calls into question the integrity of the municipal securities market and the business practices some municipal underwriters utilize in order to obtain underwriting contracts. Several reports have suggested that the greatest cost of improper contributions is the cost to investors, taxpayers, and the public at large. 31 30 ``Illegal Payments Mar the Muni Market,'' The Wall Street Journal, (May 5, 1993), at C1. 31 ``Bond Buyers' Gain, Taxpayers' Loss,'' New York Times , (September 5, 1993), at 11; ``The Trouble With Munis, The Market is Sound, But Abuses Hurt Both Investors and Taxpayers,'' Business Week , (September 6, 1993), at 44. As a result of reports alleging improper payments regarding the New Jersey Turnpike refunding, in May 1993, Congress requested the Commission, the MSRB, and the National Association of Securities Dealers (``NASD'') to review the adequacy of regulation and oversight of the municipal securities market. 32 32 Letter from The Honorable John D. Dingell, Chairman, Committee on Energy and Commerce, United States House of Representatives, and The Honorable Edward J. Markey, Chairman, Subcommittee on Energy and Commerce, United States House of Representatives, to Mary L. Schapiro, Acting Chairman, Commission, Christopher A. Taylor, Executive Director, MSRB, and Joseph R. Hardiman, President and Chief Executive officer, NASD (May 24, 1993). This culminated in the Division's Municipal Securities Report, 33 and Congressional hearings on the municipal securities market held on September 9, 1993. The Municipal Securities Report recommended that ``pay to play'' contributions be addressed promptly. 34 The Staff stated that an MSRB proposal to require disclosure of political contributions and limiting campaign contributions for the purpose of obtaining underwriting business represented a positive first step to address the misuse of political contributions. 35 33 Supra note 7. 34 The Commission's Chairman Arthur Levitt testified that, ``[w]hile the Commission remains confident of the strength and effectiveness of the municipal securities market, we also share the Subcommittee's concern that investor confidence in its integrity may have been impaired as a result of recent serious allegations of abusive practices.'' Testimony of Arthur Levitt, Chairman, Commission, Concerning the State of the Municipal Securities Market, Before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance, Committee on Energy and Commerce, United States House of Representatives (September 9, 1993). 35 Municipal Securities Report, supra note 7, at 33. The MSRB's efforts to examine the role of political contributions in the underwriting process pre-date recent public interest in the issue. In August 1991, the MSRB published a notice expressing concern that the process of selecting an underwriting team should not be influenced by political contributions, and encouraged underwriters, and state and local governments to maintain the integrity of the underwriter selection process. 36 In May 1993, the MSRB issued a press release noting continued concern by the MSRB, industry members, and others regarding political contributions. 37 36 See MSRB Reports, Vol. 11, No. 3, (September 1991) at 11. 37 See MSRB Reports, Vol. 13, No. 3, (June 1993) at 15. In August 1993, the MSRB published for comment draft rule G&hyph;37 (``August 1993 draft rule''). 38 Although the majority of commentators supported the MSRB proposal, none gave unqualified support. After considering the commentators' concerns and suggestions at its November and December 1993 meetings, the MSRB proposed the instant rule change. 38 The draft proposal would have (1) prohibited brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers and their associated persons from making political contributions directly or indirectly, to officials of issuers for the purpose of obtaining or retaining municipal securities business, and (2) required dealers and their associated persons to disclose, for a four-year period, all political contributions to officials of such issuers with whom they have done business.
