FR940902-2-00147 FR940902-2-00060 Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) 18 in that the proposal is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and protect investors and the public interest. Specifically, the Commission finds that the proposal may serve to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market by encouraging specialist units to maintain tight markets in selected options classes in order to attract order flow to the Exchange. The Commission believes the proposed rule change is a reasonable attempt by the Phlx to enhance the ability of specialist units to compete for order flow in the environment of multiply-traded options classes. In addition, the protection of investors and the public interest is maintained because of the procedures being adopted by the Exchange which require the specialist units to satisfy specific conditions to qualify for the Enhanced Parity Split. Further, the proposed rule change provides that the Enhanced Parity Split cannot disadvantage a public customer order that is on parity with a specialist unit. 19 18 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 19 See Amendment No. 2, supra note 6. As the Commission stated in the new Unit Enhanced Split Order, the Commission agrees with the Exchange that in order to attract order flow to the Exchange, the Phlx needs to be able to attract and retain well capitalized specialist units that are willing to trade the options classes traded on the Exchange. Additionally, the Commission disagrees with the commenter that the proposed rule change will disadvantage public customers. On the contrary, the proposed rule change eliminates any direct injury to public customers by providing that customers orders on parity may not receive a smaller participation than any other crowd participant, including the specialist. Furthermore, because the proposal may serve to add liquidity to the market by encouraging specialist units to maintain tight markets in order to attract order flow to the Exchange, the Commission believes that public customers could benefit from the proposed rule change. 20 Accordingly, the Commission believes there is no evidence to support a conclusion that the proposed rule change will disadvantage public customers. 20 The Commission notes that contrary to the commenter's contention, ROTs may in fact benefit from the Enhanced Parity Split if specialists are successful in attracting order flow to the Exchange. The Commission also acknowledges that specialist have responsibilities that ROTs do not have and that these responsibilities have certain costs associated with them, such as the staff costs associated with continually updating and disseminating quotes. As a result, the Commission believes it is reasonable for the Exchange to grant certain advantages, such as the Enhanced Parity Split, to specialists in order to attract and retain well capitalized specialists at the Exchange. Accordingly, as long as these advantages do no unreasonably restrain competition and do not harm investors, the Commission believes that the granting of such benefits to specialists is within the business judgment of the Exchange. Therefore, even though the proposed rule change could arguably have some negative impact on ROTs, for the reasons stated above, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the Act. Furthermore, the Commission believes that: (1) the review procedures proposed by the Exchange, as discussed above, adequately ensure that only specialists satisfying the conditions set forth in the proposed rule change receive the benefit of the Enhanced Parity Split; and (2) in cases where a specialist is found to no longer be eligible for the Enhanced Parity Split, the appeals procedures proposed by the Exchange adequately protect the due process rights of such specialists. The Commission believes that these criteria balance the competing interests of the Exchange and the specialists by ensuring regular review of specialist performance and that specialists' due process rights are protected in cases where the Subcommittee makes a determination that the Enhanced Specialist Split should be denied. Moreover, the proposal is being approved on a one-year pilot basis. Accordingly, prior to granting an extension or permanent approval of the pilot program, the Commission will be able to review the operation of the rule and require the Exchange to make any changes necessary to ensure that competition is not being unnecessarily restrained and that investors are not being harmed. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register . Specifically, the Commission believes that Amendment No. 1 strengthens the proposal in several ways. By requiring specialists to meet with the Subcommittee within five days after receipt of a notice from the Subcommittee, the specialist is provided with time in which to prepare a response to the claims of substandard performance raised by the Subcommittee. Similarly, by clarifying that all determinations made pursuant to Rule 509 are appealable pursuant to the procedures in the Exchange's by-laws, the Commission believes that the proposal does not raise any significant due process concerns.
