FR940228-1-00059 FR940228-1-00007 (iii) In the interest of time, the ALJ may issue an oral decision to be followed by a written decision. (iv) In those cases where the ALJ has stayed an exclusion after a preliminary hearing, a full hearing must be held and a decision rendered by the ALJ within 6 months. If, for any reason, the request for a full hearing before the ALJ is withdrawn or dismissed, the exclusion for the period that has not been served will be effective 5 days after the notice of the withdrawal or dismissal is received in the OIG headquarters. (4) The preliminary hearing decision is not appealable or subject to further administrative or judicial review. (5) A practitioner or other person found at the preliminary hearing not to place program beneficiaries at serious risk, but later determined to have been properly excluded from program participation after a full hearing before an ALJ, is not entitled to have the exclusion stayed further during an appeal to the DAB. Exclusions in such instances will be effective 5 days after receipt of the ALJ decision in the OIG headquarters. (6)(i) After notice of a timely request for a preliminary hearing, the OIG may determine that the practitioner's or other person's continued program participation during the appeal before the ALJ will not program beneficiaries at serious risk and waive the preliminary hearing. Under these circumstances, the exclusion will be stayed pending the decision of the ALJ after a full hearing. The hearing must be held, and a decision reached, within 6 months. (ii) If the OIG decides to waive the preliminary hearing, the request for the preliminary hearing will be considered a request for a hearing before the ALJ in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. (b) Right to administrative review. (1) A practitioner of other person dissatisfied with an OIG determination, or an exclusion that results from a determination not being made within 120 days, is entitled to appeal such sanction in accordance with part 1005 of this chapter. (2) Due to the 120-day statutory requirement specified in ยง1004.100(e), the following limitations apply_ (i) The period of time for submitting additional information will not be extended. (ii) Any material received by the HHS after the 30-day period allowed will not be considered by the ALJ or the DAB. (3) The OIG's determination continues in effect unless reversed by a hearing. (c) Rights to judicial review. Any practitioner or other person dissatisfied with a final decision of the Secretary may file a civil action in accordance with the provisions of section 205(g) of the Act. Dated: October 18, 1993. Bryan B. Mitchell, Principal Deputy Inspector General. Approved: December 2, 1993. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4321 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4150&hyph;04&hyph;M
