FR940223-0-00019 FR940223-0-00012 Analysis of the Rulemaking Record The rulemaking record indicated that the Tailored Clothing Rule no longer appears to be useful or justified. Since the Rule was promulgated, it does not appear that the agency has ever relied on the Rule in a law enforcement matter, or that any litigant has ever made use of it in a reported private action. Moreover, no industry members responded to the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to urge retention of the Rule. Repeal would also resolve the inconsistency between the Rule and the Fred Meyer Guides. The Fred Meyer Guides encourage but do not require sellers to have a written plan for promotional allowances. 1 The Robinson-Patman Act also does not require sellers to have a written plan. The Tailored Clothing Rule, on the other hand, states that promotional payments ``will be presumed not to have been made available on proportionately equal terms'' unless they are made available under a written plan. 2 1 See 16 CFR 240.8 (``If there are many competing customers to be considered or if the plan is complex, the seller would be well advised to put the plan in writing.'') 2 16 CFR 412.6. Although this dichotomy creates no inconsistent legal obligations, there is a significant policy discrepancy in that the tailored clothing industry is treated differently from other industries. Since the Commission's post-enactment experience has not confirmed the relevance or utility of treating this industry differently, this is an additional reason for repeal of the Rule. Final Regulatory Analysis The following discussion constitutes the Commission's Final Regulatory Analysis of the proposed repeal of the Rule, as called for by the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., and by section 22 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 57b&hyph;3. A description of the reasons why action is being considered and the objectives of and legal basis for the repeal of the Rule have been explained in prior parts of this Statement of Basis and Purpose. Repeal of the Rule would appear to have little or no effect on small business. Because it does not appear that the Rule is currently relied upon, its repeal should not have significant effects on business in general, and therefore should not have any significant effects on small businesses in particular. The Tailored Clothing Rule contains no information collection or recordkeeping requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;18. Repeal of the Rule would remove any other compliance requirements that are associated with the Rule, such as the costs associated with becoming familiar with its provisions. The only significant alternative to repeal of the Rule is to take no action and preserve the Rule in its present form. Due to the subsequent publication of the Fred Meyer Guides, however, the Rule no longer serves a meaningful purpose. Under these circumstances, retaining the Rule would run counter to the goal of achieving efficiencies by repealing rules that are no longer useful. The benefits of repealing this Rule include removal of an unnecessary provision from the Code of Federal Regulations, the increased efficiency of law enforcement when uniform standards are applicable, and the increased respect for the law that may be anticipated when regulations are current and relevant. The Commission believes that the above benefits are sufficient to support its determination to rescind this Rule. List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 412 Advertising, Clothing, Promotional allowances, Trade practices, Unfair methods of competition. PART 412_[REMOVED] Accordingly, under the authority of 15 U.S.C. 41 et seq. and 15 U.S.C. 13, title 16, chapter I, of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended by removing part 412. By direction of the Commission. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4040 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
