FR940304-1-00112 FR940304-1-00014 The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association also commented that two-stage or modulating burners reduce the energy efficiency of direct heating equipment. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 6). The Department agrees with the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association's comment. When incorporated into a typical gravity or forced-air direct heater, i.e., heaters that are currently being manufactured, two-stage and modulating burners actually reduce the energy efficiency of direct heating equipment. Two-stage and modulating burners which are currently manufactured regulate the gas flow but not the air flow. Excess air is induced at lower gas-flow rates, resulting in lower combustion efficiencies when compared to a normal or maximum gas flow rate. Because of this, typical heaters equipped with two-stage or modulating burners will always have a lower energy efficiency, as measured by the DOE test procedure, than heaters equipped with single-stage burners. The Department is not aware of any two-stage or modulating burners that regulate both the gas and air flow. The Department believes however, that it is possible to regulate the air flow being drawn into a two-stage or modulating burner if the direct heater is also equipped with a two-speed or variable-speed combustion fan, i.e., induced or forced draft system. With a multi-speed combustion fan, a low fan speed can be used to reduce the excess air that would normally occur at low gas flow rates. Thus, the steady-state efficiency that occurs at the high gas flow rate of a two-stage or modulating burner can be maintained at its lower gas flow rate. Since currently manufactured two-stage and modulating burners actually reduce energy efficiency in typical direct heating equipment, DOE is considering them as a design option only if they are incorporated into a heater already equipped with a multiple-speed induced or forced draft combustion system. The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy said that DOE should consider two-speed or variable-speed blowers. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 3). The practical application of two-speed or variable-speed blowers is with two-stage or modulating burners. When heating loads are low, both the burner rate and the blower speed could be reduced. This would prevent cycling of the unit and reduce large fluctuations in room temperature. In addition, overall energy consumption could be reduced. As with two-stage and modulating burners, two-speed and variable-speed blowers will also be considered by the Department only on heaters already equipped with a multiple-speed induced or forced draft combustion system. This is because two-stage or modulating operation can improve system efficiency only if coupled with a device, i.e., a multi-speed combustion system that can regulate the air flow rate into a two-stage or modulating burner. The North Carolina Public Service Co. suggested that DOE consider whether blowers can be used in direct heating equipment with self-generating pilots. (North Carolina Public Service Co., No. 74 at 5). It is not clear to what North Carolina Public Service is referring, as it fails to define clearly in its comment which blower it is discussing and what a self-generating pilot is. A blower could be interpreted as either an air circulation fan or an induced or power draft fan. The self-generating pilot is probably some type of electronic ignition device. The Department has evaluated all of the above-mentioned design options and has determined that blowers of any type can be used with electronic ignition systems. The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association commented that for a replacement unit incorporating an increased heat exchanger surface area, condensate must be avoided in the existing vent system. This requirement results in limiting the combustion efficiency to 83 percent. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, 40 at 7). The Department agrees with the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association's comment and considered venting issues in the analysis. Design options that increased the combustion efficiency over 83 percent require an additional installation charge to account for venting low-temperature flue gases and draining condensate. Other comments. The Southern Gas Association, Energen, and the Atlanta Gas Light Company recommended baseline units for direct heating equipment. (Southern Gas Association, No. 4 at 8; Energen, No. 12 at 15,16; Atlanta Gas Light Company, No. 29 at 4). The Department considered these comments regarding baseline units in the Engineering Analysis. Baseline unit efficiency levels for each of the direct heating product classes have been set at the standard levels established by the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act. Of the units currently produced, the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act minimum efficiency standards are representative of the efficiency levels that presently exist for most models. Minnegasco said that installation and maintenance expenses for direct heating products are important, and that DOE must consider them. (Minnegasco, No. 83 at 3).
