FR940617-0-00125 FR940617-0-00026 3. Certification Test Fuel EPA is adopting the certification test fuel specifications as proposed. This is because the most common diesel fuel available to nonroad engines will have a higher sulfur content than that required for highway CI engines. Furthermore, to ensure that no commercially available fuel is inadvertently excluded by this rule, EPA has broadened the band of fuel sulfur content to include all fuels ranging from greater than .05 percent to .5 percent fuel sulfur. However, as a provision of harmonizing with California emission standards, and explained below, EPA will allow engine manufacturers the option to use test fuel specified by California, which contains lower sulfur content. California's particulate standard is predicated on the use of low sulfur fuel, which is the State-wide fuel standard for both nonroad and highway engines. Therefore, the particulate standard EPA is adopting is likewise predicated on the use of low sulfur fuel. However, EPA cannot require testing on a fuel that is not widely available. To compensate for the effect of sulfur on particulate emissions, EPA is permitting two options for demonstrating compliance with those standards. First, EPA will allow testing on the low sulfur California-specified test fuel for compliance with all emission standards because sulfur content does not impact HC, CO or NO X emissions. Second, when testing is conducted with the higher sulfur federal certification fuel, the particulate measurement may be adjusted by using the following equation to reflect the effects of higher sulfur content of the fuel on particulate emissions: PM adj = PM ^ [BSFC * 0.0917 *(FSF ^ USLF CA )] Where: PM adj = adjusted measured PM level [g/Kw-hr] PM = measured weighted PM level [g/Kw-hr] BSFC = measured brake specific fuel consumption [G/Kw-hr] FSF = fuel sulfur weight fraction USLF CA = upper sulfur level weight fraction of California specification. 13 13 Should European requirements be finalized using a different fuel sulfur level but maintaining the same PM emission standards as those adopted in this rule and allowing no adjustment for fuel sulfur content, EPA will consider revising its regulations to replace the upper sulfur level weight fractions from the California specification (that is, USLF CA ) with the upper sulfur level weight fraction from the final European test fuel specification (that is, USLF eu ). This adjustment only applies to engines with no exhaust gas aftertreatment. No adjustment is provided for engines with exhaust gas aftertreatment. The test fuel option selected by the manufacturer will not affect enforcement testing for the HC, CO, NO X and smoke standards. EPA may select either fuel, without constraints, for confirmatory or other compliance testing for all of the standards, except particulate. For particulate testing, EPA's options are constrained somewhat by the manufacturer's choice of test fuel. If a manufacturer chooses to test using low sulfur California test fuel, EPA would not use higher sulfur, with the associated adjustment factor, for official enforcement of the particulate standard. However, if a manufacturer chooses to test using the higher sulfur fuel, EPA will presume the manufacturer accepts the validity of the adjustment factor, in which case EPA could choose to do a particulate enforcement test using either the higher sulfur fuel with adjustment or the low sulfur fuel without adjustment. This issue is discussed further in section VI. I. below. 4. Certification Test Engine Selection EPA has revised the proposed certification test engine selection criteria. The selection of an engine configuration within an engine family will be based on the most fuel injected per stroke of an injector at maximum power. 5. Labeling of Engines From Each Engine Family EPA is adopting the proposed requirement to label each engine; some minor modifications have been made to the proposal. 6. Definition of ``New'' EPA has added a definition of ``new'' as it pertains to nonroad engines, vehicles and equipment. 7. Other Requirements EPA is adopting as proposed: (a) The requirement to obtain a federal certificate for each engine family every model year; (b) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements; (c) Provisions for EPA confirmatory testing with minor technical revisions; and (d) The averaging, banking and trading provisions. 8. Fees As discussed in the NPRM for this rulemaking, EPA is authorized under section 217 of the CAA to establish fees to recover compliance program costs associated with sections 206 and 207. EPA will propose to establish fees for today's nonroad compliance program at some future time, after associated costs are determined. E. Enforcement 1. Prohibited Acts EPA is adopting provisions that will prohibit introducing engines into commerce in the U.S. which are not covered by a certificate of conformity issued by EPA. Additionally it will be a prohibited act to use a regulated but uncertified nonroad engine in nonroad vehicles or equipment. 2. Selective Enforcement Auditing (SEA) With the exception of some revisions described below, the SEA program is being adopted as proposed. The large nonroad CI engine SEA program is an emission compliance program for new production nonroad engines and is authorized by CAA section 213. With this action EPA may issue a SEA test order for any engine family for which EPA has issued a certificate of conformity. 3. Emission Defect Warranty EPA is adopting emission design and defect warranty requirements as proposed. Nonroad engine manufacturers will be required to warrant emission related components for a period of five years or 3,000 hours from the date of purchase by the ultimate purchaser. This warranty will help ensure the manufacturing of a durable emission system and will require the manufacturer to cover all repairs and replacements involving emission related components, at no cost to the ultimate purchaser, during the warranty period. 4. Tampering Prohibitions EPA is adopting as proposed prohibitions against tampering with nonroad engines. Nonroad tampering provisions will help ensure that in-use engines remain in certified configurations and continue to comply with emission standards. All persons, will be prohibited from removing or rendering inoperative any device or element of design installed on or in a nonroad engine. The manufacturing, sale and installation of a part or component intended for use with a nonroad engine, where a principal effect of the part or component is to bypass, defeat, or render inoperative a device or element of design of the nonroad engine will also be prohibited. 5. Importation Restrictions
