FR940525-0-00006 FR940525-0-00001 (a) Application. Application for Certificate of Privilege by a Special Purpose Shipper shall be made on forms furnished by the committee. Each application may contain, but need not be limited to, the name and address of each handler; a list of certified organic citrus fruit growers, including addresses; a list of receivers; the quantity and variety of citrus to be shipped; a certification to the Secretary of Agriculture and to the committee as to the truthfulness of the information shown thereon; and any other appropriate information or documents deemed necessary by the committee or its duly authorized agents for the purposes stated in §905.146. * * * * * (c) Suspension or Denial of Certificate of Privilege. The committee may investigate the handling of special purpose shipments under Certificates of Privilege to determine whether Special Purpose Shippers are complying with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates. Whenever the committee finds that a Special Purpose Shipper or consignee is failing to comply with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates, the Certificate of Privilege issued to such Special Purpose Shipper may be suspended or, in the case of an application for the issuance of an initial Certificate of Privilege, may be denied. Such suspension of a certificate shall be for a reasonable period of time as determined by the committee, but in no event shall it extend beyond the end of the current fiscal period. In the case of the denial of an application for the issuance of an initial certificate, such certificate shall be denied until the applicant comes into compliance with the requirements and regulations applicable to such certificates. Prior to suspending or denying an application for a Certificate of Privilege, the committee shall give the shipper or applicant reasonable advance notice in writing of its intention and the facts and reasons therefor, and afford the shipper or applicant an opportunity, either orally or in writing, to present opposing facts and reasons. The shipper or applicant shall be informed of the committee's determination in writing and in a timely manner. 4. Section 905.148 is amended by revising paragraph (a) and the first two sentences in paragraph (b) to read as follows: §905.148 Reports of special purpose shipments under certificates of privilege. (a) Each handler of citrus shipping under Certificates of Privilege shall supply the committee with reports on each shipment as requested by the committee, on forms supplied by the committee, showing the name and address of the shipper or shippers; name and address of the certified organic Florida citrus fruit grower or growers supplying fruit for such shipment; truck or other conveyance identification; the loading point; destination, consignee; the inspection certificate number; and any other information deemed necessary by the committee. (b) One copy of the report on each shipment shall be forwarded by the shipper to the committee within 10 days after such shipment, and two copies of the report shall accompany each shipment to the receiver. Upon the receipt of each shipment, the receiver shall complete the applicable portion of the form and return one copy to the committee within 10 days and one copy shall be retained by the shipper. *␣*␣* Dated: May 18, 1994. Eric M. Forman, Deputy Director, Fruit and Vegetable Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12591 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
