FR941117-0-00110 FR941117-0-00011 (a) Maximum ERP. The effective radiated power (ERP) of base and fixed transmitters must not exceed the applicable limits in this paragraph under any circumstances. ␣ 1Frequency range (MHz) 1Maximum ERP (watts) 152&hyph;153 1400 157&hyph;159 150 454&hyph;455 3500 459&hyph;460 150 (b) Basic power limit. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the ERP of base transmitters must not exceed 500 Watts. (c) Height-power limits. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the ERP of base transmitters must not exceed the amount that would result in an average distance to the service contour of 41.6 kilometers (26 miles) for VHF channels or 30.7 kilometers (19 miles) for UHF channels. The average distance to the service contour is calculated by taking the arithmetic mean of the distances determined using the procedures specified in §22.567 for the eight cardinal radial directions, excluding cardinal radial directions for which 90% or more of the distance so calculated is over water. (d) Encompassed interfering contour areas. Base transmitters are exempt from the basic power and height-power limits of this section if the area within their interfering contours is totally encompassed by the interfering contours of operating co-channel based transmitters controlled by the same licensee. For the purpose of this paragraph, operating transmitters are authorized transmitters that are providing service to subscribers. (e) Adjacent channel protection. The ERP of base and fixed transmitters must not exceed 500 Watts if they transmit on channel 454.025 MHz and are located less than 7 kilometers (4.3 miles) from any Private Radio Services station receiving on adjacent channel 454.0000 MHz. (f) Mobile transmitters. The transmitter output power of mobile transmitters must not exceed 60 watts. (g) Other transmitters. The ERP of dispatch and auxiliary test transmitters must not exceed 100 watts. §22.567 Technical channel assignment criteria. The rules in this section establish technical assignment criteria for the channels listed in §22.561. The criteria in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section permit channel assignments to be made in a manner such that reception by public mobile receivers of signals from base transmitters, within the service area of such base transmitters, is protected from interference caused by the operation of independent co-channel base and fixed transmitters in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service and central office stations, including Basic Exchange Telephone Radio Systems (BETRS), in the Rural Radiotelephone Service. Additional criteria in paragraph (g) of this section permit channel assignments to be made in a manner such that BETRS communications are protected from interference caused by the operation of independent co-channel base and fixed transmitters in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service and other central office stations in the Rural Radiotelephone Service. Separate criteria in paragraph (h) of this section apply only to assignment of the channels designated in §22.561 as mobile channels to base and fixed transmitters, and permit these channel assignments to be made in a manner such that reception by public base and fixed receivers of signals from associated mobile and fixed transmitters is protected from interference caused by the operation of independent co-channel base and fixed transmitters. (a) Contour overlap. The FCC may grant an application requesting assignment of a channel to a proposed base, fixed or central office station transmitter only if: (1) The interfering contour of the proposed transmitter does not overlap the service contour of any protected co-channel transmitter controlled by a carrier other than the applicant, unless that carrier has agreed in writing to accept any interference that may result from operation of the proposed transmitter; and (2) The service contour of the proposed transmitter does not overlap the interfering contour of any protected co-channel transmitter controlled by a carrier other than the applicant, unless the application contains a statement that the applicant agrees to accept any interference that may result from operation of the protected co-channel transmitter; and (3) The area and/or population to which service would be provided by the proposed transmitter is substantial, and service gained would exceed that lost as a result of agreements to accept interference. (b) Protected transmitter. For the purposes of this section, protected transmitters are authorized transmitters for which there is a current FCC public record and transmitters proposed in prior-filed pending applications, in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service and the Rural Radiotelephone Service. (c) VHF service contour. For base stations transmitting on the VHF channels, the radial distance from the transmitting antenna to the service contour along each cardinal radial is calculated as follows: d=1.609×h 0.40 ×p 0.20 where: d is the radial distance in kilometers h is the radial antenna HAAT in meters p is the radial ERP in Watts
