FR941227-0-00110 FR941227-0-00020 (e) Clearance, demolition and removal, including movement of structures to other sites, of buildings and improvements on real property acquired or rehabilitated pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. (f) Site preparation, including construction, reconstruction, or installation of public and other site improvements, utilities, or facilities (other than buildings), which is: (1) Related to the redevelopment or use of the real property acquired or rehabilitated pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, or (2) For an economic development purpose. (g) Payment of issuance, underwriting, servicing, trust administration and other costs associated with private sector financing of debt obligations under this subpart. (h) Housing rehabilitation eligible under §570.202. (i) The following economic development activities: (1) Activities eligible under §570.203; and (2) Community economic development projects eligible under §570.204. (j) Construction of housing by nonprofit organizations for homeownership under section 17(d) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (Housing Development Grants Program, 24 CFR part 850) or title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1987 (Nehemiah Housing Opportunity Grants Program, 24 CFR part 280). (k) A debt service reserve to be used in accordance with requirements specified in the contract entered into pursuant to §570.705(b)(1). (l) Acquisition, construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or installation of public facilities (except for buildings for the general conduct of government), public streets, sidewalks, and other site improvements and public utilities. (m) In the case of applications by public entities which are, or which contain, ``colonias'' as defined in section 916 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 5306 note), as amended by section 810 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, acquisition, construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation or installation of public works and site or other improvements which serve the colonia. §570.704 Application requirements. (a) Presubmission and citizen participation requirements . (1) Before submission of an application for loan guarantee assistance to HUD, the public entity must: (i) Develop a proposed application that includes the following items: (A) The community development objectives the public entity proposes to pursue with the guaranteed loan funds. (B) The activities the public entity proposes to carry out with the guaranteed loan funds. Each activity must be described in sufficient detail, including the specific provision of §570.703 under which it is eligible and the national objective to be met, amount of guaranteed loan funds expected to be used, and location, to allow citizens to determine the degree to which they will be affected. The proposed application must indicate which activities are expected to generate program income. The application must also describe where citizens may obtain additional information about proposed activities. (C) A description of the pledge of grants required under §570.705(b)(2). In the case of applications by State-assisted public entities, the description shall note that pledges of grants will be made by the State and by the public entity. (ii) Fulfill the applicable requirements in its citizen participation plan developed in accordance with §570.704(a)(2). (iii) Publish community-wide its proposed application so as to afford affected citizens an opportunity to examine the application's contents and to provide comments on the proposed application. (iv) Prepare its final application. Once the public entity has held the public hearing and published the proposed application as required by paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, respectively, the public entity must consider any such comments and views received and, if the public entity deems appropriate, modify the proposed application. Upon completion, the public entity must make the final application available to the public. The final application must describe each activity in sufficient detail to permit a clear understanding of the nature of each activity, as well as identify the specific provision of §570.703 under which it is eligible, the national objective to be met, and the amount of guaranteed loan funds to be used. The final application must also indicate which activities are expected to generate program income. (v) If an application for loan guarantee assistance is to be submitted by an entitlement public entity simultaneously with the public entity's submission for its entitlement grant, the public entity shall include and identify in its proposed and final statements of community development objectives and projected use of funds prepared for its annual grant pursuant to §570.301 the activities to be undertaken with the guaranteed loan funds, the national objective to be met by each of these activities, the amount of any program income expected to be received during the program year, and the amount of guaranteed loan funds to be used; the public entity shall also include in these statements a description of the pledge of grants required under §570.705(b)(2). In such cases the proposed and final application requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) (i), (iii), and (iv) of this section will be deemed to have been met. (2) Citizen participation plan . The public entity must develop and follow a detailed citizen participation plan and make the plan public. The plan must be completed and available before the application is submitted to HUD. The plan may be the plan required for the CDBG program, modified to include guaranteed loan funds. The public entity is not required to hold a separate public hearing for its CDBG program and for the guaranteed loan funds to obtain citizens' views on community development and housing needs. The plan must set forth the public entity's policies and procedures for: (i) Giving citizens timely notice of local meetings and reasonable and timely access to local meetings, information, and records relating to the public entity's proposed and actual use of guaranteed loan funds, including, but not limited to: (A) The amount of guaranteed loan funds expected to be made available for the coming year, including program income anticipated to be generated by the activities carried out with guaranteed loan funds; (B) The range of activities that may be undertaken with guaranteed loan funds; (C) The estimated amount of guaranteed loan funds (including program income derived therefrom) proposed to be used for activities that will benefit low and moderate income persons; (D) The proposed activities likely to result in displacement and the public entity's plans, consistent with the policies developed under §570.606 or §570.488 for minimizing displacement of persons as a result of its proposed activities. (ii) Providing technical assistance to groups representative of persons of low and moderate income that request assistance in developing proposals. The level and type of assistance to be provided is at the discretion of the public entity. Such assistance need not include the provision of funds to such groups. (iii) Holding a minimum of two public hearings, each at a different stage of the public entity's program, for the purpose of obtaining the views of citizens and formulating or responding to proposals and questions. Together the hearings must address community development and housing needs, development of proposed activities and review of program performance. At least one of these hearings must be held before submission of the application to obtain the views of citizens on community development and housing needs. Reasonable notice of the hearing must be provided and the hearing must be held at times and locations convenient to potential or actual beneficiaries, with accommodation for the handicapped. The public entity must specify in its plan how it will meet the requirement for a hearing at times and locations convenient to potential or actual beneficiaries.
