FR940620-1-00096 FR940620-1-00009 (i) Relation to patents. Nothing contained in this clause shall imply a license to the Government under any patent or be construed as affecting the scope of any license or other right otherwise granted to the Government under any patent. (j) Limitation on charges for rights in technical data or computer software. (1) The contractor shall not charge to this contract any cost, including but not limited to, license fees, royalties, or similar charges, for rights in technical data or computer software to be delivered under this contract when_ (i) The Government has acquired, by any means, the same or greater rights in the data or software; or, (ii) The data are available to the public without restrictions. (2) The limitation in paragraph (j)(1)_ (i) Includes costs charged by a subcontractor or supplier, at any tier, or costs incurred by the contractor to acquire rights in subcontractor or supplier technical data or computer software, if the subcontractor or supplier has been paid for such rights under any other Government contract or under a license conveying the rights to the Government; (ii) Does not include the reasonable costs of reproducing, handling, or mailing the documents or other media in which the technical data or computer software will be delivered. (k) Applicability to subcontractors or suppliers. (1) The contractor shall assure that the rights afforded its subcontractors and suppliers under 10 U.S.C. 2320, 10 U.S.C. 2321, and the identification, assertion, and delivery processes required by paragraph (e) of this clause are recognized and protected. (2) Whenever any technical data or computer software is to be obtained from a subcontractor or supplier for delivery to the Government under this contract, the contractor shall use this same clause in the subcontract or other contractual instrument, and require its subcontractors or suppliers to do so, without alteration, except to identify the parties. No other clause shall be used to enlarge or diminish the Government's, the contractor's, or a higher tier subcontractor's or supplier's rights in a subcontractor's or supplier's technical data or computer software. (3) Technical data required to be delivered by a subcontractor or supplier shall normally be delivered to the next higher-tier contractor, subcontractor, or supplier. However, when there is a requirement in the prime contract for technical data which may be submitted with other than unlimited rights by a subcontractor or supplier, then said subcontractor or supplier may fulfill its requirement by submitting such technical data directly to the Government, rather than through a higher-tier contractor, subcontractor, or supplier. (4) The contractor and higher-tier subcontractors or suppliers shall not use their power to award contracts as economic leverage to obtain rights in technical data or computer software from their subcontractors or suppliers. (5) In no event shall the contractor use its obligation to recognize and protect subcontractor or supplier rights in technical data or computer software as an excuse for failing to satisfy its contractual obligation to the Government. (End of clause) ALTERNATE I (XXX 1994) As prescribed in 227.404(c) or 227.504(c), add the following paragraph to the basic clause: (l) Publication for sale. (1) This paragraph applies only to technical data or computer software delivered to the Government with SBIR data rights. (2) Upon expiration of the SBIR data rights period, the Government will not exercise its right to publish or authorize others to publish an item of technical data or computer software identified in this contract as being subject to paragraph (l) of this clause if the contractor, prior to the expiration of the SBIR data rights period, or within two years following delivery of the data or software item, or within twenty-four months following the removal of any national security or export control restrictions, whichever is later, publishes such data or software item(s) and promptly notifies the contracting officer of such publication(s). Any such publication(s) shall include a notice identifying the number of this contract and the Government's rights in the published data. (3) This limitation on the Government's right to publish for sale shall continue as long as the technical data or computer software are reasonably available to the public for purchase. (END OF ALTERNATE I) 22. Section 252.227&hyph;7019 is revised to read as follows: 252.227&hyph;7019 Validation of asserted restrictions_computer software. As prescribed in 227.503&hyph;6(b), use the following clause: VALIDATION OF ASSERTED RESTRICTIONS_COMPUTER SOFTWARE (XXX 1994) (a) Definitions. (1) As used in this clause, unless otherwise specifically indicated, the term Contractor means the contractor and its subcontractors or suppliers. (2) Other terms used in this clause are defined in the ``Rights in Noncommercial Computer Software and Noncommercial Computer Software Documentation'' clause, 252.227&hyph;7014, of this contract.
