FR940610-2-00063 FR940610-2-00049 Provides liaison with OMB for the management of the agency paperwork burden reduction program. Coordinates clearance of OAA Titles II, III, IV, VI and VII program regulations within AoA and with appropriate HHS offices, and review of those regulations by OMB. Prepares and processes clearance for collection of information, and assures compliance with related standards, procedures and policies. Directs intergovernmental affairs activities and develops and maintains effective relationships with other governmental departments and agencies. Plans, negotiates, facilitates, and updates, as appropriate, memoranda of understanding with other departments and agencies to promote agreements and cooperative relationships and ventures that address policies and services affecting the aging population. Provides program expertise to the Assistant Secretary for policy development, advocacy and program initiatives. Executive Secretariat serves as the communications center for AoA, ensuring that issues requiring the attention of the Assistant Secretary, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of AoA Executive Staff are identified on a timely and coordinated basis. Monitors the response of other AoA units in developing necessary documents for the Assistant Secretary's review and provides assistance to staff on the content and style of special assignments. Operates the agency-wide correspondence and assignment tracking and control system and provides technical assistance on standards for control of correspondence and memoranda. Manages the clearance system and reviews documents for consistency with the Assistant Secretary's and the Secretary's assignments, previous decisions on related matters, and editorial standards. Refers unprecedented policy questions to the Office of Policy Coordination and Analysis. Maintains official copies of all policy and information issuances and data collection instruments; ensures they proper clearance before issuance and annually reviews them for currency and compliance with law and regulations. Reviews all materials prepared for Federal Register publication and ensures their compliance with guidelines. Serves as AoA's liaison with the Executive Secretariats in the Office of the Secretary and other HHS units regarding AoA program, policy and special administrative matters. Receives and sorts internal mail for AoA headquarters components. Serves as liaison with the Office of the General Counsel and the General Accounting Office on all program matters other than those related to grants or procurement management. Reviews requests for information under the Freedom of Information Act and arranges for appropriate responses, in coordination with the HHS Freedom of Information Act Officer. E. 1␣Office of State and Community Programs (BB1) serves as the focal point with AoA for the operation, administration, management and assessment of the programs authorized under Title III of the OAA. Also carries out the following responsibilities of Title II: oversees development of more responsive service systems through intergovernmental and private sector initiatives and partnerships to address age-related issues and concerns; encourages and assists in the provision of information to older people with the need for Supplemental Security Income, Medicaid and Food Stamps; implements and oversees the supportive services and nutrition programs; implements and oversees the uniform data collection procedures for States; implements and oversees the responsibilities for consultation with the other Federal agencies and with State and Area Agencies on Aging. Implements Title III of the OAA through the development of regulations, policies and guidance governing the development and enhancement of comprehensive and coordinated home and community-based care service delivery systems by State and Area Agencies on Aging. Provides guidance regarding State Plan processing and approval, the process and criteria for approval of States' Intrastate Funding Formulas for the allocation and targeting of resources within States, and implementation of the Interstate Funding Formula for distribution of Title III funds among States. In the field, implements Title III through the provision to Regional Office staff of guidance and information concerning AoA programs, and interpretation of Title III program regulations and policy. In addition, fosters, oversees, and assesses the implementation of Title III by States and Area Agencies through guidance and direction to Regional Office staff regarding program reviews, compliance monitoring, program and system development and enhancements. Designs and provides training and technical assistance for program compliance, effectiveness, and enhancement.
