FR940628-0-00030 FR940628-0-00017 Section 682.401␣Basic Program Agreement Section 682.401(b)(4) Section 682.401(b)(4)(i)(B) Comments: Some commenters expressed concern that borrowers not be subjected to unreasonable and onerous demands for documentation for purposes of reinstatement of borrower eligibility. The commenters suggested that borrowers be allowed to provide documentation over the phone or by facsimile. Discussion: The Secretary does not believe that an agency can assess a borrower's total financial circumstances to determine a reasonable and affordable payment amount without examining documentation from the borrower. The Secretary does not believe that the documentation requirements contained in the regulations are onerous. The Secretary believes that submission of a monthly budget statement on a guaranty agency prepared form and some proof of current income are minimal requirements. The Secretary believes that a statement of the unpaid balance of all of a borrower's FFEL loans is necessary only if the guaranty agency does not already have this information. The Secretary has no objection to the borrower submitting this documentation via facsimile technology. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters were strongly opposed to the reference to the $50 payment in proposed §682.401(b)(4)(i)(B) in regard to the requirement that the guaranty agency document the borrower's file if the borrower's reasonable and affordable payment is determined to be less than $50. The commenters believe that agencies are using the reference to $50 to justify their denial of payments of less than $50. Discussion: The Secretary expects a guaranty agency to make a determination of what constitutes a ``reasonable and affordable'' payment amount on a case-by-case basis after examining financial information from the defaulted borrower who requests reinstatement of eligibility for federal student financial assistance. The proposed rule clearly stated that $50 may not be the required minimum payment for a borrower if the agency determines that a smaller payment amount is appropriate based on its examination of the borrower's total financial circumstances. An agency is prohibited from establishing $50 or any other amount as a required minimum threshold payment amount in lieu of the appropriate reasonable and affordable payment based on the borrower's total financial these circumstances. The reference to $50 in the regulations is intended by the Secretary to be a documentation standard for guaranty agencies. A guaranty agency is required to document its determination of a borrower's reasonable and affordable payment only if the payment is less than $50. Changes: The regulations have been revised to clearly provide that a guaranty agency must not establish a minimum payment amount of $50 if the agency determines that a smaller payment amount is reasonable and affordable based on the borrower's total financial circumstances. Comments: Some commenters expressed concern that consideration of a spouse's income in the determination of reasonable and affordable payments may be in violation of the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act. The commenters noted that the spouse is not liable for the other spouse's individual debt and, therefore, consideration of the secondary spouse's income may not be considered in determining a monthly reasonable and affordable payment. The commenter suggested that clarification must also be made in this section that disclosure of child support and/or alimony payments is voluntary, consistent with the Federal Equal Credit Opportunity Act. Discussion: The Secretary believes that, for a borrower with dependents, examining only the borrower's income and expenses may not reveal the borrower's true financial circumstances. The Equal Credit Opportunity Act relates to the application for credit. The determination of reasonable and affordable payments in connection with reinstatement of eligibility, rehabilitation or meeting conditions for consolidation does not relate to the application for credit. See 12 CFR Part 202. Changes: None. Section 682.401(b)(6)(i) Comments: Some commenters supported the regulations that provide a guaranty agency the authority to establish reasonable criteria for an institution to participate in the guaranty agency's program. However, many other commenters strongly objected to this provision. The objecting commenters suggested that in §682.401(b)(6)(i), the Secretary allows a guaranty agency to determine that an institution does not satisfy the standards of administrative capability and financial stability standards as defined in 34 CFR Part 668 and believed that the Secretary is making the guaranty agencies enforcers of the set of administrative capability and financial responsibility standards. The commenters believed that this structure is entirely outside of the statute and clearly ignores the program integrity triad as mandated under the new Part H (Program Integrity) of the HEA with a particular role for each part of the Triad. The commenters suggested that if the Triad is to be successful, the responsibilities contained in the statute must be clearly set forth in regulations with no vagaries concerning responsibility. The commenters noted that in the General Provisions NPRM, the Secretary proposed to provisionally certify an institution that does not currently meet the standards of administrative capability but is expected to meet those standards in a reasonable period of time. The commenters suggested that under the March 16, 1994 NPRM, a guaranty agency could deny participation to these institutions, including an institution with a cohort default rate of 20% or greater. The commenters believed that it is the Secretary's role to ensure that institutions meet appropriate standards of administrative capability and financial responsibility and believed the Secretary does so by certifying institutions. The commenters suggested that if the institution has been certified, the guaranty agency should be required to rely on that certification unless and until the Secretary uses his authority to revoke that certification. The commenters suggested that a guaranty agency provided this improper delegation of authority may well have an incentive to retaliate against certain institutions as a result of their filing of appeals of their cohort default rates. The commenters suggested that appeals of cohort default rates, especially appeals alleging servicing error, may directly or indirectly challenge the integrity of the guaranty agency and may have the economic effect of removing certain loans from being eligible for federal reinsurance. The commenters further suggested that because of the clear possibility of conflict of interest, it is irrational to allow guaranty agencies to effectively terminate the participation of institutions in Title IV programs. The commenters asserted that in contrast to a State Postsecondary Review Entity (SPRE), an accreditation agency or the Department, a guaranty agency is not an impartial adjudicator of these issues.
