FR940922-2-00029 FR940922-2-00008 Name Check Reviews All for-profit and nonprofit applicants will be subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing, criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. Executive Order Statement This funding notice was determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866. False Statements Applicants are reminded that a false statement on an application is grounds for denial or termination of funds and grounds for possible punishment by fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. Delinquent Federal Debts No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: 1. The delinquent account is paid in full; 2. A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received or; 3. Other arrangements satisfactory to DoC are made. No Obligation for Future Funding If an application is accepted for funding, DoC has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award, increased funding, or extending the period of performance is at the total discretion of NIST. Federal Policies and Procedures Recipients and subrecipients under the Precision Measurement Grants Program are subject to all Federal Laws and Federal and Departmental policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. The Precision Measurement Grants Program does not directly affect any state or local government. Applications under this program are not subject to Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' Buy American-Made Equipment or Products Applicants are hereby notified that they are encouraged, to the extent feasible, to purchase American-made equipment and products with funding provided under this program in accordance with Congressional intent as set forth in the resolution contained in Public Law 103&hyph;121, Sections 606 (a) and (b). Indirect Costs The total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award or 100 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less. Dated: September 16, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23502 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
