FR940810-1-00021 FR940810-1-00005 5. Section 685.16 is amended by adding text and revising its section heading to read as follows: ยง685.16 Vessel monitoring system. (a) VMS unit. Only a VMS unit owned by NMFS and installed by NMFS complies with the requirements of this part. (b) Notification. After a limited entry permit holder has been notified by the SAC of a specific date for installation of a VMS unit in the permit holder's vessel, the vessel must carry and operate the VMS unit after the date scheduled for installation. (c) Fees and charges. During the experimental VMS program, a Hawaii longline limited entry permit holder shall not be assessed any fee or other charges to obtain and use a VMS unit, including the communication charges related directly to requirements under this section. Communication charges related to any additional equipment attached to the VMS unit by the owner or operator shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator and not NMFS. (d) Permit holder duties. The holder of a limited entry permit and the master of the vessel operating under the permit must: (1) Provide opportunity for the SAC to install and make operational a VMS unit after notification; (2) Carry the VMS unit on board whenever the vessel is at sea; and (3) Not remove or relocate the VMS unit without prior approval from the SAC. (e) Authorization by the Special Agent-in-Charge. The SAC has authority over the installation and operation of the VMS unit. The SAC may authorize the connection or order the disconnection of additional equipment, including a computer, to any VMS unit when deemed appropriate by the SAC. (f) Observers. NMFS observers shall have access to VMS units to verify operation, obtain data, and use the communication capabilities of the units for official purposes. (g) Review. During the experimental VMS program, which will end no later than [ Insert date 3 years after the effective date of the final rule ], the Council and NMFS will conduct reviews of the performance and cost-effectiveness of the program requiring VMS units in this fishery. The Council may recommend that the program be continued, terminated, or modified with respect to operation, equipment, or other aspects of the program. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19396 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;W
