FR940317-1-00143 FR940317-1-00013 (1) Medical care was furnished at the local Army MTF; and (2) the incident giving rise to the claim occurred near the Army installation; or (3) the retiree resides near the Army installation. In these exceptional situations, the claims office must ensure that the retiree is not receiving care at another service's MTF. The claims office must also notify USARCS as well as the nearest installation or office of the retiree's service that it is handling the claim. (c) In some instances, the Army and the VA will both pay for care provided to a soldier or retiree. The VA, however, is precluded from asserting claims for ``service-connected'' injuries. Accordingly: (1) If a soldier is injured and is discharged from the service, the claims office will assert claims for the reasonable value of medical care furnished at Army expense (including care furnished in a VA facility) prior to a soldier's discharge. Claims offices will not assert for the value of medical care furnished at VA expense, but the RJA will consider future care provided by VA in determining whether to approve a waiver or compromise. (2) If a retiree is injured and receives some care paid for by the Army and other care in a VA facility, the claims office will coordinate with the nearest VA office and assert a claim for the full value of the care provided. The office will remit the amount recovered for care provided at VA expense to the VA. ยง536.223 Recovery Rights under the FMCRA. Pursuant to the Federal Medical Care Recovery Act the Government may pursue recovery of medical costs under any of the following tactics: (a) Subrogation. The United States is subrogated to any rights or claims held by a person to whom the Government has provided medical care against the tortfeasor who caused him or her to be injured. As subrogee, the United States can recover from the wrongdoer the reasonable value of the medical care it has furnished or will furnish the injured party. (b) Intervention. The United States can intervene in an injured party's suit against a tortfeasor or bring suit as the assignee of an injured party's right of action. (c) Independent Action. The United States can assert administratively and litigate a medical care claim in its own name. (d) Item of Special Damages. The injured party's attorney can assert the Government's claim as an item of special damages in an injured party's suit against the tortfeasor. ยง536.224 Identification of potential medical care recovery claims. (a) By MTF personnel. (1) The MTF commander will ensure that the claims office is notified of instances where the MTF provides or is billed by a civilian facility for inpatient or outpatient care resulting from injuries such as broken bones or burns arising from automobile accidents, gas explosions, falls, civilian malpractice, and similar incidents which do not involve collections from a health benefits or medicare supplemental insurer. Claims personnel will coordinate with MTF personnel to ensure that inpatient and outpatient records, and emergency room and clinic logs are properly screened to identify potential cases. (2) The MTF commander will also ensure that the MTF does not release billings or medical records, or respond to requests for assistance with worker's compensation forms, without coordinating with the RJA. (b) By CHAMPUS fiscal intermediaries. The CHAMPUS fiscal intermediary is required to identify and to promptly mail claims involving certain diagnostic codes to the claims office designated as the state point of contact. The fiscal intermediary is required to provide the contact office with a personal injury questionnaire completed by the injured party and a copy of the CHAMPUS Explanation of Benefits showing the amount that CHAMPUS paid on the claim. (1) In accordance with chapter 5 of the CHAMPUS Fiscal Intermediary Operations Manual (September 1991), a fiscal intermediary must suspend payment on a claim with possible medical care recovery until the injured party properly completes the personal injury questionnaire. Within 15 working days after receiving and evaluating the completed questionnaire, the fiscal intermediary is required to dispatch possible medical care recovery cases to the appropriate claims office. The contact office must work with the fiscal intermediary to ensure that claims are properly identified and forwarded in a timely manner. The claims office should document persistent problems and notify USARCS.
