FR940810-0-00090 FR940810-0-00021 OSHA believes that outdoor Class I work may be safely done without enclosures. Therefore, paragraph (g) allows all outdoor Class I work to be conducted using other control methods, such as a glove bag system, so long as the specifications and work practices for such systems are followed. In addition, decontamination procedures for all Class I work, outdoors as well as indoors, including decontamination facilities and showers, must be made available for all Class I work, including that performed outdoors. As discussed above, the negative pressure enclosure requirement in the 1986 standard lacked specificity. BCTD recommended that OSHA specify the number of air changes per hour required in the negative pressure enclosure (Ex. 143, p. 94). They reasoned that this would improve ventilation within the enclosure and reduce worker exposure. Union Carbide testified that they use 8 to 12 changes per hour (Tr. 2255) and Chip D'Angelo recommended 10 changes per hour (Ex. 99). New Jersey White Lung Association representative suggested 8 changes per hour (Tr. 482). BCTD and others also proposed that the negative pressure differential be increased from the recommended 0.02 column inches water in Appendix F (Ex. 143, p. 95) ``because of fluctuations inside the enclosure.'' In several published articles, Spicer and D'Angelo expressed their support for these recommendations and further suggested that pressure measurements be made at several points within the enclosure (Ex. 9&hyph;34 NN, Tr. 3126). The use of a manometer to measure the pressure differential between the enclosure and the area outside the enclosure was also supported by BCTD and D'Angelo and Spicer primarily because this device would provide immediate notice if there were a loss of pressure and therefore increased potential for fiber escape (Ex. 143, p. 96 and Ex. 9&hyph;34 NN). He estimated the cost of a manometer at $20.00 (Tr. 3078). BCTD submitted additional recommendations which it felt would improve negative pressure enclosure use: _Use additional air filtration machines in areas of especially high fiber concentrations, to serve as ``scrubbers'' _Use at least one negative air filtration machine per room in multi-room enclosures _Provide an independent power source and back-up HEPA unit for use in case of failure _Smoke test the enclosure for leaks _Pre-filter inlet air (Ex. 143, p. 97) Most of these recommendations appear to be beneficial. Requiring smoke testing to detect leaks is adopted by the Agency as part of required set-up procedures when such enclosures are used. Others, such as requiring ``additional air filtration machines␣*␣*␣*␣where exposures are especially high'' appear to be sound engineering advice but would present enforcement problems, if included in the regulatory text (Ex. 143). Instead, as part of the mandatory criteria for NPEs, when used to control exposure in Class I jobs, the Agency is requiring ``competent persons'' to oversee the installation of such systems, and employees to be protected within such enclosures by ventilation systems which minimize their asbestos exposure. OSHA believes that its provisions on negative pressure systems will protect employees working within them. Based on the above extensive analysis of the many studies and comments, OSHA has concluded that NPEs are not appropriate as a universal requirement. They usually protect bystanders well, but not always workers within the enclosures, and can sometimes create other problems. Consequently, OSHA is permitting alternatives to NPEs in appropriate circumstances and is upgrading requirements for NPEs when they are used. Also, OSHA believes that various alternative requirements in this final revised standard triggered by Class I, II, and III work, some of which are components of negative pressure systems will protect adjacent or ``bystander'' employees under most situations. Thus, mandatory critical barriers for most Class I, some Class II and III work will bar passage of fugitive asbestos fibers; and, clarifying the responsibilities of the various employers on a multi-employer worksite, paragraph (d) will protect all work site employees from fugitive emissions. 3. What Other Control Systems Can be Allowed for Asbestos Work Which Involves High Risk Materials? OSHA is allowing other control systems for Category I asbestos work, but only under stated conditions. Thus, the second asbestos control system permitted for use for Category I asbestos work is a glove bag system which meets the requirements of the standard, and is used only in the limited situations listed in paragraph (g), i.e. straight runs of piping and to remove intact TSI. Other technologies recommended by the accredited project designer or competent person based on supporting data showing their effectiveness may also be used. Whenever a technology is used which is not referenced in the standards, the employer must notify OSHA before the asbestos job, and include in the notification the basis for the project designer's or certified industrial hygienist's decision that the new technology will be equally effective as other technologies referenced in the appendix. Daily personal and periphery area monitoring must be conducted for all such jobs, as well as clearance samples at the termination of the abatement job. Glove Bag Systems The decision to allow increased glove bag use is based on the considerable comment and evidence submitted during this proceeding concerning the safety and effectiveness of glove bag use. OSHA had proposed to permit only small-scale, short duration removals to be conducted using glove bags; however the Agency noted that it was considering whether alternatives, including glove bags, to negative pressure enclosures for renovation, removal and demolition operations should be allowed (55 FR at 29716). In the 1986 standard, glove bag effectiveness was considered too uncertain to allow as a preferred control. Therefore OSHA relegated glove bag use to small-scale, short duration jobs, or jobs exempt from the negative pressure enclosure requirement because of the configuration of the work environment. However OSHA noted that glove bag use could generally be expected to reduce exposures to below 0.1 f/cc (51 FR 22711). In the preamble to its proposed amendments the Agency noted that available data indicated that glove bags in use may not always provide adequate protection. In large part, the Agency based this preliminary evaluation on the results of an evaluation performed by NIOSH in which improperly used glove bags resulted in excessive fiber counts. As noted above, this final construction standard expands the conditions in which glove bag use is allowed. Now, glove bag use for removal of TSI and surfacing ACM is allowed without quantity limitation for intact TSI for straight runs of piping.
