FR940126-2-00089 FR940126-2-00049 2. EPA will review and provide comments on the various components of the reclamation plan, groundwater monitoring, and corrective action submittals, and other related documentation, within timeframes as agreed to between NRC and EPA. In the event that EPA determines that the implementation of the site reclamation plan, closure activities, and/or groundwater corrective action has not resulted in, or may not result in, cleanup conditions that meet applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements under CERCLA, then EPA may take whatever action it deems appropriate. VI. Dispute Resolution In the event of a dispute between EPA and NRC concerning site activities, the persons designated by each Agency as facility coordinators, or in their absence, alternate contact points will attempt to promptly resolve such disputes. If disputes cannot be resolved at this level, the problem will be referred to the supervisors of these persons for further consultation. The supervisory referral and resolution process will continue, if necessary to resolve the dispute, to the level of the Regional Administrators of NRC and EPA. Both Parties shall continue to maintain their respective rights or responsibilities under this MOU during the dispute resolution process. VII. Execution and Termination This agreement shall take effect upon execution by EPA and the NRC. It shall remain in effect for the duration of the program addressed herein unless terminated by mutual agreement by the two Agencies; or this MOU may be terminated unilaterally if any of the conditions set forth below are present: 1. The planning or conduct of reclamation plan, closure activities, and/or groundwater cleanup actions fail to meet standards set forth in the Basis for Agreement (Section II) of this MOU. 2. The site is deleted from the NPL. 3. The site is turned over to the Department of Energy or other responsible State or Federal authority for long-term care. 4. Regulatory, statutory, or other events occur which make this MOU unnecessary, illegal, or otherwise inappropriate. VIII. Modification The Parties may modify this MOU from time to time in order to simplify and/or define the procedures contained herein. Each Party shall keep the other informed of any relevant proposed modifications to its basic statutory or regulatory authority, forms, procedures, or priorities. This MOU shall be revised, as necessary, by the adoption of such modifications. The MOU should be reviewed on an annual basis by both the Director, Uranium Recovery Field Office, Region IV, NRC, and the Director, Hazardous Waste Management Division, Region 6, EPA, or their designated representatives. IX. Reservation of Rights The Parties reserve any and all rights or authority that they may have, including but not limited to legal, equitable, or administrative rights. This specifically includes EPA's and NRC's authority to conduct, direct, oversee, and/or require environmental response in connection with the site, as well as the authority to enter the site and require the production of information, within each of their own areas of responsibility. X. Severability The nullification of any one or more sections or provisions of a section of this MOU, either by Agreement of the Parties or by Administrative or Judicial Action, shall not affect the other sections/provisions of this MOU. Executed and agreed to: Dated: December 14, 1993. James L. Milhoan, Regional Administrator, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Region IV, Arlington, Texas. Dated: December 14, 1993. Joe D. Winkle, Regional Administrator, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 6, Dallas, Texas. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1605 Filed 1&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
