FR940622-2-00090 FR940622-2-00067 [Release No. 34&hyph;34219; File No. SR&hyph;93&hyph;17] Self-Regulatory Organizations; the Options Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Conversion of Delivery Versus Payment Authorization Process to an On-Line System June 15, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 15, 1992, The Options Clearing Corporation (``OCC'') file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by OCC. On November 12, 1993, OCC submitted an amendment 2 so that the proposed rule change would file pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) 3 instead of section 19(b)(2) of the Act. 4 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1998). 2 Letter from James C. Yong, Vice President and Deputy General Counsel, OCC, to Jerry W. Carpenter, Branch Chief, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (November 10, 1993). 3 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A). 4 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to allow OCC to convert its Delivery Versus Payment (``DVP'') authorization process to an on-line system. The changes proposed herein will require OCC's clearing members to submit DVP authorization instructions to OCC via electronic means and, thereby, will eliminate the use of paper DVP authorization forms and the need for clearing members to make physical delivery of such forms to OCC's offices. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, OCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. OCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change DVP authorization is an alternate settlement procedure for the settlement of foreign currency options and cross-rate foreign currency options. 5 Pursuant to the DVP authorization process, a clearing member's approved DVP bank guarantee to OCC's agent bank delivery on the exercise settlement date of either a designated quantity of foreign currency against payment of a specified sum of U.S. dollars or a specified sum of U.S. dollars against delivery of a designated quantity of a foreign currency. The current DVP authorization process is a batch system which begins on the first business day following exercise when a clearing member brings a completed multipart DVP authorization form to the OCC operations window on the business day following exercise. 6 Following submission of the DVP form to OCC, the clearing member must wait until notified by OCC that the DVP instructions have been accepted. OCC accepts DVP instructions after verifying that the form has been filled out correctly and that the DVP amounts are valid. 5 Currently, the DVP authorization settlement procedures are not in effect for cross-rate foreign currency option exercises. 6 Currently, OCC maintains offices in Chicago and New York. Clearing members located in cities other than Chicago and New York send the DVP authorization form to OCC's Chicago office via facsimile and later send the hard copy form. Once the DVP instructions have been accepted, OCC returns a copy of the form to the clearing member. Upon receiving the accepted DVP form, the initiating clearing member must deliver a copy of the accepted DVP form to its own agent bank. OCC transmits the DVP instructions to its own agent bank through an electronic communications link. In addition to transmitting the DVP information via computer, OCC sends a hard copy DVP log to its agent bank. On the second business day following exercise, the clearing member's DVP agent bank must send a SWIFT or tested telex message to OCC's agent bank guaranteeing payment of dollar and/or foreign currency settlement amounts to OCC's agent bank or OCC's correspondent bank. On the third business day following exercise, OCC's agent bank must confirm to OCC that the guarantee message from the clearing member's DVP agent bank was received. OCC receives confirmation from its agent bank via facsimile. On the fourth business day following exercise, the clearing member's DVP agent bank must make an irrevocable transfer of U.S. dollars and/or foreign currency to the designated OCC agent bank or OCC's correspondent bank in the country of origin. The current DVP processing system is a manually intensive and time consuming process. Accordingly, OCC is proposing to convert the DVP authorization process to an on-line system. OCC is proposing to accomplish this goal in two Phases. Phase 1 will require clearing members to submit DVP instructions to OCC and receive confirmations of acceptance from OCC via electronic means. This change would eliminate the paper DVP authorization form and the need for clearing members to physically deliver such forms to OCC. In Phase 2, OCC will propose changes which will allow members to submit DVP messages to their DVP agency banks via electronic means a well. This filing, File No. SR&hyph;OCC&hyph;93&hyph;17, seeks to make the changes necessary to accomplish only Phase 1. 7 7 When OCC and the banks are operationally ready to accomplish Phase 2, OCC will file a proposed rule change with the Commission. The proposed rule change will require clearing members to submit and receive electronic DVP messages to and from OCC through the use of the Clearing Management and Control System (``C/MACS''). 8 The on-line DVP instructions will contain the same information currently required on the DVP authorization form. Once an on-line DVP instruction is entered, the same verification/acceptance process currently performed by OCC staff will be performed through C/MACS. The clearing member will receive an on-line confirmation of acceptance message shortly after entering the DVP instruction. In addition, the clearing member will be able to inquire about the status of a DVP instruction by viewing an on-line screen. 8 C/MACS is a fully automated participant terminal system which allows clearing members to submit reports, notices, instructions, data, and other items directly to OCC via on-line data entry. For a detailed description of the operational capabilities of C/MACS, see Securities Exchange Act Release No. 20983 (May 22, 1984), 49 FR 22427 [Filed No. SR&hyph;OCC&hyph;83&hyph;15] (order approving implementation of C/MACS).
