FR941212-1-00067 FR941212-1-00016 No conservation plans or habitat restoration projects specific to the cactus ferruginous pygmy-owl exist for lands managed by the U.S. Government, Indian Nations, State agencies, or private parties. The Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, and Bureau of Reclamation have focussed some attention on modifying livestock grazing practices in recent years, particularly as they affect riparian ecosystems. Several of those projects are in the former range of G. b. cactorum , including some historical nesting locations. In addition, some private landowners in Southern Texas are accommodating research and have expressed interest in carrying out conservation measures to benefit the pygmy-owl. E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. The riparian woodland habitat of G. b. cactorum was always rare and has become even more so. Its habitat rarity, and small, isolated populations make the remaining G. b. cactorum increasingly susceptible to local extirpation through land development, predation, and stochastic events such as catastrophic floods and fires. The disjunct nature of habitats, small breeding populations, and nonmigratory status may also impede the flow of genetic material between populations and reduce the chance of demographic and genetic rescue from immigration for adjacent populations. The resulting constraints on the gene pool intensify the external threats to the pygmy-owl. The pygmy-owl's occurrence in floodplain areas that are now largely agricultural may indicate a potential threat from pesticides. Where populations remain, they are sometimes in proximity to agricultural areas, with associated pesticides and herbicides. Without appropriate precautions, these agents may potentially affect G. b. cactorum through direct toxicity or effects on their food base. No quantitative data on this potential threat are known at this time. This pygmy-owl nests in cavities excavated by woodpeckers in trees or large cacti. Some sources (AGFD 1988) believe that increasing competition with the exotic European starling for nest cavities may be a threat to cavity nesters like the pygmy-owl. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in determining to propose this rule. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list the cactus ferruginous pygmy-owl ( Glaucidium brasilianum cactorum ) as endangered in Arizona, where it is nearly extirpated and is in imminent danger of imminent danger of disappearing, and as threatened in Texas, where it has undergone significant decline but is not in danger of extinction. The Service will continue to review the status of the species in Mexico. Critical Habitat Critical habitat, as defined by Section 3 of the Act, means: (i) The specific areas within the geographical area occupied by a species, at the time it is listed in accordance with the Act, on which are found those physical or biological features (I) essential to the conservation of the species and (II) that may require special management considerations or protection, and (ii) Specific areas outside the geographical area occupied by a species at the time it is listed, upon a determination that such areas are essential for the conservation of the species. Section 4(a)(3) of the Act requires that critical habitat be designated to the maximum extent prudent and determinable concurrently with the determination that a species is endangered or threatened. Critical habitat is being proposed for the cactus ferruginous pygmy-owl to include riparian thickets, forests, and woodlands along streams, rivers, and ephemeral drainages in Arizona. The following areas proposed as critical habitat (all legal descriptions are from the Gila and Salt River Meridian): 1. Arizona, Maricopa County: approximately 21 km (13 mi) along the Salt River, from Stewart Mountain Dam to Granite Reef Dam. 2. Arizona, Maricopa County: approximately 39 km (24 mi) along the Verde River, from Bartlett Dam to the confluence of the Verde and Salt Rivers. 3. Arizona, Cochise, Pima, and Pinal Counties: approximately 97 km (60 mi) along the San Pedro River, from the confluence of Soza Canyon to the confluence of the San Pedro and Gila Rivers, including Cook's Lake. 4. Arizona, Pima County: approximately 42 km (26 mi) along the Santa Cruz River, from the Interstate 19 bridge downstream to the Avra Valley Road bridge. 5. Arizona, Pima County: approximately 54 km (34 mi) along the Rillito Creek system, from the confluence of Rillito Creek and the Santa Cruz River upstream, along Tanque Verde Creek to the boundary between sections 2 and 3, Township 14 south, Range 16 east, and upstream along Agua Caliente Creek to the Soldier Trail crossing. 6. Arizona, Pima County: approximately 23 km (14 mi) along Canada del Oro, from its confluence with Sutherland Wash downstream to its confluence with the Santa Cruz River. 7. Arizona, Pima County: approximately 45 km (28 mi) along Alamo Wash and Growler Wash, from the well in Alamo Canyon (T16S, R4W, unsurveyed Section 6) downstream to the point where Growler Wash intersects the Bates Well Road. 8. Arizona, Pima County: approximately 13 km (8 mi) along Arivaca Creek, from the road crossing in the town of Arivaca downstream to the confluence with San Luis Wash. 9. Arizona, Greenlee and Graham Counties: approximately 27 km (17 mi) along the Gila River, from the confluence with the San Francisco River downstream to the gaging station in Section 31, Township 6 South, Range 28 East Meridian.
