FR940527-0-00076 FR940527-0-00024 IV. Modifications to, and Clarifications of, the Recommendations in the Final Recommended Decision 13. After reviewing the Final Recommended Decision, we have concluded that we must modify and clarify our understanding of some of the Joint Board's recommendations to ensure that the new market structure will operate in the public interest. In our judgment, these clarifications and modifications are consistent with the objectives established by the Board and are consistent with the reasoning contained in the Final Recommended Decision. 15 The State Joint Board Members have participated in the deliberations on this order, pursuant to Section 410(c) of the Communications Act. 15 In this order, we modify the date recommended by the Joint Board for the beginning of the transition (March 1, 1994) to adjust for the period that the Joint Board's recommendations were under consideration. Because the first phase of the transition will begin July 1, 1994, other dates have been adjusted to provide for a one and one-half year first phase and a two and one-half year second phase. A. Transition Payment and Reduction of Alascom Plant Accounts 14. In the Final Recommended Decision, the Joint Board recommended that in applying the transition payment installments, the ``Central Office Switching'' Account 2210 should be designated first for reduction and then should be reduced by an amount that would result in little or no intrastate cost shift if AT&T decreased its usage of Alascom switches. 16 Consistent with the Joint Board's objective of reducing Alascom's plant balances to reduce potential intrastate cost shifts, we clarify that the amount necessary to reduce Central Office Switching so as to produce little or no increase in intrastate revenue requirements be taken entirely from the first $75 million installment. The remaining depreciable accounts will be reduced proportionately using both the balance of the first installment and all of the second $75 million installment. As a result, the potential for significant intrastate cost shifts if AT&T decreases its usage of Alascom switches will be significantly diminished at the time of the first installment. 16 Final Recommended Decision, FCC 93J&hyph;2 at para. 136. 15. The Final Recommended Decision did not consider how AT&T will account for the $150 million payment to Alascom. We conclude that the cost increase associated with the payment made by AT&T to Alascom is an extraordinary cost beyond the control of AT&T that is eligible for exogenous treatment under ยง61.44(c)(5) of our price cap rules, 17 and direct AT&T to make preliminary filings forty-five days prior to filing tariff modifications that reflect AT&T's transition payment. AT&T shall include in its tariff filings the apportionment and explanation of the exogenous revenue requirement effects of each payment upon each rate that AT&T proposes to modify as a consequence of this decision, and shall also include in that filing the anticipated cost reduction associated with the termination of the JSA. 17 See 47 CFR 61.44(c)(5) (1992). B. AT&T's Purchase of Alascom's Services 16. The Board recommended that during the second phase of the transition AT&T should be obligated to purchase a fixed dollar amount of service from Alascom. The fixed dollar amount of service would decline in six month increments until it reached zero at the termination of the second phase of the transition period. The Board recommended this continuing obligation after the JSA terminates to avoid precipitous intrastate cost shifts if AT&T does not continue to purchase Alascom services. The Board concluded that the AT&T must purchase requirement along with other transition mechanisms will maintain the goals of universal service and revenue neutrality. We adopt these goals and the approach recommended by the Board, but conclude that the fixed dollar amount AT&T must purchase as calculated using the Board's methodology must be adjusted as discussed below. 17. In the Final Recommended Decision the Board recommended the following methodology for calculating the fixed dollar amount of service that AT&T must purchase during the second phase of the transition period. The amount that AT&T must purchase for each period of the second phase was to be computed by applying a declining percentage for each six month period to a baseline revenue amount. The annual baseline revenue amount was to be calculated as a function of the demand for interstate transport and switching MTS minutes for the last 12 months that the JSA was in effect, multiplied by the new tariff rates for Alascom's Common Carrier Services. 18 The percentage used to calculate the fixed dollar amount of service for each six month period was to decline to zero in six month increments. 19 The required percentage for each six month period was to be applied to one-half of the annual revenue baseline to calculate the fixed dollar amount of services AT&T must purchase for each six month period. 18 These new tariffs, as noted elsewhere in this order, would reflect Alascom's reduced costs after application of the transition payment installments. 19 The percentage of the baseline revenue amount to be used for each six month period is as follows: 90% during the first period; 80% during the second period; 65% during the third period; 45% during the fourth period; and 20% during the last period. Final Recommended Decision, FCC 93 J&hyph;2 at n. 181. 18. AT&T states that the must-purchase requirement ``would require AT&T to pay for services which it may not be able to use.'' 20 AT&T argues that the only way to interpret the must-purchase requirement in the Final Recommended Decision is to equate the demand used to calculate the annual baseline revenue with the AT&T demand for interstate services for which AT&T bills pursuant to its own tariffs during the last 12 months of the JSA. Alascom argues that the Board intended the demand calculations to be based on the jointly provided services provided by both AT&T and Alascom. 21 20 Ex parte letter from Karen Jeisi, AT&T, to William F. Caton, Acting Secretary, FCC, dated December 28, 1993. 21 Opposition of Alascom, January 12, 1994.
