FR941216-1-00041 FR941216-1-00010 (ii) A variable rate debt instrument (as defined in §1.1275&hyph;5); (iii) A debt instrument subject to §1.1272&hyph;1(c) (a debt instrument that provides for an alternative payment schedule (or schedules) applicable upon the occurrence of a contingency (or contingencies)); (iv) A debt instrument subject to section 988 (except as provided in section 988 and the regulations thereunder); or (v) A debt instrument to which section 1272(a)(6) applies (certain interests in or mortgages held by a REMIC, and certain other debt instruments with payments subject to acceleration). (3) Insolvency and default. A payment is not contingent merely because of the possibility of impairment by insolvency, default, or similar circumstances. (4) Convertible debt instruments. A debt instrument does not provide for contingent payments merely because it provides for a right to convert the debt instrument into the stock of the issuer, into the stock or debt of a related party (within the meaning of section 267(b) or 707(b)(1)), or into cash or other property in an amount equal to the approximate value of such stock or debt. (5) Remote and incidental contingencies. A payment on a debt instrument is not a contingent payment if, as of the issue date, the contingency is either remote or incidental. A contingency is remote if there is either a remote likelihood that the contingency will occur or a remote likelihood that the contingency will not occur. A contingency is incidental if the potential amount of the payment under any reasonably expected market conditions is insignificant relative to the total expected payments on the debt instrument. (b) Noncontingent bond method_ (1) Applicability. The noncontingent bond method described in paragraph (b) of this section applies to a contingent payment debt instrument that has an issue price determined under §1.1273&hyph;2 (e.g., a contingent payment debt instrument that is issued for money or publicly traded property). The noncontingent bond method also applies to a contingent payment debt instrument that has an issue price determined under §1.1274&hyph;2(b)(3) (a contingent payment debt instrument issued in a potentially abusive situation). (2) In general. Under the noncontingent bond method, interest on a debt instrument must be taken into account whether or not the amount of any payment is fixed or determinable in the taxable year. The amount of interest that is taken into account for each accrual period is determined by constructing a projected payment schedule for the debt instrument and applying rules similar to those for accruing OID on a noncontingent debt instrument. The projected payment schedule is determined as of the issue date and is based on forward prices, if readily available, or on the projected pattern of expected payments and a projected yield. If the actual amount of a contingent payment is not equal to the projected amount, appropriate adjustments are made to reflect the difference. (3) Description of method. The following steps describe how to compute the amount of income, deductions, gain, and loss under the noncontingent bond method. (i) Step one: Determine a projected payment schedule. Determine the projected payment schedule for the debt instrument as of the debt instrument's issue date under the rules of paragraph (b)(4) of this section. (ii) Step two: Determine the projected yield. Based on the issue price of the debt instrument and the projected payment schedule, determine the projected yield of the debt instrument in the manner described in §1.1272&hyph;1(b)(1)(i). (iii) Step three: Determine the daily portions of interest. Determine the daily portions of interest on the debt instrument for a taxable year as follows. The amount of interest that accrues in each accrual period is the product of the projected yield of the debt instrument (properly adjusted for the length of the accrual period) and the debt instrument's adjusted issue price at the beginning of the accrual period. See paragraph (b)(7)(ii) of this section for rules for determining the adjusted issue price of the debt instrument. The daily portions of interest are determined by allocating to each day in the accrual period the ratable portion of the interest that accrues in the accrual period. Except as modified by paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the daily portions of interest are includible in income by a holder for each day in the holder's taxable year on which the holder held the debt instrument, and are deductible by the issuer for each day during the issuer's taxable year on which the issuer was primarily liable on the debt instrument. (iv) Step four: Adjust the amount of income or deductions for differences between projected and actual contingent payments. Make appropriate adjustments to the amount of income or deductions attributable to the debt instrument in a taxable year for any differences between projected and actual contingent payments. See paragraph (b)(6) of this section to determine the amount of an adjustment and the treatment of the adjustment. (4) Method of determining projected payment schedule. This paragraph (b)(4) provides rules for determining the projected payment schedule for a debt instrument. The projected payment schedule includes each noncontingent payment and the projected amount of each contingent payment. The schedule is determined as of the issue date and remains fixed throughout the term of the debt instrument (except under special rules that apply to a payment that is fixed more than 6 months before it is due under paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section). Under the rules of section 6001, taxpayers must maintain adequate contemporaneous records to support the projected payment schedule. (i) Quotable contingent payments_ (A) In general. If a right to a contingent payment is substantially similar to a property right for which forward price quotes are readily available (a quotable contingent payment), the projected amount of the contingent payment is equal to the forward price of the property right. The forward price of a property right is an amount one party would agree, as of the issue date, to pay an unrelated party for the property right on the settlement date (e.g., the date payments under the property right are to be made). For purposes of paragraph (b)(4) of this section, a property right includes a right, an obligation, or a combination of rights or obligations. (B) Quotes readily available. For purposes of paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, quotes are readily available for a property right if, at any time during the 60-day period ending 30 days after the issue date, one or more quotations for a price on the property right are readily available from brokers, traders, or dealers. (C) Substantially similar. A right to a contingent payment is substantially similar to a property right if, under reasonably expected market conditions, the value and timing of the amount to be paid or received pursuant to the property right (whether in the form of a cash payment or the delivery of property) are expected to be substantially the same as the value and timing of the contingent payment.
