FR940602-1-00063 FR940602-1-00013 2.5. No new item of loose gear shall be manufactured of wrought iron. Heat treatment of any existing wrought iron components should be carried out to the satisfaction of the competent person. No heat treatment should be applied to any item of loose gear unless the treatment is in accordance with the manufacturer's instruction; to the satisfaction of the competent person. Any heat treatment and the associated examination are to be recorded by the competent person in part I of the Register. 3. Inspections 3.1. Regular visual inspections of every item of loose gear shall be carried out by a responsible person before use. A record of these regular inspections is to be entered in part II of the Register, but entries need only be made when the inspection has indicated a defect in the item. 4. Certificates 4.1. The certification forms to be used in conjunction with this Register (Form No. 1) are as follows: (Form No. 2)_Certificate of test and thorough examination of lifting appliance. (Form No. 2(U))_Certificate of test and thorough examination of derricks used in union purchase. (Form No. 3)_Certificate of test and thorough examination of loose gear. (Form No. 4)_Certificate of test and thorough examination of wire rope. Definitions (a) The term ``competent authority'' means a minister, government department, or other authority empowered to issue regulations, orders or other instructions having the force of law. (c) The term ``competent person'' means a person appointed by the master of the ship or the owner of the gear to be responsible for the performance of inspections and who has sufficient knowledge and experience to undertake such inspections. (d) The term ``thorough examination'' means a detailed visual examination by a competent person, supplemented if necessary by other suitable means or measures in order to arrive at a reliable conclusion as to the safety of the lifting appliance or item of loose gear examined. (e) The term ``lifting appliance'' covers all stationary or mobile cargo handling appliances used on board ship for suspending, raising or lowering loads or moving them from one position to another while suspended or supported. (g) The term ``loose gear'' covers any gear by means of which a load can be attached to a lifting appliance, but which does not form an integral part of the appliance or load.
