FR941221-2-00017 FR941221-2-00011 Application Forms and Kit _Applicants must submit one (1) signed original plus two copies of each application. Standard Forms 424 and 424A, Application for Federal Assistance (which have been approved by OMB Control No. 0348&hyph;0043 and 0348&hyph;0044, respectively) shall be used in applying for financial assistance, plus such additional information as is needed to permit the evaluation of the applications on the criteria set forth below. This information includes but is not limited to: •Background information on the participating companies; •Technological and commercial objectives of the project; •Relationships of the project to each company's business and development strategy; •Description of the project and technology involved; •Plans for commercialization, within 48 months; •Adherence of the project and/or technology to the Commission's priority guidelines; •Proposed time schedule; •Provisions for the protection of intellectual property; and •Commercialization and technological benefits. Evaluation Criteria _Factors within each criteria (labelled i, ii, iii, etc.) will be weighed equally. No project will be funded in the absence of a finding of technical and commercial merit by the reviewers. The evaluation criteria to be used in selecting any proposal for funding under this program, and their respective weights, are: (1) Scientific and Technical Merit of the Proposal (20 percent). (i) Quality and innovativeness of the proposed technical program (i.e. uniqueness with respect to current industry practice). (ii) Technical feasibility of the project (i.e., are the technical objectives realistic?). (iii) Coherency of technical plan and clarity of vision of technical objectives. (iv) Breadth of impact of accomplishment of technical objectives. (2) Commercial Benefits of the Proposal (25 percent). (i) Commercial potential of the technology in the proposed venture. (ii) Potential to improve U.S. Israeli economic growth and the productivity of a broad spectrum of industrial sectors or businesses within an economically important single sector. (iii) Timeliness of proposal (i.e. the project results will not occur too late to be competitively useful in the marketplace). (3) Commercialization Plans for the Project (15 percent). (i) Evidence that the participants will pursue commercial application of the technology including production and distribution plans. (ii) Project plan adequately addresses technology transfer and ownership requirements to assure prompt and widespread use and protection of results by participants and, as appropriate, others. (4) Qualifications of the Proposing Organization(s) (20 percent). (i) Quality and appropriateness of proposer's commercial and managerial staffing, facilities, equipment, and other resources to accomplish the proposed program objectives. (ii) Quality and appropriateness of the technical staff to carry out the proposed work program and to identify and overcome technical barriers to meeting project objectives. (iii) For proposals involving laboratory prototype development, evidence of availability of adequate design and manufacturing tools appropriate to the prototype. (5) Proposer's Level of Commitment and Organizational Structure (20 percent). (i) Appropriateness of the structure of the proposed organization in terms of composition of participants (i.e. vertical and/or horizontal integration) and existing relationships among the parties. (ii) Level of commitment of proposers as demonstrated by contribution of personnel, equipment, facilities, and matching funds. (iii) Appropriate participation by U.S. small business. (iv) Evidence of a strong commitment by applicants to complete and, if appropriate, provide support for continuation of the program beyond the period of funding.
