FR940826-0-00063 FR940826-0-00016 I. Introduction 1. By this action, we respond to petitions for reconsideration of the Third Report and Order in this proceeding. 1 The Third Report and Order established service-specific rules for competitive bidding for the award of licenses for Personal Communications Services in the 900 MHz band (narrowband PCS). Seven such petitions were received, as well as three oppositions and comments and one reply. 2 1 See Third Report and Order in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, 9 FCC Rcd 2941, 59 FR 26741 (May 24, 1994), ( Third Report and Order ). 2 Petitions for reconsideration were received from the Association of Independent Designated Entities (AIDE), Mercury Communications, Inc. (Mercury), Paging Network, Inc. (PageNet), Phase One Communications, Inc. (Phase One), the Rural Cellular Association (RCA), Tri-State Radio Co. (Tri-State), and U.S. Intelco Networks, Inc. (USIN). Oppositions or comments were received from United States Telephone Association (USTA), AirTouch Paging (AirTouch), and Paging Network, Inc. (PageNet); a reply was received from American Paging, Inc. (API). 2. On August 10, 1993, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (the Budget Act) added a new section 309(j) to the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. 151&hyph;173 (the Communications Act). This amendment to the Communications Act gave the Commission express authority to employ competitive bidding procedures to choose from among mutually exclusive applications for initial licenses. The Commission's Second Report and Order established general rules and procedures and a broad menu of competitive bidding methods to be used for all auctionable services. 3 3 Second Report and Order in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, 9 FCC Rcd 2348, 59 FR 22980 (May 4, 1994), ( Second Report and Order ). 3. The Third Report and Order established competitive bidding rules for narrowband PCS. The Commission decided that because of the interdependence within certain classes of narrowband PCS licenses and the relatively high expected value of such licenses, where the agency received mutually exclusive applications most narrowband PCS licenses would be awarded through a sequence of simultaneous multiple round auctions. However, we stated that we might alternatively use oral sequential or single round sealed bidding to award certain narrowband PCS licenses if the operational complexity or administrative costs associated with simultaneous auctions proved excessive relative to the expected value of the licenses to be awarded. We stated that in conducting narrowband PCS auctions we would generally follow the payment and procedural rules adopted in the Second Report and Order, and we adopted general procedural and processing rules for the narrowband PCS service based on Parts 22 and 90 of the Commission's rules. We also structured our rules to provide opportunities for small businesses and businesses owned by women and minorities to participate in the auction and in the provision of spectrum based services. 4. On July 29, 1994 we completed the first spectrum auction for the ten available nationwide narrowband PCS licenses. This auction was the first test of the simultaneous multiple round auction design and of our provisions for designated entities. This auction was enormously successful. One indication of the efficiency of the simultaneous multiple round bidding process is the fact that the winning bids were either identical or virtually identical for virtually identical licenses. As we expected, this auction also attracted broad participation by designated entities. Of the 29 registered bidders 9, or 30 percent, indicated status as either minority or woman-owned firms. The strong bidding competition among relatively large firms and incumbent paging companies, however, may have been a factor in the lack of designated entities among the winning bidders. These results have caused us to reexamine some of the auction rules and designated entity provisions previously adopted in the Third Report and Order. In addition, we request comment on a number of possible further changes in the designated entity provisions that might apply to the upcoming MTA and BTA auctions.
