FR940325-0-00076 FR940325-0-00016 Comment: Some commenters objected to the Department's decision to defer consideration of certain issues until the next biennial review. These commenters stated that all matters relating to the measure of damages should be addressed in this rulemaking. Response: As was explained in the April 29, 1991, notice of proposed rulemaking, the Department decided to limit this rulemaking to the court order in light of the potentially wide-ranging issues that will be considered during the biennial review. The Department believes that it has considered all issues within the scope of the Ohio v. Interior remand. 2. Timing of This Rulemaking Comment: Several commenters expressed concern that the Department was proceeding too slowly on implementation of Ohio v. Interior and Colorado v. Interior and commencement of the biennial review. Response: Implementation of Ohio v. Interior and Colorado v. Interior and commencement of the biennial review have involved considerable, time-consuming analysis and coordination. The Department has been proceeding, and will continue to proceed, as expeditiously as possible. 3. Goal of This Rulemaking Comment: One commenter stated that the Department had failed to articulate clear goals for this rulemaking. This commenter offered suggestions on possible goals, including promotion of timely, cost-effective restoration. Another commenter requested that the Department attempt to eliminate ambiguity and vagueness from the rule in order to reduce transaction costs. Response: Section 11.11, which was not affected by this rulemaking, states that the purpose of the regulations is to provide standardized and cost-effective procedures for assessing natural resource damages. The Department has indicated that the primary goal of this particular rulemaking is to revise the type B rule to comply with Ohio v. Interior . The Department believes that promotion of timely, cost-effective restoration and elimination of ambiguity and vagueness are worthy objectives and has attempted to further those objectives to the extent possible within the context of addressing the court order. The Department will consider whether additional revisions are necessary during the upcoming biennial review. 4. Regulatory Impact Analysis Comment: A few commenters disagreed with the Department's statement that this rulemaking is not ``major'' under Executive Order 12291 and, thus, does not require preparation of a Regulatory Impact Analysis. These commenters challenged a number of aspects of the Determination of Effects prepared for the proposed rule. Response: Executive Order 12291 has been rescinded since the Department prepared the Determination of Effects for the proposed rule. This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866 and has been determined to constitute a significant regulatory action. However, because of the difficulty of evaluating the effects of alternatives to this rule, the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs within the Office of Management and Budget has waived preparation of the assessments described in sections 6(a)(3)(B) and 6(a)(3)(C) of Executive Order 12866 for the final rule. 5. Status of Prior Unpublished Notice of Final Rulemaking Comment: A number of commenters objected to the publication of the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice on the ground that the Department had already sent a notice of final rulemaking to the Office of the Federal Register in January, 1993, that was never published. Response: The Department acknowledges that its former Assistant Secretary-Policy, Management and Budget sent a notice of final rulemaking to the Office of the Federal Register in January, 1993. The Department retrieved the notice from the Office of the Federal Register before it was filed out of concern that proper procedures had not been followed in connection with its preparation. Most notably, the notice improperly referred to and relied upon information received outside the comment period and had not received proper Departmental clearance. The Department, therefore, believes it was appropriate to retrieve the notice and publish the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice to reopen the comment period. B. Overall Damage Assessment Process 1. Trustee Discretion Comment: A number of commenters addressed the level of discretion that the proposed rule would afford trustee officials. Many commenters thought that trustee officials are in the best position to determine how to proceed at a specific site and praised the flexibility of the proposed rule. On the other hand, several commenters thought that the rule would delegate too much authority to trustee officials. These commenters stated that the language and legislative history of section 301(c) of CERCLA, through reference to ``protocols,'' ``best available procedures,'' and ``most accurate and efficient procedures,'' require that the Department develop substantive objective standards. According to these commenters, the proposed rule relies upon subjective standards that will lead to arbitrary and capricious results. These commenters expressed concern that the Department was placing too much reliance on public review and comment to curb potential abuses of discretion by trustee officials.
