FR941216-2-00178 FR941216-2-00103 Availability of Solicitation for Aviation Research Grants Proposals AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is soliciting proposals for research grants and cooperative agreements addressing the long-term technical needs of the National Airspace System (NAS) pursuant to Section 9205, Aviation Research Grant Program, and Section 9208, Catastrophic Failure Prevention Research Program, of the FAA Research, Engineering, and Development Authorization Act of 1990 (Public Law 101&hyph;508), and Section 107, Aviation Security Improvement Act of 1990 (Public Law 101&hyph;604). Specific research areas include air traffic control (ATC) automation, aviation applications of artificial intelligence, aviation training techniques and technologies, human factors in highly automated environments, and aircraft safety. Although Sections 9208 and 9209 of Public Law 101&hyph;508 permit the FAA Administrator to establish Centers of Excellence, availability of solicitations for Centers of Excellence will be announced in the Federal Register as they become available. Availability of Solicitation Grants for Aviation Research Program Solicitation No. 95.1 is available by contacting the office identified in the Addresses paragraph. Recipients of the previous solicitation, No. 93.1, will automatically be mailed the new document. Solicitation 95.1 and all necessary forms are also available on the FAA Technical Center World Wide Web Server at URL http://www.tc.faa.gov, or anonymous ftp at ftp.tc.faa.gov. The INTERNET address is 155.178.180.3. ADDRESSES: Inquiries regarding this subject matter should be directed to: Aviation Research Grants Program, Office of Research and Technology Applications, ACL&hyph;1, FAA Technical Center, Building 270, Room B115, Atlantic City International Airport, New Jersey 08405, Phone (609) 485&hyph;4424, Fax (609) 485&hyph;6509. DATES: Proposals may be submitted to the office listed in the ADDRESSES section at any time after the effective release date of this NOTICE. This solicitation is open until further notice in the Federal Register . Applicants should allow at least 3 months for review and processing of proposals. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Title IX, The Aircraft Safety and Capacity Expansion Act of 1990 (Public Law 101&hyph;508), was enacted to enhance the FAA's access to resources and research facilities available at colleges, universities, and other non-profit research institutions. The Aviation Research Grant Program, Section 9205, permits the ``Administrator to make grants to colleges, universities, and nonprofit research organizations to conduct aviation research into areas deemed by the Administrator to be required for the long-term growth of civil aviation.'' The Catastrophic Failure Prevention Research Grants Program, Section 9208, directs the FAA ``to conduct aviation research relating to development of technologies and methods to assess the risk and prevent defects, failures, and malfunctions of products, parts, processes, and articles manufactured for use in aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers, and appliances that could result in a catastrophic failure of an aircraft.'' The Act authorizes the FAA to establish a research grant program that encompasses a broad spectrum of aviation research activities that are targeted at specific areas of long-term aviation research. The Aviation Security Improvement Act of 1990 (Public Law 101&hyph;604) authorized the creation of a grants program ``to accelerate and expand the research, development, and implementation of technologies and procedures to counteract terrorist acts against civil aviation.'' There is a special emphasis on human factors projects that include ``research and development of both technological improvements and ways to enhance human performance.'' The central purpose of the FAA Research Grant Program is to encourage and support innovative, advanced research of potential benefit to the long-term growth of civil aviation. Research Areas The legislation cited earlier provides for aviation research grants programs in three general categories: (1) Areas deemed by the FAA Administrator to be required for the long-term growth of civil aviation; (2) areas related to research on the prevention of catastrophic failures; and (3) areas related to research, development, and implementation of technologies and procedures to counteract terrorist acts against civil aviation. These three specific areas are comprised of program areas identified in the FAA Research, Engineering, & Development (RE&D) Plan of the agency's research and development initiatives. The areas, which contribute to the FAA's mission of improving aviation safety, capacity, efficiency, and security, are as follows: a. Capacity and Air Traffic Control Technology; b. Communications, Navigation, and Surveillance; c. Aviation Weather; d. Airports; e. Aircraft Safety Technology; f. System Security Technology; g. Human Factors and Aviation Medicine; h. Environment and Energy; i. Systems Science/Operations Research. More detailed descriptions of these nine programs and a detailed description of the grants process is contained in the Grants for Aviation Research Program Solicitation 95.1. Eligibility Applicant eligibility for the award of an aviation research grant or cooperative agreement depends on the nature of the proposer's organization as well as the character of work proposed. In general, colleges, universities, and other non-profit research institutions are eligible to qualify for grants to perform research in all specified areas. Other appropriate research institutions, including for-profit research institutions, may qualify for grants or cooperative agreements for research and development activities in aviation security under Section 107 of Public Law 101&hyph;604. The FAA seeks to ensure an equitable geographical distribution of grant funds and the inclusion of historically black colleges and universities and other minority institutions for funding consideration. Proposal Submission Guidelines for the application format and content are contained in the Solicitation. Every effort will be made to reach a decision and inform the applicant promptly. Unless and until an award is made, the FAA is not responsible for any expenditures incurred by the proposing organization. Funding Appropriated discretionary funds are not currently available for grants. Awards will be made via program funding sponsorship. Award Date Recipients of FAA research grants will be announced on a continuous basis. Issued in Atlantic County, New Jersey, on November 11, 1994. November 22, 1994. Harvey B. Safeer, Director, FAA Technical Center, ACT&hyph;1. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31006 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
