FR941206-1-00057 FR941206-1-00007 c. Emission Limits for Cleaning Operations. Compliance with the emission limits for the strippable spray booth material can be demonstrated through a CPDS. Owners or operators would demonstrate on-going compliance by submitting a compliance certification with the semiannual reports required by ยง63.807(c) of the proposed rule stating that compliant spray booth coatings continue to be used. The owner or operator is in initial and continuous compliance with the proposed rule if the VOC content of each strippable spray booth coating is no greater than 0.8 kg VOC/kg solids (0.8 lb VOC/lb solids), as applied. The application of any strippable spray booth coating that does not meet the VOC limit specified in the proposed rule during any day is a violation of the proposed rule for that day. d. Work Practice Standards. Compliance with the work practice standards is demonstrated if the Work Practice Implementation Plan is developed and followed. Owners or operators would demonstrate on-going compliance by submitting a compliance certification with the semiannual reports required by ยง63.807(c) of the proposed rule stating that the Work Practice Implementation Plan was being followed. Failure to implement any of the provisions of the Work Practice Implementation Plan during any day is a violation of the proposed rule for that day. D. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements Most of the reporting and recordkeeping provisions of the General Provisions to this subpart apply to all sources subject to the proposed standards. A summary of these requirements and the additional reporting and recordkeeping requirements that are specific to this source category is presented in Table 6. The General Provisions are applicable to all sources subject to the proposed rule that are using control devices for compliance. However, as indicated in Table 6, some requirements of the General Provisions apply only to control devices, continuous monitors, etc. and are not pertinent to sources complying through the use of compliant materials (finishing materials, adhesives, strippable spray booth coatings). Table 1 of the proposed rule specifically cites which sections of the General Provisions do not apply to sources using compliant materials.
