FR941107-2-00031 FR941107-2-00008 In the present case, as in Smith Corona, producers/exporters who were not respondents had no control over Paulista's withdrawal of its information, had no reason to believe that Paulista would receive an adverse rate as a result of withdrawing information, and by virtue of the point at which Paulista withdrew its information from the record, had no opportunity to submit their own data for analysis and verification. We have concluded that, under these circumstances, assigning an adverse BIA rate to all other producers/exporters would be inappropriately punitive. Therefore, the Department has based the ``All Others'' rate in this investigation on the dumping margin which formed the basis for the initiation of this investigation. Fair Value Comparisons As BIA, we have calculated a margin for Paulista based on a comparison of USP and foreign market value (FMV). USP was based on information contained in the petition, as fully described in the notice of initiation of this investigation (58 FR 64553, December 8, 1993). FMV was based on CV, using data submitted by petitioners and relied upon by the Department in its initiation of the COP investigation ( See, Memorandum from Richard W. Moreland to Barbara R. Stafford, May 13, 1994, on file in Room B&hyph;099 of the Main Commerce Building), adjusted for interest expense and profit. In accordance with section 773(e)(1)(B)(ii), we added the statutory minimum of eight percent for profit and recalculated interest expense based on the consolidated results of the operations of Paulista for the year ending December 31, 1993, as reflected in its public financial statements. Since FMV is based on a CV, which is exclusive of any value added taxes (VAT), we have adjusted USP to exclude the VAT adjustment that was made for purposes of this initiation. Interested Party Comments Comment 1: Petitioners argue that the Department should find Paulista uncooperative because it withdrew its participation from the investigation and removed all of its proprietary information from the record. Paulista states that the company devoted significant time and resources to provide the information requested by the Department during the course of the investigation, allowed verification of its cost response and provided additional information to the Department after the cost verification. DOC Position: We agree with petitioners. By withdrawing from the investigation, Paulista significantly impeded the completion of the Department's investigation. Moreover, in light of Paulista's removal of all of its proprietary information from the record, the Department has no choice but to treat Paulista as an uncooperative respondent. This action has the consequence of expunging from the administrative record the basis for showing, either now or on appeal, that Paulista had been cooperative during this investigation. ( See, e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products and Certain Cut-to-Length Carbon Steel Plate from Italy, 58 FR 37153 (July 9, 1993); Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Hot-Rolled Lead and Bismuth Carbon Steel Products from France, 58 FR 6205 (January 27, 1993)). Comment 2: Petitioners argue that Paulista withdrew from the investigation only after recognizing that the results of the investigation would be more favorable if based on the petition or initiation rate. Consequently, petitioners argue that the Department must look beyond the pool of rates identified in its two-tier BIA policy, since none of those rates was sufficiently adverse to compel Paulista's cooperation. Petitioners contend that, as BIA, the Department should use data in petitioners' COP allegation and Paulista's financial statements to calculate FMV, and data provided in Paulista's own ranged public submissions of its questionnaire response to calculate USP. In addition, the petitioners contend that because Paulista was uncooperative, the Department should ``de-range'' USP information provided in the public version of Paulista's response by reducing gross prices by 10 percent and increasing the foreign movement charges and U.S. selling expenses by 10 percent.
