FR940114-2-00177 FR940114-2-00102 E. Records Contents. Records of monitoring information shall include: 1. The date, exact place, and time of sampling or measurements; 2. The individual(s) who performed the sampling or measurements; 3. The date(s) analyses were performed; 4. The individual(s) who performed the analyses; 5. The analytical techniques or methods used; and 6. The results of such analyses. F. Retention of Records The permittee shall retain records of all monitoring information, including all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, copies of all reports required by this permit, and records of all data used to complete the application for this permit, for a period of at least three years from the date of the sample, measurement, report or application. This period may be extended by request of the Director or ADEC at any time. Data collected on-site, copies of DMRs, and a copy of this NPDES permit must be maintained on-site during the duration of activity at the permitted location. G. Notice of Noncompliance Reporting 1. Any noncompliance which may endanger health or the environment shall be reported as soon as the permittee becomes aware of the circumstance. A written submission shall also be provided in the shortest reasonable period of time after the permittee becomes aware of the occurrence. 2. The following occurrences of noncompliance shall also be reported in writing in the shortest reasonable period of time after the permittee becomes aware of the circumstances: a. Any unanticipated bypass which exceeds any effluent limitation in the permit (see Part V.G., Bypass of Treatment Facilities.); or b. Any upset which exceeds any effluent limitation in the permit (see Part V.H., Upset Conditions.). c. Any violation of the effluent limitations in Permit Parts II.A. and II.B. 3. The written submission shall contain: a. A description of the noncompliance and its cause; b. The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times; c. The estimated time noncompliance is expected to continue if it has not been corrected; and d. Steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the noncompliance. 4. The Director may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if an oral report has been received within 24 hours by the Water Compliance Section in Seattle, Washington, by phone, (206) 553&hyph;1213. 5. Reports shall be submitted to the addresses in Part IV.B., Reporting of Monitoring Results.
