FR940720-2-00078 FR940720-2-00066 [Docket No. 50&hyph;346] Toledo Edison Company, et al.; Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 1; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;3, issued to the Toledo Edison Company, Centerior Service Company, and the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (the licensees), for operation of the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 1, located in Ottawa County, Ohio. Environmental Assessment Indentification of Proposed Action The proposed action would revise the operating license to reflect the proposed merger of the Toledo Edison Company into the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company. These companies are currently wholly owned subsidiaries of the Centerior Energy Corporation. As described in the application, the company formed from the merger is intended to be renamed. The name of the combined operating company has yet to be determined (hereinafter referred to as ``NEWCO'') and the licensees indicate it will be provided by supplemental letter. The proposed amendment would (1) replace the Toledo Edison Company and Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company with NEWCO as a licensee, (2) designate NEWCO as owner of Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, Unit 1, and (3) make other associated changes to the license as indicated in the amendment application. Centerior Service Company would be unaffected by the amendment and would remain in a licensee. The proposed action is in accordance with the licensee's amendment application dated June 6, 1994. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action in the form of an amendment application is needed to reflect the result of the proposed merger of the Toledo Edison Company into the Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company. This action is also intended to maximize the operating efficiencies of the two affiliated companies. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The Commission has completed its evaluation of the proposed action and concludes that there will be no changes to the facility or to the operating, maintenance, engineering or other nuclear-related personnel as a result of the proposed merger and license amendment. The proposed merger would not change the technical qualifications and responsibilities of personnel. All of the Toledo Edision Company personnel in the Davis-Besse organization would be transferred to NEWCO upon completion of the merger. This organization would continue to report to Centerior Service Company. After the merger, NEWCO and Centerior Service Company would be required to continue to operate, manage, and maintain the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station in accordance with the conditions and requirements of the NRC. No changes resulting from merger are expected with regard to the following: lines on authority and responsibility, essential nuclear support functions provided to Davis-Besse, effectiveness of the organization, priorities and ongoing plant improvement projects, technical qualifications, and corporate financial resources presently available in support of Davis-Besse operations. The change will not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impact associated with the proposed action. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed action does not affect the nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded that there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed action, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the action would be to deny the request. Such action would not enhance the protection of the environmental and would result in the Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;3 not appropriately reflecting the effect of the merger. Alternate Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the Final Environmental Statement for the Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, Unit 1, documented in NUREG&hyph;75/097 (October 1975). Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the Ohio State Official regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State official had no comments. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement of the proposed action. For further details with respect to the proposed action, see the licensee's letter dated June 6, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room located at the University of Toledo Library, Documents Department, 2801 Bancroft Avenue, Toledo, Ohio 43606. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 13th day of July 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Jon B. Hopkins, Acting Director, Project Directorate III&hyph;3, Division of Reactor Projects_III/IV, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17611 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
