FR941116-0-00009 FR941116-0-00001 (3) Utilized the internal procedures provided by the Architect of the Capitol for the resolution of claims of discrimination or reprisal including, but not limited to, the filing of a request for formal or informal advice or the filing of a formal complaint; or (4) Participated in any proceedings before the Board or the Architect of the Capitol for the resolution of complaints of discrimination or reprisal. (c) The Board has jurisdiction over proceedings brought by the Board's General Counsel seeking: (1) Corrective action for alleged employment discrimination or retaliation (as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section) by the Architect of the Capitol; (2) Disciplinary action against an employee of the Architect of the Capitol who has allegedly engaged in employment discrimination or retaliation as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section; (3) A stay of a personnel action that has occurred or is about to occur and that is alleged to involve unlawful discrimination or retaliation of the kind described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. ยง29.4 Computation of time. For the purposes of this part, time will be computed in the manner described in 4 CFR 28.4. ยง29.5 Informal procedural advice. Any party or member of the public may seek advice on all aspects of the Board's procedures by contacting the Board's Solicitor, the Board's General Counsel or the Clerk of the Board. Informal advice will be supplied within the limits of available time and staff. ยง29.6 Requirement for exhaustion of internal administrative remedies provided by the Architect of the Capitol. (a) General. Under the provisions of the Architect of the Capitol Human Resources Act, any employee of the Architect of the Capitol who wishes to pursue a claim of discrimination or retaliation before the Board must first file an internal complaint with the Architect of the Capitol and exhaust the procedures for resolving such complaints. The procedures for filing such complaints are at present set forth in the Equal Employment Opportunity Procedures Manual issued by the Architect of the Capitol. The internal procedures for resolving complaints of discrimination or retaliation will be considered exhausted when either of the following occurs: (1) The employee receives a final decision by the Architect of the Capitol on his or her complaint of discrimination or retaliation; or (2) 120 days have passed after the filing of an internal complaint of discrimination or retaliation and the Architect of the Capitol has not issued a final decision on the complaint. (b) Class claims. An employee of the Architect of the Capitol who wishes to seek relief before the Board for a class of employees shall first file an internal complaint of discrimination or retaliation with the Architect of the Capitol and exhaust the internal remedies for resolution of such complaints as described in paragraph (a) of this section. It is not necessary that the employee raise class allegations in his or her internal complaint in order to be able to pursue the matter as a class action before the Board.
