FR940317-1-00100 FR940317-1-00013 (c) Subrogated claims. Subrogated claims will be processed as prescribed in §536.20(b). (d) Advance payments. Advance payments in partial settlement of meritorious claims to alleviate immediate hardship are authorized as provided in subpart B, small claims. §535.95 Claims not payable. The type of claims listed in §536.51, as not payable are also not payable under this chapter. §535.96 Claims under other subparts. (a) Claims within the scope of this subpart that are also cognizable under subparts D, H, J or K will be considered initially under the latter. (b) This chapter does not apply to any claim that may be settled under an exclusive or specific authorization listed in DA Pam 27&hyph;162, chapter 8 (see §536.76). §536.97 Notification of incident. Except where claims are regularly paid from State sources; for example, insurance, court of claims, and legislative committee, the appropriate adjutant general will ensure that each incident of the type enumerated in §536.15 is reported immediately by the most expeditious means to the area claims office in whose geographic area the incident occurs or to a claims processing office designated by the area claims office. The report will contain the following information: (a) Date of incident. (b) Place of incident. (c) Nature of incident. (d) Names and organizations of ARNG personnel involved. (e) Names of potential claimants. (f) A brief description of any damage, loss, or destruction of private property and any injuries or death of potential claimants. §536.98 Investigation. (a) When required. An investigation is required as indicated in §536.15 except when claims are regularly paid by local sources. (b) By whom made. Area offices, or claims processing offices designated by them, are responsible for the investigation of claims occurring within their assigned geographic areas. The state adjutant general will designate an official or office as point of contact for Army claims personnel and will furnish necessary personnel to conduct or assist in investigations subject to the availability of funds and personnel. (See §536.7(h). The use of ARNG personnel when available, is authorized. Attention is directed to §536.19(b) that requires the use of information from other investigations made previously, particularly military and civilian police reports, reports of survey, line of duty investigations, and collateral air crash investigations. (c) Conduct of investigation. The investigation will be conducted in accordance with subpart B, except that a sample scope of employment format will be added, together with a copy of the orders authorizing the performance of duty by the tortfeasor. Also, where a State has waived immunity or has some other means for paying claims, as through legislative committee or insurance, the claims officer's report will contain a statement as to the nature of the remedy against the State, the extent of insurance coverage, and the status of any claim made. If there is no remedy against the State and no insurance coverage, the claims officer's report will so indicate. If a regular procedure has been established for the processing of claims for a particular jurisdiction as by agreement between local authorities and an appropriate Army headquarters or USARCS, this requirement is waived. Finally, inquiry should be made as to any existing or anticipated claim or lawsuit against or by the driver of the ARNG vehicle or insurer. If a claim or lawsuit has been filed, further inquiry should be made as to probable outcome. This could be accomplished by discussion with the driver and an examination of the driver's insurance policy, which, if obtained, should be included in the file. §536.99 Claims in which there is a State source of recovery. Where there is a remedy against the State, as a result of either waiver of sovereign immunity or liability insurance coverage, the following procedures apply: (a) Where the State is insured, direct contact with State or ARNG officials rather than the insurer is desirable. Regular procedures will be established and followed wherever possible. Such procedures should be agreed on by both local authorities and the appropriate claims authorities subject to concurrence by Commander, USARCS. Such procedures will be designed to ensure that local authorities and U.S. authorities do not issue conflicting instructions for processing claims, and whenever possible, and in accordance with governing local and Federal law, a mutual arrangement for disposition of such claims as in paragraph (c) of this section is worked out. Amounts recovered or recoverable by claimant from any insurer (other than claimant's insurer who has obtained no subrogated interest against the United States) will be deducted from the amount otherwise payable. (b) If there is a remedy against the State or its insurer, the claimant may be advised of that remedy. If the payment by the State or its insurer does not fully compensate claimant, an additional payment may be made. If liability is clear and claimant settles with the State or its insurer for less than the maximum amount recoverable, the difference between the maximum amount recoverable and the settlement normally will be deducted from the payment by the United States. (c) If the State or its insurer desires to pay less than their maximum jurisdiction or policy limit on a basis of 50 percent or more of the actual value of the entire claim, any payment made by the United States must be made directly to the claimant. This can be accomplished by either having the United States pay the entire claim and have the State or its insurer reimburse its portion to the United States, or by having each party pay its agreed share directly to the claimant. If the State or its insurer desires to pay less than 50 percent of the actual value of the claim, the procedure set forth in paragraph (d) of this section will be followed.
