FR940725-0-00039 FR940725-0-00007 (iv) Step 4_determine DASTM gain or loss attributable to certain assets_ (A) General rule. The taxpayer shall determine the dollar amount of DASTM gain or loss attributable to assets in each group identified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section (Step 3) as follows: [(bb+eb) 2]×[er^br] where bb = the hyperinflationary currency adjusted basis of the assets in the group at the beginning of the balance sheet period. eb = the hyperinflationary currency adjusted basis of the assets in the group at the end of the balance sheet period. er = one dollar divided by the number of hyperinflationary currency units that equal one dollar at the end of the balance sheet period. br = one dollar divided by the number of hyperinflationary currency units that equal one dollar at the beginning of the balance sheet period. (B) Weighting to prevent distortion. If averaging the adjusted basis of assets in a group at the beginning and end of a balance sheet period results in an allocation of DASTM gain or loss that does not clearly reflect income, as might be the case in the event of a purchase or disposition of an asset that is not in the normal course of business, the taxpayer must use a weighting method that reflects the time the assets are held by the QBU during the translation period. (C) Example. The provisions of this paragraph (e)(3)(iv) are illustrated by the following example: Example. S is a foreign corporation that operates in the hyperinflationary currency ``h'' and computes its income or loss or earnings and profits under DASTM. S's adjusted basis in a group of assets described in section 988(c)(1)(B) or (C) that generate general limitation foreign source income (as characterized under paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section) at the beginning of the balance sheet period is 750,000h. S's basis in such assets at the end of the balance sheet period is 1,250,000h. The exchange rate at the beginning of the balance sheet period is $1 = 200h. The exchange rate at the end of the balance sheet period is $1 = 500h. The DASTM loss attributable to the assets described above is $3,000, determined as follows: [(750,000h+1,250,000h) 2]× [($1 500h)^($1 200h)]=($3000) (v) Step 5_adjust dollar gross income by DASTM gain or loss from assets. The taxpayer shall adjust the dollar amount of the QBU's gross income (computed under paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section) generated by each group of assets characterized in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section (Step 3) by the amount of DASTM gain or loss attributable to those assets computed under paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section (Step 4). Thus, if a group of assets, such as accounts receivable, generates both a category of income described in section 904(d)(1)(I) (relating to general limitation income) that is not foreign base company income as defined in section 954 and a DASTM loss under paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section (Step 4), the amount of the DASTM loss would reduce the amount of the QBU's gross income in that category. Similarly, if a group of assets, such as short-term bank deposits, generates both foreign personal holding company income that is passive income (described in sections 954(c)(1)(A) and 904(d)(1)(A)) and a DASTM loss under paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section (Step 4), the amount of the DASTM loss would reduce the amount of the QBU's foreign personal holding company income and passive income. See section 904(f) and the regulations thereunder in the case where that section would apply and DASTM loss attributable to a group of assets exceeds the income generated by such assets. (vi) Step 6_determine DASTM gain or loss attributable to liabilities _(A) General rule. The taxpayer shall determine the dollar amount of DASTM gain or loss attributable to liabilities identified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section (Step 2), and described in paragraph (e)(3)(vi)(B) of this section as follows:
