FR940913-2-00058 FR940913-2-00042 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health Public Health Service [GN # 2267] National Vaccine Advisory Committee, Public Meeting AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, Public Health Service, HHS. SUMMARY: The Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health is announcing the forthcoming meeting of the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC). DATES: Date, Time and Place: September 26, at 9 a.m.; and September 27, at 8:30 a.m.; Hubert H. Humphrey Building, Room 703A, 200 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20201. The entire meeting is open to the public. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Written requests to participate should be sent to Chester Robinson, D.P.A., Acting Executive Secretary, National Vaccine Advisory Committee, National Vaccine Program Office, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockwall II Building, Suite 1075, Rockville, MD 20857 (301) 594&hyph;2277. Agenda: Open Public Hearing Interested persons may formally present data, information, or views orally or in writing on issues pending before the Advisory Committee or on any of the duties and responsibilities of the Advisory Committee as described below. Those desiring to make such presentations should notify the contact person before September 19, and submit a brief statement of the information they wish to present to the Advisory Committee. Requests should include the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the proposed participants and an indication of the approximate time required to make their comments. A maximum of 10 minutes will be allowed for a given presentation. Any person attending the meeting who does not request an opportunity to speak in advance of the meeting will be allowed to make an oral presentation at the conclusion of the meeting, if time permits, at the chairperson's discretion. Open Advisory Committee Discussion The agenda will include discussions on resources available for the National Vaccine Program Office in FY 1995; priorities for the National Vaccine Advisory Committee (NVAC) activities; update on current immunization activities, including the President's Childhood Immunization Initiative; simplification of pediatric immunization schedules and achieving agreement between vaccine labeling and recommendations for use; proposed economic study of U.S. vaccine industry, and proposed activities of NVAC's Future Vaccines Subcommittee. Meetings of the Advisory Committee shall be conducted, insofar as is practical, in accordance with a more detailed agenda distributed at the beginning of the meeting. Persons interested in specific agenda items may ascertain from the contact person the approximate time of discussion. A list of Advisory Committee members and the charter of the Advisory Committee will be available at the meeting. Those unable to attend the meeting may request this information from the contact person. Summary minutes of the meeting will be made available upon request from the contact person. Dated: August 31, 1994. Jeannette R. DeLawter, Committee Management Specialist. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22596 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;17&hyph;M
