FR941013-0-00034 FR941013-0-00013 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 52 [MN32&hyph;2&hyph;6679; FRL&hyph;5077&hyph;8] Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plans; Minnesota AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On November 10, 1992, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) submitted a SIP revision which included two elements: A commitment from the Governor or his designee to the timely adoption and implementation of an I/M program meeting all requirements of the I/M regulation; and a schedule of implementation. On November 12, 1993, and December 15, 1993, the MPCA fulfilled its commitment by submitting proposed revisions to its State Implementation Plan (SIP) for carbon monoxide to USEPA for approval. The submittal requests approval of its basic inspection and maintenance (I/M) program which applies to the Twin Cities seven-county metropolitan area. The Twin Cities seven-county metropolitan area, which includes Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott and Washington Counties, has been classified as moderate nonattainment for carbon monoxide. Therefore, section 187 of the Clean Air Act (CAA) requires the State to submit a basic I/M SIP. On August 5, 1994, USEPA proposed conditional approval of Minnesota's basic I/M SIP based on MPCA's commitment to adopt specific enforceable measures as outlined in the July 5, 1994, letter from Charles Williams, Commissioner MPCA, to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, USEPA. The notice of proposed rulemaking also outlined several USEPA comments and required MPCA to adequately respond to the comments before USEPA would proceed with conditional approval. In this action, the USEPA is taking final action to conditionally approve the State's basic I/M program submittal based upon the commitment from the State and responses to USEPA's comments. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule is effective on November 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the SIP revision request, public comments and other materials relating to this rulemaking are available for inspection at the following address: (It is recommended that you telephone John Paskevicz at 312 886&hyph;6084, before visiting the Region 5 office.) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Air and Radiation Division, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604. A copy of this SIP revision request to the Ohio SIP is available for inspection at the Office of Air and Radiation (OAR), Docket and Information Center (Air Docket 6102), Room M1500, USEPA, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 260&hyph;7548. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John Paskevicz, Regulation Development Section, Air Enforcement Branch (AE&hyph;17J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 886&hyph;6084. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Section 187(a)(4) of the CAA, as amended in 1990, requires States with areas designated moderate nonattainment for carbon monoxide (CO) to make changes to improve existing I/M programs or implement new ones. Section 182(a)(2)(B) requires USEPA to review, revise, update, and republish in the Federal Register guidance for State motor vehicle I/M programs. On November 5, 1992 (57 FR 52950), USEPA published a final rule establishing performance standards and other requirements for basic and enhanced I/M programs. The November 5, 1992, I/M Regulation required each State that must implement an I/M program to submit by November 15, 1992, a State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision including two elements: (1) A commitment from the Governor or his designee to the timely adoption and implementation of an I/M program meeting all requirements of the I/M regulation; and (2) a schedule of implementation. A memorandum dated December 11, 1992, from Phil Lorang, Director, Emission Planning and Strategies Division, outlines the elements that a State's schedule of implementation must include for acceptability. These elements include: 1. Passage of enabling statutory or other legal authority; 2. Proposal of draft regulations and promulgation of final regulations; 3. Issuance of final specifications and procedures; 4. Issuance of final request for Proposals (if applicable); 5. Licensing or certification of stations and inspectors; 6. The date mandatory testing will begin for each model year to be covered by the program; 7. The date full-stringency cut-points will take effect; and 8. All other relevant dates. Following publication of the I/M program final rule (57 FR 52950), the USEPA also made available to States a document entitled, Checklist for Completing the Inspection/Maintenance SIP (Checklist ). The Checklist was developed to assist States in the development of I/M SIPs and outlines in detail the program elements the I/M SIP submittals must satisfy in order to be approved for incorporation into a State's federally approved SIP. II. Summary of State Submittal In 1988 the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) was authorized and directed by the State legislature to adopt rules establishing an I/M program in the Twin Cities seven county metropolitan area. As required by Minnesota Statute section 116.62, the MPCA adopted Minnesota Rules parts 7023.1010 to 7023.1105, which established standards and criteria governing the testing and inspection of motor vehicles for CO and hydrocarbon emissions in the Twin Cities seven county metropolitan area. Vehicle testing began on July 1, 1991. Upon publication of the USEPA's final rule for I/M Programs (57 FR 52950), the MPCA recognized the need to amend the rules for operation of the State's I/M program. The State submitted a committal I/M SIP on November 10, 1992. The submittal includes a commitment for the adoption and implementation of an I/M program meeting all requirements of the I/M regulation and the CAA, a schedule of implementation which contained the elements described in Phil Lorang's December 11, 1992 memorandum, to meet the submittal date to USEPA of November 15, 1993. On November 12, 1993, the MPCA submitted the first of two parts of its SIP revision request for the Twin Cities seven country metropolitan area I/M program. The second part of the revision request, consisting of the public hearing notice, was submitted by MPCA on December 15, 1993. The submittal requests approval of the Minnesota I/M program, which has been operating in the Twin Cities metropolitan area since July 1, 1991. The seven county metropolitan area includes Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott and Washington Counties, and has been designated moderate nonattainment for CO. This document was reviewed in detail in the August 5, 1994 (59 FR 39994), proposed rule. III. USEPA Comments/MPCA Responses In a May 11, 1994, letter to MPCA, USEPA identified several deficiencies in the I/M SIP submittal and provided the State the opportunity to respond to the deficiencies. The USEPA notified the State that several of the deficiencies could only be remedied through amendments to the State's statute and/or administrative rules. In response to USEPA's comments on the deficiencies in the State's I/M submittal, the MPCA provided a July 5, 1994, letter from Charles Williams, Commissioner, MPCA, to Valdas V. Adamkus, Regional Administrator USEPA, which responds to USEPA comments and makes a commitment from the State to correct the deficiencies requiring amendments to the State's statute and/or administrative rules. The deficiencies requiring amendments to the State's I/M statute and/or administrative rules and MPCA's response to the deficiencies are outlined in the August 5, 1994, (50 FR 39994) notice of proposed rulemaking. This conditional approval is based in part on the State's July 5, 1994, commitment letter. The USEPA's August 5, 1994, notice of proposed rulemaking (59 FR 3994) identified certain deficiencies in the I/M submittal and required MPCA to adequately address the USEPA comments before the end of the 30-day comment period. The USEPA's comments on the State's basic I/M program deficiencies and MPCA's responses to the comments are presented below. The notice of proposed rulemaking stated that USEPA would proceed with final conditional approval if the MPCA adequately addressed the comments during the 30-day comment period. The notice also stated that USEPA would take final action to disapprove the basic I/M SIP submittal if MPCA failed to adequately address the deficiencies. Comment: Minnesota Rule 7023.1020 has been amended such that visual inspection of fuel inlet restrictors is no longer required. Therefore, the emission reductions obtained in the proposed program must be less than or equal to those obtained by the existing program. Since visual inspection for fuel inlet restrictors was previously required, there must be comparable improvement to the program if this element is to be removed. There is no evidence that the program has been strengthened. The State should either reinstate the fuel inlet restrictor requirement or make other improvements to the testing program so that the reductions are as good or better than under the existing program. MPCA Response: The existing I/M program being proposed as part of the SIP submittal does not contain a provision for a visual inspection of the fuel inlet restrictor. The MPCA has not taken credit in the Mobile 5a modeling demonstration for the visual inspection of the fuel inlet restrictor. Therefore, there is no weakening of the submitted program and the Mobile 5a modeling has demonstrated compliance with the performance standard without the visual inspection of the fuel inlet restrictor. Decision: Since the State has not taken credit for visual inspection of the fuel inlet restrictor and is able to demonstrate compliance with the performance standard, USEPA accepts the State's response to the Agency's comment. Comment: USEPA has identified two issues regarding the compliance rate claimed by the State in the submittal. First, the submittal provides conflicting estimates of the number of unregistered vehicles in the Twin Cities metropolitan area. The contractor estimates that 22,000 vehicles in the area are registered without undergoing testing, while MPCA estimates that only 12,000 vehicles are registered without undergoing testing. The conflicting estimates undermine the reliability of the 97 percent compliance rate arrived at by the State. Secondly, the State uses a 96 percent compliance rate in the Mobile 5a modeling inputs, yet claims a 97 percent compliance rate in the submittal. USEPA can accept the 96 percent compliance rate without any further information or action on the State's part. If the State chooses to continue to claim the 97 percent compliance rate, it must supply USEPA with an estimate of the number of unregistered vehicles and a description of mechanisms the state will employ to identify and encourage registration of unregistered vehicles. MPCA Response: Minnesota accepts USEPA's recommendation that the State use the 96 percent compliance rate without providing any further information or action. Decision: USEPA will not require the State to provide any further data or action by the State. Comment: The USEPA is concerned that the $35.00 citation imposed on vehicle owners who fail to undergo testing and properly register their vehicles is not sufficiently high to deter non-compliance. The USEPA requests that MPCA provide further information on the maximum fine imposed on vehicle owners who fail to undergo testing. MPCA Response: Vehicle owners who do not comply with the requirements of the Program are not allowed to renew their vehicle registration. Vehicle owners who drive on expired tabs or improperly store a vehicle with expired tabs, are cited for an expired registration and assessed a fine. The average fine for an expired registration is $35.00 The actual amount of the fine will vary depending on the county jurisdiction. Vehicles with an expired registration are also subject to towing and impound fees, with initial fees averaging $75.00, plus additional daily storage fees ranging from $8.00 to $15.00. In addition, these fees are based on each occurrence of citation for registration expiration. Vehicles with an expired registration are subject to receive multiple citations and subsequent fines until the vehicle registration has been renewed. Decision: The USEPA accepts MPCA's response to the Agency's comment on citation penalties and will not require any further action from the State. Comment: The USEPA believes that Minnesota's lack of a defined penalty schedule for cases of serious violations of the State's contractual agreement significantly lessens the stringency of the State's enforcement efforts. In addition, the State has not provided any description of its mechanisms for permanent fee retainage from the contractor. The MPCA must provide USEPA with a schedule of typical retainage for serious violations of the contractual agreement. Response: In lieu of a specific penalty schedule, Minnesota uses a fee retainage to resolve all violations of our contractual agreement. Each month the contractor submits an invoice for accuracy, the State retains 10 percent of the invoice and pays the contractor the remaining 90 percent. The 10 percent retainage is accumulated monthly and released to the contractor at the end of each quarter, provided the MPCA is satisfied with the contractor's performance and that no violation of the contract has occurred. If a violation of the contract has occurred, the specific dollar amount not returned to the contractor would be determined by the MPCA based on the seriousness of the violation. Minnesota believes that using retainage instead of a specific penalty schedule is a stronger contractual enforcement tool for several reasons. First, by using retainage, the MPCA has maximum flexibility to address contractual violations and is not limited only to those issues and penalty amounts which may be included in a penalty schedule. Second, the monthly retainage averages over $100,000 and meets the penalty requirement of $100 or 5 times the inspection fee as specified in Section 51.364. Lastly, the use of a retainage provides for a more suitable working relationship with the contractor. Because a portion of the contractor's profit is withheld monthly through retainage, the contractor is allowed to focus on contract compliance (not enforcement) to ensure that the full retainage is released quarterly. MPCA recommends that the existing retainage process be accepted as originally proposed in the SIP submittal. Decision: The USEPA accepts MPCA's response to the Agency's comment on citation penalties and will not require any further action from the State. Comment: The submittal indicates that quality assurance officers do not have direct authority to impose disciplinary action against inspectors employed by the contractor. MPCA quality assurance officers may only recommend disciplinary action or discharge of an employee. MPCA must commit to requiring the contractor to act upon the State's recommendation for disciplinary action. Response: The MPCA quality assurance auditors perform quality assurance audits, identify any improper performance by a lane inspector, and initiate enforcement action against the lane inspector. The procedure to initiate enforcement action and impose discipline on a lane inspector begins with an immediate reporting to the station manager. The station manager acts accordingly. The quality assurance auditor then recommends disciplinary action to the MPCA Program Manager. The Program Manager and the contractor's Director of Operations then meet to discuss the violation, agree on the severity of the violation and mutually impose discipline. Types of discipline imposed to date include re-training, verbal reprimand, and dismissal of the lane inspector. Decision: The USEPA accepts MPCA's response to the Agency's comment on citation penalties and will not require any further action from the State. V. Rulemaking Action Based upon the August 5, 1994 proposed rule and MPCA's responses to USEPA's comments, the USEPA is conditionally approving the Minnesota basic I/M SIP revision request for CO. The USEPA's conditional approval of Minnesota's basic I/M program is also based upon MPCA's commitment to adopt specific enforceable measures as outlined in the July 5, 1994, letter from Charles Williams, Commissioner MPCA, to Valdas Adamkus, Regional Administrator, USEPA. These commitments include a request to the State legilature to consider changes to the vehicle inspection program during the 1995 session, and to initiate a public hearing process to make changes in the administrative rule for the program to comply with the requirements of the Federal rules. The specific areas needing statutory and/or administrative rule changes include: the requirement that only certified automotive repair technicians perform repairs in order for a vehicle to obtain a waiver; the requirement that the State's minimum repair cost limit be actually spent befor a vehicle is eligible to receive a waiver; the requirement that vehicles with switched engines be tested using emission standards based on the model year of the chassis, unless the engine is newer in age than the chassis; and the requirement to change the re-inspection procedure to include a determination that an emission control device is the correct type for the certified configuration of the vehicle inspected. If Minnesota fails to implement the necessary changes within the one-year period following the date of this conditional approval, the conditional approval will convert to a disapproval of the SIP. Disapproval of the SIP will trigger the 18-month sanctions period of section 179 of the CAA. In addition, USEPA can elect to exercise its discretionary authority to impose sanctions prior to the end of the 18-month period. Finally, disapproval will trigger a 24-month Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) clock under section 110(c) of the CAA. Miscellaneous Applicability to Future SIP Decisions Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. USEPA shall consider each request for revision to the SIP in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Executive Order 12866 This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993, memorandum from Michael Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. The OMB has exempted this regulatory action from Executive Order 12866 review. Regulatory Flexibility Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , USEPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. (5 U.S.C. 603 and 604.) Alternatively, USEPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. This approval does not create any new requirements. Therefore, I certify that this action does not have a significant impact on any small entities affected. Moreover, due to the nature of the Federal-State relationship under the CAA, preparation of the regulatory flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of the State action. The CAA forbids USEPA to base its Final Conditional Approval of Minnesota's I/M program on such grounds. Union Electric Co. v. U.SE.P.A. , 427 U.S. 246, 256&hyph;66 (1976). Petitions for Judicial Review Under section 307(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act, petitions for judicial review of this action must be filed in the United States Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit by December 12, 1994. Filing a petition for reconsideration by the Administrator of this final rule does not affect the finality of this rule for the purposes of judicial review nor does it extend the time within which a petition for judicial review may be filed, and shall not postpone the effectiveness of such rule or action. This action may not be challenged later in proceedings to enforce its requirements. (See section 307(b)(2).) List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Incorportation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 15, 1994. Robert Springer, Acting Regional Administrator. Part 52, chapter I, title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 52_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 52 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Subpart Y_Minnesota 2. Section 52.1219 is added to read as follows: ยง52.1219 Identification of plan_Conditional approval. (a) On November 12, 1993, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency submitted a revision request to Minnesota's carbon monoxide SIP for approval of the State's basic inspection and maintenance (I/M) program. The basic I/M program requirements apply to sources in the State's moderate nonattainment areas for carbon monoxide and includes the following counties: Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott, and Washington Counties. The USEPA is conditionally approving Minnesota's basic I/M program provided that the State adopt specific enforceable measures as outlined in its July 5, 1994 letter from Charles W. Williams, Commissioner, Minnesota Air Pollution Control Agency. (i) Incorporation by reference. (A) Minnesota Rules relating to Motor Vehicle Emissions parts 7023.1010 to 7023.1105, effective January 8, 1994. (ii) Additional material. (A) Letter from the State of Minnesota to USEPA dated July 5, 1994. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25387 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
