FR941121-0-00032 FR941121-0-00001 1. Form of notice. Credit unions may provide a change-in-term notice on or with a regular periodic statement or in another mailing (such as a highlighted portion of a newsletter or statement stuffer insert). If a credit union provides notice through revised account disclosures, the changed term must be highlighted in some manner. For example, credit unions may state that a particular fee has been changed (also specifying the new amount) or use an accompanying letter that refers to the changed term. Credit unions are cautioned that unless credit unions have reserved the right to change terms in the account agreement or disclosures, a change-in-terms notice may not be sufficient to amend the terms under applicable law. 2. Effective date. An example of a language for disclosing the effective date of a change is: ``As of May 11, 1995''. 3. Terms that change upon the occurrence of an event. A credit union offering terms that will automatically change upon the occurrence of a stated event need not send an advance notice of the change provided the credit union fully describes the conditions of the change in the account opening disclosures (and sends any change-in-term notices regardless of whether the changed term affects that member's account at that time). 4. Examples. Examples of changes not requiring an advance change-in-terms notice are: i. The termination of employment for employee-members for whom account maintenance or activity fees were waived during their employment by the credit union. ii. The expiration of one year in a promotion described in the account opening disclosures to ``waive $4.00 monthly service charges for one year''. (a)(2) No Notice Required (a)(2)(ii) Check Printing Fees 1. Increase in fees. A notice is not required for an increase in fees for printing share drafts (or deposit and withdrawal slips) even if the credit union adds some amount to the price charged by the vendor. (b) Notice Before Maturity for Term Share Accounts Longer Than One Month That Renew Automatically. 1. Maturity dates on nonbusiness days. In determining the term of a term share account, credit unions may disregard the fact that the term will be extended beyond the disclosed number of days if the maturity date falls on a nonbusiness day. For example, a holiday or weekend may cause a ``one-year'' term share account to extend beyond 365 days (or 366, in a leap year), or a ``one-month'' term share account to extend beyond 31 days. 2. Disclosing when rates will be determined. Ways to disclose when the annual percentage yield will be available include the use of: i. A specific date, such as ``October 28''. ii. A date that is easily discernible, such as ``the Tuesday prior to the maturity date stated on the notice'' or ``as of the maturity date stated on this notice''. 3. Alternative timing rule. Under the alternative timing rule, a credit union that offers a 10-day grace period would have to provide the disclosures at least 10 calendar days prior to the scheduled maturity date. 4. Club accounts. If members have agreed to the transfer of payments from another account to a club term share account for the next club period, the credit union must comply with the requirements for automatically renewable term share accounts_even though members may withdraw funds from the club account at the end of the current club period. 5. Renewal of a term share account. In the case of a change-in-terms that becomes effective if a rollover term share account is subsequently renewed: i. If the change is initiated by the credit union, the disclosure requirements of this paragraph. (Section 707.5(a) applies if the change becomes effective prior to the maturity of the existing term share account.) ii. If the change is initiated by the member, the account opening disclosure requirements of ยง707.4(b). (If the notice required by this paragraph has been provided, credit unions may give new account disclosures or disclosures that reflect the new term.) 6. Example. If a member receives a notice prior to maturity on a one-year term share account and requests a rollover to a six-month account, the credit union must provide either account opening disclosures including the new maturity date or, if all other terms previously disclosed in the prematurity notice remain the same, only the new maturity date. (b)(1) Maturities of Longer Than One Year 1. Highlighting changed terms. Credit unions need not highlight terms that have changed since the last account disclosures were provided. (c) Notice for Term Share Accounts One Month or Less That Renew Automatically 1. Providing disclosures within a reasonable time. Generally, 20 calendar days after an account renews is a reasonable time for providing disclosures. For term share accounts shorter than 20 days, disclosures should be given prior to the next scheduled renewal date. For example, if a term share account automatically renews every seven days, disclosures about an account that renews on Wednesday, December 6, 1995, should be given prior to Wednesday, December 13, 1995. (d) Notice Before Maturity for Term Share Accounts Longer Than One Year That Do not Renew Automatically
