FR940505-1-00487 FR940505-1-00012 (v) Program monitoring and evaluation. (j) Plan certification. Prior to submittal to the Administrator, plans shall be certified as to completeness. Notwithstanding this provision, an employer that submits a revised or maintenance plan in accordance with paragraph (i)(2)(iv) or paragraph (k)(1) of this section shall not be required to have the plan certified prior to its submittal to the Administrator. (1) Plan Certifiers. The Administrator shall designate an organization or organizations as plan certifiers for the Sacramento ECO program area. (i) The Administrator will provide the Air Districts in the Sacramento ECO area with the first opportunity to become designated certifiers for employer plans for employers in the geographic areas for their jurisdiction. In addition to certifying plans for completeness, the Air Districts may provide, if they so choose, a recommendation regarding the approvability of plans. (ii) Should any or all of the Air Districts in the Sacramento area decline the opportunity to become designated certifiers, the Administrator will designate another organization or organizations to certify plans. (2) Plan certification criteria. In assessing whether a plan can be certified, the certifier shall consider the following criteria: (i) The completeness of the plan based on the presence of all required components of plan submittals as described in paragraphs (i)(3) and (4) of this section. (ii) The accuracy of the work location APO computation; (iii) Consistency with this section. (3) Certification procedures. (i) A certifier shall review the plan utilizing EPA approved training and the criteria described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. The certifier may contact the employer to clarify questions related to the plan or to request reasonable additional documentation from the employer. (ii) If the certifier deems the plan to meet the certification criteria, the certifier shall certify the plan and return it to the employer for submittal to the Administrator. Plans not meeting the certification criteria shall be returned to the employer with an explanation of the reasons the plan was returned, indication of the sections of the plan that are unacceptable, and an indication of where corrections are necessary in order to make the plan meet certification requirements. The employer shall revise its plan as appropriate and re-submit the revised plan to the certifying agency. (iii) It is the responsibility of an employer to allow adequate time for certification. Failure of the certifier to certify the employer's plan in time to allow submittal of the plan to the Administrator prior to the deadline shall not excuse the employer from this obligation. Notwithstanding this provision, however, an employer that submits a certifiable plan to a certifier at least 90 days prior to the plan submittal deadline shall not be considered in violation of the plan submittal deadline until 60 days after the scheduled submittal date to the Administrator. (k) Plan review and approval. (1) Plan review and approval schedule. The Administrator will strive to approve or disapprove plans within 90 days of receipt of a plan. An employer whose plan is returned shall have 60 days from the date of return to revise and resubmit the plan to the Administrator. The employer shall not be required to have the plan recertified prior to re-submittal to the Administrator. (2) Plan review guidelines. The Administrator shall review and approve plans based on the following criteria: (i) The presence of all required plan sections and minimum plan requirements, as described in paragraph (i) of this section; (ii) The accuracy of the APO calculation, in accordance with the formula provided in paragraph (h) of this section; and, (iii) A demonstration of plan certification, in accordance with the procedures defined in paragraph (j) of this section. (iv) The appropriateness of the commute alternatives proposed in the plan to the location and employee population; (v) The appropriateness of the ECO program services and incentives selected by the employer to the commute alternatives; (vi) The likely effectiveness of the ECO strategies in producing the target APO by the scheduled deadline; (vii) The ability of the proposed implementation schedule to ensure ECO strategies included in the plan are implemented in a timely and thorough manner; and (viii) The ability of the proposed monitoring process to allow a timely and effective review of the employer's progress toward the target APO. (l) Enforcement and penalties. (1) Noncompliance. An employer shall be subject to civil or criminal penalties according to 42 U.S.C. 7413 (section 113 of the Clean Air Act) for violations of any provisions of this section. Upon determining that a violation has occurred, the Administrator shall issue the employer a notice of violation. Penalties for continued noncompliance may accrue from the date of the notice of violation. (2) Penalties. The Administrator may assess civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day of violation. Penalties under this section will be assessed according to criteria in 42 U.S.C. 7413(e). These criteria include: (i) The size of the business; (ii) The economic impact of the penalty on the business; (iii) The violator's compliance history and good faith efforts to comply; (iv) The duration of the violation; (v) Prior payment of penalties for similar violations; (vi) The economic benefit of noncompliance; and (vii) The seriousness of the violation. (3) Work location audits. To verify implementation of work location programs, the Administrator shall have the authority to conduct or cause to be conducted audits of an employer's location. The employer shall provide the Administrator access to all records pertaining to the development, implementation, and administration of the ECO program described in the employer's plan, and access to employees at the location. (4) Good faith effort. A good faith effort will be taken into account when penalties are determined. The Administrator may consider any or all of the following criteria in assessing an employer's good faith effort: (i) Did management at the location demonstrate significant commitment to implementation of the program and institute written employee policies that encouraged the use of commute alternatives?; (ii) Did the employer assess the transportation needs and interests of employees through employee surveys or other techniques?; (iii) Did the employer periodically review its progress toward the target APO, at a minimum through conduct of an APO survey of its employees in the second program year (1996&hyph;1997), and through other actions designed to assess the continuing appropriateness of the employer's ECO program services and incentives?; (iv) If the employer's 1997&hyph;1998 APO survey showed the APO increase was less than 50 percent of that needed to achieve the target APO, did the employer increase and or modify its program to include appropriate contingency strategies?; (v) Did the employer seek advice from the EPA, a TMA, a transportation consultant, or other entity with TDM experience, prior to September 1, 1998, regarding desirable future actions to increase APO?;
