FR940317-0-00056 FR940317-0-00022 •A description of the government issuer or enterprise, including information about the issuer's range or level of service, capacity and demographic factors and, in the case of revenue supported offerings, information on the enterprise's organization, management, revenue structure, results of operations and operating plan; •With respect to obligations of private profit making and nonprofit conduit issuers, information regarding the business or other activity, including the enterprise's form of organization and management, rate-making or pricing policies, and historical operations and plan of operation; •A description of the issuer's outstanding debt, including the authority to incur debt, limitations on debt, and the prospective debt burden and rate of its retirement; •A description of the basic documentation, such as indentures, trust agreements and resolutions authorizing the issuance and establishing the rights of the parties; •Financial information, including summary information regarding the issuer's or obligor's financial practices and results of operations, and financial statements, prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards; •A discussion of legal matters, such as pending judicial, administrative, or regulatory proceedings that may significantly affect the securities offered, legal opinions, and tax considerations; and •A discussion of miscellaneous matters, including ratings and their description and meanings, underwriting arrangements, arrangements with financial advisors, interests of named experts, pending legislation, and the availability of additional information and documentation. The guidelines prepared by the GFOA and the NFMA provide a generally comprehensive roadmap for disclosure in offering statements for municipal securities offerings. There are, however, areas that need further improvement in both the context of negotiated and competitively bid underwritings. In addition, implementation of these guidelines needs to be extended to the whole market. For example, while large repeat general obligation issuers usually have comprehensive disclosure documents, small issuers and conduit issuers, particularly in the health care, housing and industrial development areas, do not always provide the same quality of disclosure. 34 34 See NASACT Blue Ribbon Committee Report at 1&hyph;2; Staff Report at 26. Industry participants generally agreed in testimony before the House of Representatives Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance on October 7, 1993, that both the greatest disclosure problems and the greatest risk of default were with unrated hospital, housing, special district and industrial development revenue bonds. C. Areas Where Improvement Is Needed 1. Conflicts of Interest and Other Relationships or Practices Information concerning financial and business relationships and arrangements among the parties involved in the issuance of municipal securities may be critical to an evaluation of an offering. 35 Recent revelations about practices used in the municipal securities offering process have highlighted the potential materiality of information concerning financial and business relationships, arrangements or practices, including political contributions, that could influence municipal securities offerings. For example, such information could indicate the existence of actual or potential conflicts of interest, breaches of duty, or less than arm's-length transactions. Similarly, these matters may reflect upon the qualifications, level of diligence, and disinterestedness of financial advisers, underwriters, experts and other participants in an offering. Failure to disclose material information concerning such relationships, arrangements or practices may render misleading statements made in connection with the process, including statements in the official statement about the use of proceeds, underwriters' compensation and other expenses of the offering. In addition, investors reasonably expect participants in municipal securities offerings to follow standards and procedures established by such participants, or other governing authorities, to safeguard the integrity of the offering process; accordingly, material deviations from those procedures warrant disclosure. 35 See SEC v. Washington County Utility District , 676 F.2d 218, 222 (6th Cir. 1982) (``Flagrant violations'' of antifraud provisions arising from failure to disclose use of proceeds to purchase options on property held by issuer's manager and financial arrangements between the manager and the underwriter). Existing rules and voluntary guidelines call for certain specific disclosures by offering participants. GFOA guidelines call for offering statement disclosure to investors of contingency fees to named experts, including counsel, and any other interest or connection those parties have with other transaction participants. 36 MSRB rules call for dealer disclosure to issuers and investors of any financial advisory relationship between an issuer and a broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer, under certain circumstances. 37 MSRB rules also call for dealer disclosure to investors of, among other things, certain fees and expenses in negotiated transactions. 38 36 Section XII.D. of the GFOA Guidelines. 37 MSRB rule G&hyph;23. 38 MSRB rule G&hyph;32. See Section 15B(c)(1) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78 o &hyph;4(c)(1)) (requiring compliance with MSRB rules); MSRB rule G&hyph;17. Beyond existing specific disclosure requirements and guidelines, the range of financial and business relationships, arrangements and practices that need to be disclosed depends on the particular facts and circumstances of each case. If, for example, the issuer (or any person acting on its behalf) selects an underwriter, syndicate or selling group member, expert, counsel or other party who has a direct or indirect (for example, through a consultant) financial or business relationship or arrangement with persons connected with the offering process, that relationship or arrangement may be material. 39 Areas of particular concern are undisclosed payments to obtain underwriting assignments and undisclosed agreements or arrangements, including fee splitting, between financial advisers and underwriters. 40 If the adviser is hired to assist the issuer, such relationships, financial or otherwise, may divide loyalties. Similarly, affiliations between sellers of property to be used in a financed project and conduit borrowers raise questions regarding, among other things, the determination of fair market value of the property and self-dealing. 39 Gasparino, ``The Trouble with Consultants'', The Bond Buyer (Nov. 16, 1993) at 1. In his testimony before the Subcommittee on Telecommunications and Finance, Andrew Kintzinger, on behalf of the National Association of Bond Lawyers (``NABL''), stated: ``[M]embers of the municipal finance bar should work with issuers to develop procurement procedures for state and local governments to ensure that all material financial arrangements between underwriters within the syndicate and between underwriters and financial advisors and possible conflicts of interest between issuers and members of the underwriting syndicate or other participants be accurately documented and disclosed or, if appropriate, prohibited.'' NABL Testimony at 28. See Joint Statement at 2. 40 Gasparino, ``Several Issuers Start to Scrutinize Ties Between Advisers, Bankers,'' The Bond Buyer (Dec. 27, 1993) at 1. See Section XII.C. of the GFOA Guidelines; rule G&hyph;23 of the MSRB. 2. Terms and Risks of Securities Evolution in the financial markets has led to increasingly complex and sophisticated derivative and other municipal products. While these new products offer investors a wide range of investment alternatives, in choosing among the alternatives, investors need a clear understanding of the terms and the particular risks arising from the nature of the products. 41 41 As the NABL Testimony indicates: ``Derivatives are sophisticated securities products designed for sophisticated investors and should not be sold to retail investors generally and certainly not without comprehensive disclosure. If issuers choose to undertake the financial benefits of these sophisticated and complicated transactions, they can assume the financial costs of providing *␣*␣* information.'' NABL Testimony at 22.
