FR940912-1-00069 FR940912-1-00016 The current regulations at ยง658.23(b)(2) prohibit intentional/willful interference with fishing or obstruction or damage of a fishing vessel or fishing gear. The placement of this prohibition in the paragraph dealing with the shrimp/stone crab separation zones creates an inference that it applies only in such zones. However, the proposed and final rules that implemented the prohibition state that it was to apply ``in the FCZ'' (49 FR 20883, May 17, 1984; 49 FR 30713, August 1, 1984). The former FCZ (fisheries conservation zone) is now the EEZ. Because such interference, obstruction, or damage is reprehensible wherever it occurs, NMFS proposes to clarify that these acts are prohibited throughout the Gulf of Mexico EEZ. The inclusion of the phrase ``with intent to'' and the word ``willfully'' in the current language regarding these acts significantly reduces their effectiveness_proof of intent or willfulness is difficult. To enhance enforceability, NMFS proposes to remove ``with intent to'' and ``willfully'' and substitute ``knowingly'' in each case. Proof of a violation would then hinge on the placement or use of articles or gear that cause obstruction or damage, such placement or use being other than by accident. The specific procedures and restrictions for creation or modification of shrimp/stone crab separation zones to prevent gear conflicts, currently at ยง658.24, and the specific procedures and restrictions for adjusting the dates of the Texas closure, currently at ยง658.25(b), would be removed. The specifics for the shrimp/stone crab separation zones apply to Florida regulatory agencies, the Council, and NMFS. The specifics for the Texas closure apply to the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department and NMFS. In both cases, they were approved as management measures in the FMP. However, they are not regulatory in nature; that is, they do not control the behavior of fishermen. Therefore, their inclusion in the regulations is not necessary. Classification Section 304(a)(1)(D) of the Magnuson Act requires the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) to publish regulations proposed by a Council within 15 days of receipt of the amendment and regulations. At this time the Secretary has not determined that the amendment these rules would implement is consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable laws. The Secretary, in making that determination, will take into account the data, views, and comments received during the comment period. This proposed rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The Assistant General Counsel for Legislation and Regulation of the Department of Commerce certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration that this proposed rule, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because possible increases in gross revenues for all Gulf of Mexico shrimp harvesters as a result of this action are expected to be less than 5 percent and capital costs of compliance are not expected to be significant. As a result, a regulatory flexibility analysis was not prepared. This rule involves, but does not substantively change, a collection-of-information requirement subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act_namely, vessel and dealer reporting. The collection of this information has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget, OMB Control Number 0648-0013. List of Subjects 50 CFR Part 611 Fisheries, Fishing, Foreign relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 50 CFR Part 658 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 2, 1994. Gary Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR parts 611 and 658 are proposed to be amended as follows: PART 611_FOREIGN FISHING 1. The authority citation for part 611 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq., 16 U.S.C. 971 et seq., 22 U.S.C. 1971 et seq., and 16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq. Appendix A to Subpart A_[Amended] 2. In appendix A to subpart A, in Table 1_Addresses, the following amendments are made: a. The second column heading is revised to read ``NMFS Science and Research Directors''; b. The entry for ``Director, Southeast Region'' in the first column is revised; and c. The entry for ``Director, Southeast Fisheries Center'' in the second column is removed and a new entry for ``Director, Southeast Fisheries Science Center'' is added in its place to read as follows:
