FR940516-2-00009 FR940516-2-00003 (2) To what extent can the potential for large catastrophic wildfires be reduced within the project area? (3) To what extent can the forest health be improved within the project area? In addition, what level of timber commodities could result from forest health improvement projects? (4) To what extent will the view from Highway 49 and Highway 89 be affected? What will the visual character be resulting from the proposed activities and to what extent will these activities affect views from private land within the study area? (5) To what extent will water quality in the Feather River and the Truckee River watersheds be affected by the proposed activities? (6) To what extent will air quality in the Sierra Valley and Truckee areas be affected by proposed activities? (7) To what extent will long term soil productivity be affected by proposed activities? Comments from other Federal, State, and local agencies, organizations, and individuals who may be interested in, or affected by the decision, are encouraged to identify other significant issues. Public participation will be solicited through mailing letters to potentially interested or affected mining claim owners, private land owners, and special use permittees on the Sierraville Ranger District; posting information in local towns; and mailing letters to local timber industries, politicians, school boards, county supervisors, and environmental groups. Continued participation will be emphasized through individual contacts. Public meetings used as a method of public involvement during preparation and review of the draft environmental impact statement will be announced in newspapers of general circulation in the geographic area of such meetings well in advance of scheduled dates. The draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and to be available for public review by the end of January, 1995. The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft EIS stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final EIS may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of the court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final EIS. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft EIS should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft EIS. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft EIS or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. The final EIS is expected to be available by May, 1995. The responsible official is John H. Skinner, Forest Supervisor, Tahoe National Forest. Dated: May 4, 1994. John H. Skinner, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11820 Filed 5&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
