FR940418-2-00018 FR940418-2-00005 F. European Social Fund (``ESF'') Grants The ESF was established by the 1957 European Economic Community Treaty to increase employment and help raise the living standards of workers. We found in Certain Steel from Italy that the ESF receives its funds from the EC's general budget, whose main revenue sources are customs duties, agricultural levies, value-added taxes collected by the member states, and other member state contributions. The member states are responsible for selecting the projects to be funded by the EC. The EC then disburses the grants to the member states which manage the funds and implement the projects. According to the EC, ESF grants are available to (1) people over 25 who have been unemployed for more than 12 months; (2) people under 25 who have reached the minimum school-leaving age and who are seeking a job; and (3) certain workers in rural areas and regions characterized by industrial decline or lagging development. ESF grants received by Italy were used for two purposes: (1) training laid-off employees for jobs outside the sector in which they had previously been working; and (2) training of workers to perform new jobs within the same company. Every region in Italy has received ESF funds. Therefore, we determine that this program is not regionally specific within the meaning of ยง355.43(b)(3) of the Proposed Regulations. Furthermore, we note that to the extent there is any disproportionality in the regional distribution of ESF benefits ( i.e. , to the regions of southern Italy), it has not resulted in a countervailable benefit to the production of the subject merchandise, which is produced in northern Italy. G. Aid Under the National Research Plan In 1985, the Ministry for University, Technology and Scientific Research assigned 19 billion lire to Terni under the National Research Plan for steel. The research funds covered costs of personnel assigned to specific research projects in research laboratories. The research under this plan was contracted out to Terni as the result of a competitive bidding process. At verification, we established that the assistance under the National Research Plan was provided under Law 46/82. Under the same law, the GOI has supported similar research plans for 17 other industries or sectors. Moreover, documentation provided by the GOI showed that the steel industry did not receive a disproportionate share of the funds provided for research plans. Thus, we determine that benefits under the program are not limited to a specific enterprise or industry or group of enterprises or industries. Therefore, we find this program to be not countervailable. H. Job Promotion Under Law 181/89 The job promotion component of Law 181/89 involved a number of measures designed to promote self-employment among workers in Naples, Taranto, Terni, and Genoa. These measures included, among others, assisting former workers in starting their own businesses, providing specialized management training, and increasing the level of financing available to new businesses. In general, these measures were coordinated by an IRI-owned company, Societa Finanziaria di Promozione e Sviluppo Imprenditoriale. Based on the information provided at verification, we determine that the ``job promotion'' component of Law 181/89 provides for workers leaving the steel industry. Moreover, there is no indication that ILVA (or other companies in Italy) had an obligation, legal or otherwise, to provide assistance to workers leaving the steel industry. Therefore, we determine that ILVA did not receive a benefit from assistance provided under the job promotion component of Law 181/89. III. Programs Which Were Not Used or Which Did Not Benefit the Subject Merchandise in the POI A. We established at verification that the following programs were not used during the POI.
