FR940916-1-00134 FR940916-1-00016 Off Air means a block of cars that is not connected to a source of compressed air. Operating Valve means a device on each car, the operation of which result in (1) admission of air to brake cylinder, (2) release of air from brake cylinder, and (3) charging of one or more reservoir. Previously Tested Block means a block of cars that received and passed a Class 1 brake system test as a block. Piston Travel means the amount of linear movement of the air brake hollow rod (or equivalent) or piston rod when forced outward by movement of the piston in the brake cylinder or actuator and limited by the brake shoes being forced against the wheel or disc. Point of Origin, Commuter Train means departure yard associated with the terminal where passengers may board a commuter train for the first time that calendar day. Point of Origin, Freight Train means the point where a train is originally made up (assembled). Point of Origin, Passenger Train means the departure associated with the terminal where the initial passengers may board for a departing passenger train. Power Brakes means all apparatus or components used to be operated by power sources to produce the necessary retarding force to safely decelerate a train. Power Brake Defect means an equipment defect that could adversely affect the ability of a train's power brake system to apply a retarding force to the train that is discovered by an FRA or State inspector during an inspection of an outbound train declared ready for departure by the railroad. Power brake defects include: brake rigging that is damaged, binds, or fouls; piston travel outside the effective range; a brake shoe or pad that is damaged or excessively worn, or that overrides; a brake that does not set or release; an inoperative two-way end-of-train device; a car that is past due for a scheduled periodic freight brake test or single car test; and a failure to perform a proper Class 1 or Class 2 brake test when required. Power Brake Defect Ratio means the total number of cars determined to have power brake defects, divided by the total number of cars inspected for a specified period of time. The inspections will be conducted by Federal or State inspectors on outbound trains declared ready for departure by the railroad. Power Brake Defect Ratio, Quarterly means the system wide composite power brake defect ratio for a railroad, taken over the period of a calendar quarter starting January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1. Qualified Train Brake System Electronic Inspector means a person who has demonstrated the knowledge and skills necessary to inspect, test, and maintain the electronic parts of train brake systems to FRA standards. A Qualified Brake System Electronic Inspector meets the minimum requirements of ยง232.209. Qualified Train Brake System Mechanical Inspector means a person who has demonstrated the knowledge and skills necessary to inspect, test, and maintain the mechanical parts of train brake systems to FRA standards. A Qualified Brake System Mechanical Inspector meets the minimum requirements of ยง232.207. Qualified Train Brake System Supervisor means a person who has demonstrated the knowledge and skills necessary to supervise the work of personnel who test, inspect, and maintain train brake systems. A qualified Train Brake System Supervisor meets the minimum requirements of ยง232.205. Qualified Train Crew Member means a person who has demonstrated the knowledge and skills necessary to inspect or to test the mechanical parts of train brake systems to FRA standards. A Qualified Train Crew Member meets the minimum qualifications for performing train brake system inspections and tests given in ยง232.211. Railroad means all forms of non-highway ground transportation that run either on rails with a gage of greater than or equal to 24 inches or on electromagnetic guideways, including (1) commuter or other short-haul rail passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area and (2) high speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether they use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads. Such term does not include rapid transit operations within an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation. Respond as Intended means to produce the result that a device or system is designed to produce. Running Test means a test of a brake system (air, dynamic, etc.) while in motion to verify the retarding force of the brake. Semi-permanently Coupled means coupling and uncoupling of each unit in a train can only be performed safely while at a maintenance or shop location where personnel can safely get under or between units in order to operate the coupler. Sensor, Brake Application Force means a device that measures and indicates the actual force between a friction element ( e.g., brake shoe, disc pad) and the wheel or disc. Sensor, Brake Pad Thickness means a device that measures and indicates the thickness of a brake shoe or disc brake pad. Sensor, Piston Travel means a device that measures and indicates the linear movement of a brake cylinder piston or brake actuator. Sensor, Reliable Train Brake System means a sensor that is fail-safe and has a failure rate of less than 2 percent with a 98-percent level of confidence in the time interval between required single car tests for the car on which the sensor is installed.
