FR940328-0-00018 FR940328-0-00011 Through the use of electronic fund transfer mechanisms for these large accounts, the Department will be able to expedite and streamline its fee collection efforts. The TFCS is the computer-to-computer link between the U.S. Department of the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (FRBNY). This system provides the capability for: (1) Automated receipt and processing of funds transfer, and (2) computer-assisted generation of funds transferred between Treasury, Federal Reserve banks, and other banks utilizing the Federal Reserve Communications System (FRCS). The TFCS also integrates these transactions into Treasury's Government-wide Accounting System which accounts for all Federal receipts and outlays. Treasury maintains an account at FRBNY. As a result, banks that maintain an account at a Federal Reserve bank may transfer funds to Treasury through the FRCS for credit to the Account of the U.S. Treasury at FRBNY. Funds transferred between Treasury and banks that do not maintain an account at a Federal Reserve bank are processed through correspondent banks that do maintain an account at a Federal Reserve bank, The following are the TFCS transfer message format and specific instructions from the Treasury Fiscal Requirements Manual for fund transfer message to be used in paying reclamation fees: BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;05&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSER28MR94.000 BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;05&hyph;C Funds Transfer Message Format Item 1_Priority Code_The priority code will be provided by the sending bank. (Note: Some Federal Reserve district banks may not require this item.) Item 2_Treasury Department Code_The nine-digit identifier ``021030004'' is the routing symbol of the Treasury. This item is a constant and is required for all funds transfer messages sent to Treasury. Item 3_Type Code_The code will be provided by the sending bank. Item 3_Sending Bank Code_This nine-digit identifier will be provided by sending bank. Item 5_Class Code_This class code may be provided by the sending bank at its option (if permitted by its Federal Reserve district bank). Item 6_Reference Number_The reference number may be inserted by the sending bank to identify the transaction. Item 7_Amount_The amount will include the dollar sign and the appropriate punctuation including cents digits. This item will be provided by the depositor. Item 8_Sending Bank Name_The telegraphic abbreviation which corresponds to item 4 will be provided by the sending bank. Item 9_Treasury Department Name_This item is of critical importance. It must appear on the funds transfer message in the precise manner as stated to allow for the automated processing and classification of the funds transfer message to the agency location code of the appropriate agency. The item is comprised of a rigidly formatted, non-variable sequence of 11 characters defined as follows: ␣ 1␣ 1Character # (s) 1Character(s) 1Definition 1␣ ␣ 1&hyph;5 TREAS First part of Treasury Department telegraphic abbreviation. ␣ ␣ 6 Space (leave blank). ␣ ␣ 7&hyph;9 NYC Second part of Treasury Department Telegraphic abbreviation. ␣ ␣ 10 / Slash. ␣ ␣ 11 ( Left parenthesis.D␣ The 11 characters must be left-justified on Line 5 of the funds transfer message and must appear as follows: TREAS NYC/(14180001) Item 10_Agency Location Code_This item is of critical importance. It must appear on the funds transfer message in the precise manner as stated to allow the automated processing and classification of the funds transfer message to the agency location code of the appropriate agency. The agency location code refers to three-, four-, or eight-digit numeric symbols used to identify Government departments and agencies (e.g., accounting stations, disbursing and collecting offices). OSM's unique code must be specified in the funds transfer message in order for the funds to be correctly classified to the agency. The code must immediately follow the left parenthesis of item 9, must contain no spaces, dasher, or other extra characters, and must be immediately followed by a right parenthesis. This item would appear on line 5 of the funds transfer message in conjunction with item 9 as shown below: TREAS NYC/(14180001) Item 11_Agency Name_OSM Item 12_Third party information_Information to identify the reason for the funds transfer should be provided here. This should include the six-digit Master Entity No.(s) from Part 1, Block 4 of the OSM&hyph;1 form, i.e., 012345, and the six-digit OSM Document No.(s) from the upper right corner of Part 1, i.e., 401234. These instructions will be mailed to coal companies, along with the OSM&hyph;1 form which is the form used to report quarterly coal reclamation fees to OSM. Submission of the OSM&hyph;1 form will remain the same, except that companies required to use wire transfer should indicate in Part 1, Block 4 of the OSM&hyph;1 form that fees have been submitted via wire transfer.
