FR940317-1-00200 FR940317-1-00017 Unlike current disclosure requirements for riskless principal transactions in equity securities, the proposed amendment and Rule 15c2&hyph;13 do not include an exclusion for market makers. This exclusion is omitted because market makers have a much more limited function in the debt markets. Typically, dealers in these markets, especially the municipal market, do not display two-sided quotations nor carry inventories of debt securities, as is characteristic of a market maker in equity securities. Because of the tax implications, the lack of dealer inventory, and the relative illiquidity of the market for any particular municipal security, short positioning of municipal securities is difficult and imposes greater risk that a dealer will be unable to cover its short position. 24 24 Short positioning municipal securities is rare because the Internal Revenue Service will not allow both a borrower and lender of a municipal security to claim a tax exemption. In effect, the lender of a municipal security would be trading tax exempt interest for taxable interest. In addition, to the extent that any short positioning occurs with respect to municipal securities, the IRS imposes additional reporting requirements on the participating parties. See Internal Revenue Code, ยง6045(d). The Commission requests comment on the proposal to disclose mark-ups in riskless principal transactions in debt securities. In particular, the Commission requests comment concerning whether proposals requiring mark-up disclosure in riskless principal transactions in municipal securities should be incorporated in one rule under the authority of the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (``MSRB''), rather than the Commission. In addition, comment is sought concerning the proposed definition of riskless principal contained in sub-paragraphs (e)(10) and (b)(3) of Rule 10b-10 and Rule 15c2&hyph;13, respectively. 25 The Commission further requests comment concerning the extent to which broker-dealers act as market makers, as defined in Section 3(a)(38), in the debt market and the extent that broker-dealers currently calculate mark-ups in riskless principal debt transactions for business purposes, such as determining the compensation of sales personnel. 26 In addition, the Commission requests comment on whether the proposed requirements for mark-up disclosure in debt securities should cover securities transactions occurring on the same day rather than limiting the disclosure solely to riskless principal transactions. 25 See, supra , note 10 for a discussion of riskless principal transactions. 26 Salesperson compensation is often determined as a percentage of the gross mark-up charged on a principal transaction.
