FR940603-1-00221 FR940603-1-00009 (2)(i) Upon receipt of final payment by the contractor, the borrower will obtain from the contractor a certification of receipt of final payment in the following form: ``The undersigned acknowledges receipt of the final contract payment of $ XXXX as satisfaction in full of all claims of the undersigned under the construction contract between the undersigned and XXXX (borrower), dated as amended, and as complete performance by the latter of all obligations to be performed by it pursuant thereto. The total amount received under this contract is shown above.'' (ii) The certification in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section is to be executed for the contractor by: the sole owner, a partner, or an officer of the corporation. Where this certification is executed for the corporation by a person other than the president, a certified copy of the authorization from the corporate board must be included with the certification. This certification is not a replacement for itemized invoices. ยง1726.404 Non-project construction contract closeout. This section is applicable to contracts executed on REA Forms 201, 790, and 792. (a) Final test of equipment supplied under a construction contract. If equipment is supplied under a construction contract, the borrower, acting through its engineer, will perform the final inspection and testing of equipment as appropriate for the specific equipment. The borrower, acting through its engineer, will schedule such inspection and testing at a time mutually agreeable to the borrower, its engineer, and the contractor. Within thirty (30) days after completion of the inspection and testing, the borrower, acting through its engineer, will prepare a report of the inspection and testing, obtain a copy of the report from its engineer, and submit a copy to the contractor. This report must include a detailed description of the methods of conducting the test(s), observed data, comparison of guaranteed and actual performance, and recommendations concerning acceptance. The borrower will obtain from the engineer a written certification stating that the equipment has been installed, placed in satisfactory operation and tested, and meets the contract requirements. Where more than one-hundred and eighty (180) days have elapsed since the delivery of the equipment and the equipment has not been installed or tested, the contract may be closed out upon certification by the engineer that the equipment has been inspected and appears to be in accordance with the contract requirements. (b) Final inspection of construction. The borrower will require the contractor to notify its engineer when construction of a section of the project is complete. The borrower, acting through engineer, will schedule such final inspection at a time mutually agreeable to the borrower, its engineer, contractor, and the respective GFR, if the GFR has notified the borrower or its engineer of a desire to observe the final inspection. The borrower, acting through its engineer, will perform a final inspection of the construction of that section of the project and notify the contractor of any required changes or corrections. (c) Closeout documents. (1) Upon satisfactory completion of construction of a section of the project (including all changes and corrections by the contractor), the borrower, acting through its engineer, will obtain executed copies of the following documents: (i) REA Form 792b, Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement (ii) REA Form 213, ``Buy American'' certificate. (iii) Certification by the project engineer in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, if applicable. (iv) Final design documents, as outlined in part 1724 of this chapter. (2) Distribution of closeout documents. (i) The borrower will retain one copy of each of the documents identified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section in accordance with applicable REA requirements regarding retention of records. (ii) For contracts not subject to REA approval, the closeout is not subject to REA approval and the closeout documents need not be sent to REA unless specifically requested by REA. ยง1726.405 Inventory of work orders (REA Form 219). Upon completion of the contract closeout, the borrower shall complete REA Form 219, Inventory of Work Orders, in accordance with part 1717, Post-Loan Policies and Procedures Common to Insured and Guaranteed Electric Loans, of this chapter. Dated: April 20, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11541 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;P
