FR940222-2-00006 FR940222-2-00005 Minority Business Development Agency Business Development Center Application: State of South Carolina With the Exceptions of Greenville, Charleston, and Columbia MSAs AGENCY: Minority Business Development Agency, Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In accordance with Executive Order 11625 and 15 U.S.C. 1512, the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) is soliciting competitive applications under its Minority Business Development Center program (MBDC) to operate a Rural Minority Business Development Center (RMBDC) for approximately a 3-year period, subject to agency priorities, recipient performance and the availability of funds. The total cost of performance for the first budget period (12 months) from July 1, 1994 to June 30, 1995 is estimated at $411,765. The application must include a minimum cost-share of 15% of the total project cost, through non-Federal contributions. The Federal amount includes $8,540 for an annual audit fee. Cost-sharing contributions may be in the form of cash contributions, client fees, in-kind contributions or combinations thereof. The RMBDC will operate in the State of South Carolina geographic service area with the exceptions of Greenville, Charleston and Columbia, MSAs. The headquarters of the RMBDC will be located in Orangeburg, South Carolina. The award number for this RMBDC will be 04&hyph;10&hyph;94007&hyph;01. The funding instrument for this project will be a cooperative agreement. Competition is open to individuals, non-profit and for-profit organizations, state and local governments, American Indian tribes and educational institutions. The RMBDC will provide business development services to the rural minority business community to help establish and maintain viable rural minority businesses. To this end, MBDA funds organizations to identify and coordinate public and private sector resources on behalf of rural minority individuals and firms; to offer a full range of management and technical assistance to rural minority entrepreneurs; and to serve as a conduit of information and assistance regarding rural minority business. Applications will be evaluated on the following criteria: the experience and capabilities of the firm and its staff in addressing the needs of the business community in general and, specifically, the special needs of rural minority businesses, individuals and organizations (50 points); the resources available to the firm in providing rural business development services (10 points); the firm's approach (techniques and methodologies) to performing the work requirements included in the application (20 points); and the firm's estimated cost for providing such assistance (20 points). An application must received at least 70% of the points assigned to each evaluation criteria category to be considered programmatically acceptable and responsive. Those applications determined to be acceptable and responsive will then be evaluated by the Director of MBDA. Final award selections shall be based on the number of points received, the demonstrated responsibility of the applicant, and the determination of those most likely to further the purpose of the MBDC program. Negative audit findings and recommendations and unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for award. The applicant with the highest points score will not necessarily receive the award. If an application is select for funding, DOC has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of DOC. Award under this program shall be subject to all Federal laws and Federal and Departmental regulations, policies, and procedures applicable to Federal assistance awards. The RMBDC shall be required to contribute at least 15% of the total project cost through non-Federal contributions. To assist in this effort, the RMBDC may charge client fees for management and technical assistance (M&TA) rendered. Based on a standard rate of $50 per hour, the RMBDC will charge client fees at 20% of the total cost for firms with gross sales of $500,000 or less, and 35% of the total cost for firms with gross sales of over $500,000. Quarterly reviews culminating in year-to-date evaluations will be conducted to determine is funding for the project should continue. Continued funding will be at the total discretion of MBDA based on such factors as the RMBDC's performance, the availability of funds and Agency priorities. DATES: The closing date for applications is March 24, 1994. Applications must be postmarked on or before March 24, 1994. ADDRESSES: Atlanta Regional Office, U.S. Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency, 401 West Peachtree Street NW., suite 1715, Atlanta, Georgia 30308&hyph;3516, (404) 730&hyph;3300. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert M. Henderson, Acting Regional Director, Atlanta Regional Office, telephone (404) 730&hyph;3300. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Anticipated processing time of this award is 120 days. Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' is not applicable to this program. The collection of information requirements for this project have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0640&hyph;0006. A pre-application conference to assist all interested applicants will be held on March 9, 1994, 9 a.m. at the following address: U.S. Department of Commerce, Minority Business Development Agency, 401 West Peachtree Street NW., room 1715, Atlanta, Georgia 30308&hyph;3516. Questions concerning the preceding information can be answered by the contact person indicated above, and copies of application kits and applicable regulations can be obtained at the above address. Pre-Award Costs _Applicants are hereby notified that if they incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal assurance that an applicant may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover pre-award costs.
