FR941107-2-00178 FR941107-2-00097 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of the Secretary [Docket No. 49844] RIN 2105&hyph;AC19 Statement of United States International Air Transportation Policy AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation. ACTION: Request for comments on U.S. international air transportation policy statement. SUMMARY: This notice sets forth a statement of U.S. international air transportation policy. This notice is being published to provide interested persons an opportunity to comment on the statement. DATES: Comments must be received no later than December 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Docket Clerk, Docket 49844, Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street, S.W., Room 4107, Washington, DC 20590. To facilitate consideration of the comments, we ask commenters to file twelve copies of each comment. We encourage commenters who wish to do so also to submit comments to the Department through the Internet; our Internet address is dot X dockets@postmaster.dot.gov. 1 Note, however, that at this time the Department considers only the paper copies filed with the Docket Clerk to be the official comments. Comments will be available for inspection at this address from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Commenters who wish the Department to acknowledge the receipt of their comments should include a stamped, self-addressed postcard with their comments. The Docket Clerk will date-stamp the postcard and mail it back to the commenter. 1 Our X.400 e-mail address is S=dotdockets/OU1=qmail/O=hq/p=gov+dot/a=attmail/c=us. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Boyd, Office of International Aviation, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street SW, Room 6412, Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366&hyph;4870; or Patricia N. Snyder, Office of International Law, Office of the General Counsel, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street SW, Room 10105, Washington, DC 20590. (202) 366&hyph;9179. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This statement of U.S. international air transportation policy, which was developed by the Department of Transportation in consultation with the Department of State and other executive agencies, sets forth objectives and guidelines for use by U.S. Government officials in carrying out U.S. international air transportation policy. Before this statement is finalized, we will carefully consider any comments that are received. United States International Air Transportation Policy Introduction The availability of efficient international air transportation will greatly enhance the future expansion of international commerce and the development of the emerging global marketplace. Worldwide, travelers and shippers are demanding more and better quality service to more places. U.S. and foreign airlines are responding to this demand by expanding traditional forms of service and by developing new and innovative services. Increased demand and the variety of carrier responses to it challenge the existing intergovernmental system's ability to ensure the development of a competitive air transportation system that meets the needs of the rapidly evolving, expanding and increasingly integrated international aviation marketplace. In many cases, existing bilateral agreements impede the growth of the marketplace. We must address the challenges presented by these rapid changes to meet our future air transportation needs, and to provide our aviation industry with the environment and the opportunities that will enable it to grow and compete effectively in the world market. This policy statement outlines our approach to addressing those challenges. Our Goal: Safe, Affordable, Convenient and Efficient Air Service for Consumers As established in our last aviation policy statement in 1978, our overall goal continues to be to foster safe, affordable, convenient and efficient air service for consumers. We continue to believe that the best way to achieve this goal is to rely on the marketplace and unrestricted, fair competition to determine the variety, quality, and price of air service. We believe that this approach will provide consumers and shippers with more and better service options at costs that reflect economically efficient operations and work best to: •Expand the international aviation market;
