FR940511-0-00078 FR940511-0-00015 (c) Notifications of filings of applications and requests for findings should be addressed to the Director, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management; ATTN: Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 1305 East West Highway, Building 4, Silver Spring, MD 20910. A copy of the application must accompany the notification. (d) The Director or designee may request additional information from the applicant as he or she deems necessary to determine whether to object to issuance of such lease, license, permit, or other authorization (or to issuance of an amendment, extension or renewal of such authorization), or what terms and conditions are necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. The information requested must be received by the Director or designee within 45 days of the postmark date of the request. The Director or designee may seek the views of any persons on the application. (e) The Director or designee shall notify, in writing, the agency to which application has been made of his or her review of the application and possible objection to issuance. After review of the application and information received with respect thereto, the Director or designee shall notify both the agency and applicant, in writing, whether he or she has an objection to issuance and what terms and conditions he or she deems necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. The Director or designee shall state the reason(s) for any objection or the reason(s) that any terms and conditions are deemed necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities. Where the applicant is the governing body of an Indian tribe, the Director shall consider and protect the interests of the tribe to the fullest extent practicable in keeping with the purposes of the Sanctuary and the United States' trust responsibility to the affected tribes. (f) The Director or designee may amend the terms and conditions deemed necessary to protect Sanctuary resources and qualities whenever additional information becomes available justifying such an amendment. (g) Any time limit prescribed in or established under this section may be extended by the Director or designee for good cause. (h) The applicant may appeal any objection by, or terms or conditions imposed by, the Director or designee to the Assistant Administrator or designee in accordance with the procedures set forth in §925.12. §925.12 Appeals of administrative action. (a) Except for permit actions taken for enforcement reasons (see subpart D of 15 CFR part 904 for applicable procedures), an applicant for, or a holder of, a §925.9 National Marine Sanctuary permit, an applicant for, or a holder of, a section 310 of the Act Special Use permit, a §925.10 certification requester or a §925.11 applicant (hereinafter appellant) may appeal to the Assistant Administrator or designee: (1) The grant, denial, conditioning, amendment, suspension or revocation by the Director or designee of a National Marine Sanctuary or Special Use permit; (2) The conditioning, amendment, suspension or revocation of a certification under §925.10; or (3) The objection to issuance or the imposition of terms and conditions under §925.11. (b) An appeal under paragraph (a) of this §925.12 must be in writing, state the action(s) by the Director or designee appealed and the reason(s) for the appeal, and be received within 30 days of receipt of notice of the action by the Director or designee. Appeals should be addressed to the Assistant Administrator, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, ATTN: Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 1305 East-West Highway, Building 4, Silver Spring, MD 20910. (c) While the appeal is pending, appellants requesting certification pursuant to §925.10 who are in compliance with such section may continue to conduct their activities without being in violation of the prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (2) through (8) of §925.5 with regard to which they are requesting certification. All other appellants may not conduct their activities without being subject to the prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (1) through (9) of §925.5. (d) The Assistant Administrator or designee may request the appellant to submit such information as the Assistant Administrator or designee deems necessary in order for him or her to decide the appeal. The information requested must be received by the Assistant Administrator or designee within 45 days of the postmark date of the request. The Assistant Administrator may seek the views of any other persons. The Assistant Administrator or designee may hold an informal hearing on the appeal. If the Assistant Administrator or designee determines that an informal hearing should be held, the Assistant Administrator or designee may designate an officer before whom the hearing shall be held. The hearing officer shall give notice in the Federal Register of the time, place and subject matter of the hearing. The appellant and the Director or designee may appear personally or by counsel at the hearing and submit such material and present such arguments as deemed appropriate by the hearing officer. Within 60 days after the record for the hearing closes, the hearing officer shall recommend a decision in writing to the Assistant Administrator or designee. (e) The Assistant Administrator or designee shall decide the appeal using the same regulatory criteria as for the initial decision and shall base the appeal decision on the record before the Director or designee and any information submitted regarding the appeal, and, if a hearing has been held, on the record before the hearing officer and the hearing officer's recommended decision. The Assistant Administrator or designee shall notify the appellant of the final decision and the reason(s) therefore in writing. The Assistant Administrator or designee's decision shall constitute final agency action for the purposes of the Administrative Procedure Act. (f) Any time limit prescribed in or established under this §925.12 other than the 30-day limit for filing an appeal may be extended by the Assistant Administrator, designee or hearing officer for good cause. §925.13 Consultation with the state, affected Indian tribes and other affected local authorities. The Director shall regularly consult with the State of Washington, the governing bodies of tribes with reservations adjacent to the Sanctuary, and adjacent county governments regarding areas of mutual concern, including Sanctuary programs, permitting, activities, development, and threats to Sanctuary resources. The Director shall, when requested by such governments, enter into a memorandum of understanding regarding such consultations.
