FR941107-2-00157 FR941107-2-00089 Moreover, the Exchange frequently uses the term ``options'' to include both equity and index options. For example, the ``Options Committee'' governs both equity options and index options trading, and ``options trading volume'' includes index options as well. In addition, the use of the phrase ``equity options'' to include index options is not limited to AUTOM. For instance, ``equity options floor'' 7 and ``equity options examination'' 8 are common terms. Furthermore, the date when AUTO&hyph;X was extended to index options corresponds to Commission approval of the use of AUTO&hyph;X for ``all Phlx equity options.'' 9 Accordingly, it appears that index options were added to AUTOM as part of the extension of both AUTOM and AUTO&hyph;X to ``all Phlx equity options.'' 7 There is no separate ``index options floor.'' 8 This floor member qualification examination tests trading rules applicable to index options as well. 9 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28978, supra note 3. Although Commission orders approving various amendments to and extensions of the AUTOM pilot refer to ``equity options,'' the proposed rule changes filed by the Exchange generally describe AUTOM as an order routing and delivery system for ``options.'' In addition, the Phlx has issued memoranda to the trading floor regarding the use of AUTOM/AUTO&hyph;X for index options on many occasions, including periodic lists of the maximum size eligibility for AUTO&hyph;X. The Phlx also notes that other exchanges permit the use of automatic order delivery and executions systems for index options. 10 10 See e.g., CBOE Rule 24.17. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general, and Section 6(b)(5) in particular, in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and protect investors and the public interest by codifying index options into the AUTOM pilot program. The Exchange believes that index option orders benefit from the advantages of AUTOM, including efficient and prompt order delivery and execution. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Phlx believes that the proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Because the proposed rule change constitutes a stated policy, practice, or interpretation with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing rule of the Exchange, it has become effective pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder. Specifically, the Exchange is proposing to codify the eligibility of index options, an existing Exchange practice, for an existing Commission-approved system. At any time within 60 days of the filing of such proposed rule change, the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;40 and should be submitted by November 28, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 11 11 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1992). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27487 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
