FR940228-1-00161 FR940228-1-00010 •If books and supplies are provided by the institution and the institution has delivered the books and supplies to the student, the books and supplies should be excluded from the pro rata refund policy. [Kansas City] •Certain fees assessed by the institution should be included in the pro rata refund where the students do not realize the benefits over the enrollment period to include one time charges, i.e., application fee, orientation charges, testing fees, and deferred payment fees. Other charges assessed by the institution should be excluded from the pro rata refund when the student does not realize the benefit over the enrollment period to include fines, penalties, and individual charges (i.e., parking fines, and health center charges.) Books and supplies should not be included in pro rata refund unless they are considered a mandatory charge by the institution (i.e, not when the student has the option of buying from the institution or some other source.) [Atlanta] •If all equipment and books are purchased at one time or issued to the student before he or she terminates his or her enrollment, the cost should be included in the refund. The institution should charge the whole amount which is not returnable. Equipment must be returned and able to be used again. If equipment has not yet been issued, the student would be eligible for a 100 percent refund. [San Francisco] 5. Should the regulations address a time frame for student refunds? Should the regulations have a minimum program length that a student must complete before the student will not be considered to be attending ``for the first time?'' •The time frame for all refunds should be uniformly 60 days from the date the institution becomes aware that a student has withdrawn. [San Francisco] •The regulations should indicate the time frame for issuing student refunds to be the same as current refund requirements- within 60 days of determination that a refund is in order. [Kansas City] •Refunds should be made 30 days from date of determination. [San Francisco] •Regulations should not address a time frame for refunds since it is already addressed by the State or accrediting agencies. [Atlanta] 6. Should the regulations address how institutions will account for credit balances? Should these funds be kept in a restrictive account rather than the institution's general operating account? •The regulations should not address how institutions account for credit balances nor restrictive or general operating accounts. A minority of the group felt that students with a baccalaureate degree should be exempt from the language. [Kansas City] •The group recommends that regulations remain silent on the method by which institutions account for credit balances. [San Francisco, Atlanta] •After all returns have been made to the Federal program from which the funds came, there should be a reasonable period of time for the student to request his account balance if there are educational costs outstanding. [San Francisco] 7. Since the statute would imply than an institution is required to calculate all three policies and make the payment on the one most generous, should the institution be allowed to determine which is generally most generous an make that the official refund policy? •Institutions should be allowed to determine the refund policy that is generally most generous and use that policy. Institutions would define ``generally most generous.'' [Kansas City, San Francisco, Atlanta] •The Department should issue guidelines for institutions to use in determining which method to use. If the institutions use average costs in awarding and packaging, average costs should be used in refunds. [San Francisco] •Institutions should not be allowed to determine which refund is ``generally most generous.'' This is inconsistent with the statute. The statute does, however, permit institution to develop an algorithm that integrates the three refund policies and yields the calculation ``most generous'' to each individual student. The requirements should apply only to the calculation of refunds for students who are recipients of financial aid under Title IV. [Kansas City] 8. How should ``fair and equitable'' be defined? •Fair and equitable'' should be defined as most generous to the student. [San Francisco] •It is not necessary to define ``fair and equitable'' separately from the requirements of the statute and the regulations. The Student Commission addresses adequately the definition of ``fair and equitable.'' [Kansas City, Atlanta]
