FR940822-0-00062 FR940822-0-00019 Regulatory Impact Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies This final rule has been evaluated in accordance with existing regulatory policies. The regulatory document is considered to be a nonsignificant regulatory action under E.O. 12866 and is a nonsignificant rule under §5(a)(4) of DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures [44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979] because it eliminates nonessential reporting requirements while maintaining a high level of safety. FRA has prepared and placed in the rulemaking docket a regulatory evaluation addressing the economic impact of this rule. A copy of the regulatory evaluation may be reviewed and copied in Room 8201, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20590. In its regulatory analysis, FRA found that railroads will derive several benefits with the implementation of this rule. First, the final rule eliminates or narrows the applicability of various requirements that railroads reproduce and mail to FRA certain records and reports of operating rules and practices, thereby reducing administrative and postage expenses. Although certain railroads will still have to submit particular documents to FRA, the final rule removes most processing and handling expenditures associated with filing the paperwork requirements under existing Part 217. Second, the final rule reduces Federal government labor costs necessary to examine, organize, and compile the information since most of the records will be retained at the appropriate railroad offices. Finally, railroads will be permitted to retain required information in an electronic format, thereby reducing storage and overhead costs and facilitating access to selected records. The regulatory evaluation does not quantify the reduction in costs available to railroads electing to exercise this option; therefore, this analysis does not reflect the economic benefits gained from electronic recordkeeping. FRA estimates that, over a twenty-year period, this rule will cost the railroad industry a total of $786. The cost to the railroads to comply with this rule is about $311 for the first year and $25 for every year thereafter. This cost burden is attributed to the changes in recordkeeping requirements provided in the rule. The total benefits of this rule over a twenty-year period amount to about $449,628 for reduced labor, copying, and postage costs in both the railroad industry and government sector. In the first year, the savings are estimated to be $22,432 and $22,484 for each subsequent year. The benefits will be about 447.52 times the costs. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. §601 et seq. ) requires a review of rules to assess their impact on small entities. In reviewing the economic impact of the rule, FRA concluded that it will not have any measurable impact on small entities. There are no direct or indirect economic impacts for small units of government, businesses, or other organizations. Therefore, it is certified that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Paperwork Reduction Act The final rule contains information collection requirements. FRA is submitting these information collection requirements to the Office of Management and Budget for approval in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. §§3501 et seq. ) FRA has endeavored to minimize the paperwork burden associated with this rule. The regulatory provisions that contain information collection requirements and the estimated time necessary to fulfill these requirements are as follows:
