FR940325-0-00093 FR940325-0-00016 UTC v. OSHA involved the statute of limitations period for filing a challenge to an OSHA standard. 836 F.2d at 53. The statute provided that any challenges to a standard issued by OSHA had to be brought within 60 days after the standard was promulgated. Id. OSHA regulations defined ``the date of issuance'' as the time of filing in the Office of the Federal Register but did not define ``promulgation.'' Nevertheless, OSHA argued that the date of promulgation should also be the date of filing with the Office of the Federal Register. The court noted that Congress, by using two different terms, must have intended the date of issuance to differ from the date of promulgation. Id. Therefore, the court held that the date of promulgation was the date of publication in the Federal Register . Id. at 54. Neither API v. Costle nor UTC v. OSHA purport to define ``promulgation'' for all purposes. In fact, the cases reveal that the definition of ``promulgation'' can vary, depending on Congressional intent. The cases also do not address the specific question of the effect of a judicial remand on the date of promulgation for statute of limitation purposes. Further, the court in UTC v. OSHA recognized an agency's authority to determine when its regulations had been promulgated, stating that ``[t]he agency is certainly entitled to adopt a definition of `promulgated', and it may well have the power to equate `promulgated' with `issued', if it chooses to.'' Id. at 53. The problem in that case was that the agency had not issued a regulation defining ``promulgation.'' U.S. v. Seattle involved a motion to dismiss a natural resource damage case on statute of limitations grounds. The defendant had argued that the statute of limitations began to run on August 1, 1986, the date the original type B rule was published. In an unpublished opinion, the court denied the motion to dismiss and held that the statute of limitations did not begin to run until both type A and type B rules had been promulgated. Slip op. at 1. Because the case had been filed within three years of March 20, 1987, the date the original type A rule was published, the court did not need to reach, and did not address, the issue of the effect of Ohio v. Interior and Colorado v. Interior on the date of promulgation. However, in light of existing case law, the Department has decided that it would be more appropriate to base the date of promulgation on the date of publication of final rules complying with Ohio v. Interior and Colorado v. Interior rather than the date of effectiveness of those final rules. The Department has revised the rule accordingly. Comment: A few commenters noted that section 113(a) of CERCLA provides that any challenge to regulations issued under the statute must be brought within 90 days of promulgation. These commenters stated that if the natural resource damage assessment regulations had not been promulgated, the court in Ohio v. Interior would not have had jurisdiction. Response: The Department does not dispute that the court in Ohio v. Interior had jurisdiction under section 113(a) of CERCLA. However, the Department does not believe that determination of the date of promulgation for purposes of section 113(a) is necessarily dispositive of the issue of the date of promulgation for purposes of section 113(g)(1). Comment: A few commenters expressed concern that the Department has a conflict of interest because issuance of the proposed clarification of the date of promulgation would preserve the Department's ability to pursue its own natural resource damage claims. Response: The Department does not believe that it has allowed its duties as a Federal trustee agency to prejudice the development of the natural resource damage assessment regulations. The Department has striven to develop regulations that are fair to not only trustee officials and the general public but also PRPs. Moreover, the Department notes that it is not only a trustee agency but frequently a PRP in natural resource damage cases.
