FR940707-2-00089 FR940707-2-00049 Remarks_Line 23. If the total project period exceeds 17 months, you must enter your proposed non-Federal share of the project budget for each of the remaining years of the project. 3. Project Summary Description Clearly mark this separate page with the applicant name as shown in item 5 of the SF 424, the priority area number as shown at the top of the SF 424, and the title of the project as shown in item 11 of the SF 424. The summary description should not exceed 300 words. These 300 words become part of the computer database on each project. Care should be taken to produce a summary description which accurately and concisely reflects the proposal. It should describe the objectives of the project, the approaches to be used and the outcomes expected. The description should also include a list of major products that will result from the proposed project, such as software packages, materials, management procedures, data collection instruments, training packages, or videos (please note that audiovisuals should be closed captioned). The project summary description, together with the information on the SF 424, will constitute the project ``abstract.'' It is the major source of information about the proposed project and is usually the first part of the application that the reviewers read in evaluating the application. 4. Program Narrative Statement The Program Narrative Statement is a very important part of an application. It should be clear, concise, and address the specific requirements mentioned under the priority area description in Part IV. The narrative should also provide information concerning how the application meets the evaluation criteria, using the following headings: (a) Objectives and Need for Assistance; (b) Results and Benefits Expected; (c) Approach; and (d) Staff Background and Organization's Experience. The specific information to be included under each of these headings is described in Section C of Part III, Evaluation Criteria. The narrative should be typed double-spaced on a single-side of an 81/2 ’ ’ x 11 ’ ’ plain white paper, with 1 ’ ’ margins on all sides. All pages of the narrative (including charts, references/footnotes, tables, maps, exhibits, etc.) must be sequentially numbered, beginning with ``Objectives and Need for Assistance'' as page number one. Applicants should not submit reproductions of larger size paper, reduced to meet the size requirement. The length of the application, including the application forms and all attachments, should not exceed 60 pages. A page is a single side of an 81/2 ’ ’ x 11 ’ ’ sheet of paper. Applicants are requested not to send pamphlets, brochures or other printed material along with their application as these pose xeroxing difficulties. These materials, if submitted, will not be included in the review process if they exceed the 60-page limit. Each page of the application will be counted to determine the total length. 5. Organizational Capability Statement The Organizational Capability Statement should consist of a brief (two to three pages) background description of how the applicant organization (or the unit within the organization that will have responsibility for the project) is organized, the types and quantity of services it provides, and/or the research and management capabilities it possesses. This description should cover capabilities not included in the Program Narrative Statement. It may include descriptions of any current or previous relevant experience, or describe the competence of the project team and its demonstrated ability to produce a final product that is readily comprehensible and usable. An organization chart showing the relationship of the project to the current organization should be included. 6. Part V_Assurances/Certifications Applicants are required to file an SF 424B, Assurances_Non-Construction Programs and the Certification Regarding Lobbying. Both must be signed and returned with the application. Applicants must also provide certifications regarding: (1) Drug-Free Workplace Requirements; and (2) Debarment and Other Responsibilities. These two certifications are self-explanatory. Copies of these assurances/certifications are reprinted at the end of this announcement and should be reproduced, as necessary. A duly authorized representative of the applicant organization must certify that the applicant is in compliance with these assurances/certifications. A signature on the SF 424 indicates compliance with the Drug Free Workplace Requirements, and Debarment and Other Responsibilities certifications, and need not be mailed back with the application. In addition, applicants are required under section 162(c)(3) of the Act to provide assurances that the human rights of all individuals with developmental disabilities (especially those individuals without familial protection) who will receive services under projects assisted under Part E will be protected consistent with section 110 (relating to the rights of individuals with developmental disabilities). Each application must include a statement providing this assurance. For research projects in which human subjects may be at risk, a Protection of Human Subjects Assurance may be required. If there is a question regarding the applicability of this assurance, contact the Office for Research Risks of the National Institutes of Health at (301) 496&hyph;7041.
