FR940505-1-00149 FR940505-1-00012 Persons submitting comments on these issues or other specific aspects of today's proposal should consider and discuss the possible impact of their comments on other elements of the control program, particularly when such comments propose alternative strategies that would achieve smaller or larger emission reductions from commercial aviation. ( 6 ) Aviation Working Group Issues/Concerns To gather information used in preparing today's action, the Agency formed a working group composed principally of representatives from EPA, FAA, various State and local regulatory authorities, airport operators, and airlines. The mission of the working group was to acquire emission inventory data, assess inventory methodologies, and identify operational and technological issues regarding potential control strategies. The proposed environmental performance target/fee control program represents a new and innovative strategy for aviation. EPA has attempted to address many of the issues and concerns raised by the working group members, but recognizes that significant issues and differences of opinion remain. In order to facilitate public comment on these issues, EPA has requested comment on specific topics throughout the description of the proposal. Nonetheless, EPA is taking an additional step to ensure that concerns raised by the airline industry are fully aired as part of this rulemaking. The industry's concerns, as submitted by the Airline Transport Association, 78 are summarized as follows: 78 For more detail see the letter from R. Kettler, ATA to R. Wilson, EPA, dated December 27, 1993, available in the rulemaking docket. •Further regulation of aircraft emissions under the FIP is unnecessary because VOC emissions from aircraft have already been reduced and will continue to decrease substantially through the next decade. Fleet modernization due to market forces and phase out of Stage II aircraft will substantially decrease VOC emissions. •Any FIP requirements for aircraft emission reductions would be illegal per section 110(a)(5)(C) of the Clean Air Act. It would also run counter to the jurisdiction of DOT to ensure a safe and efficient air transportation system. •Emission reductions required by the FIP would ultimately require limiting the number of flights, which would have a devastating effect on the region's economy. •Airlines will be subject to NO X reductions under a regulatory scheme being developed by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). This international approach is necessary to keep from placing U.S. airlines at a competitive disadvantage in the global marketplace. •Any FIP proposal that directly or indirectly affects aircraft operations would unwisely and unlawfully impinge on the control of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) over the safety and efficiency of airport operations. The pilot in command is the final authority as to the operation of the aircraft. Measures such as single engine taxiing, derated takeoffs, and limiting use of reverse thrust on landing may pose safety hazards. •EPA has no authority to prescribe a bubble to control airport or airline emissions. Proposal of an airline or airport-wide emissions cap would require either operational changes that raise serious safety and efficiency concerns or a reduction in the number of flights. These would violate either the Federal Aviation Act, FAA regulations or the Airline Deregulation Act of 1978. •Airport proprietors are preempted from exerting operational controls with regard to aircraft and airlines. •Use of a bubble would be unworkable, since neither EPA nor airport proprietors have the expertise or the resources to supervise and enforce restrictions on the hundreds of businesses and operations that are potential emission sources at an airport. •Control of domestic aircraft emissions under the FIP would discriminate unfairly against U.S. air carriers. Foreign carriers, military and general aviation must be subject to the same controls as commercial domestic carriers. •Any emissions decreases from the closure or realignment of military airfields must be credited to the aviation sector as a whole. •Although the Clean Air Act requires EPA to use a 1990 baseline for determining overall emission reduction goals for the FIP, EPA should allow the use of other years for particular sources. A 1987 baseline year for aircraft would be more equitable, because individual airlines have been voluntarily reducing their VOC emissions since that date by phasing in quieter and cleaner engines. •As an alternative to allowing an earlier baseline year, the rule might provide that the benefit of percentage reductions by those industries that have made the least pre-1990 emission reductions be shared with industries that made the most pre-1990 progress. •ATA questions the authority of EPA to regulate airline ground service equipment (GSE) emissions. •The airline industry maintains that EPA has unfairly focused on airline GSE regulation, while ignoring similar off-road vehicles used by other industries. •The airline industry has provided evidence that GSE emissions amount to nearly 40 percent of airline-controlled emissions, in contrast to the substantially lower percentage estimated by EPA. Thus, there may be much greater opportunity for emission reductions from GSE than EPA has previously contemplated. •To the extent that GSE emission regulation is permissible, EPA should develop a reasonable phase-in schedule for such regulations to allow for the development of appropriate controls and to work through the associated technical problems. The Agency requests comments on the concerns and issues raised by the airline industry.
