FR940414-1-00057 FR940414-1-00010 Based on the BAT technology identified by EPA, EPA developed five regulatory options that were considered for PSES. The Agency estimated the cost and pollutant removal expected to be incurred for each option and evaluated the economic impacts and cost effectiveness of these options. The Agency selected the proposed regulatory approach based on the economic and technological achievability of the options. The options considered for PSES are as follows: Option 1 would set numeric discharge limits for various pollutants based on end-of-pipe treatment for the entire wastewater volume currently generated by PFPR facilities through the Universal Treatment System and discharge of the entire volume to POTWs. Option 2 adds pollution prevention by requiring zero discharge of process wastewater pollutants for wastewaters generated from cleaning the interiors of formulating and packaging equipment and raw material and shipping containers, which can be recycled back into the product to recover the product value in the wastewaters. Numeric discharge limits would be set for other wastewaters,which would still be expected to be treated through the Universal Treatment System and discharged to POTWs. Option 3 would be based on the same technology and pollution prevention practices as the Option 2. BAT for this option, however, would include recycling of all process wastewater by recycling the wastewater back to the facility in some cases after treatment through the Universal Treatment System instead of allowing a discharge after treatment. Option 3/S is the same as Option 3 for all PFPR facilities, except for those facilities that formulate package, or repackage sanitizer active ingredients and whose sanitizer production is less than 265,000 lbs/yr. Based on the level of impacts imposed on facilities that formulate, package or repackage these small quantities of sanitizer active ingredients (sanitizer active ingredients are defined in Table 8 of the regulation) and the small amounts of pollutant discharges from non-interior sources at sanitizer facilities, EPA developed this option which requires the achievement of zero discharge of interior wastewaters only. Other wastewater sources generated by formulating packaging or repackaging using sanitizer active ingredients at these facilities would not be subject to pretreatment standards. Option 4 incorporates the pollution prevention aspects of Options 2 and 3, but instead of treatment, assumes that wastewaters that cannot be recycled will be disposed of by off-site incineration. Option 5 is based on disposal of all wastewater through off-site incineration. Option 3/S proposes to exempt the non-interior streams at facilities that formulate, package or repackage less than 265,000 lb/yr sanitizer products for the following reasons: The sanitizers segment is composed almost entirely of small businesses. The projected impacts of this rulemaking on them are more significant than they are on other PFPR facilities due primarily to the costs of having to install treatment for their non-interior streams. The amount of pollutants associated with their non-interior streams is small_about 22 toxic-weighted pound equivalents per year out of a total toxic weighted loading of 12 million toxic pounds generated by this industry. Therefore, excluding their non-interior streams from coverage results in basically the same overall reduction in pollutants discharged by the PFP industry but significantly eases the burden on these small entities (see Section XIV below). This is consistent with the objectives of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, which directs agencies to examine ``any significant alternatives to the proposed rule which accomplish the stated objectives of applicable statutes and which minimize any significant economic impact of the proposed rule on small entities.'' (RFA Section 603). Section 603 also specifically mentions exemptions from coverage of the rule as one type of alternative that could be examined. EPA also notes that sanitizer products, in contrast to most other pesticide products, are intended to be discharged to sinks and drains with normal use and therefore large quantities of the products themselves (apart from the PFP waste streams) end up at the POTW. EPA is not aware that these products are causing any interferences at POTWs. Further, discharging this small additional amount of sanitizer chemicals_22 pound-equivalents per year_to POTWs would not materially increase the total amount of these chemicals being discharged to POTWs. Option 1 is more costly and estimated to cause more economic impacts than Options 2, 3, and 3/S due to a higher volume of water that is costed for treatment through the Universal Treatment System. Options 2 and 3 are estimated to have the same costs and level of economic impacts since both options are based on the same technology. For simplification and because the technology is essentially identical the costs are assumed to be identical. In reality Option 3 costs could be lower than Option 2, because sampling data indicate that facilities which do treat wastewater for recycling back to the facility do not always achieve the same degree of pollutant removal from the wastewater that would be required to comply with numeric standards (see Section V of the Technical Development Document). However, Option 3 requires the treated wastewater to be recycled rather than discharged thus achieving greater pollutant removals than Option 2. Options 3/S is less costly than Options 2 and 3, and is expected to cause fewer economic impacts. Option 4 is more costly than Options 1 through 3/S and Option 5 is more costly than Option 4, though both achieve the same degree of wastewater pollution control as Option 3. In order to provide coverage of this proposed rule to the facilities formulating, packaging and repackaging the additional PAIs not included as part of the 272 PAIs identified in the survey, an additional Option 3/S.1 was evaluated. This Option was costed to include facility costs for control of the additional non-272 at facilities costed for Option 3/S and approximately 1500 additional facilities with only non-272 PAIs. Based on the evaluation of the additional facilities Option 3/S.1 has been selected to be the basis for pretreatment standards for existing sources. This selection provides a basis for PSES that is consistent with requirements for direct dischargers. Option 3/S.1 represents the performance of the best available technology economically achievable, incorporating the best existing practices of pollution prevention, recycle/reuse, water conservation and wastewater treatment in this subcategory. Based on the analysis comparing the various options showing Option 3/S to be less costly the Agency believes that Option 3/S.1 imposes lesser costs than all other options would if their coverage was expanded, and achieves greater pollutant removals than Options 1 and 2 with expanded coverage. Options 3, 4 and 5 which require zero discharge from all wastewater sources remove only slightly more pollutants due to small production sanitizer chemical facilities being required to treat and recycle their exterior wastewater sources. Since EPA as part of its analysis in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, has determined that the costs and impacts associated with installing treatment systems to recycle non-interior wastewater sources at small production sanitizer facilities can be reduced and the associated pollutant discharges are small (see section XIV of this preamble), Option 3/S.1 was selected. Thus, EPA is proposing to establish separate standards for the formulating, packaging and repackaging of sanitizer chemicals when total sanitizer product is less than 265,000 lbs/yr, which require these sanitizer facilities to achieve zero discharge from interior wastewater sources only. The production cut-off of 265,000 lbs/yr represents the production level of the largest facility that is projected to benefit by an exemption of wastewater treatment requirements for non-interior wastewater sources. This production level applies to a facility's sum total pounds of all sanitizer registered products containing one or more of the sanitizer active ingredients listed on Table 8 of the regulation and no other active ingredients.
