FR941227-0-00111 FR941227-0-00020 (iv) Meeting the needs of non-English speaking residents in the case of public hearings where a significant number of non-English speaking residents can reasonably be expected to participate. (v) Providing affected citizens with reasonable advance notice of, and opportunity to comment on, proposed activities not previously included in an application and activities which are proposed to be deleted or substantially changed in terms of purpose, scope, location, or beneficiaries. The criteria the public entity will use to determine what constitutes a substantial change for this purpose must be described in the citizen participation plan. (vi) Responding to citizens' complaints and grievances, including the procedures that citizens must follow when submitting complaints and grievances. The public entity's policies and procedures must provide for timely written answers to written complaints and grievances within 15 working days of the receipt of the complaint, where practicable. (vii) Encouraging citizen participation, particularly by low and moderate income persons who reside in slum or blighted areas, and other areas in which guaranteed loan funds are proposed to be used. (b) Submission requirements. An application for loan guarantee assistance may be submitted at any time. The application (or final statement) shall be submitted to the appropriate HUD Office and shall be accompanied by the following: (1) A description of how each of the activities to be carried out with the guaranteed loan funds meets one of the criteria in ยง570.208. (2) A schedule for repayment of the loan which identifies the sources of repayment, together with a statement identifying the entity that will act as borrower and issue the debt obligations. (3) A certification providing assurance that the public entity possesses the legal authority to make the pledge of grants required under ยง570.705(b)(2). (4) A certification providing assurance that the public entity has made efforts to obtain financing for activities described in the application without the use of the loan guarantee, the public entity will maintain documentation of such efforts for the term of the loan guarantee, and the public entity cannot complete such financing consistent with the timely execution of the program plans without such guarantee. (5) The drug-free workplace certification required under 24 CFR part 24 (Appendix C). (6) The certification regarding debarment and suspension required under 24 CFR part 24 (Appendix A). (7) The anti-lobbying statement required under 24 CFR part 87 (Appendix A). (8) Certifications by the public entity that: (i) It possesses the legal authority to submit the application for assistance under this subpart and to use the guaranteed loan funds in accordance with the requirements of this subpart. (ii) Its governing body has duly adopted or passed as an official act a resolution, motion or similar official action: (A) authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the public entity to submit the application and amendments thereto and all understandings and assurances contained therein, and directing and authorizing the person identified as the official representative of the public entity to act in connection with the application to provide such additional information as may be required; and (B) authorizing such official representative to execute such documents as may be required in order to implement the application and issue debt obligations pursuant thereto (provided that the authorization required by this paragraph (B) may be given by the local governing body after submission of the application but prior to execution of the contract required by ยง570.705(b); (iii) Before submission of its application to HUD, the public entity has: (A) Furnished citizens with information required by ยง570.704(a)(2)(i);
