FR940805-2-00100 FR940805-2-00056 IX. Program Funding NRC will continue to provide training and other assistance to Agreement States to the extent permitted by statute and budgetary resources. Currently, Section 274 does not allow federal funding for the administration of Agreement State radiation control programs. Section 274 does authorize the NRC to offer training and other assistance to a State in anticipation of entering into an Agreement with NRC, however, it is NRC practice not to fund the establishment of new Agreement State programs. Given the importance in terms of protection of the public health and safety to have a uniform national program of well trained radiation control program personnel, the NRC intends to continue funding training and travel for Agreement State staff. NRC staff would also provide technical assistance to Agreement States to address complex licensing and compliance issues and other specialized technical assistance. X. Regulatory Development NRC and Agreement States will cooperate in the development of new regulations and policy. Agreement States will have early and substantive involvement in the development of new regulations affecting protection of the public health and safety and of new policy affecting administration of the Agreement State program. Likewise, the NRC expects to have the States provide it with early and substantive involvement in the development of new Suggested State Regulations. NRC and Agreement States will keep each other informed about their individual regulatory requirements (i.e., regulations or license conditions) and the effectiveness of those regulatory requirements so that each has the opportunity to make use of proven regulatory approaches to further the effective and efficient use of resources. XI. Program Evolution The NRC-Agreement State program is dynamic and the NRC and Agreement States will continue to jointly assess the overall national program to identify specific changes which should be considered based on experience or to further improve overall performance and effectiveness of the national program. The changes considered should include possible legislative changes. The program should also include the formal sharing of information and views such as briefings of the Commission by the Agreement States.
