FR941005-2-00137 FR941005-2-00091 5. TIAA represents that it has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangement will benefit the Separate Account and Contractowners. The basis for this conclusion is set forth in a memorandum that will be maintained by TIAA at its administrative offices and that will be available to the Commission upon request. 6. TIAA represents that it will have a board of directors, a majority of whom are not interested persons within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the 1940 Act, formulate and approve any plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 to finance distribution expenses. 7. Applicants also request an order under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act exempting them from Section 12(b) of the 1940 Act and Rule 12b&hyph;1 thereunder, insofar as this proposed distribution financing arrangement might be deemed to involve the direct or indirect use of assets in the Separate Account for distribution. 8. Section 12(b) of the 1940 Act prohibits a registered investment company from acting as a distributor of securities of which it is the distributor, except through an underwriter. Rule 12b&hyph;1 prohibits any such company directly or indirectly from financing distribution of the company's shares except in compliance with the rule's requirements. The rule requires that a company financing distribution of its shares formulate a written plan describing all material aspects of the proposed arrangement and that the plan be approved initially by the company's shareholders, directors, and disinterested directors. The directors must vote annually to continue a plan and the directors must conclude that there is a reasonable likelihood that implementation or continuation of the plan will benefit the company and its shareholders. 9. Applicants expect to finance the expenses of distributing the Contracts through the use of TIAA's general assets, which may be attributable in part to any surplus from the Mortality and Expense Risk Charge. Thus, the proposed distribution financing arrangement might be deemed to involve the direct or indirect use of assets in the Separate Account for distribution. Accordingly, Applicants represent that this aspect of the requested relief is solely ``defensive,'' i.e., to clarify that the current distribution financing arrangement is not subject to Section 12(b) or Rule 12b&hyph;1 thereunder. Applicants contend that the requested exemptive relief is not intended to cover the imposition of a separate charge for distribution expenses against the assets in the Separate Account, and acknowledge that any such distribution charge would only be assessed in compliance with Rule 12b&hyph;1. 10. Applicants assert that Rule 12b&hyph;1 was not intended to apply to managed accounts, and that the rule's provisions are directed only at traditional mutual funds and should not be applied to managed accounts. Applicants further assert that the protections of Rule 12b&hyph;1 are not necessary in the case of managed accounts. Applicants state that Commission review under Section 26 and 27 of the 1940 Act of the reasonableness of asset charges of managed accounts, and explicit prospectus disclosure that the asset charge may be used for distribution expenses, provide sufficient protection for Contractowners and obviate the need for a managed account to comply with the requirements of Rule 12b&hyph;1. 11. Applicants assert that the application of Rule 12b&hyph;1 to managed accounts would produce a burdensome and inequitable treatment of these accounts, would place them at an unfair competitive disadvantage with respect to trust accounts offering similar annuity contracts, and would create an artificial distinction between managed and trust accounts not justified by policy considerations. Conclusion Applicants assert that, for the reasons and upon the facts set forth above, the requested exemptions from Sections 12(b), 26(a)(2)(C) and 27 (c)(2) of the 1940 Act, and Rule 12b&hyph;1 thereunder, to deduct the Mortality and Expense Risk Charge from the assets of the Separate Account under the Contracts meet the standards in Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act. Applicants assert that the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policies and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24615 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
