FR941003-1-00074 FR941003-1-00006 (z) State Historic Preservation Officer means the official appointed or designated pursuant to Section 101(b)(1) of the Act to administer the State historic preservation program or a representative designated to act for the State Historic Preservation Officer. (aa) Traditional community means the members of a recognizable ethnic group who continue to live according to beliefs and traditions passed down from previous generations. (bb) Traditional cultural authority means an individual or a group of individuals in an Indian tribe, Native Hawaiian organization, or other social or ethnic group who is recognized by members of the group as knowledgeable in the group's traditional history and cultural practices. (cc) Tribal lands means all lands within the exterior boundaries of any Indian reservation and all dependent Indian communities. (dd) Undertaking means any project, activity, or program under the direct or indirect jurisdiction of a Federal agency that can result in changes in the character or use of historic properties, if any such historic properties are located in the area of potential effects. It includes any project, activity, or program that is carried out by or on behalf of the agency; is financed in whole or in part with Federal financial assistance; requires a Federal permit, license or approval, including agency authority to disapprove or veto the project, activity, or program; or is subject to State or local regulation administered pursuant to a delegation or approval by a Federal agency. Undertakings include new and continuing projects, technical assistance pertaining to a specific site and related to the provision of Federal financial assistance, activities, or programs, renewals or reapprovals of such assistance, activities, or programs, and any of their elements not previously considered under Section 106. Subpart B_Federal Procedures to Implement Section 106 ยง800.3 Qualifying procedures. (a) Purpose. Section 110(a)(2) of the Act directs each Federal agency to establish a preservation program for the identification of historic properties, their evaluation and nomination to the National Register, and their protection. Section 110(a)(2)(E) of the Act requires that each Federal agency preservation program ensures that the agency's procedures for compliance with Section 106 are consistent with the Council's regulations; provides a process for the identification and evaluation of historic properties for listing in the National Register and for developing and implementing of agreements, in consultation with State Historic Preservation Officers, local governments, Indian tribes, Native Hawaiian organizations, and the interested public, as appropriate, regarding the means by which adverse effects on such properties will be considered; and provides for the disposition of Native American cultural items from Federal or tribal land in a manner consistent with Section 3(c) of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001&hyph;3013). This subpart sets forth standards for making agency procedures consistent with the Council's regulations and establishes the process by which the Council will evaluate such procedures. This subpart sets forth standards for evaluating (b) Definition of procedure. For the purposes of this subpart, any formal statement of agency policy or process that deals with the implementation of Section 106 shall be considered a procedure. Included are formal regulations and other procedures that are agency-wide in scope or pertain to a specific program, organizational unit, or geographical area. (c) Substitution of agency procedures for Council regulations. An agency procedure may substitute for the Council's regulations or any part thereof if it is formally approved by the Council membership as a counterpart procedure or executed through a Programmatic Agreement in accordance with ยง800.5. Agency procedures to augment, explain, or an agency without Council membership approval, but the Council membership reserves the right to determine that such a procedure, or any part thereof, is inconsistent with the Council's regulations. If an agency develops a procedure that is not proposed as a counterpart procedure, the agency may follow such procedure to adapt the specific requirements of Subpart C of this part to its programs, provided that the agency's procedure is consistent with the Council's regulations. Agency procedures found by the Council membership to be inconsistent with the Council's regulations are invalid for compliance with Section 106 of the Act to the extent that they are found inconsistent. ยง800.4 Standards for evaluating consistency. (a) Consistency with the Council's regulations. The Council membership will consider agency procedures to be consistent with the Council's regulations for Section 106 when the agency procedures include the following provisions: (1) Initiation of the Section 106 process early in the planning and development of the agency's undertakings, coordinated with specific reference to the particular requirements of each agency program, so that identification and evaluation of historic properties, assessment of effects, and resolution of adverse effects occurs before irreversible commitments are made to preferred alternatives that limit the consideration of options which can avoid or reduce such effects; (2) Use of threshold terms, such as ``undertaking'' and ``area of potential effects,'' that conform to the definitions and standards set forth in the Council's regulations;
