FR940713-2-00138 FR940713-2-00080 [Release No. 34&hyph;34325; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;18] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Amendments to the Allocation Policy and Procedures July 7, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on May 26, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change consists of amendments to the Exchange's Allocation Policy and Procedures. 1 1 The exact text of the proposed rule change was attached as Exhibit A to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;18 and can be obtained at the places specified in Item IV below. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (1) Purpose The intent of the Exchange's Allocation Policy and Procedures (``Policy'') is to ensure that each security is allocated in the fairest manner possible to the best specialist unit for that security. In order to enhance its stock allocation decisions, the Exchange conducts a periodic review of its allocation process. As the result of the Exchange's most recent review, a number of changes to the Policy, discussed below, are being proposed. The Exchange proposes to change the composition of the Allocation Committee (the committee that determines which specialist unit will specialize in a particular security). The Committee, which consists of nine members, would include three broker Governors 2 (one of whom may be an independent/two-dollar broker), 3 four other Floor brokers from the Allocation Panel (one of whom must be an independent/two-dollar broker), and two allied members 4 from the Market Performance Committee or the Panel. For options allocations, only one Governor would sit on the Committee. Currently, only one Governor sits as a member of the Allocation Committee, and the policy does not require that one member of the Committee be an independent/two-dollar broker. 2 A Floor Governor is an individual, designated as such by the Chairman of the Exchange's Board of Directors, who is empowered to perform any duty, make any decision or take any action assigned to or required of a Floor Director as prescribed by the rules of the Exchange's Board of Directors. 3 The Exchange defines an ``independent/two-dollar broker'' as a member on the Exchange floor acting as a broker for other members. 4 An allied member is a general partner, principal executive officer or employee who controls a member firm or member organization. The Exchange is proposing to change the quorum requirement for the Allocation Committee to require that at least two Floor Broker Governors be present out of the seven member quorum. For options allocations, a quorum would include one Governor. Currently, only one Governor is required for a quorum. The Exchange is proposing to allow Governors to serve as chairman of the Allocation Committee. Currently, they are not eligible to serve. The Policy would also be amended to require all candidates for chairman to have prior experience on the Allocation Committee. The Exchange proposes to amend the Policy to state that all incoming Allocation Committee members are expected to observe as many Committee meetings as possible prior to beginning their terms as Committee members. The Exchange is proposing to change the composition of the Allocation Panel (the 36 member group from which the Allocation Committee is drawn). The panel would be composed of 36 members, including 28 Floor brokers and eight allied members, plus the eight broker Governors and four allied members serving on the Exchange's Market Performance Committee. Currently, the four allied members of the Market Performance Committee do not serve on the Panel. Selection to the Allocation Panel currently occurs through an annual appointment process which utilizes input from the membership. The Exchange is proposing to amend the Policy to require Panel members to be nominated by the Exchange membership. To be eligible to serve on the Allocation Panel, the Exchange currently requires Floor brokers to have five years of trading Floor experience. The Policy also states that to the maximum extent possible, the Panel should consist of a core group of experienced, senior professionals, such as former Allocation Committee chairmen, senior Floor Officials, and current and former Floor Governors. In the case of allied members, the member organization is appointed to the Panel and it selects a representative to serve. The Exchange is proposing to amend the Policy to require that the allied members chosen to serve have at least five years of experience in trading listed equities and have a senior position on the trading desk. The Policy would also be amended to permit allied members to designate one alternate who meets the Panel qualifications, subject to approval by the Floor Directors. The Exchange is proposing to amend the Policy to provide for a four month term of service on the Allocation Committee for all members, including Governors. The current terms are six months for non-Governor members and two months for Governors. The Exchange is also proposing to codify the existing practice of permitting Panel members to serve a maximum of six consecutive one year terms and to stagger terms so that every two months four or five members would rotate from the Allocation Committee. Finally, the Exchange is proposing to codify its practice on the allocation of merging listed companies. The Policy would be amended to state that when two listed companies merge, the new entity would be assigned to the specialist in the company determined to be the surviving/dominant company. If no surviving/dominant company could be identified, the entity would be referred to the Allocation Committee for allocation. Currently, the Market Performance Committee, with the assistance of Exchange Counsel and the Marketing Division, makes the determination of which company is the surviving/dominant company. (2) Statutory Basis The basis under the Act for this proposed rule change is the requirement under Section 6(b)(5) that an Exchange have rules that are designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system and in general, to protect investors and the public interest. The proposed amendments are consistent with these objectives in that they enable the Exchange to further enhance the process by which stocks are allocated to ensure fairness and equal opportunity in the process.
