FR940919-0-00091 FR940919-0-00016 XII. Guidance to Applicants for Treatability Variances for As- Generated Wastes The Agency's existing regulations provide for variances from treatment standards if a waste cannot be treated to the specified treatment standard or if the treatment technology on which the standard is based is inappropriate for the waste. Section 268.44 (a). For guidance on treatability variances for soil, including site-specific, non-rulemaking variances, see section I.E. ``Treatment Standards for Hazardous Soil'' in this rule. To be granted a treatability variance, a petitioner must show that ``because the physical or chemical properties of the waste differs significantly from wastes analyzed in developing the treatment standard, the waste cannot be treated to specified levels or by the specified methods.'' Id. A demonstration that the waste cannot be successfully treated can be made ``by showing that attempts to treat the waste by available technologies were not successful, or through appropriate analyses of the waste which demonstrate that the waste cannot be treated to the specified levels.'' 51 FR at 40606 (Nov. 7, 1986). EPA evaluates treatability variance requests by ``first look[ing] at the design and operation of the treatment system being used. If EPA determines that the technology and operation are consistent with BDAT, the Agency will evaluate the waste to determine if the waste matrix and/or physical parameters are such [that] the BDAT properly reflects treatment of the waste.'' Id. The guidance set out below applies exclusively to treatability variances (for as-generated wastes) evaluated by EPA headquarters and processed pursuant to rulemaking procedures. In order to settle a lawsuit challenging the Agency's grant of treatability variances to two particular facilities, 56 FR 12351 (March 25, 1991), the Agency has agreed to provide some clarifying guidance regarding treatability variances, which essentially restates existing Agency practice and does not call into question the validity of any treatability variance the Agency has issued. First, as stated in 1986, to support an application for a treatability variance pursuant to ยง268.44(a) for process waste, the applicant should collect and analyze a sufficient number of samples of the untreated waste to accurately characterize it. 51 FR at 40606 (Nov. 7, 1986). In general, the Agency would expect the applicant to collect and analyze four samples of its untreated and treated waste. (This corresponds to the minimum number of samples applicants for delisting pursuant to 260.20 must submit.) However, the exact number of samples would be determined by EPA as part of the Agency's evaluation of each treatability variance application (and so could be less than four samples in a particular case). Second, the applicant should normally investigate and report on demonstrated and reasonably available pretreatment steps that could significantly improve the effectiveness of the treatment the applicant is conducting. 51 FR at 40606. What the Agency has in mind is that applicants not overlook potentially simple types of pretreatment to remove an interfering parameter; for example, settling to reduce excess total dissolved solids. The Agency does not intend that applicants perform an extensive or expansive engineering analysis. Nor does the Agency intend that applicants be required to utilize treatment systems significantly different from those the Agency evaluated when promulgating the treatment standard. Rather, the Agency wishes to assure that applicants not overlook some relatively obvious means of removing interferences. Again, in particular cases, it may not make sense to conduct this type of analysis, in which case no such evaluation would be necessary. Third, the applicant should make a good faith effort to explain why the treatment standard is not achievable for its waste. 51 FR at 40606. This good faith effort is to be based on the applicant's knowledge of its process, and is not to entail additional expense (such as a consultant's engineering analysis). As a general matter, the Agency simply believes that some thought should be given (and documented) as to what might be causing the problem. Finally, EPA's general policy has been and will be to publish a notice of its proposed decision on applications for treatability variances in the Federal Register , ยง261.44 (e), and to allow a minimum of 30 days for the public to comment on the proposal. 51 FR 40607. All applicants will have the opportunity to comment on the reasonableness of applying one or more of these foregoing statements of guidance to their applications, and, as a result, EPA may decide not to apply them.
