FR940527-2-00218 FR940527-2-00152 _The amount of private funds to be leveraged. If leveraging is proposed, applicants should analyze the actual amount of private or public funds needed to make the project financially feasible. In this regard, the establishment of a revolving loan fund, in which repayments would continue to be used to attract or retain businesses providing essential services, would be considered a positive factor. _The relationship of the activity to a comprehensive approach to meeting the overall needs of the neighborhood area. _The impact of the proposed program in utilizing minority, women-owned, and project area businesses. _Extent to which the project supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. _Extent to which the project results in the employment of persons on public assistance. (g) Criterion 7_Removes Slums or Blighting Conditions. Consideration will be given to proposed programs which will have a direct impact on the removal of slums or blighting conditions. Appropriate areas may include, but are not limited to, deteriorated residential or commercial structures, inappropriate land uses, or blighting conditions, such as repeated flooding and drainage problems or serious deficiencies in public facilities. Applicants should be aware that slum and blight activities can be carried out under the national objective of benefit to low- and moderate-income persons. If an applicant elects to qualify the activity on this basis, the degree of low- and moderate-income benefit must be demonstrated by the applicant. Where residential or commercial rehabilitation activities are proposed as preventing or eliminating blighting conditions, the application must clearly document the number, type, and condition of deteriorating or deteriorated buildings in the designated target area. Detailed conditions of the physical condition of buildings or structures would be appropriate to establish the extent of substandard and blighting conditions. For rehabilitation of residential structures to be designed as eliminating blight and addressing an area's deterioration, the buildings must be considered substandard under local definition. When an area is determined to be blighted, there must be a substantial number of deteriorated or dilapidated buildings, or the public improvements throughout the area must be in a state of deterioration. The proposed CDBG program or project must be designed to eliminate or address a substantial portion of the identified blighting conditions or physical decay. CDBG assistance for facilities or structures which are in good repair and show no real signs of deterioration would not score well under this criterion. For instance, minor facade improvements to a commercial building alone would not indicate that a building is in poor condition. However, assistance to a commercial area which consists of deteriorating businesses, storefronts in serious need of rehabilitation, a high vacancy factor, and public improvements, such as parking areas and parking access improvements which are in need of physical upgrading, would have a direct impact on eliminating blighting conditions. Public improvements that are so deteriorated that they constitute a genuine threat to the continued viability of an area by discouraging private investment necessary to maintain properties may also be considered a blighting influence. The following factors will be considered: _Extent and documented seriousness of conditions/needs. References to engineering studies, surveys or letters from appropriate local agencies should be included. _Impact of the proposed program in relation to providing long-term permanent solutions to alleviate the identified need. Short-term or superficial improvements will not be considered to have a significant impact. _Coordination with other projects and activities which will address needs within the defined area. _Nature of any proposed re-use: degree of commitment for re-use. _Extent to which the project supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. (h) Criterion 8_Resolves a Serious Threat to Health or Safety. The applicant must describe the condition which poses a threat to public health and safety. A serious threat refers to a situation which demands immediate attention. This may be a condition that has just occurred or a condition which, though long standing, has intensified to become an immediate danger. Applicants should be aware that imminent threat/urgent need activities can be carried out under the national objective of benefit to low- and moderate-income persons. If an applicant elects to qualify the activity on this basis, the degree of low- and moderate-income benefit must be demonstrated by the applicant. Consideration will be given to the following: _The extent to which a serious threat to health or safety is documented, or of recent origin, or which recently became urgent. Documentation should include the identification of the existing conditions by appropriate agencies. _The extent to which the serious threat will be resolved. _The submission of documentation which demonstrates that other financial resources are insufficient or unavailable to resolve such needs. _The degree to which the application addresses issues such as the validity of cost estimates by qualified sources; the availability of other funds; site control and environmental conditions; or other public body approvals. _The number of persons to benefit, as well as the number of individuals actually threatened.
