FR941027-2-00023 FR941027-2-00013 Written comments on the scope of the PFP EIS, questions or comments concerning the PFP cleanout program, requests for speaking times at the public scoping meetings, and requests for copies of the IP and/or the Draft EIS (DEIS) should be directed to the designated Richland contacts below. ADDRESSES: FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Jim Mecca, U.S. Department of Energy, P.O. Box 550 (MSIN B1&hyph;42), Richland, WA 99352, Attention: NL Peters, Telephone: (509) 946&hyph;3683 Mr. Ben Burton, U.S. Department of Energy, P.O. Box 550 (MSIN B1&hyph;42), Richland, WA 99352, Telephone: (509) 946&hyph;3683 For information on the DOE NEPA process, contact: Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight (EH&hyph;25), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, D.C. 20585, Telephone: 202&hyph;586&hyph;4600 or leave a message at 1&hyph;800&hyph;472&hyph;2756. EIS technical reports, background data, materials incorporated by reference, and other related documents are available either through the contacts listed above or at: DOE Freedom of Information Reading Room, Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Ave. S.W., Washington, D.C. DOE Public Reading Room, Washington State University, Tri-Cities Branch, 100 Sprout Road, Richland, WA 99352. and at the following DOE information repositories: University of Washington, Suzzallo Library, Government Publication, Seattle, WA 98195 Gonzaga University, Foley Center, E. 502 Boone, Spokane, WA 99258 Portland State University, Branford Price Millar Library, SW Harrison and Park, Portland, OR 97207. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Federal government began operating the Hanford Site, near Richland, Washington, in 1943 as part of the Manhattan Project to produce plutonium for national defense purposes. Metallic uranium fuel was irradiated in nuclear reactors at the Hanford Site to create plutonium, which was converted to plutonium nitrate and purified through chemical processing for use in nuclear weapons. Initial production of plutonium metal at the PFP complex began in July, 1949. The complex is located on Hanford's 200 West Area Plateau approximately 32 miles northwest of Richland, Washington. The complex includes production areas, reclamation processes, laboratories and plutonium storage vaults. Several defense missions were carried out within the PFP complex. As the need arose, processes were installed in the PFP to recover as much plutonium as possible and metal production capabilities were updated. Some of the process areas have been deactivated over the last 20 years; however, plutonium recovery activities continued until the production mission ended in 1989. Secure materials storage vaults have been in operation since the early 1960s. Today, operable areas of the complex include the Plutonium Reclamation Facility (PRF), the Remote Mechanical ``C'' (RMC) line plus process support and research laboratories, the secure storage vaults and support areas. About 240 employees work at the PFP. The DOE believes the continued presence of relatively large quantities of chemically reactive materials in their present form and location within the PFP poses an unacceptable long-term risk to the workers and the environment. Consequently, in 1993, DOE announced its proposal to operate certain processes in the PFP to stabilize those materials and to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) pursuant to NEPA. As part of the NEPA process for the proposed EA, DOE conducted public meetings in the summer and fall of 1993 in Richland, WA; Seattle, WA; Portland, OR; Hood River, OR; and Spokane, WA to discuss the proposal to stabilize the chemically reactive materials. As a result of the public comments received, DOE decided that an EIS would be the appropriate level of NEPA review. DOE also decided to expand the scope of review to include cleanout of the PFP (except for storage vaults) to a state where the facility would be ready for D&D and/or future uses. To alleviate immediate safety concerns, interim actions have been taken or are underway to minimize the amount of reactive residual materials left in process areas when the plutonium production mission ended in 1989. The range of interim actions includes transferring solutions into vented metal containers for safe storage, repackaging of certain solutions from plastic bottles to safer containers, cleanup of surface radioactive contamination to reduce worker exposure, and removal of portions of ventilation ductwork and piping which contain residual plutonium. The thermal stabilization of sludges is a proposed interim action being addressed by an EA currently in progress. Other interim actions could be proposed during the EIS preparation period to address other specific safety concerns. All interim actions are or will be covered by appropriate NEPA documentation. The proposed action would place the PFP complex in a state ready for potential D&D and/or a future mission while maintaining its current material storage capability. Purpose and Need for Agency Action The DOE needs to take action to minimize safety concerns, reduce the exposure of Hanford Site workers to radiation, and reduce the risk to the public. The proposed action would clean out inactive PFP complex facilities (except storage areas), stabilize reactive residual material for long-term storage, and store the stabilized material pending a DOE decision on ultimate storage or disposition of fissile materials. Upon completion of the proposed action, the PFP complex would be in a state ready for D&D and/or future uses. Preliminary Description of Cleanout Alternatives The following cleanout alternatives are currently being considered for detailed analysis in the EIS: 1. Wet Cleaning Contaminated equipment or facility surfaces would be sprayed with or soaked or immersed in nitric acid and rinsed with dilute acid. The rinse solutions would be collected in tankage and stabilized in a manner similar to other acid solutions. Acid washing could be enhanced for greater cleaning by using additives such as cerium or silver persulfate. 2. Mechanical Cleaning Methods for mechanical cleaning include abrasive blasting, wiping, scraping and brushing. Blasting would produce a fine powder containing plutonium which would be collected and stabilized in a manner similar to other solids, then stored in PFP vaults. Wiping or scraping would produce a similar powder, plus waste in the form of wiping materials (rags, paper, etc.) These methods require workers to be close to contaminated surfaces. Preliminary Description of Stabilization Alternatives The PFP contains a variety of reactive plutonium-bearing materials that need to be stabilized for long-term storage pending DOE decisions on ultimate storage or disposition. Stabilized material has minimal chemical reactivity and generally would be in solid form with a low water or organic content to minimize radiolysis. Most of the reactive materials are in process areas and equipment. (A portion of the materials stored in PFP vaults must also continue to be repackaged and stabilized as necessary for long-term storage). For purposes of analysis, the reactive materials have been divided into groups. The materials in each group are expected to be amenable to the same stabilization process. The groups are as follows:
