FR940621-2-00115 FR940621-2-00073 A major goal of children's advocacy centers is to prevent the inadvertent revictimization of an abused child by the judicial and social service systems in their efforts to protect the child. The multi-disciplinary team provides joint interviews of child victims and makes joint decisions about appropriate actions ranging from prosecution to referral for mental health services. Child victims and non-offending family members are assigned an advocate to help them cope with the criminal justice system's processing of their case. As a consequence of a coordinated response, child victims are spared the pain and confusion of multiple interviews by prosecutors, protective service workers and social workers. In 1990, the National Network of Children's Advocacy Centers (National Network) was incorporated in Madison County, Alabama, as a national membership organization of local children's advocacy centers. Its purposes are to support the development, growth and continuation of non-profit, facility-based programs utilizing a multi-disciplinary team approach for handling child abuse cases, and for setting standards and regulating practices of children's advocacy centers. The growth in the number of children's advocacy centers and the success of the National Network in establishing performance standards led Congress to amend the Victims of Child Abuse Act in 1992 to authorize this program. Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) has been appropriated for Fiscal Year 1994 to establish four Regional Children's Advocacy Centers to provide training and technical assistance in communities throughout the United States, toward which this announcement is directed. An additional one million dollars ($1,000,000) has been appropriated to provide direct funding assistance to community organizations and agencies for development and expansion of local children's advocacy centers. The one million dollar appropriation will be awarded to the National Network of Children's Advocacy Centers by OJJDP under a cooperative agreement to be awarded in July 1994 for purposes of providing funds to assist local communities interested in developing or expanding local children's advocacy centers. It is expected that these funds will be available in the fall of 1994 through a national competitive solicitation issued by the National Network. The Act requires coordination in the delivery of technical assistance by the Regional Children's Advocacy Centers with the activities of local children's advocacy centers that are funded under the provisions of the Act, codified at 42 U.S.C. 13002. This will be achieved by representation of the grantees selected to implement the Regional Children's Advocacy Centers on the Board of Directors of the National Network as ex officio members who will also serve on a Committee of the Board on Training and Technical Assistance. Goal To increase the number of facility-based multi-disciplinary children's advocacy centers for purposes of providing coordinated, non-traumatizing services to children and families who are victims of abuse and neglect. Objectives •To assist communities to develop a comprehensive, multi-disciplinary response to child abuse that is designed to meet the needs of child victims and their families. •To enhance the skills of volunteers and professionals staffing multi-disciplinary, facility-based Children's Advocacy Centers. •To provide support for non-offending family members of child victims of abuse and neglect. •To enhance coordination among community agencies and professions involved in the intervention, prevention, prosecution, and investigation systems that respond to child abuse cases. •To support national coordination among children's advocacy centers for purposes of maximizing efficient and effective use of technical assistance and training resources. •To facilitate the development and utilization of training and technical assistance materials. •To promote the implementation of national standards of practice. Program Strategy OJJDP will competitively select one applicant from each of the four census regions (Northeast, Midwest, South and West), and award cooperative agreements of up to $125,000 to each. The states identified in these regions are: Northeast: Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, New York, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey;
