FR940721-2-00150 FR940721-2-00086 The Administration for Native Americans' policy is based on three interrelated goals: 1. Governance: To assist tribal and village governments, Native American institutions, and local leadership to exercise local control and decision-making over their resources. 2. Economic Development: To foster the development of stable, diversified local economies and economic activities which will provide jobs and promote economic well-being. 3. Social Development: To support local access to, control of, and coordination of services and programs which safeguard the health, well-being and culture of people, provide support services and training so people can work, and which are essential to a thriving and self-sufficient community. The Administration for Native Americans assists eligible applicants in the four competitive areas to undertake one to three year development projects that are part of long-range comprehensive plans to move toward governance, social, and/or economic self-sufficiency. For each type of project, applicants must describe a concrete locally-determined strategy to carry out a proposed project with fundable objectives and activities. Local long-range planning must consider the maximum use of all available resources, how the resources will be directed to development opportunities, and present a strategy for overcoming the local issues that hinder movement toward self-sufficiency in the community. Under each competitive area, ANA will only accept one application which serves or impacts a reservation. If a Tribe chooses not to submit an application under a specific competitive area, it may support another applicant's project (e.g., a tribal organization) which serves or impacts the reservation. In this case, the applicant must include a Tribal resolution which clearly demonstrates the Tribe's support of the project and the Tribe's understanding that the other applicant's project supplants the Tribe's authority to submit an application under that specific competitive area for the duration of the approved grant period. PART II_ANA COMPETITIVE AREAS The four competitive areas under this Part describe ANA's funding authorities, priorities, special initiatives, requirements, and review criteria. However, most of the requirements are standard for all applications to be submitted under this program announcement. The standard requirements necessary for each application, as well as standard ANA program guidance and technical guidance are described in Part III of this announcement. An applicant may submit a separate application under any of the competitive areas described in this Part, as long as the applicant meets the eligibility requirements that are listed separately under each area. Applications for SEDS grants from Alaska Native entities may be submitted under either Competitive Area 1 or Competitive Area 2. An Alaska Native entity may not submit an application under both Competitive Areas 1 and 2 for the same closing date. ANA Competitive Area 1. Social and Economic Development Strategies (SEDS) Projects A. Purpose and Availability of Funds The purpose of this competitive area is to announce the anticipated availability of fiscal year 1995 financial assistance to promote the goal of social and economic self-sufficiency for American Indians, Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, and Native American Pacific Islanders through locally developed social and economic development strategies (SEDS). Approximately $14 million of financial assistance is anticipated to be available under this priority area for governance, social and economic development projects. In fiscal year 1995, ANA anticipates awarding approximately 120 competitive grants ranging from $30,000 to $1,000,000 under this competitive area. B. Background To achieve its goals, ANA supports tribal and village governments, and Native American organizations, in their efforts to develop and implement community-based, long-term governance, social and economic development strategies (SEDS). These strategies must promote the goal of self-sufficiency in local communities. The SEDS approach is based on ANA's program goals and incorporates two fundamental principles: 1. The local community and its leadership are responsible for determining goals, setting priorities, and planning and implementing programs aimed at achieving those goals. The local community is in the best position to apply its own cultural, political, and socio-economic values to its long-term strategies and programs.
