FR941216-1-00165 FR941216-1-00013 (6) Race Dates : The following dates are race dates: March 18, 1995 through April 2, 1995; April 9, 1995 through April 23, 1995; and May 6, 1995 through May 27, 1995, inclusive. (c) Special local regulations. (1) West San Diego Bay. The following regulations are in effect between the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 noon each race date. Additionally, the following regulations are in effect for a period of approximately two hours the afternoon of each race date, and will be implemented for a designated period between 2:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. The time of commencement of this afternoon regulatory period will be determined on each race date, and notice of implementation will be provided by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. A 15-minute advance notice of commencement of the afternoon regulatory period will also be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. Notice of the termination of the afternoon regulatory period each race date will be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners, as well. The Patrol Commander may elect not to implement the regulations on those race dates when the races are postponed or canceled; announcement to that effect will be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. (i) Participant vessels shall be operated under auxiliary power or tow when transiting San Diego Bay. Participants shall not operate their vessels exclusively under sail within San Diego Bay without the express permission of the Patrol Commander to do so. IACC boats may operate with mainsail set while being towed. (ii) Participant and unaffiliated vessels shall not exceed a speed of ten knots. (iii) Unaffiliated sail vessels shall operate under auxiliary power or tow. Motor-sailing with mainsail only will be allowed. (iv) When transiting through the regulated areas is necessary, unaffiliated vessels shall make expeditious transit and shall not impede or obstruct the orderly flow of vessel traffic. (v) All vessels shall follow instructions of Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels. (vi) No vessel shall anchor in a non-anchorage area specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, except in the case of an emergency. If equipped with a VHF/FM radio, the vessel shall immediately notify the Coast Guard on Channel 16 (156.8 MHZ) of the existence of any emergency. (2) Mission Bay. the following regulations are in effect between the hours of 10 a.m. and 12 noon each race date. Additionally, the following regulations are in effect for a period of approximately two hours the afternoon of each race date, and will be implemented for a designated period between 2:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. The time of commencement of this afternoon regulatory period will be determined on each race date, and notice of implementation will be provided by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. A 15-minute advance notice of commencement of the afternoon regulatory period will also be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. Notice of the termination of the afternoon regulatory period each race date will be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners, as well. The Patrol Commander may elect not to implement the regulations on those race dates when the races are postponed or canceled; announcement to that effect will be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. (i) Participant and unaffiliated vessels shall not exceed five knots. (ii) Participant and unaffiliated sail vessels shall operate under auxiliary power or tow. Motor-sailing with mainsail only will be allowed. (iii) When transiting through the regulated area is necessary, unaffiliated vessels shall make expeditious transit and shall not impede or obstruct the orderly flow of vessel traffic. (iv) All vessels shall follow instructions of Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels. (3) IACC Offshore Race Venue. The following regulations are in effect between the hours of 10 a.m. and 5:30 p.m. each race date on those waters within the IACC Offshore Race Venue which fall within the navigable waters of the United States, i.e., those waters within three nautical miles (3nm) of the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured. The Patrol Commander may elect not to implement the regulations on those race dates when the races are postponed or canceled; announcement to that effect will be made by Broadcast Notice to Mariners. (i) Unaffiliated vessels shall remain outside the course perimeter, as marked by the AC'95 or CORC Race Vessels and Official Vessels. (ii) All vessels shall follow the instructions of Coast Guard and Coast Guard Auxiliary vessels.
