FR940919-2-00078 FR940919-2-00046 Message From the Commissioner Social Security Administration's Plan for a New Disability Claim Process It was 10 months ago that I challenged this Agency to restore public confidence in its programs, provide world-class service to its customers, and ensure a nurturing environment for its employees. While there is much left to be done to meet these goals, I am proud to say that with the release of this document we have reached a major milestone toward meeting the challenges I set forth. This document lays the foundation for the new disability claim process. It is a solid foundation upon which to build_it provides a broad description of the new process, with the detailed elements of the process to be developed. The new design gives us the opportunity to develop relationships with the public and our employees that are based on open communication, partnership, and the belief that our customers need to be provided as much information as possible about the process and the program. I believe this new design holds the potential to provide the world-class service I pledged to furnish the American people_it will be user-friendly, it will ensure the right decision is made the first time, it will allow decisions to be made and effectuated quickly, and it will be an efficient process. Just as importantly, the new design will also provide our employees with a nurturing environment through empowerment, education, challenge, career opportunity, and professionalism. As the discussions about our reengineering effort and the future of the disability claim process evolved, I listened to the issues and opinions and the hopes and fears that have been expressed. I heard from SSA and State employees, the public, members of Congress, representatives of other Federal agencies, State officials, union representatives, and various experts in the disability field. I believe that everyone wants something better for the American people. I am convinced that we must be bold in our efforts. Therefore, I have chosen to accept the recommendations of the Agency's Disability Process Reengineering Team which were presented to me on June 30, 1994, with the full understanding that certain aspects of the decisional methodology will require extensive research and testing to determine whether they can be implemented. Because those aspects of decisional methodology that deal with functional assessment, baseline of work, and the evaluation of age require much study and deliberation with experts and consumers, we are making no conclusions about their ultimate place in the disability process. Our implementation plans include the research needed to begin in this area. As more is known, we will reevaluate our planning assumptions. Until then, the concept of a single person as the disability claim manager for all cases cannot be fully implemented. Instead, we will seek ways of working in teams to provide claimants with the level of service they seek. The cost of redesigning our disability claim process will not be inexpensive; however, the tangible savings will be worth the investment. The workyear savings will allow us to use current staff to accomplish other pressing workloads and activities of the Agency while avoiding new hiring to replace all those who retire or otherwise leave on their own accord. Thus, we will be able to do our part to reduce the Federal workforce overall. Additionally, with these savings will come such intangibles as improved customer service, an empowered and better trained workforce, and increased public confidence in the process. It is now time for us to move forward with concrete actions to begin the actual redesign of the way we do business in our disability programs. On July 12, 1994, I announced that Charles A. (Chuck) Jones, the Director of the Michigan Disability Determination Service, had accepted the challenge of managing the implementation of SSA's plan to reengineer the disability process. In that role, he will be responsible for the overall leadership and coordination of the redesign implementation. He will establish timelines and priorities and will provide direction to component efforts as well as to task management teams. As Implementation Manager, Chuck will report directly to me and the Principal Deputy Commissioner. During the discussions of the Team's proposal, I heard several consistent underlying themes about how our new design should be implemented: we must unify the process; we need enabling information technology; we need to ensure the safety of employees; we must continuously deliver effective training; we must retain the existing Federal/State relationship; and we must develop a simpler methodology for making disability decisions. I am absolutely committed to turning these needs into realities as we move ahead. Some will not be easy, and all will take time and money; however, all will need to be addressed if we are to achieve the successful outcome of the redesign. As implementation plans are developed and task teams are brought together, we will continue to assess all related activities against the five primary objectives of our redesigned process: _making the process ``user friendly'' for claimants and those who assist them; _making the right decision the first time; _making the decision as quickly as possible; _making the process efficient; and _making the work satisfying for employees.
