FR940720-2-00004 FR940720-2-00002 Alternative B . This alternative would respond to the issues related to the supply of timber products from the project area by not including the extended portion of the area. The new management area would be limited to the HMA portion of the proposal, 84,312 acres. Ecosystem management practices such as increased use of prescribed fire, increasing rotation age to a minimum of 120 years, retention and creation of snag trees, and all the requirements specified in the Regional EIS for Management of the Red-cockaded Woodpecker and its habitat on National Forests in the South would be featured in this area. Alternative C . This alternative would respond to the issue of cost to the taxpayer by doing most of the prescribed burning in the growing season and not doing mechanical (chainsaw) midstory reduction. The acreages in this alternative would be the same as the proposed action. Ecosystem management practices would be the same as the proposed action and would implement the direction of the Regional EIS. Alternative D . This alternative would respond to the issue of dominant forest harvest technique by harvesting 75% of the area that is suitable for timber harvest using an unevenaged management system. Areas needed for RCW nesting, replacement, and recruitment stands would be the only areas using the evenaged management system. These same stands would be the only ones to receive midstory treatments or prescribed burning. The rotation age of the evenaged stands would be 120 years. Public Comments on the Draft EIS: After the DEIS has been published, the Forest Service will again be actively seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State and local agencies and from individuals and organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. It is now important that those interested in this proposed action participate at that time. The DEIS should be available for public review in August 1994. After a minimum comment period of 45 days, the Final EIS and Forest Plan Amendment should be completed in September 1994. If in the analysis it is determined that this will be a significant amendment to the Forest Plan, the comment period will be 90 days. The comment period for the DEIS will commence on the day the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the ``Notice of Availability'' in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contention. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that are not raised during the draft environmental impact stage but rather after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the comment period. This will assure that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering additional issues and concerns about the proposed action, comments about the draft environmental statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. Dated: July 1, 1994. John M. Curran, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17635 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
