FR940127-1-00095 FR940127-1-00019 (2) The program shall be operated by the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry in accordance with the provisions of 5 CFR 213.3202(a) and 213.3202(b), and the provisions of chapter 308 of the Federal Personnel Manual. (3) To be considered for selection, applicants for the cooperative education program must meet the following criteria: (i) Meet eligibility requirements stipulated in chapter 308 of the Federal Personnel Manual; (ii) Be accepted into or enrolled in a course of study at a high school offering college preparatory course work, an accredited institution which grants baccalaureate degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums or a post-secondary education institution which has an articulation agreement with a college or university which grants baccalaureate degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums. The articulation agreement must assure the transferability of a minimum of 55 semester hours from the post-secondary institution which meet the program requirements for a forestry related degree program at the baccalaureate-granting institution. (4) Cooperative education steering committees established at the field level shall select program participants based on eligibility requirements stipulated in §163.40(c)(3) without regard to applicants' financial needs. (5) A recipient of assistance under the cooperative education program shall be required to enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a professional forester or forestry-related professional with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a recommending tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation for one year in return for each year in the program. (6) The Secretary shall pay all costs of tuition, books, fees, and transportation to and from the job site to school, for an Indian or Alaska Native student who is selected for participation in the cooperative education program. (d) Scholarship program. (1) The Secretary is authorized, within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry, to establish and grant forestry scholarships to Indians and Alaska Natives enrolled in accredited programs for post-secondary and graduate forestry and forestry-related programs of study as full-time students. (2) The education committee established pursuant to §163.40(a)(1) shall select program participants based on eligibility requirements stipulated in §§163.40(d)(5), 163.40(d)(6) and 163.40(d)(7) without regard to applicants' financial needs or past scholastic achievements. (3) Recipients of scholarships must reapply annually to continue funding beyond the initial award period. Students who have been recipients of scholarships in past years, who are in good academic standing and have been recommended for continuation by their academic institution will be given priority over new applicants for selection for scholarship assistance. (4) The amount of scholarship funds an individual is awarded each year will be contingent upon the availability of funds appropriated each fiscal year and, therefore, may be subject to yearly changes. (5) Preparatory scholarships are available for a maximum of two and one half academic years of general, undergraduate course work leading to a degree in forestry or forestry-related curriculums and may be awarded to individuals who meet the following criteria: (i) Must possess a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent; and (ii) Be enrolled and in good academic standing or accepted for enrollment at an accredited post-secondary school which grants degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums or be in a post-secondary institution which has an articulation agreement with a college or university which grants baccalaureate degrees in forestry or forestry-related curriculums. The articulation agreement must assure the transferability of a minimum of 55 semester hours from the post-secondary institution which meet the program requirements for a forestry-related curriculum at the baccalaureate-granting institution. (6) Pregraduate scholarships are available for a maximum of three academic years and may be awarded to individuals who meet the following criteria: (i) Have completed a minimum of 55 semester hours towards a baccalaureate degree in a forestry or forestry-related curriculum; and (ii) Be accepted into a forestry or forestry-related baccalaureate degree-granting program at an accredited college or university. (7) Graduate scholarships are available for a maximum of three academic years for individuals selected into the graduate program of an accredited college or university that grants advanced degrees in forestry or forestry-related fields. (8) A recipient of assistance under the scholarship program shall be required to enter into an obligated service agreement to serve as a professional forester or forestry-related professional with the Bureau of Indian Affairs, a tribe, tribal forest enterprise or ANCSA Corporation for one year for each year in the program. (9) The Secretary shall pay all scholarships approved by the education committee established pursuant to §163.40(a)(1), for which funding is available. (e) Forestry education outreach. (1) The Secretary shall establish and maintain a forestry education outreach program within the Bureau of Indian Affairs Division of Forestry for Indian and Alaska Native youth which will: (i) Encourage students to acquire academic skills needed to succeed in post-secondary mathematics and science courses; (ii) Promote forestry career awareness;
