FR940128-1-00131 FR940128-1-00006 Example The ABC Crab Co. produces pasteurized crabmeat. The pasteurization process being used has been established by the university extension service (a process authority). The process provided by the extension service includes limits on how to stack the canned product into the pasteurizer, the process temperature, and the length of time needed to achieve proper pasteurization. The pasteurization equipment being used by ABC Crab Co. is at least equivalent to that described by the information received from the extension service. It is equipped with both a mercury-in-glass thermometer and a recording thermometer. The recording thermometer is compared to the mercury-in-glass thermometer during each pasteurization cycle. It is adjusted as necessary to meet the critical limit. The mercury-in-glass thermometer is calibrated at an independent laboratory every 6 months. The temperature of each pasteurization cycle is controlled to meet the critical limits using the mercury-in-glass thermometer and the length of each cycle is controlled using a wall clock. The loading of the cans is checked before starting each batch. Frequency 1. For making sure that the pasteurization process was properly established: before using a pasteurization process. 2. For making sure that the pasteurizing equipment is properly designed: before using pasteurizing equipment. 3. For properly delivering the process: each lot or batch. 4. For monitoring the temperature: each lot or batch. 5. For checking the accuracy of the temperature recorder: at the beginning and end of each production day. 6. For calibrating the thermometer: at installation and at least annually after that. 7. For monitoring the length of the pasteurizing cycle: each lot or batch. 8. For monitoring other critical factors: as often as necessary to achieve control. Critical Limits Zero tolerance for product produced with a deviation from the minimum established pasteurization process, including such critical factors as time, temperature, initial temperature, container size, and product formulation. The temperature-indicating device should agree within 1 ○C ( # 2 ○F) of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) traceable thermometer. The temperature recording device should be adjusted to agree as nearly as possible, but never to be higher, than the temperature indicating device. Records A record that describes the results of a scientific evaluation, conducted by a process authority, of the adequacy of the pasteurizing process. Such document may consist of, but is not limited to, a letter from a process authority, articles in scientific journals, or Federal, State, or local government regulations or advisories. A record that describes the results of a scientific evaluation, conducted by a process authority, which applies to the design and operation of the type of equipment used by the processor. A record for each lot or batch that shows the results of the pasteurization process. The records should include: the time of day that the pasteurization temperature is achieved; the time of day that the pasteurization cycle ends; the time of day that the product is placed in the water; and, as appropriate, the product size, belt speed (continuous pasteurizer), the temperature at the time that the processing starts, and any other factors of the process or of the product that are identified by the process authority as being critical to achieving pathogen reduction. Temperature recorder charts or computerized temperature data storage. A record of calibration for thermometers that specify the date, standard against which the thermometers were compared (NIST-traceable thermometer), procedure used, results, and person performing the test. A record of accuracy checks for the temperature recorder that specifies the time, date, temperatures shown by the thermometer and temperature recorder before adjustment, the corrective action taken, and person performing the accuracy check.
