FR940228-1-00087 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary proposes that a for-profit institution is financially responsible if it has not had operating losses over both of its two latest fiscal years that cause an operating loss exceeding 10 percent of the institution's previous year's tangible net worth for its latest fiscal year. While it may not be unusual for an institution to record a loss in any fiscal year, this loss is not harmful so long as the loss is not excessive, is not indicative of a deteriorating trend in the institution's financial condition, and the institution otherwise meets the factors substantiating its financial strength. The Secretary proposes to define an operating loss, for purposes of these provisions, as total net income minus extraordinary gains or losses, income or losses from discontinued operations, prior period adjustments, and the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, estimate, or reporting entity. The Secretary proposes that the calculation of tangible net worth shall exclude all assets defined as intangible in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The Secretary believes this standard will measure whether a profit-seeking entity is operating from current cash flow to the extent possible. The aggregate residual effect of these activities on the organization's individual net assets is represented, along with any interfund transfers that may have taken place during the period. The Secretary proposes that a for-profit institution is financially responsible if it had, for its latest fiscal year, a positive tangible net worth. The Secretary proposes that, for purposes of this section, a positive tangible net worth occurs when the institution's tangible assets exceed its liabilities. Further, the Secretary proposes that the calculation of tangible net worth shall exclude all assets defined as intangible in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In applying this proposed standard, the Secretary could consider the effect of extraordinary gains or losses resulting from unusual and infrequent events, and could take into consideration the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principle, estimate or reporting entity to the extent that such a change results in a more accurate representation of the institution's financial position in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For the past fourteen years, the Department has had a standard for net worth that states that an institution is not financially responsible if it has a deficit net worth (i.e., the institution's liabilities exceed its assets.), a measure of long-term solvency. Therefore, an institution with a net worth of zero meets this current requirement. The proposed change from penalizing a deficit net worth to requiring a positive net worth is only a technical change in form that should affect few, if any institutions. By excluding all assets classified as intangible, all assets such as goodwill, organization costs, and covenants-not-to-compete, which have little market value in the determination of an institution's overall solvency will be eliminated in the calculation of net worth. In purchasing a business, the new owner pays an amount and allocates the market value to individual tangible assets in order to prepare financial statements. After applying the proper market value to the various assets, any residual amount that appears on the institution's balance sheet as goodwill, organization costs, or covenant-not-to-compete, is classified as an intangible asset. It is the Secretary's intent to identify those institutions that do not have sufficient capital assets. For example, businesses that operate on month-to-month leases with minimum capital actually invested in the business are a potential risk to students, and ultimately to the taxpayers in terms of possible collapse and bailout. In these cases loans to students are often automatically discharged in accordance with provisions in the HEA. Preventing institutions that have no real assets from participating in the programs should enhance the gatekeeping process.
