FR940622-1-00073 FR940622-1-00029 Work-Colleges (Subpart C) Sections 675.41&hyph;675.47 The Amendments added new section 448 to the HEA to establish the ``Work-Colleges program.'' Congress created this program to encourage comprehensive work-learning programs and recognize the special nature of institutions that choose to make work-learning a central part of their educational programs. Under the statute, institutions that satisfy the definition of ``work-college'' may apply to the Secretary to participate in the Work-Colleges program. The term ``work-college'' under the statute means an eligible institution that (1) has been a public or private nonprofit institution with a commitment to community service; (2) has operated a comprehensive work-learning program for at least two years; (3) requires all resident students who reside on campus to participate in a comprehensive work-learning program and the provision of services as an integral part of the institution's educational program and as part of the institution's educational philosophy; and (4) provides students participating in the comprehensive work-learning program with the opportunity to contribute to their education and to the welfare of the community as a whole. A comprehensive work-learning program does not provide only narrowly career-oriented or job-skill-oriented employment. It provides work experiences that teach basic habits and attitudes, responsibility, interpersonal relations, communication, teamwork, self analysis, organizational behavior, problem solving, leadership and other lessons that are not job specific or career specific. The statute requires that funds made available to work-colleges must be matched on a dollar-for-dollar basis from non-Federal sources. In addition to any amounts appropriated, the statute allows work-colleges to also use FWS program funds and Federal Perkins Loan funds to provide flexibility in strengthening the self-help-through-work element in financial aid packaging. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program Program Name Change The ``Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant program'' will now be known as the ``Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant program.'' Section 676.4␣Allocation and Reallocation The Secretary proposes to amend this section to provide for the flexibility to reallocate unexpended FSEOG funds. This change would allow the Secretary to assist students who suffer financial harm from a natural disaster such as a flood or hurricane. Section 676.18␣Use of Funds The Secretary proposes to eliminate an institution's authority to transfer FSEOG funds to the FWS program. This change is required by the Amendments. Section 676.20␣Minimum and Maximum FSEOG Award Current regulations provide that an institution may award a student a maximum of $4,000 per academic year. In accordance with section 413B(a)(3) of the HEA, the Secretary proposes to amend the regulations to allow an institution to increase the FSEOG to $4,400, for a student engaged in a program of study abroad. Section 676.21␣FSEOG Federal Share Limitations The Amendments require that the Federal share of FSEOG awards will not exceed 75 percent effective for award years beginning on or after July 1, 1993. The Secretary is proposing to amend this section to incorporate this statutory change. It is important to note that the Secretary will continue to authorize a Federal share of 100 percent of the FSEOGs awarded to students by an institution for an award year if all of the following criteria are met: 1. The institution is designated as an eligible institution under the Strengthening Institutions Program (34 CFR part 607) or the Strengthening Historically Black Colleges and Universities Program (34 CFR part 608). 2. The institution requests that increased Federal share as part of its regular FSEOG funding application for that year. Executive Order 12866 1. Assessment of Costs and Benefits These proposed regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the proposed regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering this program effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements, if any, are identified and explained elsewhere in this preamble under the heading Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these proposed regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the proposed regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. To assist the Department in complying with the specific requirements of Executive Order 12866, the Secretary invites comment on whether there may be further opportunities to reduce any potential costs or increase potential benefits resulting from these regulations without impeding the effective and efficient administration of the program. 2. Clarity of the Regulations Executive Order 12866 requires each agency to write regulations that are easy to understand.
