FR940217-1-00004 FR940217-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;CE&hyph;52&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives: de Havilland DHC&hyph;6 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes to adopt a new airworthiness directive (AD) that would apply to de Havilland DHC&hyph;6 series airplanes. The proposed action would require repetitively inspecting the horizontal stabilizer center hinge bracket for cracks, and replacing any cracked center hinge bracket. Several reports of cracks in the horizontal stabilizer center hinge bracket flange on the affected airplanes prompted the proposed action. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent separation of the elevator control support from the airplane as a result of a cracked horizontal stabilizer center hinge bracket, which could result in reduced controllability of the airplane. DATES: Comments must be received on or before April 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Central Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;CE&hyph;52&hyph;AD, room 1558, 601 E. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. Comments may be inspected at this location between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. Service information that applies to the proposed AD may be obtained from de Havilland, Inc., 123 Garratt Boulevard, Downsview, Ontario, Canada, M3K 1Y5. This information also may be examined at the Rules Docket at the address above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jon Hjelm, Aerospace Engineer, FAA, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York 11581; telephone (516) 791&hyph;6220; facsimile (516) 791&hyph;9024. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 93&hyph;CE&hyph;52&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Central Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;CE&hyph;52&hyph;AD, room 1558, 601 E. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. Discussion Transport Canada, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on de Havilland DHC&hyph;6 series airplanes. Transport Canada reports that the horizontal stabilizer center hinge bracket has cracked on several of the above referenced airplanes. De Havilland has issued Service Bulletin (SB) 6/512, dated October 25, 1991, which specifies procedures for (1) inspecting the horizontal stabilizer center hinge bracket for cracks; and (2) replacing this center hinge bracket. Transport Canada classified this service bulletin as mandatory and issued Transport Canada AD CF&hyph;92&hyph;05, dated February 7, 1992, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada.
