FR940224-1-00002 FR940224-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Part 51 [Docket Number FV&hyph;93&hyph;302] RIN 0581&hyph;ABO3 Fresh Fruits, Vegetables and Other Products (Inspection, Certification, and Standards) AGENCY: Agricultural 1 Marketing Service, USDA. 1 Among such other products are the following: Raw nuts; Christmas trees and evergreens; flowers and flower bulbs; and onion sets. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would revise the regulations governing inspection and certification for fresh fruits, vegetables and other products by revising the fees charged for the inspection of these products at destination markets and by clarifying other charge-related regulations. The proposed fee increases are needed to offset the costs of developing and maintaining U.S. grade standards for fresh fruits and vegetables and to recover the costs of providing Federal fruit and vegetable inspection service at destination markets. Regulations regarding fees for inspection of small lots (fifty packages or less) would be added to provide a fee commensurate with the level of effort typically required to conduct such inspections. Finally, regulations regarding charges for waiting time would be added and conditions governing the applicability of dock-side inspection fees would be clarified. DATES: Comments must be postmarked or courier dated on or before March 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit written comments concerning this proposal. Comments must be sent in duplicate to the Office of the Branch Chief, Fresh Products Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 96456, room 2056 South Building, Washington, D.C. 20090&hyph;6456. Comments should make reference to the date and page number of this issue of the Federal Register and will be made available for public inspection in the above office during regular business hours. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Douglas Bailey, 202&hyph;720&hyph;5870. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. It is not intended to have a retroactive effect. This rule would not preempt any state or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. Pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et. seq.), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has determined that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This proposed rule for the revision of the Regulations governing inspection, certification and standards for fresh fruits, vegetables and other products will not impose substantial direct economic cost, recordkeeping, or personnel workload changes on small entities, and will not alter the market share or competitive position of these entities relative to large businesses. The regulations were last revised in November 1992. The proposed rule reflects fees needed to offset the cost of developing and maintaining U.S. grade standards for fresh fruits and vegetables previously funded through an appropriation and to recover the costs of Federal fruit and vegetable inspection service at destination markets rendered in accordance with the AMA of 1946. In the Agriculture Appropriations Bill for fiscal year 1994, Congress directed AMS to establish a user fee program, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9701, to recover the cost of developing, reviewing, and maintaining agricultural commodity standards that describe product quality attributes. This proposal would amend the schedule for fees and charges for services rendered to users at destination markets to recover the portion of the cost for fresh fruit and vegetable standardization that is applicable to these users.
