FR940223-2-00102 FR940223-2-00053 Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Snake River Aquatic Species for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the Snake River aquatic species. The Snake River species include five Snake River molluscs listed as threatened (Bliss Rapids Snail) or endangered (the Snake River Physa, Banbury Springs lanx or limpet, Utah Valvata Snail and Idaho Springsnail) (57 FR 59244), three additional molluscs and one fish taxa currently listed as Federal candidate species, and two State of Idaho Sensitive fish taxa. The aquatic habitats essential to all these species throughout the Snake River are similar and cannot be isolated for recovery purposes. The primary and immediate recovery objectives of this Plan include implementing the conservation measures to prevent the extinction and/or further decline of existing colonies of the listed snails by eliminating or reducing known threats. Basic information necessary to establish recovery criteria so that the listed species can be reclassified or delisted will also be collected. Long term objectives are to reverse declining habitat trends and restore the Snake River ecosystem so that self-reproducing colonies of the four endangered and one threatened snails are protected to the point that they are delisted. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before April 25, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the State Supervisor, Ecological Services_Idaho State Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 4696 Overland Road, Room 576, Boise, Idaho 3705 or by calling (208) 334&hyph;1931. Written comments and materials regarding the draft recovery plan should be addressed to the State Supervisor_Ecological Services, at the above address. Comments and materials received are also available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Charles H. Lobedell, Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services_Idaho State Office, 4696 Overland Road, Room 576, Boise, Idaho 83705. (208) 334&hyph;1931. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting and delisting species, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised Recovery Plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approving recovery plans. The Snake River sub-basin above C.J. Strike dam provides habitat for a minimum 16 native fish taxa and 42 native molluscs. This includes five Snake River snails listed as threatened or endangered, three additional molluscs and one fish taxa currently listed as Federal candidate species, and two State of Idaho Sensitive fish taxa. With the advent of exploration and development, the Snake River ecosystem has undergone significant transformation from a primarily cold-water lotic system towards a slow-moving warm-water system when compared with its historic fauna. The human-induced environmental stressors to the formerly fast-and cold-water Snake River environment include numerous point and non-point pollution sources, diversion of water for irrigation or hydropower, and construction of several mainstem dams. The draft recovery plan specifically addresses the five Federally listed Snake River snails (December 24, 1992; 57 FR 59244). However, the aquatic habitats essential to these species and other candidate fish and mollusc endemic throughout the Snake River are similar and cannot be isolated for recovery purposes. Therefore, the draft recovery plan and the entire recovery effort is designed to recover the entire Snake River ecosystem from C.J. Strke Dam to the confluence of the Blackfoot River rather than individual species. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: February 11, 1994. Marvin L. Plenert, Regional Director, Region 1, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4029 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
