FR940606-1-00027 FR940606-1-00008 The proposed standards would require each owner or operator to establish a range of values for each of these monitored parameters during the initial performance test. As long as the control device is operated within the established ranges, the proposed emission standards are considered to be met. Consequently, exceedances of these parameters would be considered a violation of the standards since operating the control device outside of the parameters may reduce the efficiency of the control device. a. Cleaning operations. The proposed rule would require enclosed spray gun cleaners to be visually inspected at least once per month for leaks. The inspections would occur while the enclosed cleaner is in operation. b. Primer and topcoat application operations. Where an incinerator or other control device is used to control organic HAP and VOC emissions from primer and topcoat application operations, the monitoring requirements specified above would be required. For control of inorganic HAP emissions from primer and topcoat application operations, the proposed standards would require that the pressure drop across the particulate filters or waterwash be monitored on a continuous basis. c. Depainting. No monitoring requirements for organic HAP emissions are being proposed. For inorganic HAP emissions, continuous monitoring of the pressure drop across the filter, as for primers and topcoats, is being proposed. d. Chemical milling maskant application operations. Where a control device is used to control organic HAP and VOC emissions from chemical milling maskant application operations, the monitoring requirements specified above would be required. e. Handling and storage of waste. No monitoring requirements are being proposed. F. Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements The proposed rule proposes to adopt the requirements contained in ยง63.9 (a) through (e) and ยง63.9 (h) through (j) and ยง63.10 (a), (b), (d), and (f) of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. 7 The proposed rule, however, contains additional or clarifying elements and changes certain time periods allowed for submitting or responding to certain reports and requests required in ยง63.10. These elements and changes are summarized below for each of the operations for which standards are being proposed. 7 Ibid. 1. Recordkeeping Requirements a. Cleaning operations. For each cleaning solvent used at the facility, the proposed rule would require a record of the name of the cleaning solvent and documentation that shows the organic HAP constituents of the cleaning solvent. For each cleaning solvent used in hand-wipe cleaning operations that conforms to the approved composition list, the records that would be maintained are the name of each cleaning solvent, documentation demonstrating compliance to the approved composition list, and annual purchasing records showing the annual volume purchased of each. For each cleaning solvent used in hand-wipe cleaning operations that does not conform to the approved composition list but does conform to the vapor pressure requirement, the information required to be recorded would be the name of each cleaning solvent, the monthly usage of the cleaning solvent at each operation, the composite vapor pressure, the manufacturer's data sheets or other documentation of the vapor pressure, and any test reports and calculations performed to determine the composite vapor pressure. For cleaning solvents that do not conform to either the composition or vapor pressure requirements and are used for the exempt cleaning operations, daily records must be maintained of the name and volume of each cleaning solvent at each operation at which it is used, and the parts, assemblies, or subassemblies cleaned at these operations. In addition, a record of all leaks from spray gun cleaners would be kept, including source identification, the date that the leak was discovered, and the date that the leak was repaired.
