FR941117-0-00155 FR941117-0-00011 (2) At the end of the five year build-out period of the system in the cellular market containing the extension, the portion of the service area that extends into unserved areas in another cellular market becomes part of the CGSA, provided that the licensee of the system so extended files a system information update in accordance with §22.947(c). (3) For original systems in MSAs, extensions of the CGSA authorized by the FCC are part of the CGSA to the extent authorized. (d) Protection afforded. Within the CGSA determined in accordance with this section, cellular systems are entitled to protection from co-channel and first-adjacent channel interference and from capture of subscriber traffic by adjacent systems on the same channel block. (1) Licensees must cooperate in resolving co-channel and first-adjacent channel interference by changing channels used at specific cells or by other technical means. (2) Protection from capture of subscriber traffic is applied and limited in accordance with the following: (i) Subscriber traffic is captured if an SAB of one cellular system overlaps the CGSA of another operating cellular system. Therefore, cellular licensees must not begin to operate any facility that would cause an SAB to overlap the existing CGSA of another cellular system on the same channel block, without first obtaining the written consent of the licensee of that system. However, cellular licensees may continue to operate existing facilities that produce an SAB overlapping a subsequently-authorized portion of the CGSA of another cellular system on the same channel block until the licensee of that system requests that the SAB be removed from its CGSA. Such request may be made directly to the licensee of the overlapping system or to the FCC. In the event such request is made, the licensee of the overlapping system must reduce the transmitting power or antenna height (or both) at the pertinent cell site as necessary to remove the SAB from the CGSA of the other system, unless a written consent from the licensee of the other system allowing the SAB to remain is obtained. Cellular licensees may enter into contracts with the licensees of other cellular systems on the same channel block to allow SABs to overlap CGSAs. (ii) Cellular licensees are at most entitled to have a CGSA free of SABs from other cellular systems on the same channel block. (e) Unserved areas. Unserved areas are areas outside of all existing CGSAs (on either of the channel blocks), to which the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, is applicable. §22.912 Service area boundary extensions. This section contains rules governing service area boundary (SAB) extensions. SAB extensions are areas outside of the cellular market boundary, but within the service area as calculated using the methods of §22.911(a). Cellular systems must be designed to comply with the rules in this section. Applications proposing systems that would not comply with the rules in this section are defective. Service within SAB extensions is not protected from interference or capture under §22.911(d) unless and until the area within the SAB extension becomes a part of the cellular geographic service area (CGSA) in accordance with §22.911(c). (a) De minimis extensions. Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, SABs may extend into adjacent cellular markets if such extensions are de minimis , are demonstrably unavoidable for technical reasons of sound engineering design, and do not extend into the CGSA of any other licensee's cellular system on the same channel block (unless the licensee of such other system consents to the extension) or into any adjacent cellular market on a channel block for which the five year build-out period has expired. (b) Contract extensions. Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, licensees of cellular systems on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may, at any time, enter into contracts with applicants or other licensees to allow SAB extensions into their CGSA only (not into unserved areas). Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, licensees of the first authorized cellular systems on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may agree to allow SAB extensions into their CGSA and/or unserved areas in their cellular markets during the five year build-out period of the market into which the SAB extends. (c) Same applicant/licensee. Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, licensees of cellular systems that are also an applicant or licensee on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may, at any time, allow or propose SAB extensions from their adjacent market system into their CGSH only (not into unserved areas). Except as restricted in paragraph (d) of this section, licensees of the first authorized cellular systems that are also an applicant or licensee on the same channel block in adjacent cellular markets may allow or propose SAB extensions from their adjacent market system into their CGSA and/or unserved areas in their cellular markets during the five year build-out period of the market into which the SAB extends. (d) Unserved area systems. Phase I initial cellular applications must not propose SAB extensions. Phase I sole major modification applications and Phase II applications may propose SAB extensions, subject to the conditions in this section. §22.913 Effective radiated power limits. The effective radiated power (ERP) of transmitters in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service must not exceed the limits in this section. (a) Maximum ERP. The effective radiated power (ERP) of base transmitters and cellular repeaters must not exceed 500 Watts. The ERP of mobile transmitters and auxiliary test transmitters must not exceed 7 Watts. (b) Height-power limit. The ERP of base transmitters must not exceed the amount that would result in an average distance to the service area boundary of 79.1 kilometers (49 miles) for cellular systems authorized to serve the Gulf of Mexico MSA and 40.2 kilometers (25 miles) for all other cellular systems. The average distance to the service area boundary is calculated by taking the arithmetic mean of the distances determined using the procedures specified in §22.911 for the eight cardinal radial directions. (c) Coordination exemption. Licensees need not comply with the height-power limit in paragraph (b) of this section if the proposed operation is coordinated with the licensees of all affected cellular systems on the same channel block within 121 kilometers (75 miles) and concurrence is obtained. §22.915 Modulation requirements. Cellular systems must be capable of providing service using the types of modulation described in the cellular system compatibility specification. (a) Non-voice modulating signals. Modulating signals other than voice signals, such as data signals, may be transmitted, provided the resulting modulated emission exhibits spectral characteristics not exceeding those resulting from voice modulation. (b) Modulation levels. The levels of the modulating signals must be set to the values specified in this paragraph, and must be maintained within # 10% of those values. (1) The instantaneous frequency deviation resulting from the main modulating signal must be # 12 kHz.
