FR940907-2-00064 FR940907-2-00044 Additional functions may be evaluated under this criterion. These functions include, but are not limited to: •Accurate Bill Processing; •Attainment of Electronic Media Claims goals; •Accurate processing of reconsideration cases with clear responses and appropriate customer-friendly tone and clarity; •Management of shared processing sub-contract; •Relationship with Common Working File Host; •Data analysis and validation. Customer Satisfaction Criterion We may review the intermediary's efforts to enhance customer satisfaction through the use of customer feedback. Results of the feedback may be used to establish comparable data on customer satisfaction and to identify areas in need of improvement. The results may be summarized for publication in the report of contractor performance and shared with individual contractors. We may also evaluate, but are not limited to, the following functions: •The accuracy, timeliness and appropriateness of responses to telephone inquiries; •The accuracy, clearness and timeliness of responses to written inquiries with appropriate customer-friendly tone and clarity; •Relationships with professional and beneficiary organizations and use of focus groups; •Educational and outreach efforts. Payment Safeguards Criterion The Payment Safeguard criterion contains 2 mandated standards. Standard 1 _Decisions of SNF demand bills are accurate. Standard 2 _TEFRA target rate adjustments, exceptions, and exemptions are processed within mandated timeframes. Additional functions may be evaluated under this criterion. These functions include, but are not limited to: •Medical Review: We may assess the ability of the Medicare contractors to apply their analytical skills and focus resources on particular providers or claim types which represent unnecessary or inappropriate care. We may review contractor efforts in developing local and national data that identify aberrancies and form the basis of corrective actions, such as educating the provider, and/or become the basis of medical review policies or review screens as directed by the Medicare Intermediary Manual (MIM) §3939 and Budget and Performance Requirements. We may also review the effectiveness of the contractor's identification and corrective action. We may also review a sample of a contractor's medical review decisions to assure that the decisions comply with current coverage guidelines and that the contractor's use of each medical review screen is supported by sufficient documentation. We may assess contractors' medical review efforts at developing effective means of addressing aberrancies identified during the analysis of all local and national data, and take action to assure that the focused medical review procedures and systems designed and utilized by the contractor have allowed it to meet program requirements. We may also review a contractor's efforts to review information or documentation located in the fraud unit. •Audit and Reimbursement: We may assess the quality of fiscal intermediaries' activities in the audit and settlement of Medicare cost reports. We may assess the timeliness of Medicare cost report settlements and the accuracy by which fiscal intermediaries have established interim provider payments. •Medicare Secondary Payer: The Medicare Secondary Payer (MSP) program may use the MSP review guide to review the intermediary's MSP processes in administering the program and for identifying and recovering mistaken Medicare payments in accordance with MIM, Part 3, §§3400ff and 3600ff, and pertinent HCFA instructions and transmittals. We may develop outcome measures to assess the intermediary's accuracy in reporting savings and to determine if claim development procedures are followed. We may also evaluate the accuracy and timeliness of claims payment and determine if the Common Working File, internal systems and required software are utilized as prescribed. We may also evaluate the contractor's ability to prioritize and process recoveries in compliance with instructions, determine if recoveries of all payers are processed equally, and ensure that audit trail documentation exists. •Fraud and Abuse: The Fraud and Abuse program may use the formally established mechanism to review the intermediaries in the basic level of fraud detection, deterrence and development as described in MIM, Part 3, §3950ff, and pertinent HCFA instructions and transmittals. We may assess the ability of the contractor to identify fraud cases that exist within its service area, and to take appropriate action to dispose of these cases. We may review the contractor's efforts in investigating allegations of fraud made by beneficiaries, providers, HCFA, OIG, and other sources. We may develop an outcome measure to assess the contractor's ability to put in place an effective fraud detection and deterrence program. Fiscal Responsibility Criterion We may review the intermediary's efforts to establish and maintain appropriate financial and budgetary internal controls over benefit payments and administrative costs. Proper internal controls must be in place to ensure that contractors comply with their agreements with HCFA. Additional matters to be reviewed under the Fiscal Responsibility criterion may include, but are not limited to: •Bottom line unit cost; •Compliance with the Budget and Performance Requirements;
