FR940406-1-00018 FR940406-1-00006 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement 30 CFR Parts 764 and 942 Receipt of a Petition to Designate Lands Unsuitable for Mining and To Prepare a Petition Evaluation Document and Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Interior. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare a combined petition evaluation document/environmental impact statement, and notice of scoping meeting and scoping comment period for the petition. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) intends to prepare a combined petition evaluation document/environmental impact statement (PED/EIS) for the decision on a petition to designate certain lands within the Little Yellow Creek (Fern Lake) watershed in Claiborne County, Tennessee, as unsuitable for surface coal mining and reclamation operations in accordance with section 522 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act (SMCRA) of 1977. OSM has identified four alternatives that the combined PED/EIS would evaluate as described in the supplementary information of this notice. OSM requests that other agencies and the public submit written comments or statements on the need for an EIS on the petition and the scope of the issues which should be analyzed in the combined document. DATES: Written comments must be received by 5 p.m. (EDT), May 18, 1994. Oral comments may be presented at the scoping meeting to be held at the Middlesboro City Hall at 7 p.m. (EDT) on April 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments must be mailed or hand delivered to the Office of Surface Mining, Branch of Technical Assistance, Attn: Willis Gainer, 530 Gay Street, SW., suite 500, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902. Copies of the petition are available upon request from the Office of Surface Mining at the given address. The public record on the petition is available for review during normal working hours (8:30 a.m. to 4:40 p.m.) at the OSM office listed. Public hearing: Middlesboro City Hall, Kentucky. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Willis L. Gainer, at the OSM office listed [see ADDRESSES ] (telephone: 615&hyph;545&hyph;4065). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On February 14, 1994, the City of Middlesborough, Kentucky and the National Parks and Conservation Association petitioned the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM) of the United States Department of the Interior, to designate an area located in the Little Yellow Creek (Fern Lake) watershed in Claiborne County, Tennessee, as unsuitable for surface coal mining operations pursuant to the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (Pub. L. 95&hyph;87). The petition was amended on February 22, 1994, and deemed administratively complete and accepted for processing on March 15, 1994. A subsequent amendment with exhibits was received on March 16, 1994. The petition as accepted is a 26 page document with 100 pages of exhibits and an amendment. An additional 18 pages were received as part of a second amendment after the determination of completeness. The Federal Program for Tennessee, as administered by OSM, applies to all surface coal mining operations in Tennessee including the processing of lands unsuitable for mining petitions (49 FR 38874, October 1, 1984). The petition area occupies approximately 3,780 acres of the Little Yellow Creek watershed in Claiborne County, from the headwaters to the Tennessee State line and includes portions of Fern Lake. The petition boundary runs essentially from the Tennessee State line at Kentucky Corner on Cumberland Mountain in a southwest direction along the crest of Cumberland Mountain to a point at the watershed divide between Tackett Creek and Little Yellow Creek. The petition boundary then crosses from Cumberland Mountain to the crest of Mingo Mountain across this watershed divide and proceeds in a northeasterly direction until it intercepts the Kentucky/Tennessee State line. The boundary follows the State line to the east back to Kentucky Corner. The major allegations of the petition can be summarized as follows: 1. Surface coal mining operations will affect fragile lands in which the surface coal mining operations could result in significant damage to important scientific or aesthetic values or natural systems. 2. Surface coal mining operations will affect land in which the surface coal mining operations could result in a substantial loss or reduction in the long-range availability of water supplies. 3. Surface coal mining operations would be incompatible with local land use plans of the Cumberland Gap National Historical Park.
