FR940203-0-00043 FR940203-0-00009 (3) Orders, notices, and any final determination of the Commission; (4) Hearing transcripts, and evidence admitted at the hearing; and (5) Any other items certified into the record by the administrative law judge. (b) Certification of the record. The record shall be certified to the Commission by the administrative law judge upon his or her filing of the initial determination. §207.114 Initial determination. (a) Time for filing of initial determination. (1) Except as may otherwise be ordered by the Commission, within ninety (90) days of the date of issuance of the charging letter, the administrative law judge shall certify the record to the Commission and shall file with the Commission an initial determination as to whether each charged party has committed a prohibited act, and as to appropriate sanctions. (2) The administrative law judge may request the Commission to extend the time period for issuance of the initial determination for good cause shown. (b) Contents of the initial determination. The initial determination shall include the following: (1) An opinion making all necessary findings of fact and conclusions of law and the reasons therefor, and (2) A statement that the initial determination shall become the determination of the Commission unless a party files a petition for review of the determination pursuant to §207.115 or the Commission pursuant to §207.116 of this subpart, orders on its own motion a review of the initial determination or certain issues therein. (c) Burden of proof. A finding that a charged party committed a prohibited act shall be supported by clear and convincing evidence. (d) Effect of initial determination. The initial determination shall become the determination of the Commission forty-five (45) days after the date of service of the initial determination, unless the Commission within such time orders review of the initial determination or certain issues therein pursuant to §207.115 or 207.116 of this subpart or by order shall have changed the effective date of the initial determination. In the event an initial determination becomes the determination of the Commission, the parties shall be notified thereof by the Commission Secretary. §207.115 Petition for review. (a) The petition and responses. (1) Any party may request a review by the Commission of the initial determination by filing with the Commission Secretary a petition for review, except that a party who has defaulted may not petition for review of any issue regarding which the party is in default. (2) Any person who wishes to obtain judicial review pursuant to 19 U.S.C. 1677f(f)(5) must first seek review by the Commission in accordance with the procedures set forth in this regulation governing petitions for review. (3) Any petition for review must be filed within fourteen (14) days after service of the initial determination on the charged party. The petition shall: (i) Identify the party seeking review;
