FR940921-1-00014 FR940921-1-00007 The committee's report contains recommendations only, and are not proposed or final accessibility guidelines. As indicated above, the committee performed most of its work through six subcommittees based on facility types. The recommendations represent the consensus of the members of each subcommittee, and not necessarily the full committee. The subcommittees approached their work with the premise that every newly constructed and altered recreation facility should be accessible. Separate facilities or areas for use by individuals with disabilities were considered to be inconsistent with the purposes of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Architectural Barriers Act. The subcommittees identified numerous features of recreation facilities that are not adequately addressed by ADAAG. In some cases, the subcommittees recommended amending existing ADAAG sections to address the specific features. In other cases, the subcommittees recommended new scoping provisions and technical specifications for ADAAG and drafted guideline language with rationale. The draft guideline language does not necessarily conform to the ADAAG format and numbering system. Persons reviewing the committee's report need not comment on the format of the draft guideline language. The Access Board will address format issues when it develops the notice of proposed rulemaking. Rather, persons reviewing the committee's report should focus on the substance of the recommendations. The subcommittees also identified a few areas where providing access could eliminate or change the recreation activity or experience and proposed possible solutions. 4 For example, the sports facilities subcommittee identified that providing a slip resistant surface on ice skating rinks would eliminate or change the sport and recommended that the ice surface of the rink should be exempt from any slip resistance requirement. In some areas, the subcommittees recommended that additional information and research were needed for providing access. Finally, the subcommittees noted several areas where accessibility guidelines need to be coordinated with other laws and regulations, including regulations issued by the Department of Justice. The Access Board will refer these issues to the appropriate agencies, including the Department of Justice, for their consideration. 4 Some subcommittees borrowed the phrase ``fundamentally alter the nature of the service, program, or activity'' from the Department of Justice regulations to describe those areas where providing access could eliminate or change the recreation activity or experience. The Department of Justice uses this phrase or a variation of the phrase in its regulations to describe when public and private entities are relieved of the obligation to make reasonable modifications in policies, practices or procedures (28 CFR 35.130(b)(7) and 36.302(a)) and when public entities are relieved from providing program accessibility in existing facilities (28 CFR 35.150(a)(3)). Although the phrase does not apply to new construction and alterations, some subcommittees attempted to use the phrase by analogy when describing a few areas where providing access may not be practicable or needs to be viewed in light of the nature of the recreation experience. The committee's report is 202 pages and contains many detailed recommendations which cannot be readily summarized in this notice. To assist persons reviewing the committee's report, some of the recommendations are discussed below with questions. The Access Board is interested in receiving comments on all parts of the committee's report and encourages persons interested in the rulemaking to review the entire report. In addition, the Access Board requests comments on the impact of the committee's report on the safety of all persons using the facilities and on potential costs of the recommendations in the committee's report and how these costs could be minimized while accommodating safety. Sports Facilities (Pages 1&hyph;62) 5 5 The relevant part of the committee's report is referenced after each heading and subheading. Field-of-Play (Pages 5&hyph;6) The sports facilities subcommittee examined field sports, court sports, rink sports, and a variety of other sports. Individuals with disabilities may participate in sports as spectators, players, coaches or assistants, or may be employees of sports facilities and should have access to all elements and spaces of the facilities. The subcommittee recommended that an accessible route be provided to the field-of-play. The subcommittee observed that in some sports, the field-of-play consists of grass, artificial turf, sand, soil, ice, or other materials which do not fully meet the ADAAG requirement that surfaces along accessible routes and in accessible spaces must be stable, firm and slip resistant. The subcommittee recommended that where requiring the playing field surface to be stable, firm and slip resistant would eliminate or substantially change the sport, an exception to this requirement should be provided for the field-of-play. In some sports, the field-of-play may extend to the sideline area directly adjacent to the boundary of the playing field. For example, in baseball a player can chase a foul ball beyond the ``within-bounds'' area. The sports facilities subcommittee suggested that designated key accessible route locations could be safely incorporated into sideline or ``out-of-bounds'' areas; or temporary, removable surfaces could be used to provide access to these areas. Question 1: What are other possible solutions for providing an accessible route to sideline or ``out-of-bounds'' areas used by coaches, press and others where the field-of-play may extend to or overlap these areas? Persons responding to this question are requested to provide information regarding the location, surface requirements, and width of an accessible route serving these areas. Pools (Pages 16&hyph;20)
