FR940617-0-00096 FR940617-0-00023 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 541 [Docket No. T84&hyph;01; Notice 35] RIN 2127&hyph;AF34 Final Listing of High Theft Lines for 1995 Model Year; Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Standard AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule reports the results of NHTSA's determinations of high-theft car lines that are subject to the parts-making requirements of the motor vehicle theft prevention standard, and high-theft car lines that are exempted from parts marking, for Model Year 1995. This action is pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, which provides that NHTSA select high-theft lines, with the agreement of the manufacturer, if possible. This final listing is intended to inform the public, particularly law enforcement groups, of the car lines that are subject to the parts-marking requirements of the theft prevention standard for Model Year 1995. EFFECTIVE DATE: The amendment made by this final rule is effective July 18, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Barbara A. Gray, Office of Market Incentives, NHTSA, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Ms. Gray's telephone number is (202) 366&hyph;1740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Standard, 49 CFR part 541, sets forth requirements for inscribing or affixing identification numbers onto covered original equipment major parts, and the replacement parts for those original equipment parts, on all vehicles in lines selected as high-theft lines. Section 603(a)(2) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2023(a)(2)) (hereinafter ``the Cost Savings Act'') specifies that NHTSA shall select the high-theft lines, with the agreement of the manufacturer, if possible. Section 603(d) of the Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2023(d)) provides that once a line has been designated as a high-theft line, it remains subject to the theft prevention standard unless that line is exempted under section 605 of the Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2025). Section 605 provides that a manufacturer may petition to have a high theft line exempted from the requirements of section 602, if the line is equipped with an antitheft device as standard equipment. The exemption is granted if NHTSA determines that the antitheft device is likely to be as effective as compliance with the theft prevention standard in reducing and deterring motor vehicle thefts. The agency annually publishes the names of the lines which were previously listed as high-theft lines and of the lines which are being listed for the first time and will be subject to the theft prevention standard beginning with Model Year 1995. It also identifies those car lines that are exempted from the theft prevention standard for the 1995 model year because of standard equipment antitheft devices. For Model Year 1995, two car lines, the General Motors Oldsmobile Toronado and the Mazda Amati 800 were renamed as the Oldsmobile Aurora and the Mazda Millenia, respectively. Also, the Plymouth Sundance and Dodge Shadow have been renamed the Plymouth and Dodge Neon car lines. These two lines were listed in the MY 1994 Final Listing of High Theft Lines. Unfortunately, Chrysler did not inform the agency of the new nameplates for these lines until after the publication of the Federal Register (58 FR 63296), announcing the high-theft lines. This name change became effective beginning with the 1994 model year. The updated list reflects these name changes. Additionally, for Model Year 1995, the agency selected seven new car lines, in accordance with the procedures published in 49 CFR part 542, as likely to be high-theft lines. The newly selected lines are: The Chrysler Cirrus, Chrysler Sebring, Dodge Avenger, Dodge Stratus, Honda Acura (nameplate to be announced), Subaru Legacy, which was erroneously listed in the Federal Register (58 FR 63298) as a new car line for MY 1994, and the Toyota Avalon. In addition to these seven lines, the list of high-theft lines includes all those lines that were selected as high-theft lines and listed for prior model years. The list of exempted lines includes five high-theft lines exempted by the Agency, beginning with Model Year 1995, from the parts-marking requirements of part 541. The five car lines exempted in full are the Buick Riviera, Oldsmobile Aurora, Mazda Millenia, Volkswagen Cabriolet, and Volkswagen Corrado. Additionally, Toyota requested that the agency lists its Lexus car lines without its 3-digit engine identifier. Therefore, the updated list reflects this request. Notice and Comment; Effective Date The car lines listed as being subject to the parts-marking standard have previously been selected as high-theft lines in accordance with the procedures of 49 CFR part 542 and section 603 of the Cost Savings Act. Under these procedures, manufacturers evaluate new car lines to conclude whether those new lines are likely to be high-theft lines. Manufacturers submit these evaluations and conclusions to the agency, which makes an independent evaluation, and, on a preliminary basis, determines whether the new line should be subject to parts marking. NHTSA informs the manufacturer in writing of its evaluations and determinations, together with the factual information considered by the agency in making them. The manufacturer may request the agency to reconsider these preliminary determinations. Within 60 days of the receipt of the request, NHTSA makes its final determination. NHTSA informs the manufacturer by letter of these determinations and its response to the request for reconsideration. If there is no request for reconsideration, the agency's determination becomes final 45 days after sending the letter with the preliminary determination. Each of the new car lines on the high-theft list is the subject of a prior final determination.
