FR940513-2-00241 FR940513-2-00096 Regional Resident Organization (RRO). An incorporated nonprofit organization or association for public or Indian housing that meets the following requirements: (1) It is regional (i.e., not limited by HUD Areas, including Tribal Areas); and (2) It has experience in providing start-up and capacity-building training to residents and resident organizations. Statewide Resident Organization (SRO). An incorporated nonprofit organization or association for public or Indian housing that meets the following requirements: (1) It is statewide; and (2) It has experience in providing start-up and capacity-building training to residents and resident organizations. The following definitions apply to Public Housing: Project. Includes any of the following that meets the requirements of 24 CFR part 964: (1) One or more contiguous buildings; (2) An area of contiguous row houses; (3) Scattered site buildings. Resident Council (RC)/Resident Organization (RO). An incorporated or unincorporated nonprofit organization or association that meets each of the following requirements: (1) It must be representative of the tenants it purports to represent; (2) It may represent tenants in more than one project or in all of the projects of a PHA, but it must fairly represent tenants from each project that it represents; (3) It must adopt written procedures providing for the election of specific officers on a regular basis (but at least once every three years); (4) It must have a democratically elected governing board; and (5) The voting membership of the governing board must consist of tenants of the project or projects that the tenant organization or resident council represents. Resident Management. The performance of one or more management activities for one or more projects by a resident management corporation under a management contract with the PHA. Resident Management Corporation (RMC). The entity that proposes to enter into, or enters into, a management contract with a PHA that meets the requirements of subpart C of 24 CFR part 964. The entity must have each of the following characteristics: (1) It must be a nonprofit organization that is incorporated under the laws of the State in which it is located; (2) It may be established by more than one tenant organization or resident council, so long as each organization or council: (a) Approves the establishment of the corporation; and (b) Has representation on the Board of Directors of the corporation; (3) It must have an elected Board of Directors; (4) Its by-laws must require the Board of Directors to include representatives of each resident council involved in establishing the corporation; (5) Its voting members must be tenants of the project or projects it manages; (6) It must be approved by the resident council. If there is no council, a majority of the households of the project must approve the establishment of such an organization to determine the feasibility of establishing a corporation to manage the project; and (7) It may serve as both the resident management corporation and the resident council, so long as the corporation meets the requirements of this part for a resident council. The following definitions apply to Indian Housing: Project. Includes any of the following that meet the requirements of 24 CFR part 905.962: (1) One or more contiguous buildings; (2) An area of contiguous row houses; (3) Scattered site buildings; (4) Scattered site single-family units. Resident Management. The performance of one or more management activities for one or more projects by a resident management corporation under a management contract with the HA. Resident Management Corporation (RMC). A Resident Management Corporation is an entity that proposes to enter into, or enters into, a management contract with an IHA under this NOFA. The corporation must have each of the following characteristics: (1) It is a nonprofit organization that is incorporated under the laws of the State or Indian tribe within which it is located; (2) If it is established by more than one resident organization, each such organization both approves the establishment of the corporation and has representation on the Board of Directors of the corporation; (3) It has an elected Board of Directors; (4) Its by-laws require the Board of Directors to include representatives of each resident organization involved in establishing the corporation. (It may serve as both the resident management corporation and the resident organization, so long as the corporation meets the requirements of this section for a resident organization.); (5) Its voting members are required to be residents of the project or projects it manages; (6) Its establishment is approved by the resident organization or, if there is no organization, creation of an organization is approved by a majority of the households of the project for the purpose of determining the feasibility of establishing a RMC to manage the project. Resident Organization (RO). A Resident Organization (or ``Resident Council'' as defined in section 20 of the Act) is an incorporated or unincorporated nonprofit organization or association that meets each of the following criteria: (1) It is representative of the residents it purports to represent. (2) If it represents residents in more than one project or in all of the projects of an IHA, it fairly represents residents from each project that it represents. (3) It has adopted written procedures providing for the election of specific officers on a regular basis (but at least once every three years). (4) It has a democratically elected governing board. The voting membership of the board shall consist of the residents of the project or projects that the RO represents. G. Eligibility Only organizations that meet the definitions of a RC/RMC/RO or a NRO/RRO/SRO set forth under the subheading ``Definitions'' (Section I.F) of this NOFA will be eligible for funding under this NOFA, as follows: (1) A RC/RMC/RO that has been in existence for several years as well as new emerging organizations may apply for a basic grant of up to $100,000. (2) A RC/RMC/RO selected for funding in FYs 1988&hyph;1993 that received less than the statutory maximum of $100,000 may apply for an Additional Grant not to exceed (including previous grants) the total statutory maximum of $100,000. The RC/RMC/RO will receive consideration for the additional amount based on the Ranking Factors contained in Section I.L of this NOFA. No special considerations will be given to previously funded applicants. (3) Projects that were awarded the maximum total amount of $100,000 in FYs 1988&hyph;1993 are not eligible to apply.
