FR941216-2-00079 FR941216-2-00043 11. Signatory Requirements All applications, reports, or information submitted to the Permit Issuing Authority shall be signed and certified. a. All permit applications shall be signed as follows: (1) For a corporation: by a responsible corporate officer. For the purpose of this Section, a responsible corporate officer means: (1) a president, secretary, treasurer or vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs similar policy_or decision-making functions for the corporation, or (2) the manager of one or more manufacturing production or operating facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or expenditures exceeding $25 million (in second quarter 1980 dollars), if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures. (2) For a partnership or sole proprietorship: by a general partner or the proprietor, respectively; or (3) For a municipality, State, Federal, or other public agency: by either a principal executive officer or ranking elected official. b. All reports required by the permit and other information requested by the Permit Issuing Authority shall be signed by a person described above or by a duly authorized representative of that person. A person is a duly authorized representative only if: (1) The authorization is made in writing by a person described above; (2) The authorization specifies either an individual or a position having responsibility for the overall operation of the regulated facility or activity, such as the position of plant manager, operator of a well or a well field, superintendent, position of equivalent responsibility, or an individual or position having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company. (A duly authorized representative may thus be either a named individual or any individual occupying a named position.); and (3) The written authorization is submitted to the Permit Issuing Authority. c. Certification. Any person signing a document under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section shall make the following certification: ``I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were prepared under the direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.'' 12. Availability of Reports Except for data determined to be confidential under 40 CFR Part 2, all reports prepared in accordance with the terms of this permit shall be available for public inspection at the offices of the Permit Issuing Authority. As required by the Act, permit applications, permits and effluent data shall not be considered confidential. 13. Penalties for Falsification of Reports The Clean Water Act provides that any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation, or certification in any record or other document submitted or required to be maintained under this permit, including monitoring reports or reports of compliance or noncompliance shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000 per violation, or by imprisonment for not more than 2 years per violation, or by both. Section E. Definitions 1. Permit Issuing Authority The Regional Administrator of EPA Region IV or his designee, unless at some time in the future the State receives the authority to administer the NPDES program and assumes jurisdiction over the permit; at which time, the Director of the State program receiving authorization becomes the issuing authority. 2. Act ``Act'' means the Clean Water Act (formerly referred to as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act) Public Law 92&hyph;500, as amended by Public Laws 95&hyph;217, 95&hyph;576, 96&hyph;483, 97&hyph;117, and Public Law 100&hyph;4, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. 3. Concentration Measurements a. The ``average monthly concentration'', is the sum of the concentrations of all daily discharges sampled and/or measured during a calendar month on which daily discharges are sampled and measured, divided by the number of daily discharges sampled and/or measured during such month (arithmetic mean of the daily concentration values). The daily concentration value is equal to the concentration of a composite sample or in the case of grab samples is the arithmetic mean (weighted by flow value) of all the samples collected during the calendar day. b. The ``maximum daily concentration'', is the concentration of a pollutant discharge during a calendar day. It is identified as ``Daily Maximum'' under ``Other Limits'' in Part I of the permit and the highest such value recorded during the reporting period is reported under the ``Maximum'' column under ``Quality'' on the DMR. 4. Other Measurements a. The effluent flow expressed as MGD is the 24 hour average flow averaged monthly. It is the arithmetic mean of the total daily flows recorded during the calendar month. Where monitoring requirements for flow are specified in Part I of the permit the flow rate values are reported in the ``Average'' column under ``Quantity'' on the DMR.
