FR940822-2-00071 FR940822-2-00048 (2) Before an exemption may be granted under section 408(a) of the Act and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code, the Department must find that the exemption is administratively feasible, in the interests of the plan and of its participants and beneficiaries, and protective of the rights of the participant and beneficiaries; (3) If granted, the proposed class exemption will be applicable to a particular transaction only if the transaction satisfies the conditions specified in the class exemption; and (4) The proposed exemption, if granted, will be supplemental to, and not in derogation of, any other provisions of the Code and Act, including statutory or administrative exemptions and transitional rules. Furthermore, the face that a transaction is subject to an administrative or statutory exemption is not dispositive of whether the transaction is in fact a prohibited transaction. Written Comments and Hearing Requests All interested persons are invited to submit comments or requests for a hearing on the proposed exemption to the address and within the time period set forth above. All comments will be made a part of the record. Comments and requests for a hearing should state the reasons for the writer's interest in the proposed exemption. Comments received will be available for public inspection with the application for exemption at the address set forth above. Proposed Exemption The Department has under consideration the grant of the following class exemption under the authority of section 408(a) of the Act and section 4975(c)(2) of the Code, and in accordance with the procedures set forth in 29 CFR Part 2570, subpart B (55 FR 32836, August 10, 1990). Section I_Basic Exemption. The restrictions of sections 406(a) and 407(a) of the Act and the taxes imposed by section 4975(a) and (b) of the Code by reason of section 4975(c)(1)(A) through (D) of the Code, shall not apply to the transactions described below if the applicable conditions set forth in section IV are met. (a) General Exemption. Any transaction between a party in interest with respect to a plan and an insurance company general account, in which the plan has an interest as a contractholder, or any acquisition or holding by the general account of employer securities or employer real property, if at the time of the transaction, acquisition or holding, the amount of the reserves for the contract(s) held by or on behalf of the plan, (determined under section 807(d) of the Code) together with the amount of the reserves for the contracts held by or on behalf of any other plans (determined under section 807(d) of the Code) maintained by the same employer or (affiliate thereof as defined in section V(a)(1)) or by the same employee organization in the general account do not exceed 10% of the total of all liabilities of the general account. (b) Excess Holdings Exemption for Employee Benefit Plans. Any acquisition or holding of qualifying employer securities or qualifying employer real property by a plan (other than through an insurance company general account, if: (1) The acquisition or holding contravenes the restrictions of section 406(a)(1)(E), 406(a)(2) and 407(a) of the Act solely by reason of being aggregated with employer securities or employer real property held by an insurance company general account in which the plan has an interest; and (2) The percentage limitation of paragraph (a) of this section is met. Section II_Specific Exemptions (a) Transactions with persons who are parties in interest to the plan solely by reason of being certain service providers or certain affiliates of service providers. The restrictions of section 406(a)(1) (A) through (D) of the Act and the taxes imposed by section 4975 (a) and (b) of the Code by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (D) of the Code, shall not apply to any transaction to which the above restrictions or taxes would otherwise apply solely because a person is deemed to be a party in interest (including a fiduciary) with respect to a plan as a result of providing services to an insurance company general account in which the plan has an interest as a contractholder (or as a result of a relationship to such service provider described in section 3(14) (F), (G), (H) or (I) of the Act or section 4975(e)(2) (F), (G), (H) or (I) of the Act or section 4975(e)(2) (F), (G), (H), or (I) of the Code), if the applicable conditions set forth in section IV are met. (b) Transactions involving place of public accommodation. The restrictions of sections 406(a)(1) (A) through (D) and 406 (b)(1) and (b)(2) of the Act and the taxes imposed by section 4975(a) and (b) of the Code by reason of section 4975(c)(1) (A) through (E) of the Code shall not apply to the furnishing of services, facilities and any goods incidental to such services and facilities by a place of public accommodation owned by an insurance company general account, to a party in interest with respect to a plan, that has an interest as a contractholder in the insurance company general account, if the services, facilities and incidental goods are furnished on a comparable basis to the general public. Section III_Specific Exemption for Operation of Asset Pool Investment Trusts. The restrictions of sections 406(a), 406(b) and 407(a) of the Act and the taxes imposed by section 4975 (a) and (b) of the Code by reason of section 4975(c) of the Code, shall not apply to transactions in connection with the servicing, management and operation of a trust in which an insurance company general account has an interest as a result of its acquisition of certificates issued by the trust, provided:
