FR940214-2-00006 FR940214-2-00002 Department's Position: We do not agree with petitioners assertion that Rotem's operations are not essentially similar to Negev's operations prior to the merger in terms of: (1) Management, (2) production facilities, (3) supplier relationships, and (4) customer base, with regard to sales and production of the subject merchandise. With regard to executive personnel, Negev and Rotem's board of directors consists of seven and five members, respectively. The president and three members of the board of directors, including the chairman of the board, are the same for both Negev and Rotem. Therefore, Rotem's five member board of directors includes three members that were also on Negev's board. An examination of production management shows that production management was consolidated after the merger. Before the merger, there were two site managers and two operations managers, one set for Negev operations and the other for Rotem operations. Now there is one site manager and one operations manager for Rotem's industrial phosphoric acid and fertilizer acid facilities. After the merger, Negev's former vice-president became a Rotem executive vice-president. The Negev plant manager prior to the merger left the company, and Rotem's plant manager became the plant manager for both the Rotem and Negev plant facilities. Negev's former industrial phosphoric acid site manager remained with Rotem for about six months after the merger and was then replaced by Rotem's operations manager whose responsibilities became the management of both industrial phosphoric acid and fertilizer acid facilities. See Verification of the Questionnaire Response_ Antidumping Duty Order on Industrial Phosphoric Acid from Israel_ Changed Circumstances Review; October 6, 1993. The Department has considered these changes in Rotem's management and finds that the differences are minimal. The changes in Rotem's personnel are well within the normal range of personnel changes that one would expect over time within the same operation. For example, in the final results of Brass Sheet and Strip, the Department found one company to be the successor of another despite the fact that the successor company had replaced the two top managers at the acquired plant. See Brass Sheet and Strip Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review, (57 FR 20462; May 13, 1992). With regard to production facilities, we agree with respondents that petitioners improperly focus on the production of non-subject merchandise to support their claim that Rotem's total production is more extensive and diverse. Rotem did not alter production or the production facilities of the subject merchandise at the time of the merger. Moreover, the subject merchandise continued to be manufactured in the former company's plant facilities. Furthermore, eleven months after the merger, the Department verified that Rotem had not altered production or production facilities for the subject merchandise subsequent to the merger. When reviewing supplier relationships, petitioners argue that as a result of the merger, Rotem now has a captive source of supply for certain raw material inputs necessary for production of the subject merchandise. During verification, the Department carefully examined supplier relationships for all raw material inputs in the production of the subject merchandise and found that the source of supplies for these inputs did not change after the merger. As respondents point out, before the merger Negev purchased raw material inputs from Rotem at intra-company prices and, after the merger, Rotem continued to supply these inputs. Finally, in their discussion of changes in customer base, petitioners submit that as a result of the merger, Rotem has a larger and more diverse customer base. As in their evaluation of other factors, petitioners focus on the inclusion of Rotem's customers for non-subject merchandise. As stated in our response to comment one, the appropriate focus of our analysis is the subject merchandise. We agree with the respondents that the customer base for Rotem's sales of the subject merchandise did not change after the merger.
