FR940707-2-00082 FR940707-2-00049 • Federal Share of Project Costs: The maximum Federal share is not to exceed $100,000 for the first 12-month budget period or a maximum of $300,000 for a 3-year project period. • Matching Requirement: The minimum non-Federal matching requirement in proportion to the maximum Federal share of $300,000 is $100,000 for a 3-year project period. This constitutes 25 percent of the total project budget. • Anticipated Number of Projects to be Funded: It is anticipated that up to two (2) projects will be funded. • CFDA: ADD's CFDA (Code of Federal Domestic Assistance) number is 93.631_Developmental Disabilities_Projects of National Significance. Fiscal Year 1993 Priority Area 2: Expanding the Scope of Developmental Disabilities Planning Councils • Eligible Applicants: State Developmental Disabilities Councils (DDCs) in States with approved State plans and assurances as required by the Act which do not have a State mandate to focus on individuals with disabilities other than developmental disabilities. • Purpose: Under this priority area, ADD will award up to five (5) individual grants at a maximum of $150,000 and/or one or more consortium grants to consortiums including a total of no more than five States to explore the implications of expanding the current scope of DDC activities to include individuals with a broad range of severe disabilities. Individuals with severe disabilities other than developmental disabilities can and have benefitted from the systems change, capacity building and advocacy activities of the DDCs. ADD is interested in determining the feasibility and implications of expanding the focus constituency of the DDCs in States differing in size, population, geographical distribution, and allotments received under Part B of the Act. • Background Information: While individuals with developmental disabilities and their families directly benefit from DDC advocacy, systemic change, and capacity building activities, there are many people with severe disabilities other than developmental disabilities who might benefit further if their concerns were within the purview of DDCs. Therefore, ADD is accepting proposals, as mandated through a special initiative under Part E of the Act, for studies in consultation with and active support from State Protection and Advocacy Systems and University Affiliated Programs, to explore the feasibility and implications of expanding the scope of DDC systems change, capacity building, advocacy and other activities mandated under Part B of the Act to address the issues and concerns of people with a broader range of severe disabilities. ADD is looking for information which examines the potential effect, positive and/or adverse, of expanding the target constituency to include individuals with severe disabilities whose eligibility will be based on an extended age of onset and other determining criteria. • Minimum Requirements for Project Design: These projects must be conducted in consultation with and active support from the State Protection and Advocacy System and the University Affiliated Program. Through this collaboration, DDCs should conduct an assessment of the characteristics of individuals with disabilities currently served by all three ADD-funded networks in their States and address consumer comments and 1990 report findings, particularly those pertaining to individuals who are unserved or underserved. The project must address the needs of individuals with developmental disabilities and other severe disabilities from culturally diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds. Individuals with disabilities, advocacy groups, and State and other service agencies must play a role in these studies. ADD is particularly interested in supporting projects which include the following: •Propose criteria which define the constituency to be served through potential DDC expansion (e.g.; age, functional limitations, or other factors such as individuals from culturally diverse racial and ethnic backgrounds, disadvantaged individuals, individuals with limited-English proficiency, individuals from underserved geographic areas, or specific groups of individuals with severe disabilities, including individuals with developmental or other disabilities attributable to physical impairment, mental impairment, or a combination of physical and mental impairments). •Identify the service and support needs of the expanded population of individuals with severe disabilities other than developmental disabilities, and provide strategies that will assist all such individuals and their families, the developmental disabilities network, and others, in effecting positive changes on their behalf. •Identify State and local linkages that would be essential to establishing collaborative relationships with service organizations. •Delineate the barriers, opportunities, and critical issues related to DDC expansion to a broader range of disabilities as well as other economic and organizational implications, and the allocation of resources. •Define outreach activities and collaborative relationships with other State agencies, organizations, task forces and commissions, and the impact of these relationships on systems change, advocacy and capacity building for the expanded constituency. •Explore the effects of expansion activities on the staff support and other resources of the DDC. Provide a cost analysis of the proposed expansion.
