FR940303-2-00076 FR940303-2-00055 Office of the General Counsel [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3728; FR&hyph;3670&hyph;N&hyph;01] Submission of Proposed Information Collection to OMB AGENCY: Office of the General Counsel, HUD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The proposed information collection requirement described below has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act. The Department is soliciting public comments on the subject proposal. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments regarding this proposal. Comments should refer to the proposal by name and should be sent to: Joseph F. Lackey, Jr., OMB Desk, Office of Management and Budget, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. Monica Hilton Sussman, Deputy General Counsel, (Finance and Regulations), GD, HUD Building, room 10214, 451 7th St., SW., Washington, DC 20410. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kay Weaver, Reports Management Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street Southwest, Washington, DC 20410, telephone (202) 708&hyph;0050. This is not a toll-free number. Copies of the proposed forms and other available documents submitted to OMB may be obtained from Ms. Weaver. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice informs the public that the Department of Housing and Urban Development has submitted to OMB, for expedited processing, an information collection package with respect to two guide formats which specify the components of a legal opinion required by the Department in connection with the insurance of mortgage loans upon multifamily rental projects and health care facilities under Title II of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1702, et seq. or in connection with the making of a capital advance under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended, and section 811 of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act, as amended, for supportive housing for the elderly and supportive housing for persons with disabilities. The guide clearly articulates those matters upon which HUD requires an opinion from private counsel as well as those matters upon which confirmations are required. The guide also contains detailed instructions pertaining to the form as well as a format for certifications by the mortgagor as to matters particularly within the knowledge of the mortgagor upon which its legal counsel relies in rendering the opinion. The section 202 and 811 programs currently have an OMB-approved Owner's Attorney's Closing Opinion, form HUD&hyph;90166&hyph;CA (2502:0470). However, the Department has decided that it would be beneficial to participants and their counsel to have similar formats for all loan and capital advance programs. The section 202 and 811 guide format is essentially the same as the insured loan format except for some differences in terminology and program requirements. To the extent that the new guides represent any ``collection of information,'' the process is necessary to ensure the Department that the attorney representing the mortgagor or owner has followed the otherwise specified requirements of the Department and to ensure the Department that the attorney has exercised an acceptable degree of due diligence in representing the client and in rendering the opinion to the mortgagee and HUD. The extent of due diligence expected to be performed under the guide is not substantially different from what HUD had anticipated under Form 1725 or Form HUD&hyph;90166&hyph;CA or from what qualified counsel, in fact, perform in conventional financing transactions. The Department has submitted the proposal for the collection of information, as described below, to OMB for review, as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. chapter 35); (1) The title of the information collection proposal; (2) The office of the agency to collect the information; (3) The description of the need for the information and its proposed use; (4) The agency form number, if applicable; (5) What members of the public will be affected by the proposal; (6) How frequently information submission will be required; (7) An estimate of the total number of hours needed to prepare the information submission including number of respondents, frequency of response, and hours of response; (8) Whether the proposal is new or an extension, reinstatement, or revision of an information collection requirement; and (9) The names and telephone numbers of an agency official familiar with the proposal and of the OMB Desk Officer for the Department. Authority: Section 3507 of the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3507, section 7(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act, 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Dated: February 22, 1994. Monica Hilton Sussman, Deputy General Counsel (Finance and Regulations), GD.
