FR940916-1-00065 FR940916-1-00015 (3) Total Cost: XXXXXX (c) Bidders/Offerors shall include a statement as to whether or not local nationals or third country nationals will be employed on the resultant contract. (End of provision) 173. Section 652.228&hyph;75 is added to read as follows: 652.228&hyph;75 Defense Base Act Insurance Rates_Limitation_Construction. As prescribed in 628.306(a)(2), insert the following provision: Defense Base Act Insurance Rates_Limitation_Construction (Aug 1994) (a) The Department of State has entered into a contract with an insurance carrier to provide DBA insurance to Department of State contractors at a contracted rate. The rates for this insurance are as follows: Construction @ [contracting officer insert current rate] of compensation (b) Bidders/Offerors should compute the total compensation (direct salary plus differential, but excluding per diem, housing allowance and other miscellaneous post allowances) to be paid to employees who will be covered by DBA insurance and the cost of DBA insurance in their bid/proposal using the foregoing rate, and insert the totals in the spaces provided for the base year and each year thereafter, if applicable. The DBA insurance cost shall be included in the total fixed price. The DBA insurance costs shall be reimbursed directly to the contractor. (1) Compensation of Covered Employees: XXXXXX (2) Defense Base Act Insurance Costs: XXXXXX (3 Total Cost: XXXXXX (End of provision) 174. Section 652.228&hyph;76 is added to read as follows: 652.228&hyph;76 Defense Base Act Insurance Rates_Limitation_Cost-Reimbursement. As prescribed in 628.307, insert the following provision: Defense Base Act Insurance Rates_Limitation_Cost-Reimbursement (Aug 1994) (a) The Department of State has entered into a contract with an insurance carrier for Defense Base Act (DBA) insurance which applies to all contracts entered into by the Department which requires DBA insurance coverage. In preparing the cost proposal, the offeror shall use the following rates in computing the cost for such insurance: (1) Services_[contracting officer insert current rate] of compensation (direct salary plus differential but excluding per diem, housing allowance, education allowance, and miscellaneous allowances); and (2) Construction_[contracting officer insert current rate] of compensation. (b) These rates apply to all job classifications in those particular categories. The successful offeror shall be advised of the name and address of the insurance broker who will process the DBA insurance coverage. (c) Should an offeror compute or include higher DBA insurance rates, the rates shall be disallowed. (d) Offerors shall include in their proposals a statement as to whether or not local nationals or third country nationals are proposed on this contract. (End of provision) 175. Section 652.228&hyph;77 is added to read as follows: 652.228&hyph;77 Defense Base Act Insurance Rates_Limitation_Labor-Hour and Time-and-Materials. As prescribed in 628.307&hyph;70, insert the following provision: Defense Base Act Insurance Rates_Limitation_Labor-Hour and Time-and-Materials (Aug 1994) (a) The Department of State has entered into a contract with an insurance carrier for Defense Base Act (DBA) insurance which applies to all contracts entered into by the Department which requires DBA insurance coverage. In preparing the cost proposal, the offeror shall use the following rates in computing the cost for such insurance: (1) Services_[contracting officer insert current rate] of compensation (direct salary plus differential but excluding per diem, housing allowance, education allowance, and miscellaneous allowances); and (2) Construction_[contracting officer insert current rate] of compensation. (b) These rates apply to all job classifications in those particular categories. The successful offeror shall be advised of the name and address of the insurance broker who will process the DBA insurance coverage. (c) Offerors shall include in their proposals a statement as to whether or not local nationals or third country nationals are proposed on this contract. (End of provision) 176. Section 652.232&hyph;70 is revised to read as follows: 652.232&hyph;70 Payment Schedule and Invoice Submission (Fixed-Price). As prescribed in 632.908(a), insert a clause substantially the same as follows: Payment Schedule and Invoice Submission (Fixed-Price) (Aug 1994) (a) General. The Government shall pay the contractor as full compensation for all work required, performed and accepted under this contract, inclusive of all costs and expenses, the firm fixed-price stated in Section B of this contract. [Use paragraph (b) only if partial payments apply. Otherwise, paragraph (a) above assumes the contractor will be paid the full amount upon completion of all contractual requirements]. (b) Payment schedule. Payments will be made in accordance with the following partial payment schedule: ␣ 1Partial Payment Number 1Specific Deliverable 1Delivery Date 1Payment Amount ␣1 ␣2 ␣3 [Continue as necessary]
