FR940805-1-00104 FR940805-1-00013 (3) Accessibility. The facility shall comply with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17. (4) OSHA compliance. The facility shall comply with 29 CFR Part 1910, Subparts C through E, G, K, L and S (Occupational Health and Safety Standards) or comparable tribal regulations. If other activities governed by sections of 29 CFR Part 1910 not identified in this standard are carried out in the facility, the section(s) of 29 CFR Part 1910 governing that activity or comparable tribal regulations apply. (5) Health and safety inspection. In compliance with 29 CFR Part 1960, Subparts B through D, the facility shall receive at least one inspection each year by a qualified safety and health inspector and Environmental Health Specialist and/or Sanitarian. Any request for inspection shall be directed to the Area Safety Manager or Officer through the Agency Superintendent. (6) Furnishings and equipment code compliance. The administrator shall maintain documentation by an independent, qualified source that the interior furnishing materials in inmate living areas, exit areas and places of public assembly shall be in accordance with NFPA Life Safety Code Section 6&hyph;5 or comparable tribal regulations. (b) Facility organization _(1) Co-located adult and juvenile facility. If the juvenile facility is on the grounds of any other type of detention or community residential facility, it shall be a separate, self-contained unit. (2) Separation from detention. When the facility is part of or attached to a juvenile detention facility, residents shall be housed separately from detained juveniles. Community residential facility residents and detained juveniles shall not use program and activity spaces at the same time. (3) Separation of males and females. The facility shall provide for sight and sound separation of male and female residents in their sleeping, shower and toilet areas. (4) Rated capacity. The number of residents shall not exceed the facility's rated capacity. (5) Location. The facility shall be located conveniently for criminal justice agencies, the health authority, community agencies and residents' legal representatives, families and friends. (c) Environmental conditions_ (1) Artificial light levels. Lighting levels in resident cells or rooms shall be at least twenty footcandles at the desk and in the personal grooming areas. Lighting levels throughout the facility shall be appropriate to the tasks and activities carried out in its spaces. An independent, qualified source shall document lighting levels. (2) Noise levels. Noise levels shall not exceed seventy decibels in the daytime and forty-five decibels at night. An independent, qualified source shall document noise levels. (3) Indoor air quality. Air circulation shall be at least ten cubic feet of outside or recirculated filtered air per minute per occupant. An independent, qualified source shall document air circulation. (4) Use of tobacco. The administrator shall prohibit the use of tobacco in the facility by staff, juveniles and the public except in traditional ceremonies and then only in designated areas. (5) Heating and cooling. Temperatures shall be appropriate to the summer and winter comfort zones. (d) Security and control_ (1) Emergency exits. In compliance with NFPA Code and OSHA regulations, designated exits in the facility shall permit prompt evacuation of residents and staff members in an emergency. Facility exits shall be properly positioned, clear and distinctly and permanently marked. (2) Emergency equipment. The facility shall have the equipment necessary to maintain essential lights in an emergency. (e) New facility planning process _(1) New facility planning requirement. All new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall follow the Planning of New Institutions (PONI) process as required by 25 CFR Part 296. (2) Safety management review. The design and specifications for all new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall be reviewed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in compliance with 29 CFR 1960, Suparts B through D. (f) New construction, renovation and expansion _(1) Single occupancy requirements. Only one resident shall occupy each room designed for single occupancy. All single rooms shall have at least sixty square feet of floor space of which no more than four square feet is closet or wardrobe space. Each room shall have, at a minimum: (i) Natural light; (ii) Bed, mattress, pillow and bedding; (iii) Access to toilets, wash basins and showers with some degree of privacy; and closet or locker space for the storage of personal items. (2) Multiple occupancy requirements. Where used, multiple occupancy rooms shall provide: (i) A minimum of sixty square feet of floor space per occupant in the sleeping area of which no more than four square feet is closet or wardrobe space; (ii) Natural light; (iii) Access to toilets, washbasins and showers, with some degree of privacy; and (iv) Some degree of privacy in the sleeping area. (3) Space, furnishings and conditions for dayrooms. The facility shall provide dayroom space sufficient for facility residents. The dayroom shall provide: (i) Natural light; (ii) A minimum of thirty-five square feet of space per resident; and (iii) Seating and writing surfaces, sufficient for the number of residents who use the dayroom. (4) Toilets. The facility shall provide operable toilets at a minimum ratio of one for every twelve residents in male facilities and one for every eight residents in female facilities. Urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the toilets in male facilities. All housing units with three or more residents shall have two toilets. (5) Wash basins. Residents shall have access to operable wash basins with hot and cold running water in the housing units at a minimum ratio of one basin for every twelve occupants.
