FR940204-2-00046 FR940204-2-00028 [Project No. 2496] Eugene Water & Electric Board; Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement and Conduct Public Scoping Meetings January 27, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has received an application for a new license for the Leaburg-Walterville Hydroelectric Project, FERC No. 2496. The hydropower project is located on the McKenzie River in Oregon. The FERC staff has determined that licensing this project would constitute a major federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. Therefore, the staff intends to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on the hydroelectric project in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. The staff's EIS will objectively consider both site specific and cumulative environmental impacts of the project and reasonable alternatives, and will include an economic, financial and engineering analysis. The draft EIS will be issued and circulated for review by all the interested parties. All comments filed on the draft will be analyzed by the staff and considered in a final EIS. The staff's conclusions and recommendations will then be presented for consideration by the Commission in reaching a licensing decision. Scoping Meeting A project site visit for FERC staff, agencies and all other interested parties is scheduled for Tuesday, February 15, 1994. The site visit will commence at 9 a.m. at Water Board Park located adjacent to the Leaburg Dam, just off of Highway 126. The site visit will likely extend into the afternoon. The site visit will provide an opportunity for interested parties to observe environmental conditions in the project area. All those interested are encouraged to attend. The FERC staff will conduct two scoping meetings. The evening scoping meeting is primarily for public input while the morning meeting will focus on resource agency concerns. All interested individuals, organizations, and agencies are invited to attend either or both sessions to assist the staff in identifying the scope of environmental issues that should be analyzed in the EIS. On the evening of Wednesday, February 16, 1994, we will hold the first scoping meeting, primarily for the public, from 7&hyph;10 p.m. at the Thurston High School Auditorium in Springfield, Oregon. The high school is located just off Highway 126, at 333 North 58th Street. The second scoping meeting, primarily for resource agencies, will be from 9:30 a.m.&hyph;12 p.m. the following morning, Thursday, February 17, 1994, at the Springfield Chamber of Commerce, Freight Room. The Springfield Chamber of Commerce is located on South A Street, between Mill Street and Pioneer Parkway West. To help focus discussions, a preliminary EIS scoping document (Scoping Document 1) outlining subject areas to be addressed at the meetings will be distributed by mail to parties on the FERC service list. Copies of Scoping Document 1 will also be available at the scoping meetings. Objectives At the scoping meetings the staff will: •Identify reasonable alternative measures that should be evaluated in the EIS; •Identify significant environmental issues related to the proposed project; •Determine the depth of analysis for issues addressed in the EIS; and •Identify resource issues that are not important and that do not require detailed analysis. Procedures The meetings will be recorded by a stenographer and all statements (oral and written) thereby become a part of the formal record of the Commission proceedings on the Leaburg-Walterville Project. Individuals presenting statements at the meeting will be asked to clearly identify themselves for the record. Individuals, organizations, and agencies with environmental expertise and concerns are encouraged to attend either or both of the meetings and to assist the staff in defining and clarifying the issues to be addressed in the EIS. Concerned parties are encouraged to offer us verbal guidance during public meetings. Speaking time allowed for individuals will be determined before each meeting, based on the number of persons wishing to speak and the approximate amount of time available for the session, but all speakers will be provided at least five minutes to present their views. People choosing not to speak, but wishing to express an opinion, as well as speakers unable to summarize their positions within their allotted time, may submit written statements at the meeting for inclusion in the public record. Written scoping comments may also be filed with the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street NE., Washington, DC 20426, until March 18, 1994. Filings by the applicant and intervenors should contain an original and eight copies. Other interested parties may file original comments without copies, but failure to file an original and eight copies may result in appropriate staff not receiving the benefit of your comments in a timely manner. See 18 CFR 4.34(h). All correspondence should clearly show the following caption on the first page: Leaburg-Walterville Hydroelectric Project, FERC No. 2496, Oregon All those attending the meeting are urged to refrain from making any communication concerning the merits of the application(s) to any member of the Commission staff or the Commission's contractor outside of the established process for developing the record as stated above. Any such communications will be entered by staff into the record of the proceeding. Further, interested persons are reminded of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, requiring participants (as defined in 18 CFR 385.2010) filing documents with the Commission, to serve a copy of the document on each person whose name is on the official service list for this proceeding. See 18 CFR 4.34(b). For further information please contact Edward R. Meyer at (202) 208&hyph;7998. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2504 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
