FR940228-2-00099 FR940228-2-00059 9. Applicant submits that, in the event this application is granted, any adverse impact on investor interests protected by the Act will be minimal, and further, will be more than outweighed by the benefits to investors that will result from permitting applicant to compete for top quality personnel on a more equal footing with its competitors. Applicant competes primarily with banks and other entities that are not investment companies registered under the Act. These organizations are able to offer stock options to employees and have an advantage over applicant in attracting and retaining highly qualified personnel. In order for applicant to compete on a more equal basis with such organizations, it has to have personnel as competent as such organizations, and in order to attract and retain such personnel, applicant must be able to offer comparable compensation packages. 10. For the foregoing reasons, applicant believes that the applicant satisfies the standards for relief set forth in sections 6(c), 17(d), and 23(c) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder. Applicant's Conditions Applicant agrees that any order of the SEC granting the requested relief will be subject to the following conditions: 1. Applicant's directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of applicant, will review periodically the potential impact that the grant or exercise of stock options could have on applicant's earnings and net asset value per share, such review to take place prior to any decisions to grant stock options, but in no event less frequently than annually. Adequate procedures and records will be maintained to permit such review by applicant's directors, and the directors will have the authority to take appropriate steps if necessary to ensure that neither the grant nor the exercise of stock options would have an effect contrary to the interests of investors in these areas. The directors' authority will include, in addition to the authority to prevent or limit the grant of additional stock options, the authority to limit the number of stock options exercised in a given period of time if the directors conclude that the effect on applicant's expenses or earnings would be contrary to the interests of investors or that net asset value per share might be excessively diluted. 2. No more than 85,672 shares will be issued pursuant to the Plan, absent a subsequent exemptive order from the SEC with respect to the remaining 14,328 shares authorized under the Plan. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4422 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
