FR940711-0-00007 FR940711-0-00002 (c) These regulations do not apply to debts or claims arising under the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1 et seq. ); the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq .); the tariff laws of the United States; or to any case where collection of a debt by salary offset is explicitly provided for or prohibited by another statute (e.g., travel advances in 5 U.S.C. 5705 and employee training expenses in 5 U.S.C. 4108). (d) Section 179.207 does not apply to any adjustment to pay arising from an employee's election of coverage or a change in coverage under a Federal benefits program requiring periodic deductions from pay, if the amount to be recovered was accumulated over four pay periods or less. (e) Nothing in these regulations precludes the compromise, suspension, or termination of collection actions, where appropriate, under the standards implementing the Federal Claims Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3711 et seq. , 4 CFR parts 101&hyph;105, 38 CFR 1.900 et seq. ). (f) Nothing in these regulations precludes an employee from requesting a waiver of the debt under applicable statute; under the standards and procedures specified by the Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS); or waiver of salary overpayment under 5 U.S.C. 5584, 10 U.S.C. 2774, or 32 U.S.C. 716, by submitting a subsequent claim to the General Accounting Office in accordance with procedures established by the General Accounting Office. ยง179.203 Definitions. As used in this subpart the following definitions shall apply: Agency means: (1) An Executive Agency as defined by section 105 of title 5, United States Code; (2) A military department as defined by section 102 of title 5, United States Code; (3) An agency or court of the judicial branch including a court as defined in section 610 of title 28, United States Code, the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands and the Judicial Panel and Multidistrict Litigation; (4) An agency of the legislative branch, including the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives; and (5) Other independent establishments that are entities of the Federal Government. Certification means a written debt claim, as prescribed by ยง179.209, that is received from a creditor agency and which requests the paying agency to offset the salary of an employee. Claim See debt. Creditor agency means an agency of the Federal Government to which the debt is owed. For purposes of this part creditor agency includes OPM, unless otherwise noted. Debt means money owed by an employee of the Federal Government to an agency of the Federal Government, from sources which include loans insured or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due the Government from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayments, penalties, damages, interests, fines and forfeitures (except those arising under the Uniform Code of Military Justice) and all other similar sources. Delinquent means the failure to pay an obligation or debt by the date specified in the initial notification or applicable contractual agreement, unless other payment arrangements have been agreed to by OPM and the debtor by that date, or if, at any time thereafter, the debtor fails to satisfy the obligations under a payment agreement with the creditor agency. Director means the Director of OPM or his or her designee. Disposable pay means that part of current basic pay, special pay, incentive pay, retired pay, retainer pay, or, in the case of an employee not entitled to basic pay, other authorized pay remaining after the deduction of any amount required by law to be withheld. OPM shall allow the following deductions, and any others required by law to be withheld, in determining disposable pay subject to salary offset; (1) Federal employment taxes; (2) Amounts mandatorily withheld for the U.S. Soldiers' and Airmen's Home; (3) Fines and forfeitures ordered by a court martial or by a commanding officer; (4) Federal, state or local income taxes no greater than would be the case if the employee claimed all dependents to which he or she is entitled and such additional amounts for which the employee presents evidence of a tax obligation supporting the additional withholding;
