FR941027-2-00081 FR941027-2-00044 Social Security Administration Privacy Act of 1974; Report of New Systems of Records AGENCY: Social Security Administration (SSA), HHS. ACTION: Notification of new systems of records and new routine uses. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(4)), we are notifying the public of our intent to establish two new systems of records. The proposed systems are entitled ``SSA-Initiated Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement (SIPEBES) History File, HHS/SSA/OSR, 09&hyph;60&hyph;0224'' and ``SSA-Initiated Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement Address System for Certain Territories, HHS/SSA/OSR, 09&hyph;60&hyph;0225.'' For convenience we will refer to these systems as the ``History File'' and the ``Territory Address System,'' respectively. We are also proposing to establish routine uses of the information to be maintained in the two systems. The proposed routine uses are discussed below. We invite public comment on this publication. DATES: We filed a report of the proposed systems of records with the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, the House Committee on Government Operations, and the Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, on October 3, 1994. The proposed systems, including the proposed routine uses, will become effective as proposed, without further notice, on November 12, 1994, unless we receive comments on or before that date which would warrant preventing the systems from taking effect. ADDRESSES: Interested individuals may comment on this proposal by writing to the SSA Privacy Officer, 3&hyph;D&hyph;1 Operations Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235. All comments received will be available for public inspection at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Peter J. Benson, Office of Policy, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21235; telephone 410&hyph;965&hyph;1736. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Description of the Proposed Systems of Records Section 1143(c) of the Social Security Act requires SSA to phase in a program, beginning not later than October 1, 1999, for mailing a PEBES annually to everyone: (a) Who has reached at least age 25, (b) Who has had some earnings reported to his/her Social Security number (SSN), (c) Who is not receiving benefits under Title II of the Social Security Act, and (d) For whom SSA can determine a mailing address. The phasing in requires SSA to furnish PEBES by not later than September 30, 1995, to everyone who has reached age 60 by October 1, 1994, who is currently not receiving title II benefits, for whom some earnings have been reported, and for whom a current mailing address can be established; and from October 1, 1994, to September 30, 1999, to everyone who attains age 60 during that period and who meets the other criteria for receiving the PEBES. The PEBES will be sent in the fiscal year (October 1 through September 30) in which the individual attains age 60. The two systems together will enable SSA to mail Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statements (PEBES) to certain individuals, pursuant to section 1143 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b&hyph;13). SSA has previously maintained current address information only for those persons currently entitled to monthly Social Security benefits. Therefore, SSA must obtain address information for everyone to whom SSA will be required to mail a PEBES. As discussed below, SSA will use different sources for obtaining the address information that will be maintained in the systems. A. History File. For persons living within a State of the United States or the District of Columbia, SSA will use address information obtained from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), reflecting addresses taken from Federal income tax returns. SSA will maintain this address information obtained from IRS in the History File. After the PEBES have been released in a given mailing cycle, SSA will inevitably receive inquiries from some individuals about their PEBES, or alleging that they did not receive a PEBES. The History File will enable SSA to verify whether a PEBES was released to that person, when, to what address, and what address source was used. The History File will also permit statistical studies involving the PEBES system. B. Territory Address System. For persons living in Puerto Rico or in a territory of the United States who are not required to file Federal income tax returns, SSA must obtain their addresses from sources other than the IRS. SSA will obtain this information from the Commonwealth and Territorial governments. SSA must maintain these data until needed for a PEBES mailing. We therefore are establishing the Territory Address System of records for that purpose. After an address is identified from the Territory Address System and a PEBES is mailed, the address information will be maintained in the History File. II. Collection and Maintenance of Data in the Systems Information for the History File (each individual's address information, other personal information, and information about the PEBES mailing) will be obtained from IRS and from sources within SSA, respectively. Information for the Territory Address System will be obtained primarily from the Commonwealth and Territorial governments, possibly supplemented from other sources. III. Proposed Routine Use Disclosures of Data in the Systems We are proposing to establish the following routine use disclosures of the information that will be maintained in the two systems. The routine use disclosures are identical for both systems except as noted. Information may be disclosed as follows: 1. Information may be disclosed to contractors and other Federal agencies, as necessary, to assist SSA in the efficient administration of its programs. We contemplate disclosing information under this routine use only in situations in which SSA may enter a contractual or similar agreement with a third party to assist in accomplishing an agency function relating to this system of records. Wage and other information which is subject to the disclosure provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC, 26 U.S.C. 6103) will not be disclosed under this routine use unless disclosure is expressly permitted by the IRC. Contractors will safeguard information disclosed to them consistent with the requirements of the Privacy Act.
