FR940304-2-00088 FR940304-2-00040 INTER-AMERICAN FOUNDATION Privacy Act of 1974; Systems of Records AGENCY: Inter-American Foundation (IAF). ACTION: Notice of systems of records pursuant to Privacy Act of 1974. IAF&hyph;1 System name: Conflict of Interest Files_IAF. System location: Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Employees of Foundation at GS&hyph;13 level and above, Foundation Representatives, contracting personnel, employees with regular contacts with contractors. Categories of records in the system: Title; Date of Appointment; grade, home address; Employment and financial interests, position in organization, nature of financial interest; names and addresses of creditors, character of indebtedness; interests in real property, nature of interest, type of property and address, name, address, and nature of subject matter of other persons supplying information. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information is used ``in house.'' Notwithstanding the above, access may also be gained under the following conditions: (a) In the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether federal, state, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statutes, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto. (b) A record from the system of records may be disclosed as a ``routine use'' to a federal, state or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. (c) A record from this system of records may be disclosed to a federal agency, in response to this request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefits by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper Files. Retrievability: Manual. Identifier_Name. Safeguards: Filed in locked, steel cabinets; records available to authorized persons only. Retention and disposal: Destroyed six years after employee departure. System manager(s) and address: General Counsel, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Notification procedure: Contact the General Counsel. Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Record access procedures: IAF access procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF Records.
