FR941222-2-00131 FR941222-2-00100 B. Certifications and Exhibits Applications must also include the following: (1) Drug-Free Workplace Certification. (2) Form SF-LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, if applicable. (3) Form HUD&hyph;2280, Applicant/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report. V. Corrections to Deficient Applications After the submission deadline date, HUD will screen each application to determine whether it is complete. If an application lacks certain technical items or contains a technical error, such as an incorrect signatory, HUD will notify the applicant in writing that it has 14 calendar days from the date of HUD's written notification to cure the technical deficiency. If the applicant fails to submit the missing material within the 14-day cure period, HUD will disqualify the application. This 14-day cure period applies only to non-substantive deficiencies or errors. Any deficiency capable of cure will involve only items not necessary for HUD to assess the merits of an application against the factors specified in this NOFA. VI. Other Matters Environmental Review In accordance with 40 CFR 1508.4 of the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality and 24 CFR 50.20(b) of the HUD regulations, the policies and procedures in this document relate only to the provision of research, training and technical assistance which do not result in physical change and therefore are categorically excluded from the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. Federalism Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies and procedures contained in this notice will not have substantial direct effects on States or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the federal government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. As a result, the notice is not subject to review under the Order. Specifically, the notice solicits participation in an effort to provide assistance to institutions of higher education for establishing and carrying out research and outreach activities addressing the problems of urban areas. The COPCs established under this notice will work with local communities to help resolve urban problems. The notice does not impinge upon the relationships between the Federal government and State or local governments. Impact on the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that this notice will likely have a beneficial impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being. The assistance to be provided by the funding under this NOFA is expected to help local residents to become self-sufficient by improving living conditions and standards. Accordingly, since the impact on the family is beneficial, no further review is considered necessary. Documentation and Public Access Requirements: HUD Reform Act HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See 24 CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these requirements.) Prohibition Against Advance Information on Funding Decisions HUD's regulation implementing section 103 of the HUD Reform Act is codified at 24 CFR part 4, and applies to this funding competition. The requirements of the rule continue to apply until the announcement of the selection of successful applicants. HUD employees involved in the review of applications and in the making of funding decisions are restrained by part 4 from providing advance information to any person (other than an authorized employee of HUD) concerning funding decisions, or from otherwise giving any applicant an unfair competitive advantage. Persons who apply for assistance in this competition should confine their inquiries to the subject areas permitted under 24 CFR part 4. Applicants who have questions should contact the HUD Office of Ethics (202) 708&hyph;3815. (This is not a toll-free number.) The Office of Ethics can provide information of a general nature to HUD employees, as well. However, a HUD employee who has specific program questions, such as whether particular subject matter can be discussed with persons outside the Department, should contact his or her Field counsel, or Headquarters counsel for the program to which the question pertains. Prohibition Against Lobbying of HUD Personnel Section 13 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3537b) contains two provisions dealing with efforts to influence HUD's decisions with respect to financial assistance. The first imposes disclosure requirements on those who are typically involved in these efforts_those who pay others to influence the award of assistance or the taking of a management action by the Department and those who are paid to provide the influence. The second restricts the payment of fees to those who are paid to influence the award of HUD assistance, if the fees are tied to the number of housing units received or are based on the amount of assistance received, or if they are contingent upon the receipt of assistance. The rule implementing section is codified at 24 CFR part 86. If readers are involved in any efforts to influence the Department in these ways, they are urged to read part 86, particularly the examples contained in Appendix A of the regulation. Any questions about the rule should be directed to the Office of Ethics, Room 2158, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410&hyph;3000. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;3815 TDD: (202) 708&hyph;1112. These are not toll-free numbers. Forms necessary for compliance with the rule may be obtained from the local HUD office. Prohibition Against Lobbying Activities The use of funds awarded under this NOFA is subject to the disclosure requirements and prohibitions of Section 319 of the Department of Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S.C. 1352) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 87. These authorities prohibit recipients of federal contracts, grants, or loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative Branches of the Federal Government in connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan. The prohibition also covers the awarding of contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans unless the recipient has made an acceptable certification regarding lobbying. Under 24 CFR part 87, applicants, recipients, and subrecipients of assistance exceeding $100,000 must certify that no federal funds have been or will be spent on lobbying activities in connection with the assistance. Protection of Human Subjects 45 CFR, part 46, Subtitle A on the protection of human subjects does not apply to the COPC program because the research activities to be conducted under the program are only incidentally regulated by the Department solely as part of it's broader responsibility to regulate certain types of activities whether research or non-research in nature. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 5307 note. Dated: December 5, 1994. Michael A. Stegman, Assistant Secretary for Policy Development and Research. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31419 Filed 12&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;62&hyph;P ␣
