FR940712-2-00107 FR940712-2-00073 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration Environmental Impact Statement; North Carolina Global TransPark Located at the Kinston Regional Jetport; Kinston, North Carolina AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Federal Aviation Administration in cooperation with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers announces that it will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the proposed North Carolina Global TransPark (GTP) located at the Kinston Regional Jetport. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas M. Roberts, Federal Aviation Administration, Atlanta Airports District Office, 1680 Phoenix Parkway, Suite 101, College Park, GA 30349 (404) 994&hyph;5306. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Federal Aviation Administration in cooperation with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will prepare an environmental impact statement for the Global TransPark and Section 404 Permit application. The EIS will investigate the expansion of the existing Kinston Regional Jetport to accommodate the GTP. The proposed improvements consist of providing for the construction and operation of a new 11,500-foot runway, together with related taxiways, and other related facilities, along with land acquisition and land use planning. The proposed project also includes other primary infrastructure, such as roadway improvements, areas for industrial development and a central cargo facility to move products in and out of the complex. The EIS is anticipated to address impacts on wetlands, historic properties, and so forth. The EIS will also evaluate cumulative impacts anticipated to occur as a result of the implementation of other foreseeable improvements at the GTP in the future. The North Carolina Global TransPark Authority (Authority) issued a Request For Proposals inviting local governments and other public and/or private groups interested in being the site for GTP to present written proposals of their qualifications of the site and surrounding area. The RFP requested that the proponent furnish information on environmental factors as well as services, quality of life, zoning and permitting, and financial participations on the site and area. Eleven proposals were received and, following an extensive review, the Lenoir County site (Kinston Regional Jetport) was identified as the preferred site. An Airport Master Plan was developed for the GPT which investigated several runway layouts and a draft environmental assessment was prepared and coordinated with Federal and state environmental agencies for their review and comments. PUBLIC SCOPING: The Federal Aviation Administration and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will hold a scoping meeting to solicit input from Federal, state and local agencies which have jurisdiction by law or have specific expertise with respect to any environmental impacts associated with the project. In addition, the public may submit written comments on the scope of the environmental study to the address identified in FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. A Public Notice issued at a later date will provide the date, time and place of the scoping meeting and the period for written comments. Issued in Southern Region, Atlanta, Georgia, June 28, 1994. Samuel F. Austin, Manager, Atlanta Airports District Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16830 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
