FR941003-2-00095 FR941003-2-00049 (e)&hyph;(h) (Reserved). (i) Office of the Under Secretary for International Trade . (1) Thirty positions at GS&hyph;12 and above in specialized fields relating to international trade or commerce in units under the jurisdiction of the Under Secretary for International Trade. Incumbents will be assigned to advisory rather than to operating duties, except as operating and administrative responsibility may be required for the conduct of pilot studies or special projects. Employment under this authority will not exceed 2 years for an individual appointee. (2) Not to exceed 40 positions of Managers and Deputy Managers of International Trade Fairs and Exhibit Programs in foreign countries when the duties require a considerable portion of the employee's time to be spent in foreign countries. (3) Not to exceed 30 positions in grades GS&hyph;12 through GS&hyph;15, to be filled by persons qualified as industrial or marketing specialists; who possess specialized knowledge and experience in industrial production, industrial operations and related problems, market structure and trends, retail and wholesale trade practices, distribution channels and costs, or business financing and credit procedures applicable to one or more of the current segments of U.S. industry served by the Under Secretary for International Trade, and the subordinate components of his organization which are involved in Domestic Business matters. Appointments under this authority may be made for a period of not to exceed 2 years and may, with prior approval of OPM, be extended for an additional period of 2 years. (j) National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . (1) Subject to prior approval of OPM, which shall be contingent upon a showing of inadequate housing facilities, meteorological aid positions at the following stations in Alaska: Barrow, Bethal, Kotzebue, McGrath, Northway, and St. Paul Island. (2) (Reserved). (3) All civilian positions on vessels operated by the National Ocean Service. (4) Temporary positions required in connection with the surveying operations of the field service of the National Ocean Service. Appointment to such positions shall not exceed 8 months in any 1 calendar year. (k) (Reserved). (l) National Telecommunication and Information Administration . (1) Seventeen professional positions in grades GS&hyph;13 through GS&hyph;15. Section 213.3115␣Department of Labor (a) Office of the Secretary . (1) Chairman and five members, Employees' Compensation Appeals Board. (2) Chairman and eight members, Benefits Review Board. (b) Bureau of Labor Statistics . (1) Not to exceed 500 positions involving part-time and intermittent employment for field survey and enumeration work in the Bureau of Labor Statistics. This authority is applicable to positions where the salary is equivalent to GS&hyph;6 and below. Employment under this authority may not exceed 1,600 work hours in a service year. No new appointment may be made under this authority after December 31, 1984. (c) (Reserved). (d) Employment and Training Administration . (1) Not to exceed 10 positions of Supervisory Manpower Development Specialist and Manpower Development Specialist, GS&hyph;7/15, in the Division of Indian and Native American Programs, when filled by the appointment of persons of one-fourth or more Indian blood. These positions require direct contact with Indian tribes and communities for the development and administration of comprehensive employment and training programs. Section 213.3116␣Department of Health and Human Services (a) (Reserved). (b) Public Health Service . (1) Not to exceed five positions a year of Medical Technologist Resident, GS&hyph;644&hyph;7, in the Blood Bank Department, Clinical Center, of the National Institutes of Health. Appointments under this authority will not exceed 1 year. (2) Positions at Government sanatoria when filled by patients during treatment or convalescence. (3) (Reserved). (4) Positions concerned with problems in preventive medicine financed or participated in by the Department of Health and Human Services and a cooperating State, county, municipality, incorporated organization, or an individual in which at least one-half of the expense is contributed by the participating agency either in salaries, quarters, materials, equipment, or other necessary elements in the carrying on of the work. (5) Medical and dental interns, externs, and residents; and student nurses. (6) Positions of scientific, professional, or technical nature when filled by bona fide students enrolled in academic institutions: Provided , that the work performed in the agency is to be used by the student as a basis for completing certain academic requirements required by an educational institution to qualify for a scientific, professional, or technical field. This authority shall be applied only to positions with compensation fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;5356. (7) Not to exceed 50 positions associated with health screening programs for refugees. (8) All positions in the Public Health Service and other positions in the Department of Health and Human Services directly and primarily related to providing services to Indians when filled by the appointment of Indians. The Secretary of Health and Human Services is responsible for defining the term ``Indian.'' (9) Twelve positions of Therapeutic Radiologic Technician Trainee in the Radiation Oncology Branch, National Cancer Institute. Employment under this authority shall not exceed 1 year for any individual. This authority shall be applied only to positions with compensation fixed under 5 U.S.C. 5351&hyph;5356.
