FR941212-0-00134 FR941212-0-00019 (d) ITGBL personal property carrier approvals by area/code. (e) Local packing and containerization contracts. Subpart L_Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Claims Claims Against NAF Activities §536.201 General. This subpart sets forth the procedures to be followed in the settlement and payment of claims by employees of nonappropriated fund activities for the loss of or damage to personal property incident to their employment, and for claims generated by the acts or omissions of the employees of such funds. §536.202 Claims by employees for losses incident to employment. Claims by employees for the loss of or damage to personal property incident to employment will be processed in the manner prescribed by subpart K and will be paid from nonappropriated funds in accordance with §536.207. §536.203 Claims generated by the acts or omissions of employees. (a) Processing. Claims arising out of acts or omissions of employees of nonappropriated funds activities will be processed and settled in the manner specified for similar claims against the United States except that payment will be made from nonappropriated funds in accordance with AR 215&hyph;1, and §536.207. Relevant procedural requirements of pertinent subparts of this part, as stated below, will be followed except as provided in §§536.206 and 536.207. However, when the NAFI is protected by a commercial insurer, for example, flying and parachute clubs, the claim will be referred to the insurer as outlined in paragraph (e) of this section. (1) Claims arising within the United States, its territories, commonwealths, or possessions. Such claims will be processed in the manner prescribed by subparts C, D or E as appropriate. (2) Claims arising outside the United States, its territories, commonwealths, or possessions. Such claims will be processed in accordance with the provisions of applicable SOFA or in the manner prescribed by subparts C, D or E as appropriate. (b) Reporting and investigation. Such claims will be investigated in accordance with subpart B of this part and AR 215&hyph;1. (1) Reporting. All incidents involving personal injury, death, or property damage resulting from falls, falling objects, or accidents of like nature, occurring in post exchanges, bowling lanes, officers and noncommissioned officers open messes, or other facilities located on land or situated in a building used by an activity of the DA that employs personnel compensated from nonappropriated funds, should be reported immediately to the officer in charge of the nonappropriated fund activity concerned. The report should be made by the employee who initially received notice of the incident, regardless of the fact that the individual involved denies sustaining personal injury or property damage. Upon receipt of the report of the incident, the officer in charge of the nonappropriated fund activity concerned will transmit the report to the installation or other appropriate claims officer for investigation. (2) Investigation. (i) As soon as practicable in the investigation of a claim generated by a nonappropriated fund activity, a determination will be made as to whether the claim is cognizable under this section. (ii) Claim files that relate to claims determined to be cognizable under this section will be marked with the symbol ``NAF'' immediately following the claimant's name to preclude erroneous payment from appropriated funds. This symbol will also be included in the subject line of all correspondence. (iii) Claims exceeding $15,000. When a claims approval or settlement authority receives a claim against a nonappropriated fund activity, other than the Army and Air Force Exchange Service (AAFES), that exceeds $15,000, he or she will forward a copy to both USARCS and the Army Central Insurance Fund, HQDA, ATTN: CFSC&hyph;RM&hyph;I, Room 1240, 2461 Eisenhower Avenue, Alexandria, VA 22331&hyph;0508. A copy of all tort claims against AAFES will be forwarded to Headquarters, AAFES, ATTN: General Counsel, P.O. Box 660202, Dallas, TX 75266&hyph;0202. (iv) Customer complaints. Customer complaints other than at AAFES activities will be settled under the provisions of AR 215&hyph;1 rather than under the provisions of this section. AAFES generated complaints will be handled in accordance with Exchange Service Manual 57&hyph;2. (v) Commercial insurance. (A) Normally a claims investigation under subpart B will not be conducted but the claims officer will refer the claim to the insurer and furnish copies as indicated in paragraph (c) of this section. Assistance will be furnished to the insurer as needed. Copies of any other required investigations may be furnished to the insurer. (B) The status of the claim will be ascertained at key intervals to ensure that progress is being made, negotiations are proper, and to close the file. The Commander, USARCS will be advised of any problems. (C) If requested by either insurer or NAFI officials, the appropriate claims authority will assist in or conduct negotiations. (D) Where NAFI vehicles are required to be covered by insurance in foreign countries, the insurer will process the claim. However, if the insurer refuses to settle the claim in timely manner or is insolvent, the claim may be processed under subpart J procedures where applicable. §536.204 Persons generating liability. Claims resulting from the acts or omissions of the following classes of persons are cognizable under this section: (a) Civilian employees of nonappropriated fund activities whose salaries are paid from nonappropriated funds. (b) Active duty military personnel while performing off-duty part-time work and for which they are compensated from nonappropriated funds. (c) A claims approval or settlement authority will ask the Commander, USARCS for an advisory opinion prior to settling any claim where the person whose conduct generated the claim does not clearly fall within the above listed categories. §536.205 Claims payable from appropriated funds. Claims payable from appropriated funds will not be considered under this section or paid from nonappropriated funds. Such claims include those resulting from_ (a) Acts or omissions of military personnel while performing assigned military duties in connection with nonappropriated activities. (b) Acts or omissions of civilian employees paid from appropriate funds in connection with nonappropriated activities. (c) Negligent maintenance of a facility used by a nonappropriated fund activity but for which the command concerned is responsible. (d) Temporary use of a nonappropriated fund facility by an appropriated fund activity. (e) Operation of Government vehicles dispatched from motor pools on authorized missions for nonappropriated fund activities when the driver is a member or civilian employee of the DA. §536.206 Settlement. (a) Settlement. Claims cognizable under this section and processed under subparts C, D, E, J or K will be settled by claims authorities authorized to settle claims under those subparts subject to the same monetary limitations and limitations on denial authority, except that TJAG, TAJAG, and the Commander, USARCS, or designee, may settle such claims without regard to monetary limitations. (b) Finality of settlement. The determination of a claims settlement authority on a claim cognizable under this section is final and conclusive. However, a claim processed under subpart C may be appealed in accordance with §536.51(d), and claims processed under subparts D, E, J or K may be reconsidered in accordance with the paragraphs concerning reconsideration in those subparts. §536.207 Payment. (a) Transmission for payment. When a claim for loss of or damage to household goods or hold baggage shipped or stored by an AAFES or NAFI employee is considered under this section and determined to be meritorious in whole or in part, the approval or settlement authority will transmit the entire claims file to the appropriate disbursing office (see paragraph (b) of this section) for payment. When any other claim is considered under this section and determined to be meritorious in whole or in part, the approval or settlement authority will transmit to the appropriate disbursing office the original and one copy of_ (1) The claim form. (2) The action by the approval or settlement authority. (3) The settlement agreement, if required by subpart B. (b) Disbursing offices. Normally, claims settled under this section will be transmitted for payment as indicated below. (1) Claims over $2,500 generated by AAFES activities will be transmitted to Headquarters, Army and Air Force Exchange Service, ATTN: Comptroller Division, Insurance Branch, P.O. Box 660202, Dallas, TX 75266&hyph;0202.
