FR940819-0-00045 FR940819-0-00016 IV. Substances for Which Testing Must Be Conducted. Each employer shall test each employee who performs a safety-sensitive function for evidence of marijuana, cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), and amphetamines during each test required by section V of this appendix. As part of a reasonable cause drug testing program established pursuant to this part, employers may test for drugs in addition to those specified in this part only with approval granted by the FAA under 49 CFR part 40 and for substances for which the Department of Health and Human Services has established an approved testing protocol and positive threshold. V. Types of Drug Testing Required. Each employer shall conduct the following types of testing in accordance with the procedures set forth in this appendix and the DOT ``Procedures for Transportation Workplace Drug Testing Programs'' (49 CFR part 40): A. Pre-employment Testing. 1. Prior to the first time an individual performs a safety-sensitive function for an employer, the employer shall require the individual to undergo testing for prohibited drug use. 2. An employer is permitted to require pre-employment testing of an individual if the following criteria are met: (a) The individual previously performed a covered function for the employer; (b) The employer removed the individual from the employer's random testing program conducted under this appendix for reasons other than a verified positive test result on an FAA-mandated drug test or a refusal to submit to such testing; and (c) The individual will be returning to the performance of a safety-sensitive function. 3. No employer shall allow an individual required to undergo pre-employment testing under section V, paragraphs A.1 or A.2 of this appendix to perform a safety-sensitive function unless the employer has received a verified negative drug test result for the individual. 4. The employer shall advise each individual applying to perform a safety-sensitive function at the time of application that the individual will be required to undergo pre-employment testing to determine the presence of marijuana, cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), and amphetamines, or a metabolite of those drugs in the individual's system. The employer shall provide this same notification to each individual required by the employer to undergo pre-employment testing under section V, paragraph A.(2) of this appendix. B. Periodic Testing. Each employee who performs a safety-sensitive function for an employer and who is required to undergo a medical examination under part 67 of this chapter shall submit to a periodic drug test. The employee shall be tested for the presence of marijuana, cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), and amphetamines, or a metabolite of those drugs during the first calendar year of implementation of the employer's antidrug program. The tests shall be conducted in conjunction with the first medical evaluation of the employee or in accordance with an alternative method for collecting periodic test specimens detailed in an employer's approved antidrug program. An employer may discontinue periodic testing of its employees after the first calendar year of implementation of the employer's antidrug program when the employer has implemented an unannounced testing program based on random selection of employees. C. Random Testing. Each employer shall randomly select employees who perform a safety-sensitive function for the employer for unannounced drug testing. The employer shall randomly select employees for unannounced testing for the presence of marijuana, cocaine, opiates, phencyclidine (PCP), and amphetamines, or a metabolite of those drugs in an employee's system using a random number table or a computer-based, number generator that is matched with an employee's social security number, payroll identification number, or any other alternative method approved by the FAA. (1) During the first 12 months following implementation of unannounced testing based on random selection pursuant to this appendix, an employer shall meet the following conditions:
