FR940105-2-00116 FR940105-2-00055 [Release No. 34&hyph;33400; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;47] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Listing Standards for Non-U.S. Companies December 29, 1993. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 16, 1993, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed modification to NYSE policy would amend Paragraph 103 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual (``Non-U.S. Companies'') to permit non-U.S. issuers to distribute summary annual reports to U.S. holders, under certain circumstances. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The proposed modification to policy recognizes an amendment, adopted in 1990, to the U.K. Companies Act which permits issuers listed on the London Stock Exchange to provide an option to holders of their ordinary shares to receive a full annual report or a summary annual report. The Companies Act sets forth the specific financial and management information that must be contained in the summary reports. The Companies Act, as amended, also requires that shareholders who receive only the summary report be given the opportunity, at any time, to obtain the full annual report from the company and that companies must notify shareholders annually of this right and how the report might be obtained. When the program was instituted in the U.K. in 1990, shareholders received both reports and notice of the available option with respect to future reports. Certain U.K. issuers are now seeking permission from the NYSE to provide holders of listed ADRs with summary reports in place of full annual reports if the holders do not object. The proposed modification to policy is necessary to grant permission since current policy requires all listed companies to submit to shareholders an annual report with financial information as detailed in Paragraph 203.01 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual.
