FR940525-2-00128 FR940525-2-00064 NRC Project Director: Herbert N. Berkow. Virginia Electric and Power Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;280 and 50&hyph;281, Surry Power Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Surry County, Virginia Date of amendment request: April 19, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed changes will modify the surveillance frequency of the control rod motion testing from monthly to quarterly. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Specifically, operation of Surry Power Station in accordance with the proposed Technical Specifications changes will not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability of occurrence or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed change to the surveillance frequency for control rods does not increase the probability of an accident occurrence. Surveillance testing is a means of determining control rod operability and does not of itself contribute to control rod inoperability. Although reduced testing also implies a less frequent confirmation of mechanical operability, operational experience has established that the reduced testing does not decrease plant safety. Furthermore, reduced frequency testing reduces the probability of an inadvertent operational transient or misaligned control rod. There are other means available (e.g., Individual Rod Position Indicators, flux distributions anomalies) to detect a misaligned control rod. Reducing the frequency of surveillance testing will decrease the possibility of finding an inoperable control rod. Industry experience has shown that most inoperable (stuck) control rods are identified during rod drop testing and unit startup after refueling outages. Therefore, the NRC has determined that a reduced frequency surveillance test during power is acceptable to determine control rod operability (trippable). The control rods will continue to be operated in the same manner during the surveillance testing and will be available to shutdown the reactor if a Reactor Protection System trip setpoint is reached. The operability requirements, alignment and insertion limits for the control rods remain unchanged. Since the control rods remain available (trippable) to perform their intended safety function, testing of the control rods at the proposed reduced frequency will not increase the consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed reduced frequency testing of the control rods does not change the way the Control Rod Drive System or the control rods are operated. The reduced frequency of testing of the control rods does not alter the operation of the Control Rod Drive System or the control rods ability to perform their intended safety function. Therefore, the reduced frequency testing of the control rods does not generate any new accident precursors. In fact, industry experience has shown that this surveillance testing may result in inadvertent reactor trips, dropped control rods, or unnecessary challenges to safety systems. Therefore, the possibility of a new or different kind of accident than previously evaluated is not created by the proposed changes in surveillance frequency of the control rods. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed reduced frequency testing of the control rods does not change the control rod operability requirement or the way the Control Rod Drive System is operated. NUREG&hyph;1366, concluded that most stuck control rods are discovered during plant startup after refueling or during control rod drop testing. Therefore, routine surveillance testing of the control rods at the proposed reduced frequency is considered adequate to identify inoperable (stuck) control rods during operation. The reduced surveillance requirements do not affect the margin of safety in that the operability requirements remained unchanged and the existing safety analysis, which assumes the most reactive control rod sticks out of the core during accident scenarios, remains bounding. Therefore, no margins of safety are adversely affected. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Swem Library, College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Virginia 23185. Attorney for licensee: Michael W. Maupin, Esq., Hunton and Williams, Riverfront Plaza, East Tower, 951 E. Byrd Street, Richmond, Virginia 23219. NRC Project Director: Herbert N. Berkow. Previously Published Notices of Consideration of Issuance of Amendments to Facility Operating Licenses, Proposed no Signficant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for a Hearing The following notices were previously published as separate individual notices. The notice content was the same as above. They were published as individual notices either because time did not allow the Commission to wait for this biweekly notice or because the action involved exigent circumstances. They are repeated here because the biweekly notice lists all amendments issued or proposed to be issued involving no significant hazards consideration. For details, see the individual notice in the Federal Register on the day and page cited. This notice does not extend the notice period of the original notice. Northeast Nuclear Energy Company, et al., Docket No. 50&hyph;336, Millstone Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 2, New London County, Connecticut Date of amendment request: April 14, 1994, as supplemented April 20, 1994.
