FR940527-2-00023 FR940527-2-00019 Procurement List Proposed Additions AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Proposed additions to procurement list. SUMMARY: The Committee has received proposals to add to the Procurement List services to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. COMMENTS MUST BE RECEIVED ON OR BEFORE: June 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice is published pursuant to 41 U.S.C. 47(a) (2) and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2&hyph;3. Its purpose is to provide interested persons an opportunity to submit comments on the possible impact of the proposed actions. If the Committee approves the proposed additions, all entities of the Federal Government (except as otherwise indicated) will be required to procure the services listed below from nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were: 1. The action will not result in any additional reporting, recordkeeping or other compliance requirements for small entities other than the small organizations that will furnish the services to the Government. 2. The action does not appear to have a severe economic impact on current contractors for the services. 3. The action will result in authorizing small entities to furnish the services to the Government. 4. There are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the objectives of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c) in connection with the services proposed for addition to the Procurement List. Comments on this certification are invited. Commenters should identify the statement(s) underlying the certification on which they are providing additional information. The following services have been proposed for addition to Procurement List for production by the nonprofit agencies listed: Food Service Attendant, Arizona National Guard, Tucson Air National Guard Base, Tucson, Arizona. NPA: Goodwill Industries of Tucson, Tucson, Arizona. Janitorial/Custodial, Hazard Park U.S. Army Reserve Center, Los Angeles, California. NPA: Lincoln Training Center & Rehabilitation Workshop, South El Monte, California. Janitorial/Custodial, for the following Asheville, North Carolina locations: Asheville Federal Building, Patton Avenue & N. French Broad Avenue. Federal Building & U.S. Courthouse, Otis & Post Streets. NPA: Goodwill Industries of Northwest North Carolina, Inc. Winston-Salem, North Carolina. E.R. Alley, Jr., Deputy Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13078 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;33&hyph;P
