FR941212-0-00005 FR941212-0-00003 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 10 CFR Part 1004 RIN 1901&hyph;AA62 Freedom of Information AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy (DOE) amends its regulations concerning its policies on disclosure of information. The purpose of this rulemaking is to state the agency's policy on contractor records requested under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). EFFECTIVE DATE: January 11, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Abel Lopez, Office of General Counsel, GC&hyph;80, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;8618. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Freedom of Information Reform Act of 1986, Pub. L. No. 99&hyph;570, 100 Stat. 3207&hyph;49, requires that each agency promulgate regulations to establish procedures and guidelines to process requests received under FOIA. This final rule amends DOE's FOIA regulation and supersedes DOE Order 1700.1 to state the DOE policy on access to contractor records. Under existing law, information becomes part of the agency's records only when the Government either created or obtained the information and has control over the information at the time of a FOIA request. See, e.g., Department of Justice v. Tax Analysts, 492 U.S. 136, 142&hyph;145 (1989). The Supreme Court has reasoned that FOIA imposes no obligations on agencies to create or retain records and that use of federal funds and the Government's potential access to records do not necessarily transform records into ``agency records'' subject to FOIA, unless the agency in fact obtains the records. Forsham v. Harris, 445 U.S. 169, 180&hyph;186 (1980), Kissinger v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, 445 U.S. 136, 151&hyph;153 (1980). Nonetheless, as reflected in DOE Order 1700.1, DOE's past policy, however, has been to disclose information owned by DOE, whether or not the Government has actual possession of the information at the time of the request. Under DOE Order 1700.1, moreover, records not owned by DOE pursuant to a contract are disclosed under FOIA only if the DOE has possession of them. The court in Committee to Bridge the Gap v. Department of Energy, No. CV 90&hyph;3568&hyph;ER (C.D. Cal. Oct 15, 1991), held that the DOE's policy on contractor records constitutes a substantive rule under the Administrative Procedure Act, and, therefore, DOE's treatment of contractor records should be promulgated through formal notice and comment rulemaking. Thus, this final rule supersedes DOE Order 1700.1 and establishes DOE's policy to provide for more public access to information than is mandated by existing law. On October 23, 1991, DOE published in the Federal Register (56 FR 55036), a proposal to amend the regulations that included a statement of the DOE policy on contractor records. The proposed policy provided that, with certain exceptions, contractor records that were the property of the Government were subject to disclosure under FOIA, whether or not DOE had possession of the documents at the time of a request. Forty-three comments were received by the agency on the proposed policy. The comments criticizing the proposed policy on contractor records broke into the two groups. One group of commentors took exception to the proposed DOE contractor records policy because it extended the scope of documents available under FOIA beyond that which is required by existing case law to include records not in the possession of DOE. These commentors stated that, regardless of ownership, DOE should apply FOIA only to records in the possession of DOE in order to protect the confidentiality of certain information. The second group of commentors opined that since government funds are expended to create contractor records, all such records should be made available to the public under FOIA. DOE has reviewed all the comments and has determined to adopt the contractor records policy proposed in October 1991 as modified below as a final rule. Although DOE appreciates the views of both groups of commentors regarding access to contractor records, the contractor records policy adopted by DOE promotes openness in government and continues to provide the public access to DOE contractor records. Some members of the public commented that the proposed rule would subject the public's right of access to contractor records to the vicissitudes of DOE's policies regarding contractual provisions on ownership of records. However, DOE's management and operating contracts provide that most records acquired or generated by the contractor in its performance of the contract are the property of the government. Additionally, the government has a general right to inspect, copy, and audit records acquired or generated by the contractor in connection with contract performance, including those records not owned by the government. The new rule makes clear that even were a requested record not owned under the contract by the government, DOE can exercise its contractual rights to acquire possession of the record if necessary to maximize public disclosure of records concerning health, safety, and the environment. The new policy also recognizes the necessity to maintain the confidentiality of certain privileged and commercially sensitive information to protect legitimate contractor interests and the integrity of the Government's operations. The contractor records policy adopted today is not intended to affect any records management responsibilities of a DOE contractor under the Records Disposal Act, 44 U.S.C. ยง3301. DOE expects to republish in the Federal Register the remainder of the revisions proposed as a Final Rule in the near future. Procedural Information Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this action is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the Executive Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' (58 FR 51735, October 4, 1993). Accordingly, this action was not subject to review under that executive order by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of Management and Budget. Executive Order 12612 Executive Order 12612 requires that regulations or rules be reviewed for direct effects on States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or in the distribution of power among various levels of government. If there are sufficient substantial direct effects, then Executive Order 12612 requires preparation of a federalism assessment to be used in all decisions involved in promulgating or implementing a regulation or rule. Today's regulatory action does not affect any traditional State function. There are therefore no substantial effects requiring evaluation or assessment under Executive Order 12612. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis This regulation was reviewed under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq ., which requires preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis for any regulations that will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. DOE finds that sections 603 and 604 of that Act do not apply to this rule because it will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Thus the preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis is not warranted.
