FR940721-2-00085 FR940721-2-00045 Fish and Wildlife Service Notice of Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Dismal Swamp Southeastern Shrew for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces the availability for public review of a draft Recovery Plan for the Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew. This species is known to occur in the Dismal Swamp of southeastern Virginia and adjacent North Carolina. The service solicits review and comment from the public on this Draft Plan. DATES: Comments on the draft Recovery Plan must be received September 6, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft Recovery Plan can obtain a copy from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Region Five, 300 Westgate Center Drive, Hadley, Massachusetts 01035&hyph;9589, telephone (413) 253&hyph;8628. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary J. Parkin (see Addresses ). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare Recovery Plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery Plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .) requires the development of Recovery Plans for listed species unless such a Plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during Recovery Plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised Recovery Plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing Recovery Plans. The document submitted for review is the draft Dismal Swamp Southeastern Shrew ( Sorex longirostris fisheri ) Recovery Plan. This new subspecies, listed as threatened in 1986, is known to occur within the Great Dismal Swamp of Virginia and North Carolina. Originally extending over 2200 square miles, the swamp now comprises fewer than 320 square miles. Some 189 square miles of habitat are protected within the Great Dismal Swamp National Wildlife Refuge and adjacent North Carolina State Park land. Known habitat outside Refuge and Park boundaries is being list to agriculture, silviculture, and urbanization. Within the Refuge, changes in the swamp's hydrologic regime are resulting in succession to a more mesic habitat type, possibly allowing invasion by an upland subspecies ( Sorex longirostris longirostris ), which could ultimately result in genetic extinction of S.1. fisheri through interbreeding. New findings indicate that the Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew may be more widespread than previously thought; this possibility is taken into account by defining dual recovery objectives: (1) To confirm that this shrew subspecies is widely distributed throughout the coastal plain of southeastern Virginia and northeastern North Carolina and is relatively free from threats; or (2) to perpetuate self-sustaining Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew populations within more restricted areas in the wild. The attainment of either of these objectives would enable the shrew's removal from the Federal list of endangered and threatened wildlife and plants. Conditions that must be met to delist the Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew include either (1) confirmation of the shrew's range, and, if studies confirm that it is restricted to areas of the Great Dismal Swamp; (2) maintenance of six ``shrew conservation areas'' of at least 5,000 acres each; (3) management of hydrological conditions within shrew habitat; (4) effective long-term management of other factors affecting the species; and (5) sufficient data to indicate that ``genetic swamping'' by S.1. fisheri is not occurring. These conditions will be met through distributional and taxonomic studies, hydrological studies, implementation of management beneficial to the shrew within Refuge and Park boundaries, protection of shrew habitat outside Refuge boundaries, and a public information program. The draft Recovery Plan is being submitted for agency review. After consideration of comments received during the review period, the Plan will be submitted for final approval. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the Recovery Plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the Plan. Authority The authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: July 12, 1994. Ralph Pisapia, Acting Regional Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17744 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
