FR940525-1-00039 FR940525-1-00007 1. Items with a 100 percent conversion factor. A 100 percent conversion factor applies to direct credit substitutes, which include guarantees, or equivalent instruments, backing financial claims such as outstanding securities, loans, and other financial liabilities, or that back off-balance sheet items that require capital under the risk-based capital framework. Direct credit substitutes include, for example, financial standby letters of credit, or other equivalent irrevocable undertakings or surety arrangements, that guarantee repayment of financial obligations such as: commercial paper, tax-exempt securities, commercial or individual loans or debt obligations, or standby or commercial letters of credit. As described in section III.B.5 of this appendix A, purchases of subordinated securities or of servicing rights may give rise to a direct credit substitute. Direct credit substitutes also include the acquisition of risk participations in bankers acceptances and standby letters of credit, since both of these transactions, in effect, constitute a guarantee by the acquiring banking organization that the underlying account party (obligor) will repay its obligation to the originating, or issuing, institution. 44 (Standby letters of credit that are performance-related are discussed below and have a credit conversion factor of 50 percent.) 44 Credit-equivalent amounts of acquisitions of risk participations are assigned to the risk category appropriate to the account party obligor, or if relevant, the guarantor or nature of the collateral. The full amount of a banking organization's exposure under a direct credit substitute is converted at 100 percent and the resulting credit-equivalent amount is assigned to the risk category appropriate to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of the collateral. In the case of a direct credit substitute in which a risk participation 45 has been conveyed, the full amount of the banking organization's exposure is still converted at 100 percent. However, the credit-equivalent amount that has been conveyed is assigned to whichever risk category is lower: the risk category appropriate to the obligor, after giving effect to any relevant guarantees or collateral, or the risk category appropriate to the institution acquiring the participation. Any remainder is assigned to the risk category appropriate to the obligor, guarantor, or collateral. For example, the portion of a direct credit substitute conveyed as a risk participation to a U.S. domestic depository institution or foreign bank is assigned to the risk category appropriate to claims guaranteed by those institutions, that is, the 20 percent risk category. 46 This approach recognizes that such conveyances replace the originating banking organization's exposure to the obligor with an exposure to the institutions acquiring the risk participations. 47 45 That is, a participation in which the originating banking organization remains liable to the beneficiary for the full amount of the direct credit substitute if the party that has acquired the participation fails to pay when the instrument is drawn. 46 Risk participations with a remaining maturity of over one year that are conveyed to non-OECD banks are to be assigned to the 100 percent risk category, unless a lower risk category is appropriate to the obligor, guarantor, or collateral. 47 A risk participation in bankers acceptances conveyed to other institutions is also assigned to the risk category appropriate to the institution acquiring the participation or, if relevant, the guarantor or nature of the collateral. In the case of direct credit substitutes that take the form of a syndication, that is, where each banking organization is obligated only for its pro rata share of the risk and there is no recourse to the originating banking organization, each banking organization will only include its pro rata share of its exposure under the direct credit substitute in its risk-based capital calculation. Financial standby letters of credit are distinguished from loan commitments (discussed below) in that standbys are irrevocable obligations of the banking organization to pay a third-party beneficiary when a customer (account party) fails to repay an outstanding loan or debt instrument (direct credit substitute). Performance standby letters of credit (performance bonds) are irrevocable obligations of the banking organization to pay a third-party beneficiary when a customer (account party) fails to perform some other contractual non-financial obligation.
