FR940426-0-00075 FR940426-0-00017 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 542 [Docket No. 93_53; Notice 2] RIN 2127&hyph;AE67 Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention; Procedures for Selecting Lines Subject to Theft Prevention Standard AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule amends the procedures for the selection of new passenger motor vehicle lines that are likely to be high theft lines. For all Model Year (MY) 1997 and later vehicles, manufacturers must, 15 months in advance of the model year of introduction, inform NHTSA about new motor vehicle lines that the manufacturers plan to introduce for sale. Manufacturers must include an analysis whether the new line is likely to be a high or low theft line. The effect of this final rule is to make the procedures consistent with statutory requirements. DATES: Effective date: This final rule is effective May 26, 1994. Petitions for Reconsideration: Petitions for reconsideration of this final rule must be received by NHTSA no later than May 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Petitions for reconsideration of this final rule should refer to the docket number and notice number cited in the heading of this notice and be submitted to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Barbara A. Gray, Office of Market Incentives, NHTSA, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Ms. Gray's telephone number is (202) 366&hyph;1740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Motor Vehicle Theft Law Enforcement Act of 1984 The Motor Vehicle Theft Law Enforcement Act of 1984 (Pub. L. 98&hyph;547) (Theft Act), added title VI to the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (Cost Savings Act). Pursuant to title VI, NHTSA promulgated 49 CFR part 541, titled ``Federal Motor Vehicle Theft Prevention Standard.'' Part 541 establishes performance requirements for inscribing or affixing identification numbers onto certain major original equipment and replacement parts of high theft lines of passenger motor vehicles. Section 603(a)(2) of title VI states that the specific lines, and the major parts of the vehicles within such lines, that are to be subject to the theft prevention standard may be selected by agreement between a manufacturer and the agency. If the agency and manufacturer disagree as to the selection, the selection is made by the agency, after providing notice to the manufacturer and an opportunity for written comment. Section 603(c) states that NHTSA ``shall, by rule, require each manufacturer to provide information necessary to select pursuant to subsection (a)(2) the high theft lines and major parts to be subject to the standard.'' (Emphasis added.) However, as promulgated on August 28, 1985 (50 FR 34831), the agency's regulations regarding the selection of high theft lines did not require the submission of such information. Those regulations, which are contained in part 542, simply set forth the procedures to be followed by those manufacturers which voluntarily choose to provide the information and to participate in the selection process. Since the establishment of part 542, some manufacturers have not consistently notified the agency about the introduction of new lines within the specified time frame of 18 to 24 months before introduction of each new line. On occasion, delayed notification by manufacturers has prevented the agency from making its preliminary determination sufficiently in advance of the introduction of such lines to permit application of the theft prevention standard to those lines during their introductory model year. To be subject to the standard in its introductory year, a line must be finally selected as high theft not less than 6 months before the beginning of that model year. In some instances, the agency has had to act on its own initiative by anticipating the introduction of new lines and making high theft/low theft determinations because the manufacturers did not notify the agency within the specified period of 18 to 24 months before the introduction of their new lines. In making these determinations, the agency has relied on reports in the trade press about planned introductions of new lines. Notwithstanding the absence of notification from the manufacturers, the manufacturers objected to this practice, viewing such agency initiative as an attempt to second guess them about the timing of the introduction of new model lines, or to reduce their opportunity to provide input regarding the determination.
