FR940610-1-00076 FR940610-1-00008 * * * * * §220.7 [Amended] 3. In 220.7, paragraph (e)(2) is amended by adding the words ``or §220.8a, whichever is applicable,'' after the reference to ``§220.8''. §220.8 [Redesignated as §220.8A] 4. Section 220.8 is redesignated as §220.8a and a new §220.8 is added to read as follows: §220.8 Nutrition standards for breakfast and menu planning systems. (a) Breakfasts for very young children. Meals for infants and very young children (ages birth to 24 months) who are participating in the Program shall meet the requirements in §220.8a(a), (b) and (c). (b) Nutrition standards for breakfasts for children age 2 and over. School food authorities shall ensure that participating schools provide nutritious and well-balanced breakfasts to children age 2 and over based on the nutrition standards provided in this section. For the purposes of this section, the nutrition standards are: (1) Provision of one-fourth of the Recommended Dietary Allowances (RDA) of protein, calcium, iron, vitamin A and vitamin C to the applicable age groups in accordance with the Minimum Nutrient Levels for School Breakfasts in paragraph (e)(1) of this section; (2) Provision of the breakfast energy allowances for children in accordance with the age groups in the Minimum Nutrient Levels for School Breakfasts in paragraph (e)(1) of this section; (3) The applicable 1990 Dietary Guidelines for Americans which are: (i) Eat a variety of foods; (ii) Limit total fat to 30 percent of calories; (iii) Limit saturated fat to less than 10 percent of calories; (iv) Choose a diet low in cholesterol; (v) Choose a diet with plenty of vegetables, fruits, and grain products; and (vi) Use salt and sodium in moderation; and (4) The following measures of compliance with the 1990 Dietary Guidelines for Americans: (i) A limit on the percent of calories from total fat to 30 percent based on the actual number of calories offered; (ii) A limit on the percent of calories from saturated fat to less than 10 percent based on the actual number of calories offered; (iii) A reduction of the levels of sodium and cholesterol; and (iv) An increase in the level of dietary fiber. (c) General requirements for school breakfasts for children age 2 and over. (1) In order to qualify for reimbursement, breakfasts, as offered by participating schools, shall, at a minimum, meet the nutrition standards in paragraph (b) of this section when averaged over each school week. (2) School food authorities shall ensure that each breakfast is priced as a unit. Except as otherwise provided herein, school food authorities shall ensure that sufficient quantities of menu items and foods are planned and produced so that breakfasts meet, at a minimum, the nutrition standards in paragraph (b) of this section. (3) School food authorities shall ensure that breakfasts are planned and produced on the basis of participation trends, with the objective of providing one reimbursable breakfast per child per day. Any excess breakfasts that are produced may be offered, but shall not be claimed for reimbursement under §220.9. (d) Nutritional criteria for breakfasts for children age 2 and over. In order to receive reimbursement, school food authorities shall ensure that participating schools provide breakfasts to children age two and over in accordance with the nutrition standards in paragraph (b) of this section.
