FR940413-2-00016 FR940413-2-00009 Award of a Cooperative Agreement, Noncompetitive Financial Assistance agency: Department of Energy (DOE), Richland Operations Office. action: Notice of intent to make a noncompetitive financial assistance award. summary: The Department of Energy (DOE), Richland Operations Office (RL) announces that pursuant to Public Law 95&hyph;224 and section 646 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, it intends to make a discretionary financial assistant award based on the criterion set forth in 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i)(B) to the Yakima Indian Nation (YIN), Toppenish, Washington, under Cooperative Agreement Number DE&hyph;FC06&hyph;94RL 12914. The primary purpose of the cooperative agreement is the replenishment of chinook salmon in the Columbia River. This one year effort will have a total estimated cost of $170,000, of which $120,000 will be provided by DOE and $50,000 will be provided by YIN. for further information contact: Questions regarding this announcement should be addressed to the U.S. Department of Energy, Richland Operations Office, Procurement Division, Mail Stop A7&hyph;80, P.O. Box 550, 825 Jadwin Avenue, Richland, Washington 99352, ATTN: Jo Laughlin, Contract Specialist. supplementary information: In support of the transformation within the Department of Energy as it redirects its focus from a primarily mission-oriented, inward-facing agency to a service-oriented, customer-driven agency, the Secretary of Energy has implemented plans for supporting economic development and community assistance activities around DOE sites affected by changing program missions. Each Operations Office has been charged with notifying the public of available facilities, technology partnership opportunities and economic development and diversification programs for the purpose of stimulating local economic growth through community partnerships. In addition, as part of the cleanup and restoration mission for the Hanford Site and the nearby Columbia River, plans for replenishing, replacing and enhancing the stock of returning chinook salmon to this area are encouraged. With the closure of all nuclear reactors on the Hanford Site, a number of facilities have become available for use by others. The Yakima Indian Nation is proposing to use water treatment pools located at the site of the former 100 Area K-E reactor for the purpose of rearing and acclimating one-half million upriver bright fall chinook salmon. It is anticipated that some portion of the juvenile fall chinook salmon reared and released as a result of this project will return as adults. These returning adults will contribute to the area economy by increasing the salmon available for tribal, commercial, and sports fishermen. In addition, some of these returning adults will spawn naturally to continue the cycle for future generations. The ultimate goal is to restore the chinook salmon to its historic level in the Columbia River. The Yakima Indian Nation, as co-manager of the Columbia River salmon resources, has coordinated the development of the project with the Washington State Department of Fish and Wildlife, the National Marine Fisheries Service and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. The project has also been authorized and endorsed by the 1993&hyph;94 Columbia River Production Agreement in which the Yakima Indian Nation was identified as the lead agency for implementing this project. Dated: April 5, 1994. Robert D. Larson, Director, Procurement Division, Richland Operations Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8898 Filed 4&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
