FR940705-0-00023 FR940705-0-00002 Response: Since it is REA's intent to use de facto industry requirements where applicable, REA will change the rate for applying the compressive force from a nominal of 5 millimeters per minute to a range of 3 millimeters to 20 millimeters per minute and will also change the holding time of the compressive force from 15 minutes to 10 minutes in paragraph (q)(3)(iii) of 7 CFR 1755.900. Three respondents commented on the cable flex test requirements specified in paragraph (q)(5)(iv) of 7 CFR 1755.900. Two of the respondents recommended that a fracture length of no more than 5 millimeters be allowed on the armor after flexing since this is the de facto industry requirement for fiber optic cables. The third respondent recommended deleting the requirement that there be no delamination of jacket to armor bond in nonflooded cables after flex testing. Response: 7 CFR 1755.900 requires that there be no visible evidence of fracture of the armor after flexing. Reason for the requirement is one means of assuring that continuity of the armor will be maintained after the rigors of installation. Maintaining the armor continuity after installation is important requirement in assuring protection of the telephone equipment and telephone company personnel against hazardous electrical currents. If REA allowed a minimum fracture length of the armor after flexing but before installation, the possibility exists that these small fracture lengths in the armor could develop into complete breaks of the armor at these fractured locations as a result of difficulties encountered during installation. These breaks in the armor would result in loss of armor continuity. The loss of armor continuity in turn would subject the telephone equipment and telephone company personnel to possible hazardous electrical currents which could result in damaged equipment or personal injury to telephone company personnel. Since REA has a responsibility to its borrowers to assure that their telephone equipment and personnel are protected against hazardous electrical currents, REA will not change the present requirement of no visible evidence of fracture of the armor after flexing specified in 7 CFR 1755.900 to the recommendation requested by the first two commenters. In regard to the requirement that there be no delamination of jacket to armor bond in nonflooded cables after flex testing, REA specified this requirement on nonflooded cables to assure that the bond strength between the outer jacket and the plastic coated armor would be maintained after installation to assure that water could not enter nonflooded cables at the outer jacket/armor interface. If REA eliminated this requirement as recommended by the third commenter, voids at the outer jacket/armor interface could develop in nonflooded cables after installation. These voids could allow the entry of water into nonflooded cables resulting in possible degradation of the optical signal over time. Since REA has a responsibility to our borrowers to assure that optical signal of nonflooded cables will not degrade as a result of water entry, REA will not eliminate the requirement that there be no delamination of jacket to armor bond in nonflooded cables after flex testing as recommended by the third commenter. Seven respondents recommended replacing Appendix A of 7 CFR 1755.900 with de facto industry tests to determine the long term stability of their fiber optic cables. Response: The tests specified in Appendix A of 7 CFR 1755.900 have been used by REA for over sixteen years for determining the long term performance of copper cables with satisfactory results. Since these test have proven invaluable for determining the long term stability of copper cables, REA decided to apply these same proven tests to determine the long term stability of fiber optic cables. Therefore REA will not replace Appendix A with de facto industry tests as recommended by the commenters. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1755 Incorporation by reference, Loan programs_communications, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas, Telephone. For the reasons set out in the preamble, REA amends chapter XVII of title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 1755_TELECOMMUNICATIONS STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION. 1. The authority citation for part 1755 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 901 et seq. , 1921 et seq. ยง1755.97 [Amended] 2. Section 1755.97 is amended by removing the entry REA Bulletin 345&hyph;90 from the table.
