FR940223-1-00014 FR940223-1-00001 In commenting on the Department's handling of Issue No. 3, Darigold Farms, the only party commenting on this issue, indicated that it supported the position reached in the recommended decision. 4. Plant location adjustments for Yakima County, Washington, under the Pacific Northwest order. The proposal to change the location adjustment (No. 3 in the Notice of Hearing) on all producer milk received at plants in Yakima County in Federal Milk Order 124 is denied. The order defines zones for the purpose of determining location adjustments. The order currently states that Yakima County, Washington, is in Zone 4, which has a 15 cents per hundredweight location adjustment. Darigold Farms proposed a decrease in the location adjustment from 15 cents per hundredweight to 6 cents per hundredweight, a change of 9 cents. Accordingly, Yakima County would move from Zone 4 to Zone 2. The witness for the proponent testified that the theory behind a location adjustment is to be able to attract producer milk from outlying areas to market centers or alternatively to attract packaged milk from a pool plant located in outlying areas. The Pacific Northwest order has four market centers: Portland, Oregon; Eugene, Oregon; Seattle, Washington; and Spokane, Washington. Yakima County is roughly in the center of the triangle formed by Portland, Seattle, and Spokane. The witness noted that the Pacific Northwest Order has relatively low Class I utilization, about 35 percent. There is more than an adequate supply of bulk milk to serve both fluid and manufacturing markets. He also pointed out that in a low utilization market such as Pacific Northwest, location adjustments are seldom needed. There has been no history of handlers in the Pacific Northwest market not being able to obtain bulk milk. The witness testified that Darigold was not proposing the elimination of location adjustments, but rather to maintain the status quo for all the other fluid milk handlers in the market. The only fluid plant that would be affected is the Darigold plant in Yakima County, which would pay an added nine cents per hundredweight. The witness' testimony drew a parallel between Yakima County, Washington, and Whatcom County. The two counties are very similar, he noted, in that there's a large concentration of milk in a small area. Moreover, both plants are located outside major market centers, and both counties have small fluid operations which serve the county area but not the market centers. The witness for the proponent testified that the proposal was being made because of the opening of the Darigold plant in Sunnyside in December of 1991. The plant was needed to help balance the increased production in the Pacific Northwest and the increase of milk in Yakima County. Comparing December of 1980 to December of 1990, Yakima County dairymen increased their deliveries of producer milk from 18.9 million pounds to 49.7 million pounds per month. The Yakima County producers currently account for 13.5 percent of the milk marketed in the Pacific Northwest order. The witness noted that, prior to the opening of the Darigold/Sunnyside plant, the milk from Yakima County was sent to plants in Seattle and Chehalis, Washington, which have no location adjustment. No location adjustment was needed since milk production increases in western Washington are expected to keep all plants full. The witness testified that the 15-cent-per-hundredweight location adjustment at Sunnyside, in effect, constitutes a ``penalty'' to the Darigold producers who financed the Sunnyside plant, which was needed by all producers to ensure outlets for all milk produced in the marketing area. Had the plant not been built, disorderly market operations surely would have developed, he said. The witness argued that this ``penalty'' is unnecessary because hauling costs will move the milk to market centers without location adjustments. He pointed out, for example, that Darigold's hauling costs from Sunnyside to Spokane, the closest market center, is 76 cents per hundredweight for a distance of 120 miles, or .6 cents per mile. In comparison, the proposed decrease from 15 cents to 6 cents would move the milk only about 15 miles at the .6-cent-per-hundredweight cost. The witness testified that for any producer farm located closer to Spokane than to Sunnyside, it is cheaper to move milk to Spokane than to Sunnyside even with no location adjustment. Reducing the location adjustment to six cents merely moves the geographic break-even point 15 miles closer to Sunnyside and enlarges by the same 15 miles the area from which Spokane pool plants can readily attract milk.
