FR941219-2-00080 FR941219-2-00049 F. Special Fraud Alert: Arrangements for the Provision of Clinical Lab Services (Issued October 1994) How Does the Anti-Kickback Statute Relate to Arrangements for the Provision of Clinical Lab Services? Many physicians and other health care providers rely on the services of outside clinical laboratories to which they may refer high volumes of patient specimens every day. The quality, timeliness and cost of these services are of obvious concern to Medicare and Medicaid patients and to the programs that finance their health care services. Since the physician, not the patient, generally selects the clinical laboratory, it is essential that the physician's decision regarding where to refer specimens is based only on the best interests of the patient. Whenever a laboratory offers or gives to a source of referrals anything of value not paid for at fair market value, the inference may be made that the thing of value is offered to induce the referral of business. The same is true whenever a referral source solicits or receives anything of value from the laboratory. By ``fair market value'' we mean value for general commercial purposes. However, ``fair market value'' must reflect an arms length transaction which has not been adjusted to include the additional value which one or both of the parties has attributed to the referral of business between them. The office of Inspector General has become aware of a number of practices engaged in by clinical laboratories and health care providers that implicate the anti-kickback statute in this manner. Below are some examples of lab services arrangements that may violate the anti-kickback statute. Provision of Phlebotomy Services to Physicians When permitted by State law, a laboratory may make available to a physician's office a phlebotomist who collects specimens from patients for testing by the outside laboratory. While the mere placement of a laboratory employee in the physician's office would not necessarily serve as an inducement prohibited by the anti-kickback statute, the statute is implicated when the phlebotomist performs additional tasks that are normally the responsibility of the physician's office staff. These tasks can include taking vital signs or other nursing functions, testing for the physician's office laboratory, or performing clerical services. Where the phlebotomist performs clerical or medical functions not directly related to the collection or processing of laboratory specimens, a strong inference arises that he or she is providing a benefit in return for the physician's referrals to the laboratory. In such a case, the physician, the phlebotomist, and the laboratory may have exposure under the anti-kickback statute. This analysis applies equally to the placement of phlebotomists in other health care settings, including nursing homes, clinics and hospitals. Furthermore, the mere existence of a contract between the laboratory and the health care provider that prohibits the phlebotomist from performing services unrelated to specimen collection does not eliminate the OIG's concern, where the phlebotomist is not closely monitored by his [of her] employer or where the contractual prohibition is not rigorously enforced. Lab Pricing at Renal Dialysis Centers The Medicare program pays for laboratory tests provided to patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD) in two different ways. Some laboratory testing is considered routine and payment is included in the composite rate paid by Medicare to the ESRD facility which in turn pays the laboratory. Some laboratory testing required by the patient is not included in the composite rate, and these additional tests are billed by the laboratory directly to Medicare and paid at the usual laboratory fee schedule price. The OIG is aware of cases where a laboratory offers to perform the tests encompassed by the composite rate at a price below fair market value of the tests performed. In order to offset the low charges on the composite rate tests, the ESRD facility agrees to refer all or most of its non-composite rate tests to the laboratory. This arrangement appears to be an offer of something of value (composite rate tests below fair market value) in return for the ordering of additional tests which are billed directly to the Medicare program. If offered or accepted in return for referral of additional business, the lab's pricing scheme is illegal remuneration under the anti-kickback statute. The statutory exception and ``safe harbor'' for ``discounts'' does not apply to immunize parties to this type of transaction, since discounts on the composite rate tests are offered to induce referral of other tests. See 42 CFR 1001.952(h)(3)(ii). Waiver of Charges To Managed Care Patients Managed care plans may require a physician or other health care provider to use only the laboratory with which the plan has negotiated a fee schedule. In such situations, the plan usually will refuse to pay claims submitted by other laboratories. The provider, however, may use a different laboratory and may wish to continue to use that laboratory for non-managed care patients. In order to retain the provider as a client, the laboratory that does not have the managed care contract may agree to perform the managed care work free of charge. The status of such agreements under the anti-kickback statute depends in part on the nature of the contractual relationship between the managed care plan and its providers. Under the terms of many managed care contracts, a provider receives a bonus or other payment if utilization of ancillary services, such as laboratory testing, is kept below a particular level. Other managed care plans impose financial penalties if the provider's utilization of services exceeds pre-established levels. When the laboratory agrees to write off charges for the physician's managed care work, the physician may realize a financial benefit from the managed care plan created by the appearance that utilization of tests has been reduced.
