FR940524-2-00041 FR940524-2-00027 Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient will be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC will be responsible for the activities listed under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities Recipients of funds under Part I are expected to support and enhance, and recipients under Part II are expected to plan, implement, and support the operation of population-based, statewide cancer registries in order to collect data concerning each form of invasive cancer with the exception of basal cell and squamous cell carcinoma of the skin and each form of in-situ cancer except for carcinoma in-situ of the cervix uteri. Data on carcinoma in-situ of the cervix uteri is not being collected at this time because it has been well documented that routine collection of such data is incomplete due to inconsistent collection of other High Grade Neoplasia. In addition, these data are not comparable over time because of changing terminology and diagnostic criteria. (Working Group on Pre-Invasive Cervical Neoplasia and Population-Based Cancer Registries Final Subcommittee Report, April 1993.) Data to be collected for invasive and in-situ cancers include: 1. Demographic information about each case of cancer including at a minimum: (a) Last name, first name, middle initial. (b) Address at diagnosis, including city, county, State, and zip code (or zip + 4 where available). (c) Census tract. (d) Race and Spanish/Hispanic origin. (e) Sex. (f) Birth date. (g) Social security number. 2. Information on the industrial or occupational history of the individual with the cancers, to the extent such information is available from the same record. 3. Administrative information, including at a minimum: (a) Date of diagnosis. (b) Date of admission. (c) Source of information. 4. Pathological data characterizing the cancer, including at a minimum: (a) Primary site. (b) Morphology type, behavior, and grade. (c) Sequence number. (d) Laterality. (e) Diagnostic confirmation. (f) Stage of disease (pursuant to Summary Staging Guide). (g) Date and type of first course of definitive treatment when available in the medical record. (h) Date of death. (i) Underlying cause of death. B. CDC Activities 1. Convene a meeting of the funded States for information sharing, problem solving, and training at least annually. 2. Provide funded States with ongoing consultation for effective program planning and management, including, but not limited to, assistance in the development of model legislation for statewide cancer registries, assistance in establishing a computerized reporting and data processing system, and assistance in monitoring completeness, timeliness, and quality of data. 3. Collaborate in establishing or endorsing program requirements for completeness, timeliness, and accuracy of data, and monitor to assure compliance with program requirements. 4. Collaborate in reporting of cancer rates and other components of an annual report on cancer occurrence in the State. 5. Conduct site visits to assess program progress and mutually resolve problems, as needed.
