FR940825-0-00109 FR940825-0-00016 (ii) The HHS awarding agency may require forecasts of Federal cash requirements in the ``Remarks'' section of the report. (iii) Recipients shall submit the original and two copies of the PMS&hyph;272 15 calendar days following the end of each quarter. The HHS awarding agency may require a monthly report from those recipients receiving advances totaling $1 million or more per year. (iv) The HHS awarding agency may waive the requirement for submission of the PMS&hyph;272 for any one of the following reasons: (A) When monthly advances do not exceed $25,000 per recipient, provided that such advances are monitored through other forms contained in this section; (B) If, in HHS' opinion, the recipient's accounting controls are adequate to minimize excessive Federal advances; or, (C) When the electronic payment mechanisms provide adequate data. (b) When the HHS awarding agency needs additional information or more frequent reports, the following shall be observed. (1) When additional information is needed to comply with legislative requirements, the HHS awarding agency will issue instructions to require recipients to submit that information under the ``Remarks'' section of the reports. (2) When HHS determines that a recipient's accounting system does not meet the standards in ยง74.21, additional pertinent information to further monitor awards may be obtained, without regard to ยง74.4, upon written notice to the recipient until such time as the system is brought up to standard. In obtaining this information, the HHS awarding agencies comply with report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320, ``Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public.'' (3) The HHS awarding agency may accept the identical information from a recipient in machine readable format or computer printouts or electronic outputs in lieu of prescribed formats. (4) The HHS awarding agency may provide computer or electronic outputs to recipients when such action expedites or contributes to the accuracy of reporting. ยง74.53 Retention and access requirements for records. (a) This section sets forth requirements for record retention and access to records for awards to recipients. (b) Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other records pertinent to an award shall be retained for a period of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report or, for awards that are renewed quarterly or annually, from the date of the submission of the quarterly or annual financial report. The only exceptions are the following: (1) If any litigation, claim, financial management review, or audit is started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved and final action taken. (2) Records for real property and equipment acquired with Federal funds shall be retained for 3 years after final disposition. (3) When records are transferred to or maintained by the HHS awarding agency, the 3-year retention requirement is not applicable to the recipient.
