FR941028-2-00087 FR941028-2-00064 Receipt of Applications for Permit The following applicants have applied for a permit to conduct certain activities with endangered species. This notice is provided pursuant to Section 10(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531, et seq. ): PRT&hyph;795799 Applicant : Robert Senter, Sr., Plaistow, New Hampshire. The applicant requests a permit to import the sport-hunted trophy of one male bontebok ( Damaliscus dorcas dorcas ) culled from the captive herd maintained by the Ciskei Government, Tsolwana Game Reserve, Tarkastad, Republic of South Africa, for the purpose of enhancement of the survival of the species. PRT&hyph;795196 Applicant: Audubon Zoological Garden, New Orleans, LA. The applicant requests a permit to import one male Amur leopard ( Panthera pardus orientalis ) from Tallinn Zoo, Tallinn, Estonia for the purpose of enhancement of the survival of the species through propagation. PRT&hyph;789524 Applicant: St. Paul's Como Zoo, St. Paul, MN. The applicant requests a permit to export one female orangutan ( Pongo pygmaeus pygmaeus x P. p. albei ) to Parques Zoologico de Leon, Guanajuato, Mexico for the purpose of enhancement of the survival of the species through conservation education. PRT&hyph;795191 Applicant: Patricia Wainright, New Brunswick, NJ. The applicant requests a permit to import dropped feathers taken from wild and captive Red-necked amazon ( Amazona arausiaca ) and Imperial amazon ( Amazona imperialis ) in Dominica, West Indies for the purpose of enhancement of the survival of the species through scientific research. PRT&hyph;795190 Applicant: Patricia Wainright, New Brunswick, NJ. The applicant requests a permit to import dropped feathers taken from wild and captive St. Lucia amazon ( Amazona versicolor ) in St. Lucia, West Indies for the purpose of the survival of the species through scientific research. PRT&hyph;795195 Applicant: Patricia Wainright, New Brunswick, NJ. The applicant requests a permit to import dropped feathers taken from wild and captive St. Vincent amazon ( Amazona guildingii ) in St. Vincent, West Indies for the purpose of enhancement of the survival of the species through scientific research. PRT&hyph;795605 Applicant: Sergio Wolberg, Miami, FL. The applicant requests a permit to import the sport-hunted trophy of one male bontebok ( Damaliscus dorcas dorcas ) culled from the captive herd maintained by Frank Bowker, ``Thornkoof'', Grahamstown, Republic of South Africa for purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. The public is invited to comment on the following application(s) for permits to conduct certain activities with marine mammals. The application(s) was/were submitted to satisfy requirements of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq. ) and the regulations governing marine mammals (50 CFR 18). PRT&hyph;794467 Applicant: Sea World, Inc., Orlando, FL. Type Permit: Export of frozen milk samples of Caribbean manatee. Name and Number of Animals: Caribbean manatee ( Trichechus manatus ), 10 Summary of Activity to be Authorized: Applicant requests a permit to export milk samples for scientific analysis. Source of Marine Mammals for Research/Public Display: The milk samples were taken opportunistically from nine manatee in the course of rehabilitation and from one captive-held manatee. All milk samples were obtained by the attending veterinarians. Period of Activity: Six months. PRT&hyph;795349 Applicant: National Biological Survey, Santa Cruz, CA. Type of Permit: Take of Northern Sea otters. Name and Number of Animals: Sea Otter ( Enhydra lutris lutris ), 300. Summary of Activity to be Authorized: The applicant requests a permit to capture, flipper tag 300 animals, surgically implant radio transmitters in 160 animals, and release sea otters for scientific research on population biology and ecology. Source of Marine Mammals for Research/Public Display: The research will involve sea otters from the central and western Aleutian Islands. Period of Activity: Through December 1998. PRT&hyph;795477 Applicant: Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, FL. Type of Permit: Scientific Research. Name and Number of Animals: Caribbean manatee ( Trichechus manatus ), 2. Summary of Activity to be Authorized: The applicant requests a permit to take two captive manatees for scientific research on hearing ability of this species. This activity is a continuation of research previously authorized to Mote Marine Laboratory under PRT&hyph;761873. Source of Marine Mammals for Research/Public Display: The research will involve two captive manatees. Period of Activity: Through December 1997. Concurrent with the publication of this notice in the Federal Register, the Office of Management Authority is forwarding copies of this application to the Marine Mammal Commission and the Committee of Scientific Advisors for their review. Written data or comments, requests for copies of the complete application, or requests for a public hearing on this application should be sent to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Office of Management Authority, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Room 420(c), Arlington, Virginia 22203, telephone 703/358&hyph;2104 or fax 703/358&hyph;2281 and must be received within 30 days of the date of publication of this notice. Anyone requesting a hearing should give specific reasons why a hearing would be appropriate. The holding of such hearing is at the discretion of the Director. Documents and other information submitted with these applications are available for review, subject to the requirements of the Privacy Act and Freedom of Information Act, by any party who submits a written request for a copy of such documents within 30 days of the date of publication of this notice at the above address. Dated: October 21, 1994. Caroline Anderson, Acting Chief, Branch of Permits, Office of Management Authority. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26720 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
