FR940111-2-00036 FR940111-2-00017 As noted in the public notice, EPA made the decision to withhold authorization to administer the NPDES program on ``Indian Country,'' as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1151, which includes lands inside reservation boundaries and trust lands found outside reservations. For the most part, these include nine Federal Indian reservations: 1. Cheyenne River Indian Reservation 2. Crow Creek Indian Reservation 3. Flandreau Indian Reservation 4. Lower Brule Indian Reservation 5. Pine Ridge Indian Reservation 6. Rosebud Indian Reservation (includes Todd County and portions of Millette and Gregory Counties) 7. Sisseton Indian Reservation 8. Standing Rock Indian Reservation 9. Yankton Indian Reservation. This issue was deferred until a satisfactory demonstration of jurisdiction over Indian Country is made by the State of South Dakota or another governmental entity. Otherwise, delegation of any part of the program would have to be held up pending a lengthy resolution of this complicated issue. While a number of comments were received regarding jurisdiction, this issue is deferred until such time as an appropriate analysis is made of the State's authority to assert jurisdiction over lands for which EPA is retaining jurisdiction. EPA will specifically mail copies of public notices of future assertions to those who provided comments, so they may make their comments during the appropriate public comment period. It should be noted that EPA has prepared a list of NPDES-permitted facilities which will continue to be administered by EPA. Operators or owners of facilities subject to the NPDES program which are located on these lands should continue to send original or renewal permit applications to EPA. They will be notified of this at the time all permittees are notified of the program authorization decision. Persons with questions as to whether their facilities may be in Indian Country are advised to consult with the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the EPA. V. Pretreatment Program A state pretreatment program must meet the requirements of 40 CFR 403.10(f) before being approved for program administration by the EPA. Under 40 CFR 403.10(f)(1)(i) and 403.3(j), an approved state program must have the authority to require industrial users to comply with pretreatment standards for specific industrial subcategories, as established by EPA regulations in 40 CFR, Chapter I, Subchapter N, ``Effluent Guidelines and Standards.'' When South Dakota submitted its proposed program to EPA, subchapter N had not been incorporated into the State program. However, incorporation was approved at the July 28, 1993, public hearing of South Dakota Water Management Board and became effective on September 5, 1993. A. Comments Regarding the Pretreatment Program
