FR940511-0-00044 FR940511-0-00015 Response: The Sanctuary boundary does not extend south of Copalis Beach and excludes ports and harbors. Therefore, the maintenance activities at La Push and the use of the dredge disposal sites south of the boundary is not prohibited. In addition, the use of dredged spoil within the Sanctuary for beach nourishment in connection with harbor maintenance activities is exempt from the regulatory prohibition. Comment: No ocean dumping should be allowed in proximity to the major submarine canyons. Response: The regulations prohibit ocean dumping within the Sanctuary, and outside the Sanctuary if the material enters and injures Sanctuary resources or qualities. Point Source Discharges Comment: Prohibit discharges of toxics, plastic, and municipal garbage and sewage into the marine environment. Response: The dumping of municipal garbage, toxics and plastics is prohibited within the Sanctuary by Sanctuary regulations and by regulations promulgated pursuant to the Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships (33 U.S.C. 1901 et seq .) and the Marine Plastic Pollution Research and Control Act of 1987, which implements Annex V of MARPOL 73/78 in the U.S. Point source discharges are allowed provided such discharge is certified by NOAA in accordance with ยง925.10 or approved by NOAA in accordance with ยง925.11. After expiration of current permits, discharges from municipal treatment plants will be subject to the review process of ยง925.11. At a minimum, secondary treatment will be required. Comment: Current regulations are adequate. NOAA has not proven that the proposed regulations will enhance the recreational or aesthetic appeal, and water quality. Response: Current regulations do not protect the area from the cumulative impacts of various types of discharges, including: (1) Some ocean dumping; (2) sewage receiving only primary treatment; and (3) non-point source discharges. NOAA's ocean disposal regulation offers protection to the offshore environment that does not otherwise exist. NOAA will work with existing tribal, State and Federal authorities to ensure that the quality of the water and Sanctuary resources are maintained. Comment: Clarify how discharges from drilling and production rigs may be addressed if oil and gas leasing were to occur in the future. Response: The regulations prohibit oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities within the Sanctuary. NOAA will work with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to ensure that best available technology is implemented on any drilling rigs located outside of the Sanctuary to ensure that no discharges enter and injure Sanctuary resources and qualities. Comment: Depositing or discharging from any location within the Sanctuary or from beyond the Sanctuary should be prohibited. Response: The mandate of the National Marine Sanctuary Program is to facilitate multiple uses that are compatible with resource protection. Depositing or discharging most materials within the boundary of the Sanctuary, or from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary if such material subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures Sanctuary resources or qualities is prohibited. NOAA will work with EPA, the tribes and the State of Washington to maintain water quality. NOAA may require special terms and conditions, including (but not limited to) improved effluent quality, on EPA permits to ensure Sanctuary resources and qualities are protected. Non-Point Source Discharges Comment: NOAA should not require at a minimum secondary treatment and sometimes tertiary or more for non-point source pollution. It is virtually impossible to subject runoff to these levels of treatment. Response: NOAA does not require such treatment for non-point source pollution. NOAA will monitor non-point source pollution and work with those living and working in the coastal watersheds to minimize runoff into the Sanctuary. Comment: It should be stated that there is no intent to regulate forest practices by Sanctuary administrators. There is no research or evidence which would justify the statement made in the proposed DEIS that the ``greatest source of non-point discharge is the forest.'' This statement needs clarification and tree farmers must be assured that they can continue to grow and harvest trees pursuant to Washington's Forest Practices Act, one of the most stringent in the country. Response: NOAA's Strategic Assessment Branch has analyzed existing watershed data from the National Coastal Pollutant Discharge Inventory to determine sources of runoff. Summaries of pollution discharges for total volumes of nitrogen, lead, and all suspended solids combined indicate that with the exception of suspended solids discharged by paper mills, the greatest source of sediments discharged into sanctuary waters is from natural forest runoff. Despite this evidence, NOAA will not be directly regulating upland uses. However, NOAA will coordinate with the upland user groups, and managing agencies to minimize non-point source impacts on Sanctuary resources. Comment: The suggestion that excessive erosion from clear cutting practices is the source of most non-point source pollution from forests supports the need for further study of this common practice and the issuance of more stringent controls due to the steep and unstable slopes and amount of rainfall. Response: NOAA agrees and will conduct monitoring and research initiatives in coordination with those living and working in the watersheds to minimize the impacts from timbering activities.
