FR940114-2-00173 FR940114-2-00102 f. An Individual Control Strategy (ICS) is required under section 304(L) of the Act. 2. The Regional Administrator will notify the operator in writing that a permit application is required. If an operator fails to submit in a timely manner an individual NPDES permit application as required, then the applicability of this general permit to the individual NPDES permittee is automatically terminated at the end of the day specified for application submittal. 3. Any owner or operator authorized by this permit may request to be excluded from the coverage of this permit by applying for an individual permit. The owner or operator shall submit an individual application (Form 1 and Form 2C or 2D) with reasons supporting the request to the Regional Administrator no later than 90 days after the effective date of the permit. 4. When an individual NPDES permit is issued to an owner or operator otherwise covered by this permit, the applicability of this permit to the facility is automatically terminated on the effective date of the individual permit. 5. When an individual NPDES permit is denied to an owner or operator otherwise covered to this permit, the permittee is automatically reinstated under this permit on the date of such denial, unless otherwise specified by the Regional Administrator. A new facility can receive coverage under this general permit by submitting a NOI. See Permit Part I.A.3. for details. 6. A source excluded from a general permit solely because it already has an individual permit may request that the individual permit be revoked and that it be covered by the general permit. Upon revocation of the individual permit, the general permit shall apply to the source. F. Notification Requirements 1. Owners or operators of facilities authorized by this permit shall submit a NOI to be covered by this permit. The information required for a complete NOI is in appendix A of this permit. Notification must be made: a. Within 90 days of issuance of this permit; or b. By January 1 of the year of discharge from a new facility or a facility established since 1988 that has not previously been covered by a permit; or c. Ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of an existing individual permit. Authorization to discharge requires written notification from EPA that coverage has been granted and that a specific permit number has been assigned to the operation. 2. The NOI shall be signed by the owner or other signatory authority in accordance with Part VI.H. (Signatory Requirements), and a copy shall be retained on site in accordance with Part IV.F. (Retention of Records) of this permit. The address for NOI submission to EPA is: United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 10, 1200 Sixth Avenue, WD&hyph;134, Seattle, Washington 98101. 3. A copy of the NOI must also be sent to the regional office of the Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation (ADEC) that has jurisdiction over the mine. The addresses are: Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, 410 Willoughby, Suite 105, Juneau, Alaska 99801 Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, Northern Regional Office, 610 University Avenue, Fairbanks, Alaska 99709 Alaska Department of Environmental Conservation, Central Regional Office, 3601 ``C'' Street, Suite 1350, Anchorage, Alaska 99503 4. A copy of the general permit will be sent to the permittee when it is determined that the facility can be granted coverage under this general permit. If it is determined that coverage cannot be granted under this permit, the applicant will be informed of this in writing. G. Permit Expiration Coverage under this permit will expire five (5) years from the date of issuance. For facilities submitting a new NOI 90 days prior to expiration of this general permit, the conditions of the expired permit continue in force until the effective date of a new permit. II. Effluent Limitations A. Mechanical Operation (Traditional Sluicing) During the term of this permit, no wastewater discharges are authorized except as specified below. 1. Effluent Limitations. a. The volume of wastewater which may be discharged shall not exceed the volume of infiltration, drainage and mine drainage waters which is in excess of the make-up water required for operation of the beneficiation process. b. The wastewater discharged shall not exceed the following: ␣ 1Effluent characteristic 1Instantaneous maximum Settleable Solids 0.2 ml/L. Turbidity 5 NTUs above natural background. Arsenic, Total Recoverable (1) 0.18 μ g/L. (2) Natural background* *See Part II.D.4. for details.
