FR940617-2-00044 FR940617-2-00022 COMMITTEE FOR PURCHASE FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND OR SEVERELY DISABLED Procurement List; Addition AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Addition to the procurement list. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List a commodity to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 18, 1994. ADDRESS: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, Suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman, (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On April 22, 1994, the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notice (59 F.R. 19164) of proposed addition to the Procurement List. Comments were received from the current contractor for the applicator in response to a request for sales data. The contractor indicated that it is near a labor surplus area that is home to most of its workers and that it is experiencing less demand than it can supply. The contractor indicated that most of its workers are the sole support for their families. Consequently, the contractor believes that addition of the applicator to the Procurement List would have a severe adverse impact on the company. The proportion of the contractor's sales which it would lose if it were unable to sell this applicator to the Government is very small. It was not the current contractor for another item mentioned in its comments at the time the item was added to the Procurement List. Consequently, the loss of sales would not constitute severe adverse impact on the company. As the contractor admitted, it is not located in a labor surplus area even though some of its workers live in one. The contractor also did not state that workers would be discharged if the applicator is added to the Procurement List. Because these workers live near an area which is not considered a labor surplus area, they may well secure other employment if they are discharged. People with severe disabilities, on the other hand, have unemployment rates exceeding 65% nationally. Like the contractor's workers, people with severe disabilities are often the sole support for their families. Consequently, the Committee believes that the definite creation of jobs for people with severe disabilities by addition of the applicator to the Procurement List outweighs the possible loss of employment for people who can more easily find other jobs. After consideration of the material presented to it concerning capability of qualified nonprofit agencies to provide the commodity, fair market price, and impact of the addition on the current or most recent contractors, the Committee has determined that the commodity listed below is suitable for procurement by the Federal Government under 41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2.4. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were: 1. The action will not result in any additional reporting, recordkeeping or other compliance requirements for small entities other than the small organizations that will furnish the commodity to the Government. 2. The action does not appear to have a severe economic impact on current contractors for the commodity. 3. The action will result in authorizing small entities to furnish the commodity to the Government. 4. There are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the objectives of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c) in connection with the commodity proposed for addition to the Procurement List. Accordingly, the following commodity is hereby added to the Procurement List: Applicator, Disposable 6515&hyph;00&hyph;059&hyph;5235 This action does not affect current contracts awarded prior to the effective date of this addition or options exercised under those contracts. E. R. Alley, Jr., Deputy Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14821 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;33&hyph;P
