FR940627-1-00015 FR940627-1-00009 Cattle ( Bos taurus ), native to Europe, northern Africa, and southwestern Asia, were introduced to the Hawaiian Islands in 1793. Large feral herds developed as a result of restrictions on killing cattle decreed by King Kamehameha I. Large ranches in the tens of thousands of acres were created on Maui and Hawaii. Much of the land used in these private enterprises was leased from the State or was privately owned. Feral cattle formerly existed on Maui and damaged the forests there. Feral cattle are presently found on the island of Hawaii, and ranching is still a major commercial activity there. Cattle eat native vegetation, trample roots and seedlings, cause erosion, create disturbed areas into which alien plants invade, and spread seeds of alien plants in their feces and on their bodies. The forest becomes degraded to grassland pasture in areas grazed by cattle, and plant cover is reduced for many years following removal of cattle from an area. Several alien grasses and legumes purposely introduced for cattle forage have become noxious weeds (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Tomich 1986). Cattle have altered and degraded the vegetation of much of Hawaii, including the areas where D. undulata may have formerly grown, and where it is still known to exist (Tomich 1986; J. Giffin, in litt. , 1993). Hunting of feral cattle is no longer allowed in Hawaii (Hawaii DLNR 1985). Goats ( Capra hircus ), native to the Middle East and India, were successfully introduced to the Hawaiian Islands in 1792, and currently there are populations on Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Maui, and Hawaii. On Kauai, feral goats have been present in drier, more rugged areas since 1820; they still occur in Waimea Canyon. On Hawaii, goats damage low elevation dry forest, montane parkland, subalpine woodlands, and alpine grasslands. Goats are managed in Hawaii as a game animal, but many herds populate inaccessible areas where hunting has little effect on their numbers. Goat hunting is allowed year-round or during certain months, depending on the area (Hawaii DLNR n.d., 1985). Goats browse on introduced grasses and native plants, especially in drier and more open ecosystems. They also trample roots and seedlings, cause erosion, and promote the invasion of alien plants. They are able to forage in extremely rugged terrain and have a high reproductive capacity (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Culliney 1988, Tomich 1986). Delissea undulata currently is threatened by goats that use the area where the single known individual exists (J. Giffin, in litt. , 1993). Sheep ( Ovis aries ) became firmly established on the island of Hawaii (Tomich 1986) following their introduction almost 200 years ago (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). Like feral goats, sheep roam the upper elevation dry forests, including Puu Waawaa, causing damage similar to that of goats (Stone 1985). Sheep have decimated vast areas of native forest and shrubland on Hawaii. Sheep threaten the habitat of D. undulata (Cuddihy and Stone 1990; J. Giffin, in litt. , 1993) as well as individual plants. Pigs ( Sus scrofa ) are originally native to Europe, northern Africa, Asia Minor, and Asia. European pigs, introduced to Hawaii by Captain James Cook in 1778, became feral and invaded forested areas, especially wet and mesic forests and dry areas at high elevations. They currently are present on Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Maui, and Hawaii and inhabit rain forests and grasslands. Pig hunting is allowed on all islands either year-round or during certain months, depending on the area (Hawaii DLNR n.d., 1985). While rooting in the ground in search of the invertebrates and plant material they eat, feral pigs disturb and destroy vegetative cover, trample plants and seedlings, and threaten forest regeneration by damaging seeds and seedlings. They disturb soil substrates and cause erosion, especially on slopes. Alien plant seeds are dispersed in their hooves and coats as well as through their digestive tracts, and the disturbed soil is fertilized by their feces, helping these plants to establish (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Smith 1985, Stone 1985, Tomich 1986, Wagner et al. 1990). Feral pigs pose a threat to D. undulata and its habitat (J. Giffin, in litt. , 1993). B. Overutilization For Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Unrestricted collecting for scientific or horticultural purposes and excessive visits by individuals interested in seeing rare plants could result from increased publicity. This is a potential threat to Delissea undulata, which is represented by only one known individual. The species is of some horticultural and ornamental interest. Taking and vandalism are potential threats that could result from increased specific publicity. C. Disease or Predation Cattle, goats, pigs, and sheep have been reported in the area where Delissea undulata is known to occur. As this taxon is not known to be unpalatable to these ungulates, predation is a probable threat where these animals have been reported. The lack of seedlings and the occurrence of the only known individual in an area less accessible to ungulates seem to indicate the effect that browsing mammals, especially cattle, have had in restricting the distribution of this plant. Though not legally obligated to protect the species, the State fenced the one individual to protect it from further damage by ungulates (J. Giffin, in litt. , 1993). See Factor D. Of the four species of rodents which have been introduced to the Hawaiian Islands, the species with the greatest impact on the native flora and fauna is probably the roof or black rat ( Rattus rattus ), which now occurs on all the main Hawaiian Islands around human habitations, in cultivated fields, and in dry to wet forests. Roof rats, and to a lesser extent house mouse ( Mus musculus ), Polynesian rat ( R. exulans ), and Norway rat ( R. norvegicus ) eat the fruits of some native plants, especially those with large, fleshy fruits. Many native Hawaiian plants produce their fruit over an extended period of time, and this produces a prolonged food supply which supports rodent populations. It is probable that rats damage the fleshy fruit of D. undulata. Introduced game birds also may eat the fruits (J. Giffin, in litt. , 1993).
