FR940830-1-00061 FR940830-1-00010 Ex-situ oil/water separation At the time this feasibility study was conducted (early 1993), approximately a year and a half remained before the expiration of the national capacity variance for the F037/F038 wastes. Citgo planned that the cleanout would be finished and that all the sludge removed would be landfilled in a subtitle C unit meeting the minimum technology requirements, as required by ยง268.5(h)(2), before the national capacity variance expired. They constructed a treatment system which is designed to meet the NESHAP waste limit for benzene and controls air emissions. The treated waste also must meet certain landfill acceptance criteria. In particular, this treatment system meets the LDR level for benzene and also achieves oil recovery, partial removal of volatile organics, and dewatering and stabilization of the sludge which meets LDR standards for nickel and chromium (the two regulated metals in F037/F038 wastes); however, the treatment system would not meet the LDR treatment standards for most of the semivolatile organics. Wastewater from the system is redisposed back into the Surge Pond. Citgo hired a contractor to perform the removal and treatment of the Surge Pond sludge. The conditions of the contract stated that the clean-up must be completed before June 30, 1994. However, due to technical difficulties with scale-up, dewatering performance, and the automatic control system for the vapor recovery system, the progress of the clean-up was seriously delayed. In early 1994, it became clear to Citgo that the clean-up would not be finished before the expiration of the national capacity variance and that they would need a treatability variance from the LDRs in order to continue disposing of the residuals from their existing sludge treatment system. D. Waste Description One of the most significant distinguishing characteristics of this waste is its tremendous quantity. The feasibility study conducted in early 1993 estimated that the total volume of sludge contained in the Surge Pond was 770,000 cubic yards, and the total mass as 745,000 tons with a 30% solids content (230,000 tons dry solids). However, Citgo indicated in its petition that it now appears that these quantities were underestimated by as much as 25%, which would mean that the original mass of sludge was about 993,000 tons. Citgo indicated that approximately 625,000 tons of sludge would remain in the pond after June 30, 1994, the date that the national capacity variance for this waste expired. This is the quantity of waste that will be affected by this proposed variance. Approximately 427,000 tons of solid residual will be generated by the treatment of the waste in the Surge Pond. Sampling and analysis of the sludge was performed for Citgo's feasibility study and again for this variance petition. Concentrations of hazardous constituents in untreated sludge are summarized in table A. E. Description of On-site Treatment System The treatment system Citgo is using consists of air sparging in tanks to remove benzene (other volatiles do not appear to be removed effectively) followed by sludge dewatering. Air emissions from some of the unit processes (shaker system, air sparging tanks, and chemical mix tanks) are routed to a vapor control system which consists of scrubbers for removal of hydrogen sulfide and a portable thermal oxidizer for destruction of volatile organics. The dewatered sludge is then mixed with lime or flyash for purposes of stabilization of metals and providing structural integrity to meet the landfill acceptance criteria. The stabilized sludge is land disposed at Chemical Waste Management's Subtitle C landfill in Carlyss, Louisiana. The liquid phase goes to tanks functioning as oil-water separators for recovery of oil; approximately 18% of the oil present in the sludge is recovered. The aqueous discharge (wastewater) from the separators is discharged back into the Surge Pond; overflow from the Surge Pond discharges into the old wastewater treatment system. Regulations that the sludge treatment system must satisfy include the NPDES permit limits for discharge of all site wastewaters, air emission limits, the benzene NESHAP limit (10 ppm), and structural criteria for acceptance at the landfill. Treatment performance data is presented in table B.
