FR940721-2-00056 FR940721-2-00035 (18) Senior citizen volunteers working in intermediaries' and carriers' offices to assist Medicare beneficiaries in response to beneficiaries' requests for assistance. (19) A contractor working with Medicare carriers/intermediaries to identify and recover erroneous Medicare payments for which workers' compensation programs are liable. (20) State and other governmental Workers' Compensation Agencies working with the Health Care Financing Administration to assure that workers' compensation payments are made where Medicare has erroneously paid and workers' compensation programs are liable. (21) Insurance companies, self-insurers, Health Maintenance Organizations, multiple employer trusts and other groups providing protection against medical expenses of their enrollees. Information to be disclosed shall be limited to Medicare entitlement data. In order to receive the information the entity must agree to the following conditions: a. To certify that the individual on whom the information is being provided is one of its insured; b. To utilize the information solely for the purpose of processing the identified individual's insurance claims; and c. To safeguard the confidentiality of the data and to prevent unauthorized access to it. (22) To a contractor for the purpose of collating, analyzing, aggregating or other wise refining or processing records in this system or for developing, modifying and/or manipulating ADP software. Data would also be disclosed to contractors incidental to consultation, programming, operation, user assistance, or maintenance for ADP or telecommunications systems containing or supporting records in the system. (23) To an agency of a State Government, or established by State law, for purposes of determining, evaluating and/or assessing cost, effectiveness, and/or the quality of health care services provided in the State, if HCFA: a. Determines that the use of disclosure does not violate legal limitations under which the data were provided, collected or obtained: b. Establishes that the data are exempt from disclosure under the State and/or local Freedom of Information Act; c. Determines that the purpose for which the disclosure is to be made: (1) Cannot reasonably be accomplished unless the data are provided in individually identifiable form; (2) Is of sufficient importance to warrant the effect and/or risk on the privacy of the individuals that additional exposure of the record might bring, and; (3) There is reasonable probability that the objectives for the use would be accomplished; and d. Requires the recipient to: (1) Establish reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of the record; (2) Remove or destroy the information that allows the individual to be identified at the earliest time at which removal or destruction can be accomplished consistent with the purpose of the request, unless the recipient presents an adequate justification for retaining such information;
