FR941027-2-00083 FR941027-2-00044 VI. Effect of the Proposed Systems of Records on Individual Rights As discussed above, the proposed systems of records will enable SSA to mail PEBES. Recipients will benefit from the PEBES because these statements will help them plan their finances and check the accuracy of SSA's records. The routine uses will benefit individuals by helping SSA run its programs smoothly. SSA will adhere to all provisions of the Privacy Act, Social Security Act, and other applicable laws in our maintenance and use of the information. Thus, we do not anticipate that the system will have any adverse effect on individuals' rights. Dated: October 3, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security. 09&hyph;60&hyph;0224 System name: SSA-Initiated Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement (SIPEBES) History File, HHS/SSA/OSR. Security classification: None. System location: Social Security Administration, Office of Systems, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Any person: •Who lives in a state or territory of the United States or the District of Columbia; •Who has reached age 25; •Who has had earnings posted to his/her Social Security number (SSN); •Who is not receiving benefits under title II of the Social Security Act; and •For whom the Social Security Administration (SSA) can determine the current mailing address. Categories of records in the system: This system contains the following information about each individual: •Name; •SSN; •Address to which the PEBES was mailed; •Date of birth; •Sex; •Disposition code (to indicate earnings discrepancy or refusal); •Date of SIPEBES issuance; •Whether the PEBES was issued at the individual's request or SSA's initiative; •Primary language (English or Spanish); •Address source (IRS, the individual, or other); •IRARN&hyph;CD (a code reserved for future use). •PROC&hyph;CD (a code reserved for future use). Authority for maintenance of the system: Sections 205(a), 205(c)(2), and 1143 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(a), 405(c)(2), and 1320b&hyph;13); the Federal Records Act of 1950 (64 Stat. 583), as amended. Purposes: This system is used for the following purposes: •To establish and retrieve specific records for PEBES processing; •To identify whether or when a person has previously received an SIPEBES; •To help SSA respond to PEBES inquiries; and •To conduct statistical studies. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Disclosure may be made for routine uses as indicated below: 1. Information may be disclosed to contractors and other Federal agencies, as necessary, to assist SSA in the efficient administration of its programs. We contemplate disclosing information under this routine use only in situations in which SSA may enter a contractual or similar agreement with a third party to assist in accomplishing an agency function relating to this system of records. Wage and other information which is subject to the disclosure provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC, 26 U.S.C. 6103) will not be disclosed under this routine use unless disclosure is expressly permitted by the IRC. 2. Information may be disclosed to a congressional office in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of the subject of the record. Wage and other information which is subject to the disclosure provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC, 26 U.S.C. 6103) will not be disclosed under this routine use unless disclosure is expressly permitted by the IRC. 3. To the Department of Justice (DOJ), a court, or other tribunal, or another party before such tribunal, when: (1) SSA, or any component thereof; or (2) Any SSA employee in his/her official capacity; or (3) Any SSA employee in his/her individual capacity when DOJ (or SSA, when it is authorized to do so) has agreed to represent the employee; or (4) The United States or any agency thereof when SSA determines that the litigation is likely to affect the operations of SSA or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and SSA determines that the use of such records by DOJ, the court or other tribunal, or the other party before the tribunal is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case SSA determines that such disclosure is compatible with the purposes for which the records were collected. Wage and other information which is subject to the disclosure provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC, 26 U.S.C. 6103) will not be disclosed under this routine use unless disclosure is expressly permitted by the IRC. 4. Information may be disclosed to the Office of the President for responding to an individual pursuant to an inquiry received from that individual or from a third party on his or her behalf. Wage and other information which is subject to the disclosure provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC, 26 U.S.C. 6103) will not be disclosed under this routine use unless disclosure is expressly permitted by the IRC. 5. Nontax return information, the disclosure of which is not expressly restricted by Federal law, may be disclosed to the General Services Administration and the National Archives and Records Administration under 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906, as amended by the National Archives and Records Administration Act of 1984, for the use of those agencies in conducting records management studies. Wage and other information which is subject to the disclosure provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC, 26 U.S.C. 6103) will not be disclosed under this routine use unless disclosure is expressly permitted by the IRC. 6. Information may be disclosed to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for auditing SSA's compliance with the safeguard provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, and disposing of records in the system:
