FR940118-0-00062 FR940118-0-00014 (b) Certifications. Certifications must be submitted by the State(s) and local government(s) requesting designation stating that: (1) The nominated area satisfies the boundary tests of §25.100(d) of this part; (2) The nominated area is one of pervasive poverty, unemployment, and general distress, as prescribed by §25.102 of this part; (3) The nominated area satisfies the poverty rate criteria set forth in §25.103 of this part; (4) The nominated rural area contains no portion of an area that is either already designated as an Empowerment Zone and/or Enterprise Community or is otherwise included in any other area nominated for designation as an Empowerment Zone and/or Enterprise Community; (5) Each nominating governmental entity has the authority to: (i) Nominate the rural area for designation as an Empowerment Zone and/or Enterprise Community; (ii) Make the State and local commitments required by §25.200(d) of this part; and (iii) Provide written assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that these commitments will be met; (6) Provide assurances the amounts provided to the State for the area under section 2007 of title XX of the Social Security Act will not be used to supplant Federal or non-Federal funds for services and activities which promote the purposes of section 2007; (7) Provide that the nominating governments or corporations agree to make available all information requested by USDA to aid in the evaluation of progress in implementing the strategic plan and reporting on the use of Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community Social Service Block Grant funds; and (8) Provide assurances that the nominating State(s) agrees to distribute the Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community Social Service Block Grant funds in accordance with the strategic plan submitted for the designated Zone or Community. (c) Maps and area description. Maps and general description of the nominated area shall accompany the nomination request. Subpart D_Designation Process §25.300 USDA action and review of nominations for designation. (a) Establishment of submission procedures. USDA will establish a time period and procedure for the submission of application as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities, including submission deadlines and addresses, in a Notice Inviting Applications, to be published in the Federal Register . (b) Acceptance for processing. USDA will accept for processing those applications as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities which USDA determines have met the criteria required under this part. USDA will notify the State(s) and local government(s) whether or not the nomination has been accepted for processing. The criteria for acceptance for processing are as follows: (1) The application as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community must be received by USDA on or before the close of business on the date established by the Notice Inviting Applications published in the Federal Register . The applications must be complete and must be accompanied by a strategic plan, as required by §25.200(c) and the certifications required by §25.202(b). (2) The application as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community must be complete and must be accompanied by a strategic plan, as required by §25.200(c) of this part, and the certifications required by §25.202(b) of this part. (c) Evaluation of applications. In the process of reviewing each application accepted for processing, USDA may undertake a site visit(s) to any nominated area to aid in the process of evaluation. (d) Modification of the strategic plan, boundaries of nominated rural areas, and/or period during which designation is in effect. Subject to the limitations imposed by §25.100 of this part, USDA may request additional information pertaining to the plan and proposed area and may, as a part of that request, suggest modifications to the plan that would enhance its effectiveness. (e) Publication of designations. Final determination of the boundaries of areas and the term for which the designations will remain in effect will be made by the Secretary. Announcements of those nominated areas designated as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities will be made by publication of a Notice in the Federal Register . §25.301 Selection factors for designation of nominated rural areas. In choosing among nominated rural ares eligible for designation, the Secretary shall consider:
