FR940407-2-00064 FR940407-2-00036 The Agency believes that Congressional enactment of RCRA establishes a strong Federal interest in effective management of solid waste. EPA also notes that, where solid waste affects ground water which has pathways that allow it to migrate readily, it would be practically very difficult to separate out the effects of solid waste disposal on non-Indian fee land within a reservation from those on Tribal portions. In other words, any environmental impairment that occurs on, or as a result of, activities on non-Indian fee lands is very likely to impair Tribal lands. This also suggests that the serious and substantial effects of solid waste within the non-Indian portions of a reservation are very likely to affect Tribal health and welfare. EPA believes that a ``checkerboard'' system of regulation, whereby the Tribe and State split up regulation of solid waste on the Indian Lands, would exacerbate the difficulties of assuring compliance with RCRA requirements. The Agency also believes that the effects on Tribal health and welfare necessary to support Tribal regulation of non-Indian activities on Indian Lands may be easier to establish in the context of environmental regulation than with regard to zoning, which was at issue in Brendale . There is a significant distinction between land use planning and environmental regulation of solid waste under RCRA. The Supreme Court has explicitly recognized such a distinction: ``Land use planning in essence chooses particular uses for the land; environmental regulation does not mandate particular uses of the land but requires only that, however the land is used, damage to the environment is kept within prescribed limits.'' California Coastal Comm'n v. Granite Rock Co., 480 U.S. 572, 587 (1987). The Court has relied on this distinction to support a finding that States retain authority to carry out environmental regulation even in cases where their ability to carry out general land use regulation is preempted by Federal law. Id. at 587&hyph;89. Further, management of solid waste serves the purpose of protecting public health and safety, which is a core governmental function, whose exercise is critical to self-government. The special status of governmental actions to protect public health and safety is well established. 3 By contrast, the power to zone can be exercised to achieve purposes which have little or no direct nexus to public health and safety. See, e.g., Brendale , 492 U.S. at 420 n.5 (White, J.) (listing broad range of consequences of state zoning decision). Moreover, solid waste may affect ground water, which is mobile, freely migrating from one local jurisdiction to another, sometimes over large distances. By contrast, zoning regulates the uses of particular properties with impacts that are much more likely to be contained within a given local jurisdiction. 3 This special status has been reaffirmed by all nine justices in the context of Fifth Amendment takings law. See Keystone Bituminous Coal Ass'n v. DeBenedictis, 480 U.S. 470, 491 n. 20 (1987); id . at 512 (Rehnquist, C.J., dissenting). Operationally, EPA's generalized findings regarding the relationship of solid waste management to Tribal health and welfare will affect the legal analysis of a Tribal submission by, in effect, supplementing the factual showing a Tribe makes in applying for program approval. Thus, a Tribal submission regarding jurisdiction will need to make a relatively simple showing of facts that there is or may be solid waste within the meaning of Subtitle D on the reservation and that the Tribe or Tribal members could be subject to exposure to that waste. The Tribe also must explicitly assert that activities of non-Indians regarding that waste would have a serious and substantial effect on the health and welfare of the Tribe. Once the Tribe meets this initial burden, EPA will, in light of the facts presented by the Tribe and the generalized statutory and factual findings regarding the importance of solid waste discussed above, presume that there has been an adequate showing of Tribal jurisdiction on fee lands, unless an appropriate governmental entity (e.g., an adjacent Tribe or State) demonstrates a lack of jurisdiction on the part of the Tribe. The Agency recognizes that jurisdictional disputes between Tribes and States can be complex and difficult and that it will, in some circumstances, be forced to address such disputes by attempting to work with the parties in a mediative fashion. However, EPA's ultimate responsibility is protection of the environment. In view of the mobility of environmental problems, and the interdependence of various jurisdictions, it is imperative that all affected sovereigns work cooperatively for environmental protection, rather than engage in confrontations over jurisdiction.
