FR941107-2-00117 FR941107-2-00065 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Employment and Training Administration [TA&hyph;W&hyph;30,223] Brown Shoe Company (Trenton Warehouse) Trenton, TN; Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By applications dated September 27 and 28, 1994 and October 3, 1994, the petitioners and others requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistance (TAA). The denial notice was signed on September 15, 1994 and will soon be published in the Federal Register . Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) If it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) If in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. The petitioners state that the workers should be certified because all of Brown Shoe company's facilities which have been closed are certified for TAA. The worker adjustment assistance program is based on increased imports of articles that are like or directly competitive with those produced by the petitioning workers. The Department's denial of TAA for workers was based on the fact that they do not produce an article within the meaning of the Trade Act of 1974 and as such are out of scope from the worker adjustment assistance program. Service workers (warehouse workers) are rarely certified for TAA when the company's manufacturing plants' certifications are based on company imports. The condition that must be met is that over half of the warehouse's activity must come from certified facilities. The findings, however, show that the major portion of Trenton's activity did not come from certified facilities but instead originated from company imports. Accordingly, increased company imports would have a positive employment effect on the subject workers, not an adverse one. Other findings show that Trenton's warehousing was transferred to another domestic facility. The worker adjustment assistance program was not intended to provide TAA to workers who are in some way related to import competition but only for those workers who produce an article and are adversely affected by increased imports of like or directly competitive articles which contributed importantly to sales or production and employment declines at the workers' firm. Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's prior decision. Accordingly, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, DC, this 27th day of October 1994. Victor J. Trunzo, Program Manager, Policy and Reemployment Services, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27510 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
