FR940711-2-00140 FR940711-2-00056 [Release No. 34&hyph;34297; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;39] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Security Application Fee for The PORTAL Market July 1, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Exchange Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on June 22, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association''), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to amend The PORTAL Market Rules, Schedule I to the NASD By-Laws (``PORTAL Rules''), to add a security application fee with respect to securities submitted for designation in The PORTAL Market. Below is the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is in italics. The PORTAL Market Schedule I to the NASD By-Laws * * * * * PART VI PORTAL MARKET TRANSACTIONS * * * * * Sec. 4␣PORTAL Fees PORTAL participants shall pay to the Association a fee for PORTAL transactions or such other fees as determined by the Association, which are set forth in Part IX of the PORTAL Rules. The Board of Governors shall have the power to impose, alter, or amend such fees from time to time pursuant to Article VI, Section 1 of the By-Laws. * * * * * PART IX PORTAL FEES Sec. 1␣Entry Fee When a PORTAL participant submits an application for designation of any class of securities as a PORTAL security, it shall pay to the Corporation a filing fee of $2,000 per class of security covered by the security application submitted plus $200 per assigned security symbol that is in addition to the first symbol assigned. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change (a) Purpose The PORTAL Market is the market operated by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., for the quotation of securities that are restricted securities, as defined in Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act of 1933 (``Securities Act''), or are securities that are treated as if restricted. 1 In order to qualify for inclusion in The PORTAL Market, a security that is restricted or treated as if restricted must be eligible to be sold pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act, 2 be in negotiable form, and be assigned a CUSIP or other security identification number that is different from any identification number assigned to any unrestricted securities of the same class. 1 Part II, PORTAL Rules, provides that to qualify for initial designation and continued designation in the PORTAL Market, a security shall be either a restricted security, as defined in Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, or a security that upon issuance and continually thereafter only can be sold pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act, Rule 114A, or Rule 144 under the Securities Act, or in a transaction exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act pursuant to Section 4 of the Securities Act and not involving any public offering. 2 This provision requires that the security meet the requirements of Rule 144A(d)(3) and (4) under the Securities Act, which are, respectively, the ``fungibility'' and ``information delivery requirement'' conditions of Rule 114A. The PORTAL Market has processed over one thousand applications for designation as a PORTAL security. Designation of a security as a PORTAL security permits the security to be assigned a CUSIP number by Standard & Poor's Corporation and be cleared and settled through the Depository Trust Company. Section 2 of the PORTAL Rules permits any PORTAL participant to submit an application for security designation, rather than the issuer of the security. ``PORTAL participants'' include PORTAL dealers, PORTAL brokers, and PORTAL investors. The first two categories of PORTAL participants are required to be brokers and dealers registered with the Commission under Section 15 of the Exchange Act and members of the NASD. The third category of PORTAL participants are institutional investors that are not members of the NASD that meet the definition of ``qualified institutional buyer'' under Rule 144A.
