FR940407-2-00152 FR940407-2-00081 Projects proposed for funding under this announcement must result in direct benefits to low-income people as defined in the most recent Annual Revision of Poverty Income Guidelines published by DHHS and individuals eligible to receive Aid to Families with Dependent Children under Part A of title IV of the Social Security Act. Attachment A to this announcement is an excerpt from the guidelines currently in effect. Annual revisions of these guidelines are normally published in the Federal Register in February or early March of each year. Grantees will be required to apply the most recent guidelines throughout the project period. These revised guidelines also may be obtained at public libraries, Congressional offices, or by writing the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. No other government agency or privately-defined poverty guidelines are applicable for the determination of low-income eligibility for this program. 5. Cooperative Partnership Agreement A signed written agreement or letter of commitment between the applicant and the local JOBS (welfare) agency must be submitted with the application in order to be reviewed and evaluated competitively. The agreement/letter must describe the cooperative relationship and include specific activities and/or actions that each of the entities proposes to carry out over the course of the grant period in support of the project. (Please review PART II, General Projects 1.0 for additional specific information related to this agreement.) 6. Prohibition and Restrictions on the Use of Funds The use of funds for new construction or the purchase of real property is prohibited. Costs incurred for rearrangement and alteration of facilities required specifically for the grant program are allowable when specifically approved by ACF in writing. If the applicant is proposing a project which will affect a property listed in, or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places, it must identify this property in the narrative and explain how it has complied with the provisions of section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended. If there is any question as to whether the property is listed in or eligible for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places, the applicant should consult with the State Historic Preservation Officer. (See Attachment D: SF&hyph;424B, Item 13 for additional guidelines.) The applicant should contact OCS early in the development of its application for instructions regarding compliance with the Act and data required to be submitted to the Department of Health and Human Services. Failure to comply with the cited Act must result in the application being ineligible for funding consideration. 7. Multiple Submittals Due to the limited number of grants which will be made under this program, only one proposal from an eligible applicant will be funded by OCS for either the general project fund or the community development corporation set-aside fund. 8. Refunding OCS will not provide refunding to a previously funded grantee to conduct the same demonstration in the same target area. 9. Third-Party Project Evaluation Projects also must include an independent, methodologically sound evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities carried out with the grant in creating new jobs and business opportunities. 10. Economic Development Strategy Applicants must include an economic development strategy in accordance with the legislative reference cited in Part II, Section A. 11. Maintenance of Effort The application must include an assurance that activities funded under this program announcement are in addition to, and not in substitution for, activities previously carried on without Federal assistance. Part IV_Application Review Process
