FR940106-2-00054 FR940106-2-00033 •Medicare and Medicaid are the sole or primary source of payment for a service. •The charges involve the use of new technology for which an extensive charge history does not exist. •The charges do not reflect changing technology, increased facility with that technology, or changes in acquisition, production, or supplier costs. •The prevailing charges for a service in a particular locality are substantially higher or lower than prevailing charges in other comparable localities, taking into account the relative costs of furnishing the services in the different localities. •Charges are grossly lower than or exceed acquisition or production costs. •There have been increases in charges for a service that cannot be explained by inflation or technology. •The prevailing charges for a service are substantially higher or lower than the payments made for the service by other purchasers in the same locality. Section 405.502(g)(3) specifies that we announce payment limits in the Federal Register . Specifically, we publish in the Federal Register our intention to propose limits and allow 60 days for receipt of public comments on the proposal. After we have considered all timely comments, we publish in the Federal Register a final notice announcing the special payment limits and our analyses and responses to the comments. Section 405.502(g)(3) also provides that the proposed and final notices must set forth the criteria and circumstances, if any, under which a carrier may grant an exception to the limit(s). B. DME Fee Schedules Section 4062 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987 (OBRA '87) (Public Law 100&hyph;203), which added section 1834(a) to the Act, provides for a fee schedule payment methodology for DME furnished on or after January 1, 1989. (This fee schedule payment methodology is set forth in 42 CFR part 414, subpart D.) Sections 1834(a)(1) (A) and (B) of the Act provide that Medicare payment for DME is equal to 80 percent of the lesser of the actual charge for the item or the fee schedule amount for the item. Section 1834(a) of the Act classifies DME into the following payment categories: •Inexpensive or other routinely purchased DME. •Items requiring frequent and substantial servicing. •Customized items. •Oxygen and oxygen equipment. •Other items of DME (capped rental items). There is a separate methodology for determining the fee schedule payment amount for each category of DME. The fee schedules are adjusted annually by a covered item update factor. The covered item update factor is generally equal to the change in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers (CPI&hyph;U) for the 12-month period ending June 30 of the preceding year. Section 1834(a)(10)(B) provides that we may apply the special payment limits authority of paragraphs (8) and (9) of section 1842(b) to covered items of DME and suppliers of these items and payments under section 1834(a) in the same manner as these provisions apply to physician's services and physicians and reasonable charges under section 1842(b). C. Payment for Home Blood Glucose Monitors (Code E0607) Standard home blood glucose monitors allow individuals to measure their blood glucose and, then, alter their diets or insulin dosages to ensure that they are maintaining an adequate blood glucose level. Home blood glucose monitors are covered by the Medicare program as DME and are classified under the inexpensive and other routinely purchased DME payment category defined in section 1834(a)(2) of the Act. Section 1834(a)(2) specifies that inexpensive and other routinely purchased DME are those items of DME that have a purchase price that does not exceed $150 or are acquired at least 75 percent of the time by purchase. We determined that home blood glucose monitors belong in this category based on a review of data that show that these monitors are acquired at least 75 percent of the time by purchase. Section 1834(a)(2) requires that payment for items falling within this category be made on a purchase or rental basis and that local purchase and rental fee schedule amounts be calculated for each item. Section 414.220(c)(1) provides for the calculation of purchase fee schedules for both new and used DME within this category. The fee schedule amounts for purchased new, purchased used, and rental DME within this category are based on the average reasonable charges for purchased new, purchased used, and rental DME, respectively, from the base year period of July 1, 1986 through June 30, 1987.
