FR940404-2-00099 FR940404-2-00064 One respondent objected to favoring applicants whose graduates are practicing in Federally-subsidized settings while discriminating against those applicants whose graduates are serving where special designations have not been sought or Federal assistance utilized. Because the statutory definition of medically underserved community is based on Federal designations, this bias may be unavoidable. However, an attempt has been made to make the list as comprehensive as possible, within the confines of the law. There was one suggestion to ``provide an opportunity for preference to be claimed and secured based on affirmation or documentation that graduates' practice settings are located in communities or serve populations which meet specified eligibility criteria for HPSA or MUA/MUP designation.'' There were also several questions related to practice settings included on the list. For example, one letter stated ``many state and local government health department work settings clearly do not have service to underserved communities as the principal focus.'' While most of the suggestions made by the respondents are options that have been considered previously, these suggestions will all be reevaluated for consideration in the FY 1995 implementation of this preference. We recognize that there are difficulties associated with the implementation of this preference and we appreciate the comments received regarding our proposed notice. Final Methodology for Implementation of the Statutory General Funding Preference Definition of ``High Rate'' ``High rate'' is defined as a minimum percent of graduates in academic year 1991&hyph;92 or academic year 1992&hyph;93, whichever is greater, who spend at least 50 percent of their worktime in clinical practice in the specified settings. For undergraduate medical education programs academic years 1988&hyph;89 and 1989&hyph;90 will be used. Preventive medicine, public health, dental public health, and public health nurse graduates can be counted if they identify a primary work affiliation at one of the qualified work sites. Graduates who are providing care in a medically underserved community as a part of a fellowship or other educational experience can be counted. Definition of ``Significant Increase in the Rate'' ``Significant increase in the rate'' means that, between academic years 1991&hyph;92 and 1992&hyph;93, the rate of placing graduates in the specified settings has increased by a minimum percent and that not less than 15 percent of graduates from the most recent year are working in these settings. New Programs A new program is defined as any program which has graduated less than three classes. After a program has graduated three classes, that program will be able to provide the information necessary for the general funding preference as defined in the law and will no longer be considered a new program. A new program will qualify for the general funding preference if four or more of the following criteria are met: 1. The mission statement of the program identifies a specific purpose of preparing health professionals to serve underserved populations. 2. The curriculum includes content which will help to prepare practitioners to serve underserved populations. 3. Substantial clinical training experience is required in medically underserved communities. 4. A minimum of 20 percent of the faculty spend at least 50 percent of their time providing/supervising care in medically underserved communities. 5. The entire program or a substantial portion of the program is physically located in a medically underserved community. 6. Student assistance, which is linked to service in medically underserved communities following graduation, is available to the students in the program. 7. The program provides a placement mechanism for deploying graduates to medically underserved communities. In FY 1994, new programs can qualify for the general preference by providing assurance that a minimum percent of their prospective graduates have signed commitments to practice in medically underserved communities after graduation contingent to receiving some type of student assistance. This minimum percent will be equal to the minimum percentage for ``high rate.'' Small Programs For FY 1994, the program materials for grant programs whose applicants typically have less than 10 graduates per year will request data for the preceding three years which will be aggregated to determine whether or not the ``high rate'' has been achieved. Service in ``Medically Underserved Community Work Settings'' For implementation of this general funding preference in FY 1994, it is proposed that service in a ``medically underserved community'' will include service in the following work settings: Community Health Centers (section 330) Migrant Health Centers (section 329) Health Care for the Homeless Grantees (section 340) Public Housing Primary Care Grantees (section 340A) Rural Health Clinics, federally designated (section 1861(aa)(2) of the Social Security Act) National Health Service Corps sites, freestanding (section 333) Indian Health Service Sites (Public Law 93&hyph;638 for tribally operated sites and Public Law 94&hyph;437 for IHS operated sites) Federally Qualified Health Centers (section 1905 (a) and (l) of the Social Security Act) Primary Medical Care Health Professional Shortage Areas (HPSAs) (facilities and geographic) (designated under section 332) For primary care physicians and other health personnel except dentists and nurses Dental HPSAs (facilities and geographic) (designated under section 332) For dentists only Nurse Shortage Areas (old section 836, currently section 846) For nurses only State or Local Health Departments (Regardless of sponsor_for example, local health departments who are funded by the State would qualify.) Ambulatory practice sites designated by State Governors as serving medically underserved communities Dated: March 28, 1994. John H. Kelso, Acting Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7876 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;W
