FR941205-0-00065 FR941205-0-00019 The remaining 20 comments, although supporting the extension of special bulk third-class rates to voting registration officials, seek an expansion of the types of matter that those officials may mail at the special rates. Like other mailers eligible to use the special rates, voting registration officials would be permitted to enter only bulk third-class matter at those rates. The commenters assert that the proposed rule would not result in any real savings for voter registration mailings for these reasons: (1) The bulk rates are available only if the mailing contains 200 or more items sorted by ZIP Code; (2) Third-class mail has to be generic only and, therefore, may not contain any references to personal or unique information, as required in most mailings under the National Voter Registration Act (NVRA); (3) Mailings under the NVRA are either single items of a First-Class nature mailed in response to a registration application or ``forwardable'' mailings; and (4) All mailings required under the NVRA must be given First-Class service, and the rates would not apply to any ``return if undeliverable'' or ``forward'' action, which is essential to the NVRA mailings. Accordingly, these 20 commenters urge that the Postal Service, in order to comply with the intent of Congress in the NVRA, do the following: (1) Amend the Domestic Mail Manual to permit registration materials to be mailed First-Class at the special bulk third-class rates or some other rate that is lower than regular First-Class; (2) Permit voting registration officials to use special bulk third-class rates for mailings required by the NVRA, regardless of the service requested or the quantity involved; and (3) Help ensure citizen participation in the election process by providing special third-class rates for all official registration mailings, lowering the number of pieces required for NVRA mailings, and allowing voters to submit ballots and registration cards through the mail at no expense. At the outset, the Postal Service notes that the eligibility for the special rates is not as restrictive as these commenters appear to believe. It is true that matter considered ``actual and personal correspondence'' must be entered as First-Class Mail and not as third-class mail. However, this requirement does not mean that matter entered at the special rates must be generic and devoid of any items unique to the addressee. For instance, a mailpiece would not be disqualified ordinarily at the third-class rates for the inclusion of information typically on voting material such as an account number or file number, name and address of the addressee, the polling place, congressional district, legislative district, school board district, councilmanic district, election district, and precinct. (As a related example, library cards are generally eligible for third-class mail.) Additionally, although third-class mail generally must consist entirely of printed matter, rather than handwritten or typewritten matter, the addition of a handwritten or typewritten name and address is permitted. Questions about third-class eligibility of a particular piece may be raised with local postal officials. The need for forwarding, return, or address correction services also would not preclude the use of third-class mail. Although these services are not automatically provided for third-class mail, they can be obtained by adding the appropriate endorsements to the mail. Extra postage is assessed only for pieces that require such services. Election boards or voter registration commissions can minimize the volume of pieces forwarded or returned either by using the National Change of Address (NCOA) system to maintain current address lists or by obtaining residential change-of-address information from PS Form 3575 as provided by Domestic Mail Manual A910.6.0. The Postal Service believes that the proposed rule requiring matter of voting registration officials to meet the requirements that other mailers must meet to qualify for the special bulk third-class rate is consistent with Public Law 103&hyph;31. That Act states that the Postal Service shall make available to a state or local voting registration official the rate for any class of mail that is available to a qualified nonprofit organization under 39 U.S.C. 3626 for making a mailing that the official certifies is required or authorized by the Act. Organizations authorized to mail at the special bulk third-class rates may mail only their bulk third-class matter at those rates. Third-class mail consists of mailable matter that weighs less than 16 ounces, is not mailed or required to be mailed as First-Class Mail, and is not entered as second-class mail (except as permitted or required by standard).
