FR940707-2-00135 FR940707-2-00062 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management Shooting Closure on Public Lands in San Diego County, CA AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management. ACTION: Closure order. SUMMARY: The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) is closing part of the public lands on Otay Mountain, located in San Diego County, California, to recreational target shooting. The closure is permanent and covers all public lands located on and within 300 feet of the Otay Mountain Truck Trail, communication sites, historic bunkers, and water tank structures. The closure does not apply to hunters in lawful pursuit of game. It is BLM's intent to protect public users on the road, eliminate shooting damage occurring to numerous structures, and reduce the litter occurring near wilderness study areas. The closure will affect all of the current, popular shooting areas being accessed by vehicle, thus eliminating target shooting from most of the public lands on Otay Mountain. EFFECTIVE DATE: July 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Julia Dougan, Area Manager, Palm Springs-South Coast Resource Area at (619) 251&hyph;0812. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: BLM administers 16,675 acres of public lands in the Otay Mountain area. The area includes two wilderness study areas, one area of critical environmental concern, four communication tower sites, three historic military bunker structures, and five water storage tanks. Although there are several existing roads, the general public's only access through the area is on the Otay Mountain Truck Trail, which connects Otay Mesa Road on the West to Marron Valley Road on the East. This primitive road, with the adjacent communication sites, bunker structures, and water tanks, is where most public users concentrate on the mountain. It is used by four-wheelers, off-highway vehicles, mountain bikers, hikers, hang gliders, remote control airplane operators, target shooters, hunters, and law enforcement personnel. Three problems exist from the target shooters that this closure will address: First, most of the popular shooting areas are located so that individuals are shooting from, down, or across the roadway, or are shooting from ridge lines offering no backstop. This creates a safety hazard for all recreationists using the road and, more than once, has jeopardized law enforcement officers in the field not visible from the road. Second, most of the communication, bunker, and water tank structures are being used as backstops or targets by target shooters. This has result in damaged communications equipment, cracked concrete water tanks, and scarred bunker structures. Finally, all of the shooting areas were trashed, seriously impacting the wilderness values of the area. Over 3 tons of trash were removed from the mountain in December, 1993, and most of it was debris left from target shooters. By closing this area to one type of recreational activity, the health and safety of all other recreationists using the mountain will be protected, the man-made structures will be protected, and the natural resource values of the public lands will be enhanced. The closure does not limit hunters in lawful pursuit of game, nor address other BLM lands in San Diego County where target shooting is still legal. Authority for this permanent closure is established by 43 CFR 8364.1. Violation of the closure is punishable by a fine not to exceed $1000 and/or imprisonment not to exceed 12 months. Dated: June 16, 1994. Lucia Kuizon, Acting District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16353 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;40&hyph;M
