FR941230-1-00041 FR941230-1-00004 (e) Generally applicable taxes _(1) General rule. For purposes of the private security or payment test, generally applicable taxes are not taken into account (that is, are not payments from a nongovernmental person and are not payments in respect of property used for a private business use). (2) Definition of generally applicable taxes. A generally applicable tax is an enforced contribution exacted pursuant to legislative authority in the exercise of the taxing power that is imposed and collected for the purpose of raising revenue to be used for governmental purposes. A generally applicable tax must have a uniform tax rate that is applied to all persons of the same classification in the appropriate jurisdiction, and a generally applicable manner of determination and collection. (3) Special charges. A payment for a special privilege granted or service rendered is not a generally applicable tax. Special assessments paid by property owners benefiting from financed improvements are not generally applicable taxes. For example, a tax that is limited to the property or persons benefitted by an improvement is not a generally applicable tax. (4) Manner of determination and collection _(i) In general. A tax does not have a generally applicable manner of determination and collection if one or more taxpayers make any special agreements relating to payment of those taxes. A special agreement relating to the payment of a tax is taken into account whether or not it is reasonably expected to result in any payments that would not otherwise have been made. On the other hand, if an issuer uses proceeds to make a grant to a taxpayer to improve property, agreements that impose reasonable conditions on the use of the grant do not cause a tax on that property to fail to be a generally applicable tax. If an agreement by a taxpayer causes a tax to fail to have a generally applicable manner of determination and collection, the entire tax paid by that taxpayer is treated as a special charge, unless the agreement is limited to a specific portion of the tax. (ii) Impermissible agreements. The following are examples of agreements that cause a tax to fail to have a generally applicable manner of determination and collection: an agreement to be personally liable, to provide additional credit support such as a third party guarantee, or to pay unanticipated shortfalls; an agreement regarding the minimum market value of property subject to property tax; and an agreement not to challenge or seek deferral of the tax. (iii) Permissible agreements. The following are examples of agreements that do not cause a tax to fail to have a generally applicable manner of determination and collection: an agreement to use a grant for specified purposes (whether or not that agreement is secured); a representation regarding the expected value of the property following the improvement, an agreement to insure the property and, if damaged, to restore the property; and a right of a grantor to rescind the grant if property taxes are not paid. (iv) Payments in lieu of taxes. A tax equivalency payment and any other payment in lieu of a tax is treated as a generally applicable tax if_ (A) The payment is measured by and equal to the amounts imposed by a regular statute for a tax of general application; (B) The payment is imposed by a specific statute (even if another agreement, such as a lease, is used as the vehicle for collection); and
