FR941116-0-00124 FR941116-0-00022 (e) For requests to hay and graze small grains beyond the disposition date made according to §718.22(c). (f) For excess ACR resulting from an acreage determination, the farm operator may request in writing that the excess ACR be released at any time. (g) Other acreage may be substituted for previously reported ACR if the: (1) Designated ACR is later approved for CRP acreage, or (2) The farm operator pays an inspection fee for an authorized ASCS employee to witness the destruction of hay production on an acreage that has been swathed before being designated as ACR, and all of the following conditions are met: (i) The farm is, and was, as of the final reporting date, in compliance with all eligibility and minimum size and width requirements as provided in part 1413 of this title, (ii) The acreage has not been found out of compliance through a spot check, (iii) The farm operator pays an inspection fee for an authorized ASCS employee to inspect the original and substituted acreage. A fee is not charged for substituted ACR to CRP acreage. 11. Section 718.25 (a) is revised to read as follows: §718.25 Reporting out of compliance. * * * * * (a) A program crop exceeds the sum of the maximum acreage permitted and the available flex from other participating crops in ARP, * * * * * 12. Section 718.26 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b)(3) through (b)(8), adding paragraphs (b)(9) and (b)(10), and revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: §718.26 Farm inspections. (a) A representative number of farms selected shall be inspected by an authorized representative of ASCS to ascertain the acreage or production, or to determine adherence to any requirement specified as a prerequisite for obtaining benefits under ARP, CRP, disaster programs, and highly erodible and wetland provisions under part 12 of this title. (b) *␣*␣* (3) A farm on which the county committee determines an estimate of production is needed to properly administer the program for any marketing quota crop. (4) A farm for which an acreage report shows nonquota tobacco produced in a State where marketing quotas are in effect for any kind of tobacco. (5) Farms that have an effective flue-cured tobacco allotment. (6) Farms on which there is unmarketed tobacco. (7) Farms on which no tobacco is grown that have zero effective allotment for dark air-cured and fire-cured tobacco.
