FR941028-2-00224 FR941028-2-00109 Emergency departments Emergency medical services Enclosing devices Engineers Evaluation Exhaust General ventilation HEPA filter installation, maintenance, and monitoring Home-health-care settings Hospices Local exhaust ventilation Discharge exhaust Enclosing devices Exterior devices Maintenance Monitoring Mixing factor Negative pressure Operating rooms Periodic evaluation Positive-pressure rooms Pressure-sensing devices Pressurizing the corridor to induce negative pressure Radiology department Rates (see Air changes per hour [ACH]) Recirculation of HEPA filtered air Fixed Portable Re-entrainment Short-circuiting Single-pass system Source control methods Stagnation Supplement 3_Engineering issues in TB control TB isolation rooms Tents and booths (see Local exhaust ventilation) Treatment rooms Ventilation rates Waiting-room areas Very low-risk area or facility Visitors Contact investigation Pediatric patients Protection against UVGI Respiratory protection for Waiting-room areas Workplace reassignment Workplace restrictions Active TB Extrapulmonary TB Latent TB infection Nonadherence to preventive therapy Nonadherence to treatment Return to work List of Tables Table 1. Elements of a risk assessment for tuberculosis (TB) in health-care facilities Table 2. Elements of a tuberculosis (TB) infection-control program Table 3. Characteristics of an effective tuberculosis (TB) infection-control program Table 4. Examples of potential problems that can occur when identifying or isolating patients who may have infectious tuberculosis (TB) Table S2&hyph;1. Summary of interpretation of purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin skin-test results Table S2&hyph;2. Regimen options for the treatment of tuberculosis (TB) in children and adults Table S2&hyph;3. Dosage recommendations for the initial treatment of tuberculosis in children and adults Table S3&hyph;1. Air changes per hour (ACH) and time in minutes required for removal efficiencies of 90%, 99%, and 99.9% of airborne contaminants Table S3&hyph;2. Hierarchy of ventilation methods for tuberculosis (TB) isolation rooms and treatment rooms Table S3&hyph;3. Maximum permissible exposure times for selected values of effective irradiance List of Figures Figure 1. Protocol for conducting a tuberculosis (TB) risk assessment in a health-care facility Figure 2. Protocol for investigating purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin skin-test conversions in health-care workers (HCWs) Figure S3&hyph;1. An enclosing booth designed to sweep air past a patient who has active tuberculosis and entrap the infectious droplet nuclei in a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter Figure S3&hyph;2. Room airflow patterns designed to provide mixing of air and prevent passage of air directly from the air supply to the exhaust Figure S3&hyph;3. Smoke-tube testing and anemometer placement to determine the direction of airflow into and out of a room Figure S3&hyph;4. Cross-sectional view of a room showing the location of negative pressure measurement Figure S3&hyph;5. Fixed, ducted room-air recirculation system using a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter inside an air duct Figure S3&hyph;6. Fixed ceiling-mounted room-air recirculation system using a high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter Figure S3&hyph;7. Air recirculation zone created by wind blowing over a building [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26598 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;P
