FR940628-2-00084 FR940628-2-00065 Herman G. Fleming, Reports Clearance Officer, National Science Foundation, Washington, DC 20550 ␣␣and Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503 The Investigator Financial Disclosure Policy NSF's Investigator Financial Disclosure Policy has the following primary features: A. A requirement that any NSF grantee employing more than fifty persons maintain ``an appropriate written and enforced policy on conflict of interests''. B. Minimum requirements for what must be in an institution's policy. These include (a) limited and targeted financial disclosure, (b) designation of a person(s) to review the disclosures and resolve actual or potential problems revealed, (c) enforcement mechanisms, and (d) arrangements for informing NSF of conflicts issues that are not resolved to the satisfaction of the institution. Changes made to NSF issuances to establish and communicate the Policy are described below. Copies of the NSF Grant General Conditions and the NSF publication Grant Proposal Guide may be obtained from the contact listed above. Copies of the NSF Grant Policy Manual may be obtained from the Government Printing Office. WHAT WOULD BE REQUIRED IN INSTITUTIONAL POLICIES Grant General Conditions Insert a new subparagraph 23(b): Records of investigator financial disclosures and of actions taken to manage actual or potential conflicts of interest (see Grant Policy Manual Section 310), shall be retained until 3 years after the later of the termination or completion of the award to which they relate, or the resolution of any government action involving those records. Renumber subsequent subparagraphs accordingly. Insert a new paragraph 33: If the grantee employs more than fifty persons, the grantee shall maintain an appropriate written and enforced policy on conflict of interest consistent with the provisions of Grant Policy Manual Section 310. Renumber subsequent paragraphs accordingly. Grant Policy Manual In GPM 516.3 ``Consulting and Other Outside Activities of Principal Investigators Under NSF Awards'', add to subparagraph ``a.'': However, see GPM 310 on Conflict of Interest Policies. Strike all after subparagraph ``a.'', including Exhibits V&hyph;1 and V&hyph;2. Add a new GPM 310 ``Conflict of Interest Policies'': a. NSF requires each grantee institution employing more than fifty persons to maintain an appropriate written and enforced policy on conflict of interest. Guidance for such policies has been issued by university associations and scientific societies. 1 1 See On Preventing Conflicts of Interests in Government-Sponsored Research at Universities, a Joint Statement of the Council of the American Association of University Professors and the American Council on Education (1964); Managing Externally Funded Programs at Colleges and Universities, especially ``Principle X. Research Ethics and Conflicts'', issued by the Council on Government Relations (1989); Guidelines for Dealing with Faculty Conflicts of Commitment and Conflicts of Interest in Research, issued by the Association of American Medical Colleges (1990); and Framework Document for Managing Financial Conflicts of Interest, issued by the Association of American Universities (1993).
