FR940223-2-00158 FR940223-2-00097 13. (1) Each Secretary and every member of the staff of the Secretariat shall, before taking up duties, file a Proprietary Information Access Application with each of the Deputy Minister, the Tribunal, the Secretaría de Comercio y Fomento Industrial, the International Trade Administration of the United States Department of Commerce and the United States International Trade Commission. (2) Where a Secretary or a member of the staff of the Secretariat files a Proprietary Information Access Application in accordance with subrule (1), the appropriate investigating authority shall issue to the Secretary or to the member a Proprietary Information Access Order. 14. (1) The responsible Secretary shall file with the investigating authority one original, and any additional copies required by the investigating authority, of every Proprietary Information Access Application and any amendments or modifications thereto, filed by a panelist, assistant to a panelist, court reporter, interpreter or translator pursuant to rule 47. (2) The responsible Secretary shall ensure that every panelist, assistant to a panelist, court reporter, interpreter and translator, before taking up duties in a panel review, files with the responsible Secretariat a copy of a Proprietary Information Access Order. 15. Where a document containing proprietary information or privileged information is filed with the responsible Secretariat, each involved Secretary shall ensure that (a) the document is stored, maintained, handled and distributed in accordance with the terms of any applicable Proprietary Information Access Order; (b) the inner wrapper of the document is clearly marked to indicate that it contains proprietary information or privileged information; and (c) access to the document is limited to officials of, and counsel for, the investigating authority whose final determination is under review and (i) in the case of proprietary information, the person who submitted the proprietary information to the investigating authority or counsel for that person and any persons who have been granted access to the information under a Proprietary Information Access Order with respect to the document, and (ii) in the case of privileged information filed in a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, persons with respect to whom the panel has ordered disclosure of the privileged information under rule 52, if the persons have filed with the responsible Secretariat a Proprietary Information Access Order with respect to the document. 16. (1) Each Secretary shall permit access by any person to the information in the file in a panel review that is not proprietary information or privileged information and shall provide copies of that information on request and payment of an appropriate fee. (2) Each Secretary shall, in accordance with subrule 15(c) and the terms of the applicable Proprietary Information Access Order or order of the panel, (a) permit access to proprietary information or privileged information in the file of a panel review; and (b) on payment of an appropriate fee, provide a copy of the information referred to in subrule (a). (3) No document filed in a panel review shall be removed from the offices of the Secretariat except in the ordinary course of the business of the Secretariat or pursuant to the direction of a panel. Internal Functioning of Panels 17. (1) A panel may adopt its own internal procedures, not inconsistent with these rules, for routine administrative matters. (2) A panel may delegate to its chairperson (a) the authority to accept or reject filings in accordance with subrule 10(4); and (b) the authority to grant motions consented to by all participants, other than a motion filed pursuant to rule 20 or 52, a motion for remand of a final determination or a motion that is inconsistent with an order or decision previously made by the panel.
