FR940930-0-00115 FR940930-0-00021 Discussion of Comments and Changes The Coast Guard received only one comment letter in response to the notice of proposed rulemaking. That comment addresses only the proposed amendment to redesignated §67.36 regarding trusts. Proposed §67.36 set forth the citizenship requirements for trust arrangements as vessel-owning entities. In addition, the citizenship requirements for trust arrangements were described in detail, like those for corporations and partnerships, to specify the requirements for each endorsement. Paragraph (a) of proposed §67.36 set forth the general requirements for a registry or recreational endorsement that each trustee and each beneficiary with an enforceable interest in the trust be citizens. This paragraph simply restated the current regulatory requirements for trusts found in §67.37. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of proposed §67.36 set forth the citizenship requirements for a fishery endorsement and a coastwise or Great Lakes endorsement, respectively. These requirements reflect the statutory citizenship requirements for these endorsements applicable to any business entity owning a documented vessel. The owner citizenship requirements for a coastwise or Great Lakes endorsement may be found in §2 of the Shipping Act, 1916 (46 U.S.C. app. §802) and 46 U.S.C. §12107, respectively, and the owner citizenship requirements for a fishery endorsement may be found in 46 U.S.C. §12108. None of the current citizenship requirements for trusts would have been changed by the proposal. The comment raised three points concerning proposed §67.36. First, the comment stated that the term ``trust arrangement'' is not a well defined or easily understood concept in law, and questioned how it should be distinguished from the term ``trust'', which is a well defined and understood concept. The Coast Guard recognizes that there are numerous kinds of trusts. Indeed, reference to ``Black's Law Dictionary'' (Fifth Edition) reveals some 75 kinds of defined trusts. One of the general definitions of a trust is, ``Any arrangement whereby property is transferred with intention that it be administered by trustee for another's benefit.'' The Coast Guard's intention in using the term ``trust arrangement'' is to permit the use of as wide a range of trust types as vessel-owning entities as permissible. The Coast Guard disagrees that the term is confusing or that it need be distinguished from ``trust''. Therefore, the term will not be changed in the final rule. The second point raised by the comment concerns the requirement that each beneficiary with an enforceable interest in the trust be a citizen. The comment notes that in some trusts the beneficiaries are often unborn persons. The comment noted that while such an unborn beneficiary has an enforceable interest in the trust, that same beneficiary, by virtue of being unborn, has no citizenship. The comment reasons that the effect of the requirement will be to preclude trusts with unborn beneficiaries from qualifying as a vessel-owning entity for documentation purposes. An unborn beneficiary as described in the comment could have a vested interest in the trust. However, that interest would also be a contingent interest_with live birth being the minimum condition_which means that the interest is not a present interest. The Coast Guard's position is that the determinants of U.S. citizenship, even under circumstances of dual citizenship of infants, are sufficiently well settled that the citizenship of beneficiaries who hold present enforceable interests can be established. The Coast Guard never intended for the requirement of an enforceable interest to apply to mere contingent interests. Rather, the intent of the requirement is to permit the designation of discretionary or charitable beneficiaries who do not have to meet the citizenship requirement. Since the issue of the citizenship of beneficiaries holding the kinds of contingent future interests mentioned by the comment is not ripe for determination until the interest becomes a present interest, the Coast Guard sees no need to change the requirement. The third point raised by the comment concerns the additional requirement in paragraph (c) of §67.36 to obtain a coastwise or Great Lakes endorsement, that at least 75 percent of the equity interest in the trust be owned by citizens. The comment concluded that since paragraph (a), in effect, requires all beneficiaries to be citizens, the additional equity interest requirement is rendered absurd. The Coast Guard disagrees with the conclusion of the comment that paragraph (a) requires that all beneficiaries be citizens. Since those beneficiaries who do not have an enforceable interest do not have to meet the citizenship requirement, the additional requirement is needed to limit foreign equitable ownership to not more than 25 percent. The percentage parameters is consistent with all other citizen/foreign ownership interest parameters for a vessel qualified to engage in the coastwise trade.
