FR940826-2-00006 FR940826-2-00004 To determine whether or not there have been massive imports of certain cased pencils over a relatively short period, we compared each respondent's export volume for the seven months subsequent to the filing of the petition (November 1993 through May 1994) to that during the seven months prior to the filing of the petition (April through October 1993). This period of review was selected based on the Department's practice of using the longest period for which information is available from the month that the petition was filed through the effective date of the preliminary determination of sales at less than fair value, which in this investigation was June 16, 1994. See, Preliminary Affirmative Determination of Critical Circumstances; Silicon Carbide From the People's Republic of China (59 FR 16795, April 8, 1994). We were unable to consider the share of domestic consumption accounted for by the imports, pursuant to ยง353.16(f)(1)(iii), because the available data did not permit such a post-filing analysis. In addition, we found no evidence of seasonality, pursuant to 19 CFR 353.16(f)(1)(ii), with respect to PRC exports of certain cased pencils to the U.S. Based on respondents' shipment information, we find that imports of certain cased pencils from the PRC have been massive over a relatively short period for the following companies: Shanghai Foreign Trade Corporation (SFTC), Shanghai Lansheng, Co., Ltd. (SLC), and China First Pencil Co., Ltd. (CFP). In addition, we find that imports from Guangdong Stationery & Sporting Goods I/E Corporation (GSSG), the other respondent in this investigation, have not been massive. Therefore, because there is a history of dumping, and, alternatively, importers knew or should have known that the exporters were selling the merchandise at less than its fair value, and because imports of certain cased pencils have been massive over a relatively short period of time, we preliminarily determine that there is a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that critical circumstances exist with respect to imports of certain cased pencils from SFTC, SLC, and CFP. Because imports from GSSG have not been massive, we preliminarily determine that there is not a reasonable basis to believe or suspect that critical circumstances exist with respect to imports of certain cased pencils from GSSG. In addition, with respect to all non-responding procedures/exporters of certain cased pencils from the PRC, we preliminarily determine, as best information available, that critical circumstances exist. Final Critical Circumstances Determination We will make a final determination concerning critical circumstances when we make our final determination of sales at less than fair value in this investigation. ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the International Trade Commission (ITC) of our determination. Public Comment We will accept written comments on this preliminary determination of critical circumstances at the public hearing in this case currently scheduled for October 5, 1994, at 1:00 p.m. in room 3708. This determination is published pursuant to section 733(f) of the Act. Dated: August 22, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21122 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
