FR940919-2-00087 FR940919-2-00046 Complex, Confusing Process Many applicants enter the SSA disability process uninformed about the process itself and the definition of disability. They are unaware of the criteria for establishing disability and the evidence they will be required to submit. Even third parties and advocate organizations, often more knowledgeable than the general public about SSA procedures, experience difficulty obtaining meaningful information about the status of their clients claims, finding that they often are transferred from one employee to another. Disability claimants face a ``one size fits all'' approach to the intake and processing of their claim, finding themselves answering questions they believe are intrusive and irrelevant to their claim. Front-line employees currently devote hours to completing forms and obtaining information which may not be necessary for a finding of disability. Claimants often do not understand what happens to the claim after initial contact with SSA and view multiple requests for medical information with annoyance. Often claimants do not understand how the decision was made and, therefore, believe that it was reached arbitrarily. If the claim is approved, whether at the initial or appellate level, claimants and their representatives, as well as front-line employees, are concerned about the complicated procedures and length of time it takes to effectuate payment and entitle eligible dependents. SSA employees, claimants, and other interested parties all agree that the current process takes too long to provide applicants a decision, and leaves them confused about who has responsibility for their claim, and puzzled about the status of their claim during various points in the process. Additionally, nearly all believe that many claimants can and should assume more responsibility for submitting evidence and pursuing their claim. Most view the reconsideration step as little more than a rubber stamp of the initial determination, creating additional work for employees and yet another bureaucratic obstacle for claimants and their representatives. Some believe a face-to-face interview with the decisionmaker is vital to reaching a fair, accurate determination; others believe just as strongly that the decision should be reached on the basis of a paper review, and that a face-to-face interview can lead to subjective decisions that are not based on objective criteria. Quality reviews and Appeals Council reviews are often mentioned as areas where opportunities exist for streamlining and improving the current process. Claimants and their representatives have learned their chances for a favorable decision improve if they appeal their claim to an ALJ. The public, in particular, believes that it is necessary to hire an attorney to maneuver through the appeals process, and voices resentment at having to do so. Higher allowance rates at the ALJ level lead to the perception that different adjudicative standards apply at the initial and appeals levels. A variety of factors may be contributing to this. The facts of many cases change over time as a claimant s condition changes. ALJs often have access to information not considered at lower levels in the process because earlier decisionmakers are not as likely to have face-to-face interaction with the claimant. Contributors to Complexity The collection of medical evidence presents problems as the case is developed, accounting for a considerable portion of the total time involved in disability claim processing. Health care providers who are a claimant s treating source often do not understand the requirements for establishing disability, and find medical evidence request forms confusing and repetitive. They believe that evidence requests burden them with far too much paperwork and offer far too little in the way of compensation for the time invested. Adjudicators often find that evidence is primarily treatment-oriented and fails to provide either the highly specialized clinical findings or the functional information that is required by the regulations. To compensate for poor or missing medical evidence, DDSs purchase consultative examinations, devoting substantial resources to scheduling, purchasing, and processing these examinations. Once the medical evidence has been collected, the methodology used by disability decisionmakers is complex and controversial. The current sequential evaluation process, which was originally designed to identify and evaluate cases in a simple, rapid and consistent fashion has grown increasingly complex as the result of court decisions and changes in medical technology. This complexity has, in turn, contributed to the increasing difficulty and fragmentation in other portions of the disability process, including intake, evidence collection, and appeals. For example, the Listings of Impairments was originally designed to highlight readily identifiable disabling impairments. Many of the Listings have since evolved into complex and highly detailed diagnostic requirements, demanding specialized medical evidence that may not be readily available from treating sources. Some, but not all, of the Listings consider the functional consequences of an impairment; however functional considerations vary significantly among the Listings. Additionally, in assessing an individual s functional abilities at the later steps in the sequential evaluation, adjudicators collect and analyze evidence from a multitude of different, and often conflicting, sources including: objective clinical and laboratory findings; treating source opinions and other third-party statements considered to be consistent with the objective evidence; and the individual s description of his or her limitations. The development of extensive medical evidence in every case impedes timely and efficient decisionmaking. The varying approaches to assessing a claimant s functional ability that are required at different steps in the sequential evaluation, along with the nature and types of evidence that adjudicators may rely on to assess function often lead to different interpretations of the same evidence by different adjudicators. Vocational rules originally designed to provide a structured approach to decisionmaking have grown increasingly complex, leading to varying interpretations and inconsistent decisions. Fragmented Process The fragmented nature of the disability process is driven by and exacerbated by the fragmentation in SSA's policy making and policy issuance mechanisms. Policy making authority rests in several organizations with few effective tools for ensuring consistent guidance to all disability decisionmakers. Different vehicles exist for conveying policy and procedural guidance to decisionmakers at different levels in the process. While the standards for disability decisionmaking are uniform, they are expressed in different wording in the various policy vehicles. Training on disability is not delivered in a consistent manner, nor is it provided simultaneously to disability decisionmakers across or among levels in the process. Mechanisms for reviewing application of policy among levels of the process are fragmented and inconsistent. Review of DDS decisions is heavily weighted toward allowances; no systematic quality assurance program is in place for hearing decisions although the opportunity for feedback from the Appeals Council or from the courts is heavily weighted toward denials. The organizational fragmentation of the disability process creates the perception that no one is in charge of it. SSA measures the process from the perspective of the component organizations involved, rather than the perspective of the claimant. Multiple organizations (field offices, DDSs, hearings offices, Appeals Council operations, and processing centers) have jurisdiction over the claim at various points in time, with each line of authority managing toward its own goals without responsibility to the overall outcome of the process. Additionally, the impact of one component s work product on other components is not measured, further contributing to the fragmentation of the process. Each component's narrow responsibilities reinforce a lack of understanding among component employees of the roles and responsibilities of other employees in different components. The Need for a Redesigned Disability Claim Process
