FR940208-2-00090 FR940208-2-00070 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule changes are consistent with Sections 6(b)(5) and 11A of the Act in that they are designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, perfect the mechanism of a free and open national market system, and, in general, further investor protection and the public interest in fair and orderly markets on national securities exchanges. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The exchanges believe that no burdens will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule changes. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No comments were received on the proposed rule changes. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal offices of the CHX, BSE, PSE and Phlx. All submissions should refer to File Nos. SR&hyph;CHX&hyph;93&hyph;23, SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;18, SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;1 and SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;7, and should be submitted by March 1, 1994. IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change The Commission finds that the Regional Exchanges' proposals to extend their respective pilot programs, until April 10, 1994, to provide price protection of limit orders executable after the close of regular trading hours is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange. Specifically, the Commission believes that the proposals are reasonably designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, further investor protection and the public interest in fair and orderly markets on national securities exchanges. For these reasons, as discussed in more detail below and in the original approval orders, the Commission finds that approval of the proposed rule changes, for a temporary period ending on April 30, 1994, is consistent with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and in particular, with the requirements of Section 6 of the Act. 7 7 15 U.S.C. 78f (1988). In the Commission's release approving the NYSE's OHT facility, the Commission noted the benefits that would accrue to investors through the development of an after-hours trading session. 8 Although the Regional Exchanges' proposals did not establish after-hours sessions identical to that of the NYSE, the Commission believes that they provide a reasonable competitive response. By allowing GTX orders that would be executed on the NYSE to receive a similar fill on the Exchanges, the proposal is providing a mechanism for maintaining its own individual marketplace on a competitive level with the primary market. 9 8 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 29237, supra note 4. 9 In addition to extending the after-hours GTX pilot programs, the Commission today is also approving proposals submitted by the NYSE and Amex to extend, through April 30, 1994, their respective pilot programs which provide for executions of securities during after-hours trading sessions. Each of these pilot programs were scheduled to expire on January 31, 1994. See File Nos. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;51 (filed on December 23, 1993) and SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;93&hyph;15 (filed on April 21, 1993).
