FR940524-1-00018 FR940524-1-00006 •Reduced costs of and time consumed by the acquisition process; and •The degree to which public policy is achieved. Discussion on Acquisition Guiding Principles The Acquisition Guiding Principles represent a concise statement designed to be user-friendly for the entire acquisition community. In order to illuminate the meaning of the terms and phrases used, the following discussion of the Acquisition Team, Vision, and Goals is provided. The framework for the acquisition system includes the Acquisition Guiding Principles and the supporting policies and procedures provided in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). Acquisition Team The purpose of defining the Acquisition Team in the Acquisition Guiding Principles is to ensure that participants in the Acquisition System are identified_beginning with the customer and ending with the vendor of the supply or service. By identifying the team members in this manner, teamwork, unity of purpose and open communications between the members of the Team in sharing the vision and achieving the goals of the Acquisition System is encouraged. Individual team members will participate in the acquisition process at the appropriate time. Vision Best value must be defined from a broad perspective and is achieved through the balanced application of the acquisition goals. All participants in the System are responsible for making acquisition decisions that appropriately balance the goals, resulting in a system which works better and costs less. Goals Satisfying the customer in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness of the delivered product or service. While there is a wide variety of customers of the Acquisition System, the principal customers of the System include the users and line managers of the products or services provided by the System, as well as the American taxpayer. The Federal Acquisition System must be responsive and adaptive to customer needs, concerns, and feedback. Implementation of Acquisition System policies and procedures, as well as considerations of timeliness, quality and cost at each level in the process must take into account the perspective of the user of the product or service. The Acquisition System must perform in a timely, high quality and cost effective manner. All members of the Acquisition Team are encouraged to employ planning as an integral part of the overall process of acquiring products or services. Although advance planning is desirable, each member of the Team must be flexible in order to accommodate changing or unforeseen mission needs. Planning is a tool for accomplishment of tasks, and application of its disciplines should be commensurate with the size and nature of a given task. Minimizing Administrative Operating Costs In order to ensure that maximum efficiency is obtained, rules, regulations and policies should be promulgated only when their benefits clearly exceed the costs of their development, implementation, administration, and enforcement. This applies to internal and administrative processes, including reviews, and to rules and procedures applied to the vendor community. The Acquisition System must provide uniformity where it contributes to efficiency or where fairness or predictability is essential. The System should also, however, encourage innovation, and local adaptation where uniformity is not essential. Conducting Business With Integrity, Fairness, Openness An essential consideration in every aspect of the Acquisition System is maintaining the public's trust. Not only must the Acquisition System have integrity, but the actions of each member of the Acquisition Team must reflect that integrity. Accordingly, each member of the Acquisition Team is responsible and accountable for the wise use of public resources as well as for acting in a manner which maintains the public's trust. The foundation of integrity within the Acquisition System is a competent, experienced and well-trained, professional workforce. To achieve efficient operations the Acquisition System must shift its focus from ``risk avoidance'' to one of ``risk management.'' The cost to the taxpayer of attempting to eliminate all risk is prohibitive. The Executive Branch will accept and manage the risk associated with empowering local procurement officials to take independent action based on their professional judgment. Using Commercial Products and Services in Preference to Unique Specifications The government must not hesitate to communicate with the commercial sector, as early as possible in the acquisition cycle to help the government determine the capabilities available in the commercial marketplace. In satisfying its needs the government will rely on commercial products and services utilizing commercial standards and practices in preference to unique government specifications. Using Vendors That Have Demonstrated by Past Performance or Who Demonstrate a Current Superior Ability to Perform When selecting vendors to provide products or perform services the government will use vendors that demonstrate a superior ability to perform. Fulfilling Public Policy The Acquisition System must support the attainment of public policy goals adopted by the Congress and the President. In attaining these goals, and in its overall operations, the process shall ensure the efficient use of public resources. Role of the Acquisition Team The authority to make decisions and the accountability for the decisions made will be delegated to the lowest level within the Acquisition System, consistent with law. Members of the government Acquisition Team must be empowered to make acquisition decisions within their areas of responsibility including selection, negotiation and administration of contracts consistent with the Guiding Principles. In particular, the Contracting Officer must have the authority, to the maximum extent practicable and consistent with law, to determine the appropriate application of rules, regulations and policies, other than statutes, to a specific contract. To ensure that each member of the Acquisition Team is prepared to perform the functions and duties assigned, the government is committed to provide training, professional development and other resources necessary for maintaining and improving the knowledge, skills and abilities of all government participants on the Team, both with regard to their particular area of responsibility within the System and their role as a Team member. The Acquisition System will foster cooperative relationships between the government and its vendors consistent with its overriding responsibility to the taxpayers. Dated: May 18, 1994. Steven Kelman, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12592 Filed 5&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3110&hyph;01&hyph;M
