FR940302-2-00003 FR940302-2-00001 Volume estimates of timber to be harvested range from 0 to 10 mmbf of commercial sawtimber. Biomass estimates range from 0 to 30,000 tons. These estimates will be dependent on which alternative is chosen. Preliminary issues that have been identified during the internal scoping process include: 1. The potential for cumulative watershed effects within the project area. 2. The selection and application of adaptive management strategies to best achieve the habitat needs of the spotted owl. Public participation will be especially important at several points during the analysis. The first point is during the scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7). The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from federal, state, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed project. This input will be used in preparation of the draft EIS. The scoping process includes: 1. Defining the scope of the analysis and nature of the decision to be made. 2. Identifying the issues and determining the significant issues for consideration and analysis within the EIS. 3. Defining the proper interdisciplinary team make-up. 4. Determining the effective use of time and money in conducting the analysis. 5. Identifying potential environmental, technical, and social impacts of the EIS and alternatives. 6. Determining potential cooperating agencies. 7. Identifying groups or individuals interested or affected by the decision. Robert Harris, Acting Forest Supervisor, Eldorado National Forest, is the responsible official. The draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and to be available for public review by June 1994. At that time EPA will publish a notice of availability of the draft EIS in the Federal Register . The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date that EPA's notice of availability appears in the Federal Register. The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewers's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage, but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. After the comment period ends on the draft EIS, the comments will be analyzed and considered by the Forest Service in prearing the final EIS. The final EIS is scheduled to be completed by October 1994. In the final EIS the Forest Service is required to respond to the comments and responses received (40 CFR 1503.4). The responsible official will considered the comments, responses, and enviornmental consequences discussed in the draft EIS; and applicable laws, regulations, and policies in making a decision regarding this project. The responsible official will document the decision and reasons for the decision in the Record of Decision. That decision will be subject to appeal pursuant to 36 CFR part 215. Dated: February 23, 1994. Robert Harris, Acting Forest Supervisor, Eldorado National Forest. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4684 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
