FR940110-2-00034 FR940110-2-00020 Projects will be selected for funding based on their quality as determined by DOE staff evaluation of the merit of the application using the following general criteria. The general criteria will be either Acceptable or Unacceptable based on the following: 1. The potential contribution which the proposed effort is expected to make to the program's objectives, if pursued at this time. 2. Evidence of overall merit. 3. Use of unique, innovative, or meritorious methods, approaches, or ideas, including formal agreements between institutions. 4. Qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the application's Project Director and key personnel who are considered to be critical in achieving applicant objectives. 5. Demonstrate cost-sharing from non-Department of Energy sources. 6. The number of minority categories, number of participants that are expected to be impacted. 7. The degree to which the past efforts have impacted the local community in relationship to education in general. The following specific criteria will be applied to projects. These criteria, along with the general criteria described previously, will be used for the technical evaluation of each project. Final selection of projects will be made by DOE based on the technical evaluations and other factors such as duplication of activities, total program balance, geographic distribution, balance of minority category and sub-category, demonstration of cost-sharing, and other factors. 1. Identification of needs of the project. a. Institutional assessment and profile in meeting proposed requirement. b. Identification of specific basic applied technologies and training objectives. c. Involvement of community entities serviced by the two-year educational institution and other appropriate entities in establishment of project needs. Specifically, the project must address energy related technology transfer activities as it relates to economic growth of the community serviced by the education institution. 2. Plan of operation. a. Definition of project activities needed with appropriate time and resource projections. b. Management Plan. c. Relationship of this project to the overall institutional plan. 3. Pool of potential student trainee participants. 4. Overall benefits to the institution(s) and the community served by the institution. Proposal Preparation Guidelines Proposals submitted in response to this solicitation shall contain the information required in this announcement and should reference Program Notice DE&hyph;FG03&hyph;94SF20212 Proposals will be evaluated, independently, as received and selected for awards up to the limit of available funding. DOE assumes no responsibility for any costs associated with proposal preparation under this announcement. Issued in Oakland, CA, on December 21, 1993. Department of Energy Martin J. Domagala, Acting Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;380 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
