FR941128-2-00070 FR941128-2-00045 H. ``Psychiatric facility'' means either a psychiatric hospital, a general acute care hospital with a psychiatric unit, or a psychiatric unit. I. ``Psychiatric service'' means the provision of inpatient services for psychiatric diagnosis, treatment and care of persons suffering from mental illness, emotional disturbance, or alcohol or drug abuse at a psychiatric facility. J. To ``operate'' a psychiatric facility means to own, lease, manage, or otherwise control or direct operations of a psychiatric facility, directly or indirectly. K. To ``acquire'' a psychiatric facility means to directly or indirectly, through subsidiaries, partnerships, or otherwise: (1) Acquire the whole or any part of assets used or previously used within the last two years (and still suitable for use) for operating a psychiatric facility from any person presently engaged in, or within the two years preceding such acquisition engaged in, operating a psychiatric facility; (2) Acquire the whole or any part of the stock, share capital, equity, or other interest in any person engaged in, or within the two years preceding such acquisition engaged in, operating a psychiatric facility; (3) Acquire or otherwise obtain the right to designate directly or indirectly directors or trustees of a psychiatric facility; or (4) Enter into any other arrangement to obtain direct or indirect ownership, management or control of a psychiatric facility or any part thereof, including but not limited to, a lease of or management contract for a psychiatric facility. L. ``Residential treatment center'' means a treatment center that provides long-term (length of stay of 30 days or more) care in a non-psychiatric facility setting to patients that require long term care for psychiatric diagnosis and treatment for mental illness, emotional disturbance, or alcohol or drug abuse. M. ``Outpatient facility'' means a facility that is not licensed as a psychiatric facility and has a primary function of providing outpatient treatment for psychiatric diagnosis, treatment and care of persons suffering from mental illness, emotional disturbance, or alcohol or drug abuse, for patients that do not require inpatient psychiatric services. N. ``Affiliate'' means any entity whose management and policies are controlled in any way, directly or indirectly, by the person with which it is affiliated. O. ``Person'' means any natural person, partnership, corporation, company, association, trust, joint venture or other business or legal entity, including any governmental agency. P. ``Relevant area(s)'' means: (1) The ``Orlando area,'' consisting of the Florida counties of Orange, Osceola and Seminole; (2) The ``Atlanta area,'' consisting of the Georgia counties of Fulton, Paulding, Fayette, Clayton, Henry, Rockdale, De Kalb, Gwinnett, Cobb, Cherokee, Forsyth and Douglas; (3) The ``Memphis area,'' consisting of the Tennessee countries of Shelby, Tipton and Fayette, the Arkansas county of Crittenden, and the Mississippi county of De Soto; (4) The ``Richmond area,'' consisting of the Virginia city of Richmond and the Virginia counties of Henrico, Hanover, Goochland, Powhatan, Chesterfield, Charles City, and New Kent. Q. ``Relevant facilities'' means the following NME psychiatric hospitals, including, without limitation, all related assets and businesses, successors and assigns and all improvements, additions and enhancements made to such assets: MidSouth Hospital, Memphis, Tennessee; Psychiatric Institute of Richmond, Richmond Virginia; Brawner North Medical Health System; Smyrna, Georgia; Crescent Pines Hospital, Stockbridge, Georgia; Laurel Oaks Hospital and Residential Treatment Center, Orlando, Florida. II
