FR940106-1-00092 FR940106-1-00011 Analyses of the data indicate that the abundance or survival of a number of important species at a variety of life history states and from a variety of trophic levels is related to the position of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline. Of the organisms whose response to salinity has been analyzed, the farther downstream the 2 U isohaline is, the higher their abundance or survival. Almost all of the components of the estuarine community analyzed during the workshops (e.g., organisms, habitats, and processes) show a strong, coherent, and negative monotonic response to increased penetration (upstream movement) of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline. There is no well-defined break point that can be reliably identified statistically in the composite relationship between the abundance or survival of these components and the position of the 2 U isohaline. In other words, the biological benefits of downstream displacement of the 2 U continue to increase over the range of positions of the 2 U near-bottom isohaline reflected in the historical data set. If one selects a certain level of restoration and biological response as a goal, then one can develop statistical relationships to prescribe the appropriate range of the position of the near-bottom 2 U isohaline and the amounts of water necessary to achieve these salinity distributions during different periods of the year. While such action will not guarantee achieving a desired level of resource recovery or protection, it would increase the probability of attaining these goals. Recommendations A range of environmental/ecosystem restoration goals should be selected, and analyses should be made, to determine the distribution of the 2 U near-bottom isohaline throughout the year consistent with those goals. Historical flow and salinity data should be examined to determine how frequently these conditions would have been met before construction of the Central Valley Project; the State Water Project; a variety of city, county, and regional projects that divert water; and before the large-scale reclamation of historical tidal marshlands. The results of these analyses would provide a valuable context within which to evaluate the amounts of water needs to achieve a range of ecological goals.
