FR940405-2-00068 FR940405-2-00038 Availability of Funds Approximately $1,200,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund approximately 7 awards. It is expected that the average award will be $170,000, ranging from $150,000 to $200,000. It is expected that the awards will begin on or about June 30, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 3 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period are made on the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds. Funding preference will be given to applications from State health departments who are in the initial planning phase for statewide breast and cervical cancer screening. At the request of the applicant, Federal personnel may be assigned to a project in lieu of a portion of the financial assistance. Purpose The purpose of these cooperative agreements is to support State health departments in their efforts to develop their capacity to carry out a program for early detection and control of breast and cervical cancer. The intent is to initially enable States to build the necessary infrastructure towards providing a comprehensive breast and cervical cancer early detection program. Resources available under this program announcement may not be used to support screening and follow up services for breast and cervical cancer. Program Requirements In conducting activities to achieve the purpose of this program, the recipient shall be responsible for the activities under A., below, and CDC shall be responsible for conducting activities under B., below: A. Recipient Activities The following six elements are essential and integral components in the development of a State-based comprehensive breast and cervical cancer control program. Planning for conducting the core components must occur during the first and second year, with implementation begun by completion of the project period. 1. Breast and Cervical Cancer Control Plan and Coalition In developing a comprehensive breast and cervical cancer control program, the applicant should include the following: a. A State level breast and cervical cancer control coalition including representation from key private, professional, voluntary and public (e.g., American Cancer Society) cancer organizations, legislators, and consumers. b. A proposed breast and cervical cancer control plan that describes: (1) Goals and objectives to address breast and cervical cancer control. (2) Proposed strategies to meet those objectives. (3) An assessment of existing and needed resources to develop the comprehensive breast and cervical cancer control program. 2. Public Education A plan for a comprehensive public education program based on an assessment of the target populations educational needs. Successful public education programs are those that influence knowledge, attitudes, and practices related to breast and cervical cancer screening adherence in target populations by utilizing all available resources which may include, but are not limited to, the American Cancer Society, State medical societies, and universities.
