FR940826-2-00086 FR940826-2-00055 McCaw is similarly enjoined by Section V.A.2 from allowing Nonpublic Information it obtains from its unaffiliated equipment suppliers to be disclosed for any reason to any person involved in the design, development, fabrication or marketing of AT&T's telecommunications equipment. Likewise, McCaw is enjoined from allowing Nonpublic Information of any unaffiliated interexchange carrier to be disclosed to persons involved in the design, development, fabrication or marketing of any AT&T telecommunications product or service, and access to such Nonpublic Information shall be limited to authorized persons within McCaw and within AT&T's Network Wireless Infrastructure Unit having a need to know such information. 2. Ongoing Support for Locked-In Customers Section V.B of the proposed final judgment contains provisions designed to prevent AT&T from raising the costs of McCaw's competitors in connection with the provision of such products and services. Since locked-in equipment customers are dependent on AT&T for a variety of critical ongoing support functions and products, Section V.B.1 requires AT&T to provide its unaffiliated cellular infrastructure equipment customers with the following products and services, in accordance with the same pricing and business practices that prevailed prior to August 1, 1993: (a) Technical support and maintenance; (b) installation, engineering, repair and maintenance services; (c) additional switching and cell site equipment to be deployed in that system; (d) upgrades and other AT&T cellular infrastructure equipment developed for use with these systems; and (e) spare, repair or replacement parts. This provision is intended to assure that AT&T will deal with its unaffiliated equipment customers in the same manner as it did prior to announcement of the proposed merger with McCaw, 11 and that such customers will continue to obtain the products and services they need to provide cellular service, including software upgrades and switching and cell site equipment needed to expand the capacity of their systems. AT&T also may not discriminate in favor of McCaw Cellular Systems or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems in the way in which such products or services are made available to cellular systems, and the terms on which such products or services are provided shall not vary depending on whether the system to which they will be provided competes with McCaw or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System. 11 August 1, 1993, shortly before the announcement of the merger, was chosen as the benchmark for this comparison to allay concerns that AT&T may have changed some of its pricing practices vis-a-vis McCaw competitors after the merger was announced. Finally, if AT&T discontinues the offering of any cellular infrastructure equipment service, part or product, it shall either arrange an alternative source of supply for the product or, if unsuccessful, provide any affected cellular carrier with the licenses to use (and rights to sublicense) whatever technical information is necessary to provide such services, parts or products (to the extent AT&T is able to do so), so that the carrier can obtain the service, part or product from another source. Such licenses shall be granted on reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms. 3. Development of New Features and Functions Section V.C contains provisions designed to prevent AT&T from disadvantaging its locked-in customers that compete with McCaw with respect to development of new features and functions, including Proprietary Development (defined in Section II.Y). Under Section V.C.1, whenever AT&T engages in development of new features or functions for use with AT&T equipped cellular systems that, if successful, will be made available to two or more cellular carriers that are not affiliated with each other ( i.e. , developments that are not intended for a single customer), AT&T shall disclose such enhancements to unaffiliated carriers at the same time it discloses them to McCaw or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems, and shall make them available to unaffiliated customers at the same time it makes them available to McCaw or any McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System. This section is triggered only by development of features pertaining to systems installed or contracted for prior to the date of entry of the judgment, as it is specifically intended to address a concern relating to existing locked-in customers. The remainder of Section V.C addresses AT&T's obligations in the event it performs development work specifically for McCaw, a McCaw Cellular System or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System. AT&T has advised the United States that, at present, AT&T occasionally develops features or functions that are applicable only to a particular cellular carrier or system because of its adjunct hardware or software or its specific operations or network. If AT&T engages in such development for McCaw, a McCaw Cellular System or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System, AT&T must afford unaffiliated customers substantially the same opportunity to contract for such development work on substantially the same compensatory basis. If AT&T performs other Proprietary Development for McCaw, a McCaw Cellular System or a McCaw Minority Owned Cellular System, it will be required upon reasonable request to perform Proprietary Development for unaffiliated customers under reasonable terms and conditions that are not less favorable to the unaffiliated customer than those provided to McCaw, McCaw Cellular Systems or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems. Under Section V.C.3, if AT&T performs Proprietary Development for McCaw (or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems) it must honor any reasonable request by an unaffiliated carrier to perform such development for it, but AT&T is entitled to reasonable compensation and other terms so long as those terms are not less favorable than the terms offered to McCaw or McCaw Minority Owned Cellular Systems. 4. Redeployment of AT&T Equipment In order to further reduce AT&T's ability to exploit its locked-in equipment customers that compete with McCaw, Section V.D contains provisions that should make it easier for customers that desire to replace AT&T equipment to do so. In the event that a customer has deployed or contracted to deploy an AT&T equipped cellular system prior to the entry of the judgment, and the customer wishes to redeploy the AT&T equipment ( e.g. , to facilitate its replacement) or to replace or supplement it with another manufacturer's equipment in whole or in part, AT&T is required to provide reasonably necessary technical assistance and cooperation to allow the customer to accomplish such replacement or redeployment and to permit interoperation of the AT&T equipment with the new manufacturer's equipment in that area or an adjacent area (as in an overlay or core swap-out). AT&T is permitted to receive reasonable compensation for providing such assistance, and is not required to provide its equipment competitors with proprietary information that is not necessary to allow the interoperation of their equipment with AT&T's. In addition, to give AT&T cellular infrastructure equipment customers greater freedom to redeploy AT&T equipment to a new location or sell it, and to make it easier for customers wishing to do so to change equipment suppliers, Section V.D.2 requires AT&T to waive contractual requirements that it receive prior notice of or consent to redeployment. It also provides that, in the event of redeployment or sale, the original warranty, license and other contractual rights will survive and pass to the transferee, as will AT&T's obligations under Sections V.A, V.B, V.C and V.D of the judgment. AT&T's buy-back obligations under Section V.E will not, however, pass to a new purchaser of the equipment, inasmuch as that remedy is especially designed to guard against raising the costs of the locked-in equipment customers that compete with McCaw.
