FR940727-0-00076 FR940727-0-00025 (d) Funding by the United States. Requests for DA personnel to appear at government expense as witnesses in state or local proceedings for a party other than the United States, including cases involving domestic violence or child abuse, will be referred to Litigation Division. Litigation Division may authorize travel and per diem expenses under §516.54 when the case is one in which the United States has a significant interest. §516.56 Witnesses before foreign tribunals. (a) Referral to the SJA. Requests or subpoenas from a foreign government or tribunal for present DA personnel stationed or employed within that country to be interviewed or to appear as witnesses will be forwarded to the SJA of the command exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the unit to which the individual is assigned, attached, or employed. The SJA will determine the following: (1) Whether a consideration listed in §516.47(a)(1) through (a)(3) applies. (2) Whether the information requested is releasable under the principles established in §516.43 through §516.46. (3) Whether the approval of the American Embassy should be obtained because the person is attached to the Embassy staff or a question of diplomatic immunity may be involved. (b) United States has an interest in the litigation. If the SJA determines that the United States has an interest in the litigation, the commander may authorize the interview or order the individual's attendance in a temporary duty status. The United States will be deemed to have an interest in the litigation if it is bound by treaty or other international agreement to ensure the attendance of such personnel. (c) United States has no interest in the litigation. If the SJA determines that the United States does not have an interest in the litigation, the commander may authorize the interview or the appearance of the witness under the principles established in §516.47 through §516.50. (d) Witnesses located outside the requester's country. If the requested witness is stationed in a country other than the requester's, the matter will be referred to Litigation Division. Subpart H_Remedies in Procurement Fraud and Corruption §516.57 Purpose This subpart delineates the policies, procedures, and responsibilities for reporting and resolving allegations of procurement fraud or irregularities (PFI) within DA. It implements DOD Directive 7050.5. (See Appendix D to this part.) §516.58 Policies (a) Procurement fraud and irregularities will be promptly and thoroughly addressed whenever encountered. Reports will be initiated in a timely manner and will be supplemented as appropriate. (b) Investigations will be monitored to see that interim corrective action is taken and that final action is taken as expeditiously as possible. (c) This regulation establishes the Procurement Fraud Division (PFD), U.S. Army Legal Services Agency, as the single centralized organization within the Army to coordinate and monitor criminal, civil, contractual, and administrative remedies in significant cases of fraud or corruption relating to Army procurement. (d) The key elements of the Army's procurement fraud program follow: centralized policy making and program direction; fraud remedies coordination; decentralized responsibility for operational matters, such as reporting and remedial action; continuous case monitorship by PFD from the initial report until final disposition; and, command-wide fraud awareness training. (e) Remedies for PFI will be pursued in a timely manner and properly coordinated with other agencies. Every effort will be made to support criminal investigation and prosecution of fraudulent activity. (f) A specific remedies plan will be formulated for each significant case of fraud or corruption involving procurement. (g) Coordination on the status and disposition of cases will be maintained between PFD, OTJAG, PFI Coordinators at MACOMs, and Procurement Fraud Advisers at subordinate commands. Coordination of procurement and personnel actions will be accomplished with investigative agencies as required by those agencies. (h) Training which relates to fraud and corruption in the procurement process is a significant element of this program. §516.59 Duties and procedures. (a) TJAG has overall responsibility for the coordination of remedies in procurement fraud and corruption within the Army. This responsibility has been delegated to PFD. Functions of PFD will include the following:
