FR940603-1-00188 FR940603-1-00009 ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials F Total, Section F_ XXXX Section G_Transformer Assembly Units A transformer assembly units consists of the transformer, its protective equipment, and its hardware and leads with their connectors and supporting insulators and pins. This units does not include the pole top, secondary, service, or grounding assemblies. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials ␣ Total, Section G_ XXXX Section J_Secondary Assembly Units A secondary assembly unit consists of the hardware, insulators, etc., to support the secondary conductors or cable. It does not include the secondary conductor or cable, or any hardware, insulators, etc. required to support service conductors or cable. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials J Total, Section J_ XXXX Section K_Service Assembly Units A service assembly unit consists of the hardware, insulators, etc., required to support the service conductors or cable. It does not include the service conductor or cable, or any hardware, insulators, etc., required to support secondary conductors or cable. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials K Total, Section K_ XXXX Section M_Miscellaneous Assembly Units A miscellaneous assembly unit consists of an additional unit needed in the Project for new line construction but not otherwise listed in the Proposal. This section includes grounding assemblies consisting of the conductor, ground rod, grounding plate, connectors and clamps as shown on the respective drawings for the various types. It also includes fuse cutouts, reclosers, sectionalizers, switches, capacitors, regulators, metering and other assembly units. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials M Total, Section M_ XXXX Section R_Right-of-Way Clearing Units R1&hyph;10. The unit is 1,000 feet in length and 10 feet in width (to be measured on one side of the pole line) of actual clearing of right-of-way. This includes clearing of underbrush, tree removal, and such tree trimming as is required so that the right-of-way, except for tree stumps which shall not exceed XXXX in height, shall be clear from the ground up on one side of the line of poles carrying primary conductors of the width specified. This unit does not include clearing or trimming associated with secondaries or services which is included with conductor units. The segmental length of actual clearing shall be measured in a straight line parallel to the transmission centerline using the maximum dimension of foliage cleared and projected to the ground line. All trees and underbrush across this width of the right-of-way shall be considered to be grouped together as a single length in measuring the total length of clearing. Spaces along the right-of-way in which no trees are to be removed or trimmed or underbrush cleared shall be omitted from the total measurement. All length thus arrived at, added together and divided by 1,000, shall give the number of 1,000-foot R1&hyph;10 units of clearing. This unit includes the removal or topping, at the option of the Bidder, of danger trees outside of the right-of-way when so designated by the Engineer. (Danger trees are defined as dead or leaning trees which, in falling, will affect the operation of the line.) The Bidder shall not remove or trim shade, fruit, or ornamental trees unless so directed by the Engineer. R1&hyph;20. This unit is identical with R1&hyph;10 except that the width is 20 feet (to be measured 10 feet on each side of the pole line).
