FR940513-0-00162 FR940513-0-00034 H. Other Requirements for All Lamp Products 1. Recordkeeping and Submission of Data In the NPR, the Commission proposed requiring that manufacturers maintain records that substantiate each of the items the final rules require be disclosed. It also proposed requiring them to submit those records to the Commission within 30 days of a request. These requirements are imposed directly by EPCA, which requires manufacturers to keep on file, for a period specified in the Rule, the data from which the information included on the label and required by the labeling rules was derived. 42 U.S.C. 6296(b)(2) (1988). One comment stated simply that the proposed requirements were acceptable. 255 Another recommended that the Commission not mandate recordkeeping requirements, but instead rely on the recordkeeping requirements imposed by DOE as part of its test procedures. 256 Two comments recommended that the manufacturer be given 60 days instead of 30 to produce the records. 257 255 Panasonic, G&hyph;7, 2. 256 NEMA, G&hyph;3, 28&hyph;29, 33, 43. 257 NEMA, G&hyph;3, 51; Philips, G&hyph;5, 3. The current Rule requires that manufacturers maintain, for a period of two years after production of the specific lamp product has been terminated, records sufficient to show a reasonable basis consisting of competent and reliable scientific evidence that the required disclosures they make on labels and in catalogs are accurate. The recordkeeping requirement is necessary to enable the Commission to determine whether the required disclosures are substantiated and accurate. See 16 CFR 305.15(a). DOE has not yet specified test procedures or recordkeeping requirements for any lamp products. The Commission, therefore, cannot determine at this time whether the recordkeeping requirements that DOE may specify in the future would be adequate to determine if the manufacturer's rule-required disclosures are substantiated and accurate. The Commission has, however, designed the recordkeeping requirement to minimize the burden it imposes by requiring that manufacturers maintain only those records that are sufficient to demonstrate the accuracy of the required labeling disclosures. After DOE issues test procedures and recordkeeping requirements for lamp products covered by the labeling rules, the Commission will consider whether the DOE recordkeeping requirements are sufficient to satisfy the recordkeeping requirement imposed by the labeling rules. The final labeling rules also require that manufacturers submit the required records to the Commission within 30 days of a request. This requirement is statutory, imposed directly by EPCA. 42 U.S.C. 6296(b)(2) (1988). The Commission, however, will consider a request for a reasonable extension of this time period, based on a satisfactory showing of the burden imposed by the 30 days requirement on a particular manufacturer. See ยง305.15(b) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 2. Reporting In the NPR, the Commission proposed requiring that lamp manufacturers submit annual reports, containing specific information, on or before March 1 each year. The Commission stated that this requirement would not become effective until after DOE has issued test procedures for specific lamp products. The proposed reporting requirements were based on EPCA, 42 U.S.C.A. 6296(b) (West Supp. 1993), which requires manufacturers of lamp products for which DOE has issued test procedures under section 323 of EPCA, as amended by EPA 92, 42 U.S.C.A. 6293 (West Supp. 1993), to supply the Commission annually with relevant information respecting energy consumption. The Commission proposed requiring that each report contain the following information: (1) Name and address of manufacturer; (2) all trade names under which the lamps are marketed; (3) model or other identification numbers; (4) starting serial number, date code, or other means of identifying the date of manufacture (date of manufacture information must be included with only the first submission for each basic model or type); and (5) test results measured according to the DOE test procedures for the lamps' wattage, light output ratings and Energy Index and, in addition, for all covered fluorescent lamps, the test results for the lamps' color rendering index. This type of information is currently required for other categories of products covered by the Appliance Labeling Rule. To minimize the burdens imposed by this proposed reporting requirement, the Commission proposed accepting trade association directories and similar submissions in lieu of individual annual reports, as it does for other product categories.
