FR941230-1-00059 FR941230-1-00004 (c) Alternative use of facility. The requirements of this paragraph (c) are satisfied if_ (1) The facility with respect to which the deliberate action occurs is used in an alternative manner (for example, used for a different purpose or used by a different person); (2) The nonqualified bonds are treated as reissued, as of the date of the deliberate action, for purposes of sections 55 through 59 and 141 through 147, 149 and 150, and under this treatment, the nonqualified bonds satisfy all the applicable requirements for qualified bonds throughout the remaining term of the nonqualified bonds (except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section); and (3) The deliberate action does not involve a transfer to a purchaser that finances the acquisition with proceeds of another issue of tax-exempt bonds. (d) Alternative use of disposition proceeds. The requirements of this paragraph (d) are satisfied if_ (1) The deliberate action involves a transfer for cash of a facility financed by an issue or a repayment of a loan of proceeds; (2) The nonqualified bonds are treated as reissued, as of the date of the deliberate action, for purposes of sections 141 through 147, 149 and 150, and under this treatment, the nonqualified bonds satisfy all the applicable requirements for qualified 510(c)(3) bonds throughout the remaining term of the nonqualified bonds; and (3) A remedial action that satisfies paragraph (b), (c), or (e) of this section is taken for any disposition proceeds not used for an alternative use described in paragraphs (d) (1) and (2) of this section. (e) Authority of Commissioner to provide for additional remedial actions. The Commissioner may, by publication in the Internal Revenue Bulletin, provide additional remedial actions under which a subsequent action will not be treated as a deliberate action for purposes of §1.141&hyph;2. (f) Effect of remedial action on continuing compliance. If a remedial action is taken under paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section, the private business use, private security or payments, or private loans resulting from the deliberate action are not taken into account for purposes of determining whether the bonds are private activity bonds. (g) Definition and special rules _(1) Definition of nonqualified bonds. The nonqualified bonds are the outstanding bonds allocable to the proceeds with respect to which the deliberate action was taken. The nonqualified bonds must be in an amount such that, if redeemed with sale proceeds of the issue, the proceeds of the remaining bonds of the issue are used in a manner that does not cause the bonds to be private activity bonds. Allocations to nonqualified bonds must be made in accordance with §1.141&hyph;6, except that allocations (i) must be made on a pro rata basis (adjusted to reflect allocations permitted under §1.141&hyph;6); and (ii) may be made without regard to whether property qualifies as a discrete portion of a mixed use facility. (2) Section 147. For purposes of paragraph (c) of this section, section 147(d) (relating to the acquisition of existing property) is applied as of the issue date (not the date of the deliberate action). (h) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of this section: Example 1. Disposition proceeds less than outstanding bonds used to retire bonds. On June 1, 1995, City C issues bonds with an issue price of $10 million to finance the construction of a building. The bonds have a weighted average maturity that does not exceed 120 percent of the weighted average economic life of the building. On the issue date, C reasonably expects with a high degree of certainty that it will be the only user of the building for the entire term of the bonds. Six years after the issue date, C sells the building to Corporation P for $5 million. The sale price is the fair market value of the building, as verified by an independent appraiser. C uses all of the disposition proceeds to immediately retire a pro rata portion of the bonds. The bonds are not private activity bonds because of the sale because P is not a user of process (that is, the disposition proceeds were used to redeem the bonds). See §1.141&hyph;1(c). Example 2. Lease to nongovernmental persons. The fact are the same as in Example 1 , except that instead of selling the building, C, six years after the issue date, leases the building to P for 7 years and uses other funds to redeem all of the bonds within 90 days of the deliberate act. The bonds are not treated as private activity bonds because C has taken remedial action described in paragraph (b) of this section. Example 3. Sale for less than fair market value. The facts are the same as in Example 1 , except that the fair market value of the building at the time of the sale to P is $6 million. Under these facts and §1.141&hyph;1(c), the proceeds of the bonds remain allocated to the office building. Therefore, the proceeds of the bonds are used by P. In addition, because the transfer was for less than fair market value, the bonds are ineligible for the remedial actions under this section. Example 4. Redemption of bonds. In 1995, City D issues bonds with proceeds of $10 million to finance a courthouse. The bonds have a weighted average maturity that does not exceed 120 percent of the weighted average economic life of the courthouse. D uses $1 million of the proceeds for a private business use and more than 10 percent of the debt service on the issue is secured by private security or payments. D later sells one-half of the courthouse property to a nongovernmental person for cash. D immediately redeems 50 percent of the outstanding bonds. For purposes of subsequently applying section 141 to the issue, D may continue to use all of the proceeds of the outstanding bonds in the same manner (that is, for both the courthouse and the existing private business use) without causing the issue to meet the private business tests. The result would be the same if D, instead of redeeming the bonds, established a defeasance escrow for those bonds, provided that the requirement of paragraph (b)(4) of this section was met as of the issue date.
