FR940317-2-00088 FR940317-2-00058 Eligible Applicants Educational institutions, nonprofit entities, State and Local governments, and professional societies are eligible to apply for a grant under this announcement. Factors Generally Indicating Support Through Grants The NRC's benefit from the results of grants should be no greater than for other interested parties, i.e., the public must be the primary beneficiary of the work performed. Surveys, studies, or research which provide specific information or data necessary for the NRC to exercise its regulatory or research mission responsibilities will not be funded by a grant. Applicants requesting support for work which has a direct regulatory application should submit their requests as an unsolicited proposal for consideration as a contract rather than a grant. 1. The primary purpose of NRC grants is to support the development of knowledge or understanding of the subject or phenomena under study. 2. The exact course of the work and its outcome are usually not defined precisely, and specific points in time for achievement of significant results need not be specified. 3. The NRC desires that the nature of the proposed investigation be such that the recipient will bear prime responsibility for the conduct of the research and exercise judgment and original thought toward attaining the scientific goals within broad parameters of the proposed research areas and the resources provided. 4. Meaningful technical reports (as distinguished from Semi-Annual Status Reports) can be prepared only as new findings are made, rather than on a predetermined time schedule. 5. Simplicity and economy in execution and administration are mutually desirable. Proposal Format Proposals should be concise and provide a thorough understanding of the proposed project. Neither unduly elaborate applications nor voluminous supporting documentation is desired. State and local governments shall submit proposals utilizing the standard forms specified in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;102 (Revised), Paragraph 6.c). Nonprofit organizations, universities, and professional societies shall submit proposals utilizing the standard forms stipulated in OMB Circular A-110, (Attachment M). The format used for project proposals should give a clear presentation of the proposed project and its relation to the specific objectives contained in this notice. Each proposal should follow the format outlined below unless the NRC specifically authorizes exception. 1. Cover Page . the Cover Page should be typed according to the following format (submit separate cover pages if the proposal is multi-institutional): Title of proposal . - To include the term ``research,'' ``study,'' ``conference,'' ``symposium,'' ``workshop,'' or other similar designation to assist in the identification of the project; Location and Dates for Conferences, Symposium, Workshop, etc.; Names of Principal Researchers or Participants; Total cost of Proposal; (Identify Cost by fiscal Year) Period of Proposal; Organization or Institution and Department; Required Signatures:
