FR940906-2-00025 FR940906-2-00020 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Albuquerque Operations Office; Noncompetitive Financial Assistance Award to the State of Texas AGENCY: Department of Energy, Albuquerque Operations Office. ACTION: Notice of Noncompetitive Financial Assistance Award. SUMMARY: The Department of Energy (DOE), Albuquerque Operations Office (AL) in accordance with 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2), gives notice of its plans for award of a cooperative agreement to the State of Texas, on a noncompetitive basis, in support of the establishment and management of a National Resource Center for Plutonium (the Center) to be located in the Amarillo, Texas area. The Center is envisioned to be the source for primarily plutonium-related information for the public and especially for the State of Texas. The Center will support the collection, review and interpretation of technical literature, sponsoring and coordinating additional studies and research, engaging in the study of the environmental effects of plutonium, high explosives and other nuclear or hazardous materials generated from nuclear weapons dismantlement, and characterization of local environmental transport and accumulation of plutonium, and public outreach. It will not engage in physical, chemical, or metallurgical studies of plutonium. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Juan Williams, Contract Specialist, U.S. Department of Energy, Albuquerque Operations Office, Contracts and Procurement Division, P.O. Box 5400, Albuquerque, NM 87185&hyph;5400. Telephone: (505) 845&hyph;5865. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of Energy has determined that restriction to the State of Texas is appropriate based on the following information: The participant, the State of Texas, is the unit of government having the direct responsibility and appropriate jurisdiction to protect the welfare, health and safety of its citizens. No other entity, other than the Federal Government, has the direct responsibility to protect the environment and the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the State of Texas. Therefore, DOE in the public interest will make a noncompetitive financial assistance award to the State of Texas. Further, due to the fact that (1) Texas has the primary and direct responsibility for the health, welfare, and safety of its citizens, and (2) the Pantex Plant, is conducting nuclear weapons dismantlement, which is an activity within Texas' jurisdiction, DOE is therefore precluded from providing support to another entity. This award will be in the best interests of the Government and the public and is considered vital and timely with respect to the continuing mission of nuclear weapons dismantlement at Pantex. Accordingly, based upon the above, the award of a cooperative agreement to the State of Texas, on a noncompetitive basis, appropriately satisfies the criteria specified in Paragraphs (C) and (H) of 10 CFR 600.7(b)(2)(i). DOE has determined that: (1) The applicant is a unit of government and the activity supported is related to performance of a governmental function within the subject jurisdiction; and, (2) such award is in the public interest. This initiative was contained in the President's FY 95 amended Congressional budget request and will be supported by Surplus Fissile Materials Control and Disposition funds. The cooperative agreement will be awarded for an initial period of five (5) years. At maturity, the total annual budget is estimated to be approximately $10 million for the Center. The cooperative agreement will be administered by the Albuquerque Operations Office. This agreement will not become effective for at least 14 days after publication of this notice to allow for public comment. Issued in Albuquerque, NM on August 24, 1994. Richard A. Marquez, Assistant Manager for Management and Administration, Albuquerque Operations Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21876 Filed 9&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
