FR940830-2-00130 FR940830-2-00057 Comment No. 4 The present pricing structure for access by third party processors to the network should be evaluated and modified to require MAC (a) periodically to publish its pricing schedules; (b) to unbundle its switch fee to third party processors; and (c) to eliminate the requirement that third party processors be sponsored by a MAC member. Discussion Section IV.G prohibits MAC from discriminating in the pricing of branded ATM network access to the MAC network on the basis of a customer's choice of ATM processor. Specifically, section G.1 of the Final Judgment mandates that third party processors receive the same volume discounts as intercept processors. Section G.2 provides that royalties charged to third party processors to switch transactions between member depository institutions not be greater than the price charged by MAC to switch such transactions. Section G.3 requires MAC to provide branded ATM service pursuant to a nondiscriminatory price schedule. While these three limitations are helpful in fixing a pricing structure that reduces barriers to entry by third party processors, the proposed Final Judgment does not go far enough in that regard. The Department of Justice apparently has not examined the pricing mechanisms by which third party processors are constrained and has not taken sufficient measures to assure that existing discriminatory pricing practices have been eliminated. In the case of ATM transactions, a third party processor is ordinarily assessed a per transaction driving (or switch) fee, a one time network (or membership) fee and, where the processor is a not a financial institution, it must be sponsored by a member financial institution and pay that institution a sponsorship fee (which could be a one time or a per transaction fee). Similarly, in the case of debit POS transactions, a third party processor pays a switch fee, a network (or membership fee, and a sponsorship fee. To be certain that the order achieves its goal of eliminating discriminatory pricing and opening up the processing market to competitors of MAC, the judgment should: A. Mandate regular publication of MAC's prices, including volume discounts, so as not to discriminate against smaller competitors. This is a simple, inexpensive means of policing MAC's obligation to offer non-discriminatory prices pursuant to a non-discriminatory pricing schedule. B. Require MAC to unbundle its switch fee. Currently, branded ATM networks charge third party processors a ``switch fee'' for each transaction utilizing the network. That per transaction fee is a bundled rate, comprised of a charge to the third party processor for the costs to the network of electronically transferring the transaction information and a fee that is reimbursed to the card issuer. The bundled rate has the effect of causing third party processors to bear a disproportionate share of the issuer's costs. Charging a unitary fee for bundled services is a classic form of anticompetitive abuse by a monopolist. Causing MAC to unbundle its switch fee will foster competition by allowing MAC's competitors to decide which services they desire to purchase and requiring them to pay only for those services actually used. C. Eliminate the requirement that, in addition to paying an ``acquirer'' membership fee, third party processors be sponsored by a member financial institution. In addition to the per transaction switch fee, MAC charges third party processors a membership fee. MAC, however, prohibits non-depository, third party processors from becoming full-fledged members of MAC. Instead, under the guise of maintaining the integrity of the MAC network, MAC requires that every third party processor be sponsored by a MAC member; each sponsoring MAC member, in turn, requires the third party processor to pay a substantial sponsorship fee. Those requirements, by definition, discriminate against non-depository institutions that act as third party processors and deter competition in the processing market, without serving any legitimate business need. Conclusion In light of the 10-year life of the consent decree, it is critical that the Department of Justice close the loopholes described above before the court endorses the judgment so that the judgment will keep pace with the changing nature of the industry, and its rapid technological advances and thus, remain effective into the next century. To: Richard Liebeskind, Esq., Assistant Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 555 Fourth Street, NW., room 8104, Washington, DC 20001.
