FR940902-0-00091 FR940902-0-00010 The basis for computing the cost limitations which apply to expenditures of title III funds has been changed from annual expenditures to program year allocation (for substate grantees), or to funds reserved by the Governor from the program year allotment (for States). This change reflects the amendments to section 315 and recognizes that grantees are permitted to have up to 3 years in which to spend allotted funds, subject to certain adjustments applied through the reallotment process for under-expenditure. Other major changes to this subject area include the addition of §631.14(i) to clarify that the funds allocated (or distributed) to a substate grantee under the provisions of section 302(c)(1)(E) of the Act shall be included in the substate areas formula allocation for purposes of applying the cost limits, and the addition of §631.14(h) to allow neighboring substate grantees to combine funds to serve dislocated workers from two or more substate areas. A few commenters asked if it is allowable to provide funds to substate grantees under the provisions of section 302(c)(1)(A)&hyph;(D) of the Act and, if so, whether these funds must be considered funds allocated to a substate grantee for the program year of the funds' initial allotment to the State and included in the cost limitations of §631.14(a)&hyph;(c). While funds reserved by a State for activities under section 302(c)(1)(A)&hyph;(D) of the Act may be expended through a subgrant or contract with a substate grantee, these funds would still be considered funds allocated to the Governor, as defined at §631.14(i)(3), for the program year of the funds' initial allotment to the State and included in the cost limitations applicable to the Governor. As the statute allocates these funds to the Governor for the explicit purpose of carrying out responsibilities assigned to the State, expenditures of these funds are to be treated as State-level expenditures, regardless of the operator incurring those expenses. One commenter asked whether TEGL No. 1&hyph;90, Change 1, which specified that cost limitations would be calculated based on ``total maximum allowable expenditures'', would remain in effect after July 1, 1993 and if new guidelines would be issued for calculating/determining title III cost limitation compliance. TEGL 1&hyph;90, Change 1 was issued on June 18, 1991, and its content was based on the statutory and regulatory provisions effective at that time. The Department will review this TEGL and issue appropriate guidance. This same commenter also asked if the minimum/maximum percentage requirements would be applied to the total final expenditures for each cost category to determine the minimum/maximum amounts after July 1, 1993. In a separate issuance, the Department will issue reporting requirements which will clarify the application of the cost limitations. One commenter discussed the inconsistency between the 15 percent cap on administrative costs under the title III program and the 20 percent cap on administrative costs under the title II&hyph;A and II&hyph;C programs. For titles II&hyph;A and II&hyph;C, section 108 of the Act established a revised limit of 20 percent of funds that may be expended for administration. However, as noted above, while the basis for computing the cost limitations which apply to expenditures of title III funds has changed, the statutory provision requiring a 15 percent cap on administrative cost has not. Therefore, this difference between the programs shall remain. Questioning the application of §631.14(g), one commenter asked if cost limitations must be complied with immediately if funds are deobligated and, therefore, are no longer available. Cost limitations are applied at the time funds are no longer available for expenditure, in other words, when the 3-year availability period ends. When funds are deobligated, the total pool of funds which is available for expenditure is reduced and becomes the new base on which cost limitations will be applied. However, a State or substate grantee still has the entire period of fund availability to comply with the cost limitations as they apply to this new base. Federal Reporting Requirements A new provision was added in the interim final regulations, at §631.15, requiring the State to provide a breakdown of all administrative expenditures by the dislocated worker unit, pursuant to section 311(b)(11) of the Act. A few commenters asked what cost breakdowns and line items are required in the reports. As indicated in §631.15, the specifics regarding the reports' content and format will be addressed through instructions to be issued by the Secretary. These were included in the reporting instructions for title III programs for PY 1993. Federal Monitoring and Oversight A new provision is added, at §631.17, clarifying the Secretary's authority to oversee the State's provision of rapid response assistance and to require corrective action as necessary, as provided for in section 314(b)(3) of the Act. One commenter questioned why the word ``may'' was used in §631.17 in lieu of the word ``shall'' which is found in the language of section 314(b)(3) of the Act. This section is revised to reflect the language of the Act. By prescribing how rapid response is to occur, another commenter thought this new provision, along with other sections of the regulations, resulted in ``micro-management by the Department'' and reduced the flexibility available to the States and local areas. The Amendments direct the Secretary to conduct oversight of rapid response to ensure the ``effectiveness, efficiency and timeliness'' of these actions. It remains the responsibility of the State to manage its program in accordance with the Act and the regulations. Needs-Related Payments An amended provision in section 314(e)(1) regarding eligibility for needs-related payments requires that a participant be unemployed, and this requirement is incorporated in §631.20(c). One commenter disapproved of the change since it denies needs-related payments to participants working any number of hours. This commenter indicated that not only were they able to keep the costs of these payments down by having participants work part-time, but full-time students could work part-time and have these earnings supplemented by the payments to allow them to complete their program. As stated above, section 314(e)(1) of the Act clearly states that a participant must be unemployed to receive needs-related payments. As a result, the final rule remains unchanged. Designation or Creation and Functions of a State Dislocated Worker Unit or Office, and Rapid Response Assistance
