FR940830-2-00104 FR940830-2-00056 Section XI of the proposed Final Judgment states that entry of the Judgment is in the public interest. Under the provisions of the APPA, entry of the proposed Final Judgment is conditional upon a determination by the Court that the proposed Final Judgment is in the public interest. The Government believes that the proposed Final Judgment is fully adequate to prevent the continuation or recurrence of the violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act alleged in the Complaint, and that disposition of this proceeding without further litigation is appropriate and in the public interest. IV Remedies Available To Potential Private Litigants Section 4 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง15, provides that any person who has been injured as a result of conduct prohibited by the antitrust laws may bring suit in federal court to recover three times the damages the person has suffered, as well as costs and reasonable attorney fees. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment will neither impair nor assist the bringing of any private antitrust damage action. Under the provisions of Section 5(a) of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง16(a), the proposed Final Judgment has no prima facie effect in any subsequent private lawsuit that may be brought against the defendant. V Procedures Available for Modification of The Proposed Final Judgment The United States and the defendant have stipulated that the proposed Final Judgment may be entered by the Court after compliance with the provisions of the APPA, provided that the United States has not withdrawn its consent. The APPA provides a period of at least 60 days preceding the effective date of the proposed Final Judgment within which any person may submit to the United States written comments regarding the proposed Final Judgment. Any person who wants to comment should do so within 60 days of the date of publication of this Competitive Impact Statement in the Federal Register . The United States will evaluate the comments, determine whether it should withdraw its consent, and respond to the comments. The comments and the response of the United States will be filed with the Court and published in the Federal Register . Written comments should be submitted to: Marvin N. Price, Jr., Midwest Office, Antitrust Division, United States Department of Justice, Suite 600, 209 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60604. Under Section X of the proposed Judgment, the Court will retain jurisdiction over this matter for the purpose of enabling any of the parties to apply to the Court for such further orders or directions as may be necessary or appropriate for the construction, implementation, modification, or enforcement of the Judgment, or for the punishment of any violations of the Judgment. VI Alternative To The Proposed Final Judgment The only alternative to the proposed Final Judgment considered by the Government was a full trial on the merits and on relief. Such litigation would involve substantial cost to the United States and is not warranted because the proposed Final Judgment provides appropriate relief against the violations alleged in the complaint. VII Determinative Materials And Documents No materials or documents were determinative in formulating the proposed Final Judgment. Consequently, the Government has not attached any such materials or documents to the proposed Final Judgment. Dated: Respectfully submitted, Carla M. Stern, Attorney, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Suite 600, 209 S LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 353&hyph;7530. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21310 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
