FR941110-0-00172 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We are revising this final rule to state that deficiencies are considered to be corrected when a survey team revisit confirms that they have been corrected, or when a facility provides evidence satisfactory to HCFA or the State survey agency, which can be verified without an on-site visit, that the deficiencies have been corrected before the revisit or before the credible evidence was submitted. In addition, sections 1819(h)(3) and 1919(h)(4) of the Act allow for lifting the denial of payment for new admissions when the facility achieves substantial compliance. (Please see the discussion regarding substantial compliance under the comments pertaining to §488.454 in this final rule, Duration of remedies.) Comment: Two commenters suggested that, instead of denying payment for all new Medicare and/or Medicaid admissions when warranted, we impose a ban on all new admissions to a facility, regardless of the source of payment. They said that if we use this remedy, we should pair it with a directed plan of correction requiring the facility to take steps to restore capacity to provide a full range of NF/SNF services. Response: We cannot accept this suggestion since the Act does not give us the authority to regulate payments that may be made to facilities by private paying residents. Comment: Three commenters suggested that we add to proposed §488.217 (a)(2) and (b)(2) a sentence stating, ``No retroactive payments will be made when a ban on all new admissions is lifted.'' The rationale is that, if facilities know they will receive payments later, they may admit those residents they choose and thus cover the short term cash flow problem. They say that this would lessen the effectiveness of the sanction. Response: We agree in principle, and, for purposes of clarification, we are revising the suggested sentence to state, at §488.417(e), that no retroactive payments will be made for any new admissions to the facility for the period between the date the remedy was imposed and the date that HCFA or the State determines that the facility achieved substantial compliance. Comment: One commenter suggested that §488.417(a)(1)(i) be revised to state that HCFA or the State may impose a denial of payment for new admissions if a deficiency remains uncorrected after 90 calendar days (as opposed to within) of the last day of survey identifying the deficiency. As worded in the proposed rule, the mandatory sanction would have been imposed if a deficiency had existed at any time during the 90 days. Response: We agree with the intent of the comment, and although we are no longer referring to 90 days but to 3 months as the Act does, we are making this revision. (Please note that the proposed §488.217(a)(1)(i) is now redesignated as §488.417(b)(1).) Comment: One commenter suggested that HCFA deny payment for all new admissions after the second consecutive survey which documents that substandard care is being provided. The rationale is that this would be more in keeping with the purpose of remedies, that is, encouraging rapid compliance with the program requirements. Another commenter suggested that denial of payment for new admissions be a mandatory remedy when there are widespread substandard quality of care violations or when there is a pattern of substandard quality of care violations.
