FR941019-2-00191 FR941019-2-00101 DEPARTMENT OF STATE [Public Notice 2095] Renewal and Amendment of Charter of the Advisory Committee on International Economic Policy The Department of State has renewed and amended the Charter of the Advisory Committee on International Investment Policy, now known as the Advisory Committee on International Economic Policy. The Advisory Committee on International Economic Policy (hereinafter, the Committee) will advise the United States Government on major issues and problems related to international economic policy. The amended Charter has been renewed for a period of two years. The Committee will: (a) Provide information and advice on the effective integration of economic interests into overall foreign policy; (b) Appraise the role and limits of international economic institutions; and (c) Provide information and advice on the Department of State's role in advancing American commercial interests in a competitive global economy. The Committee will provide advice and assistance in the formulation of U.S. policy, positions, proposals and strategies for multilateral and bilateral negotiations, particularly where the State Department has the lead negotiating authority. The amended Charter of the Committee reflects the broader range of international economic issues the committee will consider than the previous Committee mandate to provide information and advice solely on investment policy. Authority The activities of the Committee are authorized under the general authority of the Secretary of State and the Department of State as set forth in the provisions of Title 22 of the U.S.C., including 22 U.S.C. 2656. The Committee Charter has been amended and renewed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, Public Law 92&hyph;463. The approval of this Charter by the Under Secretary of State for Management under delegated authority constitutes the determination by the Secretary of State that the establishment of the Committee is in the public interest and essential to the conduct of business of the Department of State. Committee meetings will be open to the public unless a determination is made in accordance with Section 10(d) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. 552(c)(1)(4) that a meeting or a portion thereof should be closed to the public. Notice of each meeting will be published in the Federal Register at least fifteen days prior to the meeting date. For further information, contact Maria J. Ionata, Executive Secretary of the Committee at (202) 647&hyph;7951. Daniel K. Tarullo, Assistant Secretary of State for Economic and Business Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25805 Filed 10&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;7&hyph;M
