FR940114-1-00095 FR940114-1-00018 (iii) Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or foreclosing the borrower's (or student's) right to pursue legal and equitable relief regarding disputes arising from matters otherwise unrelated to the loan discharged. (6) Guaranty agency responsibilities. (i) Procedures applicable to the period prior to the effective date of this regulation. (A) If a loan subject to paragraph (d) of this section was received for attendance at a school with a closure date after January 1, 1986 but prior to August 29, 1994, the loan may be discharged in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section. (B) If a loan subject to paragraph (d) of this section was discharged in part in accordance with the Secretary's ``Closed School Policy'' as authorized by section IV of Bulletin 89&hyph;G&hyph;159, the guaranty agency shall initiate the discharge of the remaining balance of the loan not later than September 28, 1994. (C) A guaranty agency shall review its records and identify all schools that appear to have closed after January 1, 1986 and prior to August 29, 1994, and shall identify all borrowers (or students) who appear to have been enrolled on the school closure date or who withdrew not more than 90 days prior to the closure date. (D) If a guaranty agency determines (or is informed by the Secretary) that a participating school has closed, it shall, within 30 days of making that determination or being informed by the Secretary, notify all lenders participating in its program to suspend collection efforts against individuals with respect to loans made for attendance at the closed school, if the student to whom (or on whose behalf) a loan was made, was enrolled at the school on the closing date, or withdrew not more than 90 days prior to the date the school closed. (E) If a loan identified under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(C) of this section is held by the guaranty agency as a defaulted loan and the borrower's current address is known, the guaranty agency shall, within 30 days after identifying a borrower under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(C) of this section, mail a discharge application that meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section to the borrower. (F) If a loan identified under paragraph (d)(6)(i)(C) of this section is held by the guaranty agency as a defaulted loan and the borrower's current address is unknown, the agency shall, by August 29, 1995, further refine the list of borrowers whose loans are potentially subject to discharge under paragraph (d) of this section by consulting with representatives of the closed school, the school's licensing agency, accrediting agency, and other appropriate parties. Upon learning the borrower's new address, the guaranty agency shall, within 30 days, mail a discharge application to the borrower. (ii) Procedures applicable to the period beginning on or after the effective date of this regulation.
