FR940720-0-00073 FR940720-0-00006 This change, however, keeps intact the regulatory mechanism for ensuring non-OPRG areas receive reformulated gasoline that contains at least 2.0 weight percent oxygen. Any reformulated gasoline used outside an oxygenated fuels control area during an oxygenated fuels control period that contains less than 2.0 weight percent oxygen (and therefore must be designated as non- OPRG) must be offset with other non-OPRG reformulated gasoline that contains more than 2.0 weight percent oxygen, such that the average oxygen content of the non-OPRG gasoline is greater than or equal to the 2.1 weight percent average standard. b. Designation of Complex Model Gasoline as Meeting NO X Standard on Per-Gallon or Average Basis. Section 80.65(d)(2)(v)(B) is revised in order to clarify that refiners and importers are required to specify whether the NO X standard is being met on a per-gallon basis or on average only for gasoline certified under the complex model. There is no separate NO X standard under the simple model. c. Designation of Reformulated Gasoline Blendstock for Downstream Oxygenate Blending (RBOB). Section 80.65(d)(2)(vi) is being revised in order to clarify that refiners and importers have three options regarding the designation of reformulated gasoline blendstock for downstream oxygenate blending (or RBOB). A refiner or importer has three options for the types of RBOB that may be produced or imported: as suitable for blending with any oxygenate, with ether only, or with a refiner- or importer-specified oxygenate type and amount. The gasoline designation requirements at §80.65(d)(2)(vi) as promulgated in the final rule did not include the refiner- or importer-specified oxygenate option for RBOB, making this provision inconsistent with the downstream oxygenate provisions at §80.69(a) that specifies the RBOB options and includes the refiner- or importer-specified option, and the product transfer document requirements for RBOB at §80.77(i)(2) that includes all three options. In order to correct this inconsistency, today's revision adds the refiner- or importer-specified option to the RBOB designation requirement. d. Assignment of Batch Numbers. Section 80.65(d)(3) requires refiners and importers to assign a unique number to each batch of reformulated gasoline that is produced or imported, and this section includes an example of such a batch number. The numbers contained in the example are being modified to reflect the correct number of digits for the portion of the batch number that states the EPA- assigned facility registration number (five digits) and the sequential batch number (six digits). e. Computer-Controlled In-Line Blending Exemption. Section 80.65(e)(1) requires each refiner or importer to obtain test results for each batch of reformulated gasoline prior to the gasoline leaving the refinery or import facility. Refiners who produce reformulated gasoline using a computer- controlled in-line blending process in which the gasoline is blended directly to a pipeline, however, will not have the test results for the ``batch'' prior to the release of at least some, if not all, of the gasoline. To correct the incompatibility between this requirement and the nature of the computer-controlled in-line blending process, the §80.65(f)(4) exemption from independent sampling and testing for refiners that produce reformulated gasoline using computer-controlled in-line blending equipment is expanded to include an exemption from the §80.65(e)(1) requirement that refiners have test results for each batch prior to the gasoline leaving the refinery. f. Release of Reformulated Gasoline Certified Under Simple Model as Not VOC-Controlled. Section 80.65(e)(1) is also revised in order to clarify that reformulated gasoline certified under the simple model that is not VOC-controlled may be released from the refinery or import facility after the refiner or importer has test results for oxygen and benzene only. The final rule requires refiners and importers to have RVP test results in hand prior to release of all simple model-certified reformulated gasoline, but the RVP standard applies under the simple model only to VOC-controlled gasoline.
