FR940620-0-00074 FR940620-0-00026 6. Following these precedents, the staff will consider applications as not substantially complete, and therefore subject to dismissal as patently defective, if they omit all of or large portions of several sections of the application. This test reflects the criteria applied by the Commission in prior cases decided under this standard, while recognizing the differences in the current LPTV application form (FCC Form 346). Additionally, in accordance with longstanding Commission policy, an application found to have been filed without reasonable assurance of site availability will not be considered substantially complete and will be dismissed as patently defective. 5 It has been the experience of the staff that very few LPTV applications are submitted to the Commission in a condition not meeting this substantial completeness test. The simplified format of the LPTV applicant form, which generally specifies the exact information to be submitted in boxes rather than in narrative exhibits, serves to guide applicants in successfully completing the form. 5 See 62 Broadcasting, Inc. , 4 FCC Rcd 1768 (1989); see also South Florida Broadcasting Co., Inc. , 99 FCC 2d 840, 842 (Rev. Bd. 1984) (``It is elemental that a prospective construction permittee must have, if little else, an antenna site, a technical keystone of the broadcasting operation.'') 7. Accordingly, in keeping with the proposals advanced in the Notice , applicants filing substantially complete applications containing defects or omissions will be given an opportunity to cure the defects. If the defect prevents the staff from further processing the application, a deficiency letter will be issued and the applicant will have 30 days from the date of that letter to correct the defect. If the defect does not prevent processing, the staff will not send a deficiency letter until it completes pre-acceptance studies on the application or until a subsequent defect prevents further processing, at which time the applicant will be given 30 days to amend. Applicants will be given one opportunity to amend for each deficiency letter received. Applications revised to correct all defects identified by the staff and that do not introduce any new defects will then be listed as ``Accepted for Filing'' in a public notice, either in the form of a lottery announcement notice for mutually-exclusive applications or a ``proposed grant list'' for non-mutually-exclusive applications. Any amendment submitted to correct a defective application must be a minor amendment and must otherwise be acceptable in all respects. See 47 CFR ยง73.3572(a). The same policies and procedures that apply before the application is accepted for filing will govern correction of deficiencies identified in the post-acceptance stage. In order to prevent undue processing delays, we will strictly enforce the 30-day period. 6 6 Extensions of time may be granted if the applicant is able to show good cause why it cannot file its amendment within the 30-day period. Terrain Shielding 8. The Commission's present terrain shielding policy in the LPTV service provides that the Commission will waive its application acceptance standards for predicted interference when it is demonstrated that, due to the existence of intervening terrain, an applicant's proposed operation will not cause interference to another facility. 7 Consideration of waivers based on terrain shielding is currently limited to LPTV applications that are not mutually-exclusive with other applications submitted during a particular filing window. We proposed in the Notice to broaden the circumstances in which terrain shielding waivers can be used in the authorization of LPTV service. Because the volume of applications is now manageable, we stated that it was administratively feasible to expand the terrain waiver policy to include mutually-exclusive applications. In this regard, we proposed to consider an applicant's terrain shielding showing with respect to a protected broadcast facility, even if that application is mutually-exclusive with another timely filed LPTV application(s), allowing the application to be accepted for filing. 7 Commission Policy Regarding Terrain Shielding , 3 FCC Rcd 2664 (1988), 53 FR 15557 (May 2, 1988), recon. granted in part , 3 FCC Rcd 7105 ( Terrain Shielding Policy Statement ). See 47 CFR 74.705, 74.707 and 74.709 for LPTV application acceptance standards for interference protection. 9. Further, the Notice proposed to permit applicants to consider terrain shielding as a basis for resolving situations of mutual exclusivity. Without consideration of terrain, proposed facilities in mutually-exclusive applications, by definition, are predicted to interfere with each other to the extent that not all of them can be granted. Under our proposal, applicants for nearby LPTV facilities using the same channel but separated by terrain obstructions could all be granted, without involvement in the Commission's random selection ( i.e. , lottery) process. Finally, the Notice proposed to take terrain shielding into account when applicants raise it for the first time in amendments responding to deficiency letters.
