FR940114-1-00042 FR940114-1-00008 Highway Safety Program Guideline No. 15 Police Traffic Services Each State, in cooperation with its political subdivisions, should have an efficient and effective police traffic services (PTS) program to enforce traffic laws, prevent crashes, assist the injured, document specific details of individual crashes, supervise crash clean-up, and restore safe and orderly movement of traffic. PTS is critical to the success of most traffic safety countermeasures. Traffic law enforcement plays an important role in deterring drunk and drugged driving, achieving safety belt use, encouraging compliance with speed laws, and reducing other unsafe driving actions. Experience has shown that a combination of highly visible enforcement, public information, education, and training is necessary to achieve a significant and lasting impact in reducing crashes, injuries, and fatalities. At a minimum, a well-balanced statewide PTS program should be made up of the components detailed below. I. Program Management A. Planning and Coordination Centralized program planning, implementation, and coordination are essential for achieving and sustaining effective PTS programs. The State Highway Safety Agency (SHSA), in conjunction with State and local law enforcement agencies, should ensure that these planning and coordinating functions are performed with regard to the State's traffic safety program, since law enforcement is in most instances a principle component of that program. In carrying out its responsibility of centralized program planning and coordination, the State should: Provide leadership, training, and technical assistance to State and local law enforcement agencies; Coordinate PTS and other traffic safety program areas including Commercial Motor Vehicle (CMV) safety activities such as the Motor Carrier Safety Assistance Program; Develop and implement a comprehensive plan for all PTS activities, in cooperation with law enforcement leaders; Generate broad-based support for enforcement programs; and Integrate PTS into Community/Corridor Traffic Safety Programs. B. Program Elements State and local law enforcement agencies, in conjunction with the SHSA, should establish PTS as a priority within their total enforcement program. A PTS program should be built on a foundation of commitment, coordination, planning, monitoring, and evaluation within the agency's enforcement program. State and local law enforcement agencies should: Provide the public with a high quality, effective PTS system and have enabling legislation and regulations in place to implement PTS functions; Develop and implement a comprehensive enforcement plan for alcohol and drug impaired driving, safety belt use and child passenger safety laws, speeding, and other hazardous moving violations. The plan should initiate action to look beyond the issuance of traffic tickets to include enforcement of laws by drivers of all types of vehicles, including trucks, automobiles, and motorcycles; Develop a cooperative working relationship with other local, county, and State governmental agencies and community organizations on traffic safety issues; Issue and enforce policies on roadside sobriety checkpoints, safety belt use, pursuit driving, crash investigating and reporting, speed enforcement, and serious traffic violations; and
