FR940720-2-00003 FR940720-2-00002 Forest Plan Amendment, Ouachita National Forest, Scott and Polk Counties, Arkansas; Renewal of the Shortleaf Pine/Bluestem Grass Ecosystem and Recovery of the Red-cockaded Woodpecker action: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. Pursuant to 36 CFR 219.10(f), the Forest Supervisor for the Ouachita National forest gives notice of the agency's intent to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for the decision to amend the Land and Resource Management Plan for the Ouachita National Forest. This notice includes a summary of the proposed changes to the Forest Plan, an explanation of the need for these changes, identifies preliminary issues, and a brief description of potential alternatives to these changes. This notice also provides estimated dates for filing the draft and final EIS; information about future public involvement; the name and address of the responsible official; and the name of the person who can provide additional information. decision to be made: The Forest Service will decide whether or not to amend the existing Forest Plan. Specifically, the Forest Service will decide whether or not to amend the Forest Plan to create a new management area (Management Area 22) that will encompass 155,010 acres of National Forest. Whether or not this will be a significant amendment to the Forest Plan will be part of the analysis and decision. The new management area will provide for the renewal of the Shortleaf Pine/Bluestem Grass ecosystem and implement the Regional EIS for Management of the Red-cockaded Woodpecker and its habit on National Forest in the South. No irreversible or irretrievable commitment of resources (site specific actions) will be made as a result of this decision. Projects to implement the Amended Forest Plan will involve site specific environmental analysis and appropriate documentation. dates: The Agency expects to file the draft EIS (DEIS) with the Environmental Protection Agency and make it available for public comment in August, 1994. The Agency expects to file the final EIS in November, 1994. meetings and public involvement: The Forest Service invites comments and suggestions from Federal, State, and local agencies, individuals and organizations about issues concerning the effects of this proposal. The Ouachita National Forest has scheduled three public meetings to discuss the proposal. These meetings will be held as follows: Poteau Ranger District_Waldron, Arkansas. July 11, 1994. Mena Ranger District_Mena, Arkansas. July 12, 1994. Cold Springs Ranger District_Booneville, Arkansas. July 14, 1994. The purpose of these meetings is to discuss the proposed changes to the Forest Plan, to identify issues associated with those changes, and to develop alternatives which respond to the proposed changes. Written comments are encouraged. Additional meetings with individuals or groups may be arranged and can include tours of the Forest area contained in the proposal. Comments will be most useful if received before July 30, 1994. Refer to the ``For Further Information Contact'' section of this notice for the contact individual. There is an extensive mailing list that has been developed for this proposal. Those on this list will be contacted to solicit input. Many interested citizens helped with the proposal and will again be contacted during this process. Finally, the Forest has continuing contact with federal, state, and local agencies and congressional offices. These agencies and offices will be involved with this planning effort. for further information contact: George Bukenhofer, Project Coordinator, Ouachita National Forest, Poteau Ranger District, P.O. Box 2255, Waldron, AR 72958. responsible official: The Forest Supervisor for the Quachita National Forest, located at P.O. Box 1270, Hot Springs, AR 71902, is the Responsible Official and the deciding official for this action. If this becomes a significant amendment to the Forest Plan, the Regional Forester in Atlanta, Georgia will be the Responsible Official and the deciding official for this action. proposed action: The goal of this proposal is to renew the historic shortleaf pine/bluestem grass ecosystem on a portion of the Ouachita National Forest. Renewal includes recovery of the Red-cockaded Woodpecker (RCW). This EIS will document the analysis of alternatives to the proposed action and disclose the effects of designating a Shortleaf Pine/Bluestem Grass Ecosystem Management Area and implementing the Regional EIS for Management of the RCW and its Habitat on National Forests in the South. Recovery of the RCW includes changing the current Forest Plan goal of 50 breeding groups to a minimum of 250 breeding groups on the Forest. Designation of Management Area 22 affects the management direction for 155,010 acres of National Forest. There will be no change in the amount of land classified as suitable for timber harvest. Ecosystem management of the proposed area would include a broad variety of forest conditions and management practices. Resource outputs such as timber production would be a product of managing to restore the shortleaf pine/bluestem grass ecosystem. To feature older stands, regeneration cycles will be lengthened to a minimum of 120 years. Regeneration areas would retain indefinitely a portion of the overstory trees. Management Area 22 would occur in portions of the Ouachita National Forest in Scott and Polk counties, Arkansas. Included within this management area would be the proposed Habitat Management Area (HMA) for the RCW, containing 84,312 acres of which 66,606 acres is suitable for timber management. A new desired future condition, management area goals and standards and guidelines would be formulated for this new Management Area. Preliminary Issues Through our informational meetings and meetings with other citizens, the following issues relating to the effects of the proposal have been identified. These are preliminary issues. Additional scoping and public participation will be used to refine and add to this list to develop a complete understanding of the significant issues related to this proposal. 1. People are concerned that this proposal will result in a reduction in the local supply of timber products from the National Forest. This could have a direct and indirect effect on local communities. 2. People are concerned that hardwood trees would be eliminated in the proposed Management Area. Hardwood tree retention and forest diversity in pine-dominated areas of the Forest has been an issue that has been addressed many times in the past. This proposal stresses that current hardwood tree retention guidelines will not be changed. 3. There are concerns that smoke from an increased prescribed burning program could lower air quality and visibility. 4. There is a concern that this proposal will increase costs to taxpayers. Costs, both direct and indirect, would have to be estimated. Timber receipts from projects in the proposed area will help pay expenses through the Knutson-Vandenberg Act of 1930. 6. There is a concern that if the population of Red-cockaded Woodpeckers (RCW) on the Forest increases, the RCW's will move to adjoining private lands. Since they are a federally listed endangered species, this could lead to limitations on the management of that private land under Section 9 of the Endangered Species Act. 7. There is a concern that portions of the Forest might be closed to uses such as hunting, fishing, berry picking or firewood gathering in the future. 8. There is a concern that evenaged timber management techniques will be the only harvest techniques used in this area. Preliminary Alternatives: The Forest Service will evaluate a wide range of alternatives to the proposal in response to the issues identified in the scoping process. The agency expects to consider at least the following alternatives, which respond to preliminary issues identified to date. As new issues are identified through public participation, new alternatives may be created, and existing alternatives modified. Some of these preliminary alternatives may not be analyzed in detail. Alternative A (No Action) This alternative would not change the management area allocations, activities or desired future condition of the existing Forest Plan. The rotation age for shortleaf pine would remain at 70 years. The current goal of 50 groups of RCW would remain. There would be no change in fire control or prescribed fire activities. Revenues and expenditures would remain at or near current levels, as would the supply of timber products. Hardwood tree retention rates would not change.
