FR940727-2-00113 FR940727-2-00063 3. The Investing Funds will retain their ability to invest their cash balances directly into money market instruments if they believe they can obtain a higher return. Each of the Money Market Funds has the right to discontinue selling shares to any of the Investing Funds if its board of trustees determines that such sales would adversely affect the portfolio management and operations of such Money Market Fund. Therefore, applicants believe that the proposal satisfies the standards for relief. 4. Section 17(d) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder prohibit an affiliated person of an investment company, acting as principal, from participating in or effecting any transaction in connection with any joint enterprise or joint arrangement in which the investment company participates. Each Investing Fund, by purchasing shares of the Money Market Funds; each Investment Adviser of an Investing Fund, by managing the assets of the Investing Funds invested in the Money Market Funds; and each of the Money Market Funds, by selling shares to the Investing Funds, could be participants in a joint enterprise or other joint arrangement within the meaning of section 17(d)(1) and rule 17d&hyph;1. 5. Rule 17d&hyph;1 permits the Commission to approve a proposed joint transaction covered by the terms of section 17(d). In determining whether to approve a transaction, the Commission is to consider whether the proposed transaction is consistent with the provisions, policies, and purposes of the Act, and the extent to which the participation of the investment companies is on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of the other participants. Applicants believe that the proposal satisfies these standards. 6. Section 12(d)(1), as noted above, sets certain limits on an investment company's ability to invest in the shares of another investment company. The perceived abuses section 12(d)(1) sought to address include undue influence by an acquiring fund over the management of an acquired fund, layering of fees, and complex structures. Applicants believe that none of these concerns are presented by the proposed transactions and that the proposed transactions meet the section 6(c) standards for relief. Applicants' Conditions Applicants agree that the order granting the requested relief will be subject to the following conditions: 1. Shares of the Money Market Funds sold to and redeemed from the Investing Funds will not be subject to a sales load, redemption fee, or distribution fee under a plan adopted in accordance with rule 12b&hyph;1. 2. Applicants will cause the Investment Advisers and their respective affiliates, in their capacities as service providers for the Money Market Funds, to remit to the respective Investing Fund or waive an amount equal to all fees received by them or their affiliates under their respective agreements with the Money Market Funds to the extent such fees are based upon the Investing Fund's assets invested in shares of the Money Market Funds. Any of these fees remitted or waived will not be subject to recoupment by the Funds' Investment Advisers or their respective affiliates at a later date. 3. For the purpose of determining any amount to be waived and/or expenses to be borne to comply with any Expense Waiver, the adjusted fees for an Investing Fund (gross fees minus Expense Waiver) will be calculated without reference to the amounts waived or remitted pursuant to condition 2. Adjusted fees then will be reduced by the amount waived pursuant to condition 2. If the amount waived pursuant to condition 2 exceeds adjusted fees, the Investing Fund's Investment Adviser also will reimburse the Investing Fund in an amount equal to such excess. 4. Each of the Investing Funds will be permitted to invest uninvested cash in, and hold shares of, a Money Market Fund only to the extent that the Investing Fund's aggregate investment in such Money Market Fund does not exceed the greater of 5% of the Investing Fund's total net assets or $2.5 million. 5. The Investing Funds will vote their shares of each of the Money Market Funds in the same proportion as the votes of all other shareholders in such Money Market Funds. 6. The Investing Funds will receive dividends and bear their proportionate shares of expenses on the same basis as other shareholders of such Money Market Funds. A separate account will be established in the shareholder records of each of the Money Market Funds for each of the acquiring Investing Funds. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18256 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
