FR941117-0-00092 FR941117-0-00011 Table C&hyph; 2._ Technical Requirements for Directional Antennas 1Frequency range 1Maximum beamwidth 1Suppression 35 to 512 MHz 80 ○ 10 dB 512 to 1500 MHz 20 ○ 13 dB 1500 to 2500 MHz 12 ○ 13 dB §22.363 Directional antennas. Fixed transmitters for point-to-point operation must use a directional transmitting antenna with the major lobe of radiation in the horizontal plane directed toward the receiving antenna or passive reflector of the station for which the transmissions are intended. Directional antennas used in the Public Mobile Services must meet the technical requirements given in Table C&hyph;2 to §22.361. (a) Maximum beamwidth is for the major lobe at the half power points. (b) Suppression is the minimum attenuation for any secondary lobe referenced to the main lobe. (c) An omnidirectional antenna may be used for fixed transmitters where there are two or more receive locations at different azimuths. §22.365 Antenna structures; air navigation safety. Licensees must not allow antenna structures to become a hazard to air navigation. (a) Marking and lighting. Antenna structures must be marked, lighted and maintained in accordance with part 17 of this chapter and all applicable rules and requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration. Lighting and marking specifications are contained in FCC Form 715 and FCC Form 715a. (b) Maintenance contracts. Licensees may enter into a contract with an entity to monitor and carry out necessary maintenance of antenna structures. Licensees that make such contractual arrangements, including situations in which a common antenna structure is used, continue to be responsible for the maintenance of antenna structures in regard to air navigation safety. §22.367 Wave polarization. Public mobile station antennas must be of the correct type and properly installed such that the electromagnetic emissions have the polarization required by this section. (a) Vertical. Waves radiated by the following must be vertically polarized: (1) Base, mobile, dispatch, and auxiliary test transmitters in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service; (2) Transmitters in the Offshore Radiotelephone Service; (3) Transmitters on channels in the 72&hyph;76 MHz frequency range; (4) Base, mobile and auxiliary test transmitters in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service; (5) Control and repeater transmitters on channels in the 900&hyph;960 MHz frequency range; (6) Rural subscriber stations communicating with base transmitters in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service pursuant to §22.563. (7) Ground and airborne mobile transmitters in the Air-ground Radiotelephone Service. (b) Horizontal. Waves radiated by transmitters in the Public Mobile Services, other than transmitters required by paragraph (a) of this section to radiate a vertically polarized wave must be horizontally polarized, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. (c) Circular. If communications efficiency would be improved and/or interference reduced, the FCC may authorize transmitters other than those listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section to radiate a circularly polarized wave. (d) Any polarization. Public Land Mobile stations transmitting on channels higher than 960 MHz are not limited as to wave polarization. §22.369 Quiet zones. Quiet zones are those areas where it is necessary to restrict radiation so as to minimize possible impact on the operations of radio astronomy or other facilities that are highly sensitive to interference. The areas involved and procedures required are as follows: (a) NRAO, NRRO. The requirements of this paragraph are intended to minimize possible interference at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory site located at Green Bank, Pocahontas County, West Virginia, and at the Naval Radio Research Observatory site at Sugar Grove, Pendleton County, West Virginia. (1) Carriers planning to construct and operate a new or modified Public Mobile Services station at a permanent fixed location within the area bounded by N.39 ○15 ’ on the north, W.78 ○30 ’ on the east, N.37 ○30 ’ on the south, and W.80 ○30 ’ on the west must notify the Director, National Radio Astronomy Observatory, Post Office Box No. 2, Green Bank, West Virginia 24944, in writing, of the technical details of the proposed operation. The notification must include the geographical coordinates of the antenna location, the antenna height, antenna directivity (if any), the channel, the emission type and power.
