FR940512-1-00053 FR940512-1-00010 (1) Developed by the DSU, the SILC, and the separate State agency authorized to provide VR services for individuals who are blind; and (2) Signed by the_ (i) Director; (ii) Director of the separate State agency authorized to provide VR services for individuals who are blind; and (iii) Chairperson of the SILC, acting on behalf of and at the direction of the SILC. (Cross-reference: See ยง364.22(c).) (e) The State plan must assure that, as appropriate, the DSU actively consults in the development of the State plan with the Director of the client assistance program authorized under section 112 of the Act. (f) Periodic review and revision. The State plan must provide for the review and revision of the plan, at least once every three years, to ensure the existence of appropriate planning, financial support and coordination, and other assistance to appropriately address, on a statewide and comprehensive basis, the needs in the State for_ (1) Providing State IL services; (2) Developing and supporting a statewide network of centers; and (3) Working relationships between_ (i) Programs providing IL services and supporting or establishing centers; and (ii) The VR program established under title I of the Act, and other programs providing services for individuals with disabilities. (g) Public hearings. (1) The State plan must assure that the DSU conducts public meetings to provide all segments of the public, including interested groups, organizations, and individuals, an opportunity to comment on the State plan prior to its submission to the Secretary and on any revisions to the approved State plan. The DSU may meet the public participation requirement by holding the public meetings before a preliminary draft State plan is prepared or by providing a preliminary draft State plan for comment at the public meetings. (2) The State plan must assure that the DSU establishes and maintains a written description of procedures for conducting public meetings in accordance with the following requirements: (i) The DSU shall provide appropriate and sufficient notice of the public meetings. Appropriate and sufficient notice means notice provided at least 30 days prior to the public meeting through various media available to the general public, such as newspapers and public service announcements, and through specific contacts with appropriate constituency groups and organizations identified by the DSU and SILC. (ii) The DSU shall make reasonable accommodation to individuals with disabilities who rely on special modes of communication in the conduct of the public meetings, including providing sign language interpreters and audio-loops. (iii) The DSU shall provide the notices of the public meetings, any written material provided prior to or at the public meetings, and the approved State plan in accessible formats for individuals who rely on special modes of communication. (h) The State plan must assure that, at the public meetings to develop the State plan, the DSU identifies those provisions in the State plan that are State-imposed requirements. For purposes of this section, a State-imposed requirement includes any State rule or policy relating to the DSU's administration or operation of IL programs under title VII of the Act, including any rule or policy based on State interpretation of any Federal law, regulation, or guideline, that is beyond what would be required to comply with the regulations in 34 CFR parts 364, 365, 366, and 367. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796c (a) and (m)(6)) ยง364.21 What are the requirements for the Statewide Independent Living Council (SILC)? (a) Establishment. (1) To be eligible to receive assistance under chapter 1 of title VII of the Act, each State shall establish a SILC that meets the requirements of section 705 of the Act. (2) The SILC may not be established as an entity within a State agency, including the designated State agency or DSU. The SILC shall be independent of the DSU and all other State agencies.
