FR941103-2-00127 FR941103-2-00072 The Exchange fully implemented the changes to the Policy, detailed in the Pilot Release, in February of 1994. The Exchange states that it has reviewed the changes to the Policy as they have impacted on the allocation process and it believes that there has been a beneficial effect in terms of the way in which stocks are allocated. The Exchange further maintains that it continues to subject this vital function to rigorous scrutiny, looking to refine the process, as is evidenced by the filing of further changes to the Policy cited earlier. III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 8 Section 6(b)(5) requires that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. Further, the Commission finds that the proposal is consistent with Section 11(b) of the Act 9 and Rule 11b&hyph;1 thereunder, 10 which allow exchanges to promulgate rules relating to specialists in order to maintain fair and orderly markets. For the reasons set forth below, the Commission believes that the amended Policy should enhance the Exchange's allocation process, encourage improved specialist performance and, thereby, protect investors and the public interest. 8 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 9 15 U.S.C. 78k(b) (1988). 10 17 CFR 240.11b&hyph;1 (1994). Specialists play a crucial role in providing stability, liquidity and continuity to the trading of securities. Among the obligations imposed upon specialists by the Exchange, and by the Act and the rules thereunder, is the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in their designated securities. 11 To ensure that specialists fulfill these obligations, it is important that the Exchange develop and maintain stock allocation procedures and policies that provide specialists with an incentive to strive for optimal performance. The Commission fully supports and encourages the NYSE's continuing effort to develop meaningful and effective allocation policies that encourage improved specialist performance and market quality. 11 See e.g., Rule 11b&hyph;1, 17 CFR 240.11b&hyph;1 (1994); NYSE Rule 104. The Commission believes that the proposed revisions to the NYSE's Policy should refine the Exchange's allocation process and, thereby, encourage improved specialist performance. As discussed in more detail in the Pilot Release, the NYSE's Policy emphasizes that the most significant allocation criterion is specialist performance. In the Commission's view, performance-based stock allocations not only help to ensure that stocks are allocated to specialists who will make the best markets, but will provide an incentive for specialists to improve their performance or maintain superior performance. The Commission believes that the use of Specialist Performance Evaluation Questionnaire (``SPEQ'') 12 ratings, objective performance measures, and the Committee's professional judgment under the revised Policy should enable the Committee to review specialist performance in a more precise and comprehensive fashion. Specifically, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to limit the weight that the SPEQ may be given in allocation decisions to one-third and to increase the emphasis given to objective measures of performance. Although the SPEQ remains a useful tool to measure performance, the Commission has long believed that objective indications of performance should play an important role in allocation decisions. In particular, the Commission believes that objective performance measures can identify poor market making performance that otherwise may not be reflected in a unit's SPEQ survey results. 13 12 The SPEQ is a quarterly survey on specialist performance completed by eligible floor brokers ( i.e., any floor broker with at least one year of experience). The SPEQ consists of 21 questions and requires floor brokers to rate, and provide written comments on, the performance of specialist units with whom they deal frequently. 13 The Commission believes that it is appropriate to delete the objective performance measure pertaining to the Opening Automated Report Service (``OARS'') contained in the Policy. Because this performance measure was deleted from NYSE Rule 103A in 1990, deleting the reference to the OARS would update and remove an obsolete performance measure from the Policy.
