FR940304-2-00052 FR940304-2-00034 a. Access during the office hours of respondents and in the presence of counsel to inspect and copy all books, ledgers, accounts, correspondence, memoranda, and other records and documents in the possession or under the control of respondents relating to compliance with this Agreement; b. Upon five (5) days' notice to respondents, and without restraint or interference from respondents, to interview officers or employees of respondents, who may have counsel present, regarding any such matters. 5. This agreement shall not be binding until approved by the Commission. Analysis of Proposed Consent Order to Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted, subject to final approval, and agreement to a proposed consent order from Columbia Healthcare Corporation (``Columbia'') and HCA-Hospital Corporation of America (``HCA''). The agreement would settle charges by the Federal Trade Commission that Columbia's proposed acquisition of 100 percent of the voting stock of HCA would have violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act and Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act if it had been carried out. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or issue and serve the agreement's proposed order. Both Columbia and HCA (the ``respondents'') own and operate acute care hospitals in various states, including acute care hospitals in a three-county urban area that includes the cities of Augusta, Georgia, and Aiken, South Carolina (``Augusta-Aiken''). The complaint accompanying the proposed consent order concerns the proposed acquisition's impact upon competition for acute care hospital services in Augusta-Aiken. According to the complaint, Columbia owns and operates Augusta Regional Medical Center in Augusta, Georgia. HCA owns and operates HCA Aiken Regional Medical Center, located about 15 miles northeast of Augusta, Georgia in Aiken, South Carolina.
