FR940304-2-00094 FR940304-2-00040 a. Full name b. Date of birth c. Social Security Number d. Signature e. Any available information regarding the type of record involved f. The category of covered individuals under which the requester believes he or she fits. Contesting record procedures: Specific materials in this system have been exempted from Privacy Act provisions at 5 U.S.C. 552a(d), regarding amendment to records. The section of this notice titled Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act, which appears below, indicates the kinds of material exempted and the reasons for exempting them from amendment. Individuals wishing to request amendment to their non-exempt records should contact the system manager in writing. Individuals must furnish the following information for their records to be located and identified: a. Full name b. Date of birth c. Social Security Number d. Signature e. Any available information regarding the type of record involved f. The category of covered individuals under which the requester believes he or she fits Record source categories: Information contained in the system was obtained from the following categories of sources: a. Applications and other personnel and security forms furnished by the individual b. Investigative and other record material furnished by Federal agencies c. Notices of personnel actions furnished by Federal agencies d. By personal investigation or written inquiry from sources such as employers, educational institutions, references, neighbors, associates, police departments, courts, credit bureaus, medical records, probation officials, prison officials, newspapers, magazines, periodicals, and other publications. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: This system may contain the following types of information: a. Properly classified information, obtained from another Federal agency during the course of a personnel investigation, which pertains to national defense and foreign policy. The Privacy Act, at 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1), permits an agency to exempt such materials from certain provisions of the Act. b. Investigatory material compiled for law enforcement purposes in connection with the administration of the merit system. The Privacy Act, at 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(2), permits an agency to exempt such material from certain provisions of the Act. Application of exemption (k)(2) may be necessary to preclude the data subject's access to and amendment of the record. c. Investigatory material compiled solely for the purpose of determining suitability, eligibility, or qualifications for Federal civilian employment. The Privacy Act, at 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), permits an agency to exempt such material from certain provisions of the Act. Materials may be exempted to the extent that release of the material to the individual whom the information is about would: 1. Reveal the identify of a source who furnished information to the Government under an express promise (granted on or after September 27, 1975) that the identify of the source would be in confidence; or 2. Reveal the identify of a source who, prior to September 27, 1975, furnished information to the Government under an implied promise that the identity of the source would be held in confidence. IAF&hyph;6 System name: Payroll/Travel Accounting Records. System location: Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individual Payroll/Travel information.
