FR940506-1-00012 FR940506-1-00007 a. How would these changes affect the benefits provided by the Rule? 5. Does the Rule overlap or conflict with other federal, state, or local laws or regulations? 6. Since the Rule was issued, what effects, if any, have changes in relevant technology or economic conditions had on the Rule? 7. What significant burdens or costs, including costs of compliance, has the Rule imposed on small firms subject to its requirements? a. How do these burdens or costs differ from those imposed on larger firms subject to the Rule's requirements? 8. To what extent are the burdens or costs that the Rule imposes on small firms similar to those that small firms would incur under standard and prudent business practices? 9. What changes, if any, should be made to the Rule to reduce the burdens or costs imposed on small firms? a. How would these changes affect the benefits of the Rule? b. Would such changes adversely affect the competitive position of larger firms? 10. How many used vehicles (as defined by §455.1(d)(2) of the Rule) are sold annually in the United States? 11. How many used car dealers have under $11.5 million in annual sales? 12. Should the Rule's requirement that the Buyers Guide be posted in a side window of a used vehicle, as set forth in §455.2(a)(1) of the Rule, be modified to allow posting in a different location (for example, in the rear window of a pickup truck or other vehicle without side rear windows), as long as the Buyers Guide is conspicuous and both sides may be readily viewed? 13. What changes to the format of the Buyers Guide should be considered in order to reduce compliance costs or burdens? Would such changes have any detrimental effect on the benefits provided by the Rule? Is there any empirical or other evidence to support opinions that such changes would or would not have a detrimental effect on benefits? 14. What changes to the format of the Buyers Guide should be considered in order to increase its benefits? What effect would such changes have on the costs or burdens imposed by the Rule? Is there any empirical or other evidence to support opinions that such changes would or would not increase costs or burdens? IV. Non-Substantive Amendments to the Rule The Commission also solicits comment on two non-substantive amendments the Commission proposes to the Rule involving the Spanish language version of the Buyers Guide, §455.5 of the Rule. The first proposed change is grammatical: The ``As Is'' (``Como Esta-Sin Garantia'') section of the Buyers Guide reads ``El vendedor no asume ninguna responsabilidad por cualquier las reparaciones *␣*␣*'' (emphasis added). This language will be amended to read: ``El vendedor no asume ninguna responsabilidad por cualquier reparacione *␣*␣*'' The second suggested modification appears in the ``Warranty'' (``Garantia'') section of the Buyers Guide. The word ``vendedo'' in the second full sentence will be amended to read ``Pida al vendedor una copia del documento *␣*␣*.'' List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 455 Motor vehicles, Trade practices. Authority: The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. (1980). By direction of the Commission. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10937 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
