FR940318-0-00195 FR940318-0-00023 Following scientific concerns raised in 1974 regarding possible ozone depletion from CFCs, EPA and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) acted on March 17, 1978 (43 FR 11301; 43 FR 11318) to ban the use of CFCs as aerosol propellants in all but essential applications. During the mid-1970s, use as aerosol propellants constituted over 50 percent of total CFC consumption in the United States. The 1978 ban reduced aerosol use of CFCs in this country by approximately 95 percent, eliminating nearly half of the then total U.S. consumption of these chemicals. Some CFC aerosol products were specifically exempted from the ban based on a determination of essentiality. (See reference Essential Use Determinations-Revised, 1978.) The other uses of CFCs in aerosol and pressurized dispenser products (e.g., as an active ingredient, a solvent, or as the sole ingredient) were excluded from the ban because they did not fit the narrow definition of ``aerosol propellant.'' Therefore, prior to the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act, the only aerosol products that still contained CFCs were products exempted from the 1978 ban on CFC propellants or products excluded from the 1978 ban. The Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 includes statutory authorities relevant to use of ozone depleting chemicals used in aerosol applications in several sections of Title VI. In addition to mandating the phaseout of class I and class II substances (sections 604 and 605) and mandating the review of substitutes (section 612), section 610 of title VI prohibits the sale of certain nonessential products made with class I and class II substances. Title VI divides controlled ozone-depleting substances into two distinct classes. Class I is comprised of CFCs, halons, carbon tetrachloride, MCF, hydrobromofluorocarbons, and methyl bromide. Class II is comprised solely of HCFCs. The product bans for class I substances and class II substances are distinct from one another and are addressed in subsections 610(b) and 610(d), respectively. In section 610(b), Congress directed EPA to promulgate regulations that prohibit the sale or distribution of certain ``nonessential'' products that release class I substances. Under this subsection, Congress specifies particular products as nonessential and directs EPA to identify other nonessential products. In the final regulations implementing the Class I Nonessential Products ban (58 FR 4767; January 15, 1993), EPA issued regulations that implement the requirements of section 610(b) and ban certain nonessential products that release class I substances. Under this rule, EPA banned, among other products, flexible and packaging foam, and aerosols and other pressurized dispensers using CFCs. The use of methyl chloroform, while a class I substance, is not restricted under this regulation. As directed by Congress, EPA researched the purpose or intended use of products containing class I substances, the technological availability of substitutes, safety and health considerations, and other relevant factors including the economic effect of banning selected products. EPA then banned the use of CFCs as propellants and solvents in all aerosol products with the following specific exemptions (58 FR 4767; January 15, 1993): _Medical devices listed in 21 CFR 2.125(c). _Lubricants for pharmaceutical and tablet manufacture. _Gauze bandage adhesives and adhesive removers. _Topical anesthetic and vapocoolant products. _Lubricants, coatings, or cleaning fluids for electrical and electronic equipment that contain CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;12 or CFC&hyph;113 for solvent purposes, but which contain no other CFC. _Lubricants, coatings, or cleaning fluids for aircraft maintenance that contain CFC&hyph;11 or CFC&hyph;113, but which contain no other CFC. _Release agents for molds using CFC&hyph;11 or CFC&hyph;113 in the production of plastic or elastomeric materials. _Spinnerette lubricant/cleaning sprays used in the production of synthetic fibers that contain CFC&hyph;114, but contain no other CFCs. _Containers of CFCs used as halogen ion sources in plasma etching. _Document preservation sprays that contain CFC&hyph;113, but which contain no other CFCs. _Red pepper bear repellant sprays that contain CFC&hyph;113, but which contain no other CFCs. Exemption from the class I ban does not imply exemption from the phase-out requirements. HCFCs also have current and potential applications as propellants and as solvents in aerosol products. Until recently, their use has been limited by the aerosol industry because of their high cost relative to traditional options such as CFCs and hydrocarbons. Increased regulation of CFCs, including taxation of these substances and an eventual phase-out, has meant that HCFCs are, for an interim period, economically viable in some applications, particularly where concern about flammability limits the use of cheaper alternatives, such as hydrocarbons. However, section 610(d) of the CAA prohibits as of January 1, 1994, the sale or distribution of aerosol or foam products that contain or are manufactured with class II substances. All HCFCs are currently listed as class II substances. EPA believes that the ban on certain products containing class II substances is self-executing. Section 610(d)(1) bans the sale of the specified class II products on its own terms, without any reference to required regulations. Thus, EPA is not required to determine which products will be banned. However, section 610(d)(2) allows EPA to grant exceptions and exclusions from the ban on aerosol and pressurized dispenser products containing class II substances. Specifically, EPA is authorized to grant exceptions from the prohibition where the use of the aerosol product or pressurized dispenser is determined by the Administrator to be essential as a result of flammability or worker safety, and where the only available alternative to the use of a class II substance is the use of a class I substance which legally could be substituted for such class II substance (i.e., use of a class I substance that is still allowed). In addition to these two criteria for exceptions, aerosol products may be excluded from the ban as a result of a third consideration in section 610 (d)(2); namely, that the ban on products containing class II substances shall not apply to any medical device. Reflecting the self-executing nature of the CAA ban, any aerosol product or pressurized dispenser containing a class II substance is banned as of January 1, 1994, unless EPA grants an exception. EPA published a final rule under 610(d)(2) December 30, 1993 (58 FR 69637). The following products were exempted:
