FR940429-0-00066 FR940429-0-00010 Teach-out Agreement Comments: The Secretary received a suggestion to include in the definition specific criteria for what constitutes the ``equitable treatment of students.'' The Secretary also received a suggestion to delete the definition because the Department's previous teach-out regulations, issued January 1993, were rescinded. Discussion: The requirement that accrediting agencies have standards for teach-out agreements is specified in section 496(c)(4) of the HEA and is independent of any Department regulation that may or may not be in effect regarding teach-out agreements. The Secretary believes the inclusion of provisions for what constitutes equitable treatment of students under a teach-out agreement is a useful addition to the regulations but believes these provisions should be included in §602.27(b)(6), where the requirement for teach-out agreements is described, rather than in the definition section. Change: None. However, the specific criteria for what constitutes equitable treatment of students have been added to §602.27(b)(6). Vocational Education Comments: The Secretary received numerous comments on the definition of this term and the corresponding term, ``prebaccalaureate vocational education.'' Many commenters preferred a broad definition that treated all institutions offering any type of vocational education the same way. Others preferred a definition that excluded programs leading to any type of degree. Some commenters suggested a definition similar to that in the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act. Others suggested different approaches to the issue, including the use of the term ``nonacademic education program,'' which they defined to be the opposite of an academic education program, as they believed that term was defined in the Department's clock hour/credit hour regulations. Still others preferred a definition that restricted the term to institutions whose predominant offerings were vocational, with ``predominant'' defined to mean more than 75 percent of an institution's offerings. Almost all commenters preferred that the same definition be used in both the accreditation and SPRE regulations. Discussion: The Secretary has carefully considered all comments received on this issue, as well as those on the broader issue of the burden these regulations would impose on institutions and accrediting agencies. While the Secretary agrees that it would be best if these regulations and those for the State Postsecondary Review Program used both the same term and the same definition of that term, the Secretary is aware that the statute uses the term ``vocational education'' for accreditation and ``vocational program'' for the State Postsecondary Review Program. Consequently, the Secretary believes the appropriate term for the accreditation regulations is ``vocational education'' and for the SPRE regulations ``vocational program.'' However, despite the difference in the specific term used, the Secretary believes that the definition of both terms should be the same. The Secretary has examined all of the proposed definitions for the accreditation and SPRE regulations and believes that the IPEDS glossary definition of an ``occupationally specific program'' most closely meets the needs of both regulations. The Secretary has modified this definition slightly, however, to meet the specific needs of accreditation and the State Postsecondary Review Program. Thus, in the accreditation regulations, the term ``vocational education'' is defined to be an instructional program, below the bachelor's level, designed to prepare individuals with the skills and training required in a specific trade, occupation, or profession related to the instructional program. The identical definition is used in the SPRE regulations for a ``vocational program.'' While the definition differs slightly from the exact wording in the IPEDS definition, the Secretary wishes to make clear that the list of occupationally specific programs provided by IPEDS defines the instructional programs that, if offered by an institution, cause the institution to be subject to unannounced inspections by the institution's accrediting agency, as specified in §602.24. Change: The term ``vocational education'' has been redefined as indicated above under the Discussion section. Section 602.3␣Organization and Membership Comments: A few commenters expressed concern about the requirement in section 496(a) of the HEA that accrediting agencies whose accreditation enables the institutions they accredit to participate in programs authorized under the HEA must be administratively and financially separate from and independent of any related, associated, or affiliated trade association or membership organization. These commenters believed that this requirement would force many agencies to undergo a major restructuring simply to come into technical compliance with this provision despite the fact that there was no evidence their present structure in any way compromised the integrity of their accrediting decisions. The Secretary also received some comments about the provisions for a waiver of the ``separate and independent'' requirements. Most of these were directed to specific circumstances that exist, or might exist, in the case of a particular accrediting agency seeking a waiver. The Secretary also received a suggestion that accrediting agencies should have to seek the waiver each time they applied for recognition, or renewal of recognition, by the Secretary. Discussion: The general concern about the new organization and membership requirements is directed to the law, not the regulations. As the language in §602.3 merely restates the requirements of the law, it cannot be changed.
