FR940207-2-00071 FR940207-2-00028 Western should continue the formalization of an engineering 10-year planning process involving the P&hyph;DP customers as initiated by Western during the spring of 1993. Response: Western supports some type of a customer and agency operational working committee. Western is committed to working closely with the customers in the development of a customer/agency operational working committee and has, in fact, initiated a procedure for allowing its customers more advance input into the planning process. Western has asked the customers for their help in developing a current Engineering Ten-Year Plan. This has allowed Western to organize dialogue with the customers and has allowed the customers to provide input on future construction activities. Western is currently working with the customers to design criteria that will balance the goal of safe and reliable operations with the goal of cost containment. Improved efficiencies will be a result of including the customers in the engineering 10-year planning process. Further, Western believes that the participation of the customers in developing the Engineering Ten-Year Plan and transmission planning system, also referred to as the joint-use transmission system, is just the beginning of involvement and partnerships Western is hoping to achieve with its customers. Economic Issues Comment: Western should consider emergency cost-cutting measures to help Arizona customers and small utilities through these economic times. Comment: Western should consider the plight of irrigation customers when they pass the rate increase costs on to them. Comment: At this time, the cost of significant replacements and additions on the P&hyph;DP cause tremendous strain on Buckeye and its customers. Comment: Western should consider the effects of the rate increases on the agricultural economy in Arizona. Comment: Western should postpone the implementation of the rate increase. Comment: Western's PAO must begin to recognize its responsibilities to consumers of Arizona, California, and Nevada and must not forget its mission is to market and deliver low cost Federal hydropower to preference customers. Comment: There is concern about the cost increases in transmission's O&M, replacements, and additions that are substantially greater than the rate of inflation. Based on decisions that have been made, Western should request establishing and empowering a process for control of such costs in the future. Comment: It is requested that Western consider every possible alternative which will reduce the need for such significant rate increases. Response: Western has reviewed its O&M and replacement costs and believes that the costs have been justified. While Western is sympathetic to the current financial plight of a number of the customers with large agricultural loads, Western and the Bureau believe the replacement and addition costs cannot be deferred to a later date without jeopardizing safety and reliability. Western realizes that replacements and additions exceed the rate of inflation. However, Western cannot allow the Parker-Davis facilities to deteriorate to a point where safe and continued operation to all customers is jeopardized. Western is continuing to look at both its O&M and construction plans to determine what, if any, expenditures can be avoided or delayed, without sacrificing service to its customers. Western believes the mission to market and deliver low-cost Federal hydropower to all customers has not been neglected. Western is committed to work with its customers to ensure that all entities are satisfied regarding the O&M and replacement expenditures. Western, along with the customers, will continue to review and revise O&M and replacement costs which will meet the needs of the customers and the needs of the P&hyph;DP system. General Rate Issues Comment: To date, much of the frustration of the customers with Western's ratesetting process results from not understanding Western's numbers, or where they come from, or the inconsistent sources used during the process. Response: The numbers used in the PRS are consistent with the Engineering Ten-Year Plan and with the FY 1993 budget. Western hopes that involving the customers in the engineering 10-year planning process will result in a better understanding of how the numbers used in the PRS are derived. Comment: Western should use the current budget in the current PRS, and use the Engineering Ten-Year Plan in future PRSs. Comment: The FY 1992 Engineering Ten-Year Plan Western is using significantly overstated Parker-Davis expenditures for FY 1993 and FY 1994, blessed with the hindsight of an actual 1993 budget and a requested FY 1994 budget. The rates should reflect these later realities. Response: Western chose to use the Engineering Ten-Year Plan in the Ratesetting PRS because it was the best information available at the time. However, the PRS relies on several pieces of data. For instance, during the cost evaluation period, the replacements and additions from the Engineering Ten-Year Plan were all in the FY 1993 congressionally approved budget. The Engineering Ten-Year Plan varies from the FY 1993 congressionally approved budget in timing of completion of projects and amounts to be spent in FY 1994&hyph;98. Western is currently meeting with the customers to develop a revised Engineering Ten-Year Plan in the future that will incorporate customer input. Western plans on using the Engineering Ten-Year Plan as a tool in developing the budgets so that, in the future, the PRS will be based on budget documents founded in the Engineering Ten-Year Plan.
