FR941121-0-00069 FR941121-0-00008 (iii) Public notices may describe more than one permit or permit action. (2) Timing. (i) Public notice of the preparation of a draft permit or permit revision (including a notice of intent to deny a permit or permit revision application) shall allow at least 30 days for public comment. (ii) Public notice of a public hearing shall be given at least 30 days before the hearing. (Public notice of the hearing may be given at the same time as public notice of the draft permit or permit revision and the two notices may be combined.) (iii) The Administrator shall provide such notice and opportunity for participation to Affected States on or before the time that the Administrator provides this notice to the public. (3) Methods. Public notice of activities described in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section shall be given by the following methods: (i) By mailing a copy of a notice to the following persons (any person otherwise entitled to receive notice under this paragraph (d) may waive his or her rights to receive notice for any permit): (A) The applicant; (B) Any other agency which the Administrator knows has issued or is required to issue any other permit under the Clean Air Act for the same facility or activity; (C) Affected States and Indian Tribes; (D) Affected State and local air pollution control agencies, the chief executives of the city and county where the early reductions source is located, any comprehensive regional land use planning agency and any State, Federal Land Manager, or Indian Governing Body whose lands may be affected by emissions from the regulated activity; (E) Persons on a mailing list developed by: ( 1 ) Including those who request in writing to be on the list; ( 2 ) Soliciting persons for ``area lists'' from participants in past permit proceedings in that area; and ( 3 ) Notifying the public of the opportunity to be put on the mailing list through periodic publication in the public press and in such publications as Regional and State funded newsletters, environmental bulletins, or State law journals. (The Administrator may update the mailing list from time to time by requesting written indication of continued interest from those listed. The Administrator may delete from the list the name of any person who fails to respond to such a request.); (F) Any unit of local government with authority for regulating air pollution and having jurisdiction over the area where the early reductions source is located and to each State agency having any authority for regulating air pollution under State law with respect to the operation of such source.
