FR940426-2-00085 FR940426-2-00057 [Docket No. 50&hyph;458] Entergy Operations, Inc.; Consideration of Issuance of Amendment to Facility Operating License, Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for a Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;47 issued to Entergy Operations, Inc. (the licensee) for operation of the River Bend Station, Unit 1, located in West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana. The proposed amendment would revise various instrumentation technical specifications by extending the allowable outage times (AOTs) of the instruments, and by increasing their channel functional surveillance test intervals (STIs) to quarterly. The amendment also revises certain technical specification actions to address loss-of-function concerns associated with the AOT and STI changes. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. The Commission has made a proposed determination that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Under the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR 50.92, this means that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated; or (2) create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated; or (3) involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Reactor Protection System (RPS) 1. The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. These proposed changes do not involve a change to the plant design or operation, they simply involve the frequency at which testing of the RPS instrumentation is performed and the allowable outage time (AOT) for instruments. Failure of the RPS instrumentation itself cannot create an accident. As a result, these proposed changes cannot increase the probability of occurrence of any design basis accident previously evaluated. As identified in NEDC&hyph;30851P, these proposed changes increase the average RPS failure frequency from 4.6×10 ^6 /year to 5.4×10 ^6 /year. This increase (8×10 ^7 /year) is considered to be insignificant. As identified in the NRC Staff's Safety Evaluation Report of NEDC&hyph;30851P, this increase in average RPS failure frequency would contribute to a very small increase in core-melt frequency. The small increase in average RPS failure frequency is offset by safety benefits such as a reduction in the number of inadvertent test-induced scrams, a reduction in wear due to excessive equipment test cycling, and better optimization of plant personnel resources. Hence, the net change in risk resulting from these proposed changes would be insignificant. Therefore, these proposed changes do not result in a significant increase in either the probability or the consequences of any accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not result in any change to the plant design or operation, only to the AOT and frequency at which testing of the RPS instrumentation is performed. Since failure of the RPS instrumentation itself cannot create an accident, these proposed changes can at most affect only accidents which have been previously evaluated. Therefore, these proposed changes cannot create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated.
