FR940720-0-00048 FR940720-0-00003 The FAA has revised paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(1)(ii) of the final rule, which apply to situations where any shear pin is missing or has migrated, and any shear pin retainer or shear pin retainer attaching part is missing. In such cases, an FAA-approved repair is required to be installed; the FAA has determined that these approved repairs will be such that no further inspections for installation of parts will be necessary once the approved repair is installed. The FAA has revised these paragraphs of the final rule to reflect this determination. Additionally, the FAA has added new paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(1)(iii), which specify that, in situations where the shear pin retainers or shear pin retainer attaching parts are missing or loose, and the shear pin has not migrated, operators may accomplish a repair in accordance with procedures specified as ``Condition II'' in McDonnell Douglas Alert Service Bulletin A54&hyph;31, Revision 1, dated June 3, 1993. Subsequent to this repair, no further inspections for installation of parts are required. These paragraphs have been added in order to provide operators with an additional repair procedure that may be used in lieu of obtaining prior FAA-approval of repairs (which was the only option provided for in the proposal). These same commenters contend that the 15-day compliance time for the initial inspection required by proposed paragraph (b) is not warranted for certain airplanes. The commenters point out that a tightness check was accomplished on airplanes in Groups V and VI (as specified in the referenced McDonnell Douglas service bulletin) prior to delivery; therefore, an initial inspection for installation of the subject parts should not be required for these airplanes. The commenters request that, for these airplanes, only a ``re-verification'' for tightness be required within 18 months. Additionally, the commenters point out that an initial visual inspection for installation of parts was accomplished on airplanes in Group III and IV prior to delivery; therefore, the compliance time for initial inspection for installation of parts required by this proposed rule should be extended. The commenters suggest extending the initial compliance time to 60 days, since this is the compliance time recommended by the manufacturer in the referenced service bulletin. The FAA concurs in part with the commenter's requests. The FAA acknowledges that it is appropriate to revise paragraph (b) of the final rule to differentiate between the requirements of the various groups of airplanes specified in the referenced service bulletin: As for airplanes in Groups III and IV, the FAA does not concur with the commenter's request to extend the initial compliance time for the inspection for installation of parts on these airplanes. While these airplanes may have been inspected prior to delivery, and while the manufacturer's revised service bulletin recommends a repetitive inspection interval of 60 days, the FAA points out that the inspection procedures described in that service bulletin have not been mandated previously. Since the revised service bulletin was released over a year ago, there is no way to guarantee that affected airplanes have been repetitively inspected prior to the issuance of this final rule. In light of this, the FAA considers a compliance time of 15 days necessary in order to ensure that the accomplishment of what may be the first repetitive inspection for some airplanes is carried out in a timely manner. However, the FAA has revised the compliance terms of paragraph (b)(1) to provide a ``grace period'' for operators of airplanes that may have been visually (re-)inspected recently. The final rule now reflects a compliance time for the initial visual inspection as ``within 15 days after the effective date of the AD, or prior to the accumulation of 60 days since the last visual inspection, whichever occurs later.'' As for airplanes in Groups V and VI, the FAA concurs that these airplanes need not be subject to the initial inspection for installation of parts as required by paragraph (b), as long as repetitive verifications for tightness are conducted. Therefore, the FAA has revised paragraph (b) by adding a new paragraph (b)(2), which addresses these airplanes and allows them the option of either repetitively inspecting for installation of parts (as originally proposed), or conducting a verification for tightness within 18 months after the last verification was performed. If operators of these airplanes elect to perform the verification for tightness, it must be repeated every 18 months until the terminating modification is accomplished in accordance with paragraph (d) of the rule. These same commenters request that proposed paragraph (c) be revised to indicate that accomplishment of the verification for tightness of the shear pin retainer attaching parts terminates the requirement for the repetitive visual inspections for installation of these same parts required by paragraph (a) and (b). The FAA concurs and has revised paragraph (c) of the final rule accordingly. These commenters also request that proposed paragraph (d) be revised to extend the compliance time for accomplishment of the terminating modification from the proposed 3 years to 5 years. The commenters consider this modification to be only an ``improvement change,'' and operators should be allowed to install it during a convenient and regularly scheduled maintenance period in order to avoid special scheduling of airplanes and additional associated costs. The FAA does not concur. In developing the compliance time for the terminating action, the FAA considered not only the safety implications, but the manufacturer's recommendations, the availability of required modification parts, and the practical aspects of an orderly modification of the fleet. In consideration of all of these items, the FAA determined that 3 years is an appropriate interval that will coincide with regularly scheduled maintenance periods (``C'' checks) for the majority of the affected operators. However, under the provisions of paragraph (f) of the final rule, the FAA may approve requests for adjustments to the compliance time if data are submitted to substantiate that such an adjustment would provide an acceptable level of safety.
