FR940613-0-00076 FR940613-0-00015 Operation of Certain Specialized Hauling Vehicles on Interstate Route 68 Section 1023(d) of the ISTEA added 23 U.S.C. 127(e) to read as follows: (e) Operation of Certain Specialized Hauling Vehicles on Interstate Route 68._The single-axle, tandem-axle, and bridge formula limits set forth in subsection (a) (23 U.S.C. 127(a)) shall not apply to the operation on Interstate Route 68 in Garrett and Allegany Counties, Maryland, of any specialized vehicle equipped with a steering axle and a tridem axle and used for hauling coal, logs, and pulpwood if such vehicle is of a type of vehicle as was operating in such counties on United States Route 40 or 48 for such purpose on August 1, 1991. This exempts the described vehicles with selected cargo from the axle and Bridge Formula weight limits that Maryland must enforce on Interstate Route 68 in Allegany and Garrett Counties. However, the normal gross weight limit (80,000 pounds) remains in effect. This change is adopted by this final rule in ยง658.17(j). Reassignment of Size and Weight Responsibilities Within the FHWA On October 1, 1991, responsibility for the vehicle Size and Weight and NN Programs in the FHWA's regional and divisional offices was transferred to the Office of Motor Carriers. Revisions to 23 CFR 657.11 and 657.17 were proposed in the SNPRM to reflect this change. No comments were received on this issue. This final rule includes the changes as proposed. Size and weight responsibilities in the Washington, DC., Headquarters office remain assigned to the Office of Motor Carriers. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices This final rule implements sections 1023 and 4006 of the ISTEA, which restrict the operation of LCV's on the Interstate Highway System and CMV combinations with two or more cargo-carrying units on the NN to the type of vehicles in use on or before June 1, 1991, subject to whatever State rules, regulations, or restrictions were in effect on that date. As noted in the following paragraphs, the FHWA has determined that this rulemaking is: (1) Not a significant regulatory action within the meaning of Executive Order 12866; (2) not a significant action within the meaning of Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures; (3) will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities; (4) does not require the preparation of a federalism assessment; and (5) does not require the preparation of an environmental impact statement. All of these findings were made and included in the NPRM and again in the SNPRM, in each case after the FHWA had carefully reviewed the applicable Federal statutes and Executive Orders. The WTA submitted comments to the docket in response to both the NPRM and the SNPRM challenging what it saw as the FHWA's casual dismissal of determinations required by various statutes and Executive Orders. In comments on the NPRM, the WTA argued that a long-term effect of any freeze would be to prohibit the natural evolution of technology in the trucking industry. Such a situation, in turn, would be likely to cause major and significant impacts on competing transportation modes, related businesses, and the general public. Accordingly, the WTA insisted that the FHWA conduct (1) a full regulatory evaluation, (2) a full economic assessment, (3) a federalism assessment, and (4) an environmental impact study. Effects on Small Entities and Other Economic Issues After undertaking the analysis required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612), the FHWA reiterated in the SNPRM its conclusion that this rulemaking would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This conclusion remains unchanged in this final rule. The WTA, responding to an earlier document, stated that ``there is no question that the form and substance of this NPRM are clearly harmful to small entities. Most businesses affected in Wyoming are small entities. The few large entities doing business in Wyoming are similarly adversely affected.''
