FR940616-2-00113 FR940616-2-00088 In addition, the Government of Azerbaijan and/or its instrumentalities will have no control in the actual selection of participants. DATES: Deadline for proposals: One original and 9 copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on Monday, August 1, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on August 1, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that its proposals are received by the above deadline. Grants awarded to organizations through this competition should begin no earlier than October 1, 1994 and may extend through September 30, 1996, but must be completed by December 31, 1996. Proposals for exchanges ending after December 31, 1996 will be considered technically ineligible. DURATION: Proposals for both categories must provide for at least three-month programs for participants, but should not exceed one year. ANNOUNCEMENT NUMBER: E/AEE&hyph;95&hyph;02. Applications submitted under this RFP must indicate the appropriate program name, category, and the above-referenced number. This announcement number must also appear in any correspondence concerning this application. ADDRESSES: The original and 9 copies of the completed application, including required forms, should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, Reference: Regional Scholar Exchange Program, E/AEE&hyph;95&hyph;02, Grants Management Division, E/XE, room 336, 301 4th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Ted Kniker at the U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street, SW., Academic Exchanges Division, European Branch, E/AEE, room 246, Washington, DC 20547; telephone (202) 619&hyph;5341, to request detailed application packages, which include award criteria additional to this announcement, all necessary forms, and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific budget preparation information. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Overall authority for these exchanges is contained in the Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, Public Law 87&hyph;256 (Fulbright-Hays Act). The purpose of the Act is ``to enable the Government of the United States to increase mutual understanding between the people of the United States and people of other countries by means of educational and cultural exchange; to strengthen the ties which unite us with other nations by demonstrating the educational and cultural interests, developments, and achievements of the people of the United States and other nations *␣*␣* and thus to assist in the development of friendly, sympathetic, and peaceful relations between the United States and other countries of the world.'' Programs shall also ``maintain their scholarly integrity and shall meet the highest standards of academic excellence or artistic achievement.'' Pursuant to the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs' authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. Diversity should be interpreted in the broadest sense and encompass differences including but not limited to ethnicity, gender, religion, geographic location, socio-economic status, and physical challenges. Applicants are strongly encouraged to adhere to the advancement of this principle throughout the proposed program and within their own operations. Overview The Regional Scholar Exchange Program is intended to promote scholarly research by funding U.S. academic exchanges of pre- and postdoctoral students and scholars (including graduate students, junior faculty, and senior scholars) with Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. Participants must be citizens of the United States, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, or Uzbekistan (Category A) or citizens of the United States, Estonia, Latvia, or Lithuania (Category B). Within the spirit of the Mutual Education and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, the purposes of the Regional Scholar Exchange Program are (1) to provide access by U.S. scholars to research sources in the countries listed above, (2) to provide access by scholars from these countries to research sources in the United States, and (3) to encourage scholarly cooperation in the humanities and social sciences. Guidelines Language Qualifications For both categories, foreign participants must have sufficient fluency in English and U.S. participants must have sufficient fluency in the language of the host country to be able to conduct research. Escort-interpreters will not be provided, nor funded by USIA.
