FR941122-2-00065 FR941122-2-00054 Public Health Service Administration of National Awards Programs AGENCY: The President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, PHS, DHHS. ACTION: Notice of Opportunity to Administer Awards Program. SUMMARY: The President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports (``PCPFS'') seeks an organization capable of administering a series of financially self-sustaining PCPFS awards, recognitions and activities. DATES: To receive consideration, all proposals must be received by the close of business December 30, 1994, by Christine Spain, Director of Research, Planning and Special Projects, PCPFS at the address set out below. Proposals will meet the deadline if they are either (1) received on or before the deadline date; or (2) postmarked on or before the deadline date. Private metered postmarks will not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Hand delivered requests must be received by 5:00 pm, December 30, 1994. Proposals that are received after the deadline date will be returned to the sender. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Christine Spain, Director of Research, Planning and Special Projects, President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, Suite 250, 701 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20004, (202) 272&hyph;3425. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The PCPFS seeks an organization capable of administering a series of financially self sustaining PCPFS awards which presently include the ``President's Challenge'', the ``State Champion Award'' and the ``National Physical Fitness Demonstration Center Award.'' 1. The President's Challenge Physical Fitness Awards Program This program recognizes students physical fitness achievement, ages 6&hyph;17, on five fitness test items. (a) Students scoring at the 85th percentile or above (based on national norms) on all test items are eligible for the Presidential Physical Fitness Award and receive a Presidential certificate and emblem. (b) The National Physical Fitness Award is available for boys and girls who score at the 50th percentile or above on the five test items and consists of an emblem and/or a certificate of recognition. (c) The Participant Physical Fitness Award (PPFA) recognizes boys and girls who attempt all five test items on the ``President's Challenge'' fitness test but whose scores fall below the 50th percentile on one or more of them. Students earn an embroidered Participant emblem and/or a certificate of recognition for their accomplishments. 2. The State Champion Award This award is granted to three schools in each state which qualify the highest percentage of eligible students for the Presidential Physical Fitness Award. Schools receive a certificate of recognition, and each student in the school who received the Presidential Physical Fitness Award receives a State Champion emblem.
