FR941130-0-00095 FR941130-0-00015 The Secretary amends parts 674, 675, and 676 of title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 674_FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM 1. The authority citation for part 674 continues to read as follows: Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087aa&hyph;1087ii and 20 U.S.C. 421&hyph;429, unless otherwise noted. 2. Section 674.2(b) is amended by removing the definitions of Default rate , Defaulted principal amount outstanding , and Matured loans ; by revising the definition of Undergraduate student ; and by adding, in alphabetical order, the definitions of Enter repayment , Making of a loan , National credit bureau , Satisfactory arrangements to repay the loan , Total monthly gross income and Undergraduate student to read as follows: §674.2 Definitions. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* Enter repayment: The day following the expiration of the initial grace period or the day the borrower waives the initial grace period. This date does not change if a forbearance, deferment, or cancellation is granted after the borrower enters repayment. * * * * * Making of a loan: When the borrower signs for an advance of loan funds and those funds are disbursed. * * * * * National credit bureau: Any one of the national credit bureaus with which the Secretary has an agreement. * * * * * Satisfactory arrangements to repay the loan: The establishment of a new written repayment agreement and the making of one payment each month for six consecutive months. * * * * * Total monthly gross income: The gross amount of income received by the borrower from employment (either full-time or part-time) and from other sources. Undergraduate student: A student enrolled at an institution of higher education who is in an undergraduate course of study which usually does not exceed four academic years, or is enrolled in a four to five academic year program designed to lead to a first degree. A student enrolled in a program of any other length is considered an undergraduate student for only the first four academic years of that program. * * * * * 3. Section 674.4 is amended by revising paragraph (b) and by adding new paragraphs (e) and (f) to read as follows: §674.4 Allocation and reallocation. * * * * * (b) The Secretary reallocates Federal capital contributions to institutions participating in the Federal Perkins Loan program by_ (1) Reallocating 80 percent of the total funds available in accordance with section 462(j) of the HEA; and (2) Reallocating 20 percent of the total funds available in a manner that best carries out the purposes of the Federal Perkins Loan program. * * * * * (e) Unexpended funds. (1) If an institution returns more than 10 percent of its allocation for an award year, the Secretary will reduce the institution's allocation for the second succeeding award year by the dollar amount returned. (2) The Secretary may waive the provision of paragraph (e)(1) of this section for a specific institution if the Secretary finds that enforcement would be contrary to the interests of the program. (3) The Secretary considers enforcement of paragraph (e)(1) of this section to be contrary to the interest of the program only if the institution returned more than 10 percent of its allocation due to circumstances beyond the institution's control that are not expected to recur. (f) Anticipated collections. (1) For the purposes of calculating an institution's share of any excess allocation, an institution's anticipated collections are equal to the amount that was collected during the second year preceding the beginning of the award period multiplied by 1.21. (2) The Secretary may waive the provision of paragraph (f)(1) of this section for any institution that has a cohort default rate that does not exceed 7.5 percent. 4. A new §674.5 is added to read as follows: §674.5 Federal Perkins Loan program cohort default rate and penalties. (a) Default penalty. If an institution's cohort default rate meets the following levels, a default penalty is imposed on the institution as follows: (1) If the institution's cohort default rate equals or exceeds 15 percent, the institution must establish a default reduction plan in accordance with §674.6. (2) If the institution's cohort default rate equals or exceeds 20 percent, but is less than 25 percent, the institution's FCC is reduced by 10 percent. (3) If the institution's cohort default rate equals or exceeds 25 percent, but is less than 30 percent, the institution's FCC is reduced by 30 percent. (4) If the institution's cohort default rate equals or exceeds 30 percent, the institution's FCC is reduced to zero. (b) Cohort default rate. (1) The term ``cohort default rate'' means, for any award year in which 30 or more current and former students at the institution enter repayment on a loan received for attendance at the institution, the percentage of those current and former students who enter repayment in that award year on the loans received for attendance at that institution who default before the end of the following award year. (2) In determining the number of students who default before the end of the following award year, the Secretary excludes any loans that, due to improper servicing or collection, would result in an inaccurate or incomplete calculation of the cohort default rate. (3) For any award year in which less than 30 current and former students at the institution enter repayment on a loan received for attendance at the institution, the ``cohort default rate'' means the percentage of those current and former students who entered repayment on loans received for attendance at that institution in any of the three most recent award years and who defaulted on those loans before the end of the award year immediately following the year in which they entered repayment. (c) Defaulted loans to be included in the cohort default rate. For purposes of calculating the cohort default rate under paragraph (b) of this section_ (1) A borrower must be included only if the borrower's default has persisted for at least_ (i) 240 consecutive days for loans repayable in monthly installments; or (ii) 270 consecutive days for loans repayable in quarterly installments;
