FR940304-1-00083 FR940304-1-00014 The Department conducted literature searches on purchasing and usage decisions in low-income households, to determine whether the inputs of the consumer analysis should be adjusted to account for differences between low- and average-income households. There was no information available on which to base any changes to the consumer analysis. Lighting Prices Another consumer issue was raised by Valmont Electric, which stated that new energy conservation standards on fluorescent ballasts would raise the retail prices of such ballasts, thereby impeding the conversion from incandescent lighting to fluorescent lighting. (Valmont Electric, No. 16 at 2). Conversions from incandescent lighting to fluorescent lighting occurs principally through compact fluorescent bulbs, the ballasts of which are not included as part of the review of the legislated fluorescent ballast conservation standards. Any revised energy conservation standards on fluorescent ballasts will not affect the prices of compact fluorescent bulbs and thereby slow the conversion from incandescent to fluorescent lighting. Heat Pump Water Heaters On the issue of consumer acceptance of heat pump water heaters, Crispaire Corporation stated that studies show consumer satisfaction with them. (Crispaire Corporation, No. 19 at 1). In addition, the company provided attachments with estimates of unit energy consumption and annual performance factors for heat pump and resistance water heaters. The Department appreciates the information provided and used the cited studies in developing data for the consumer analysis and forecasting efforts. Appliance Lifetimes Two comments discussed product lifetimes. Wisconsin Blue Flame Council stated that pilot lights decrease condensate, thereby extending the tank life of gas water heaters. (Wisconsin Blue Flame Council, No. 33 at 2). The Department based product lifetimes on an analysis comparing recent replacement sales to historical shipments, and researched the effects of particular design options on product life. Air Energy Heat Systems said that the lifetime of heat pumps for pool heaters is approximately the same as for air conditioning, if the water chemistry of the pool is maintained in proper balance. (Air Energy Heat Systems, No. 44 at 1). The Department did not analyze heat pump pool heaters because no test procedure is available. Modeling There were several issues raised with regard to the forecasting efforts in the analyses. For example, Natural Resources Defense Council suggested that the Department model uncertainty, not point forecasts in economic growth and consumer choice and further suggested that the Department could model uncertainties in economic growth by modeling high-, mid-, and low-growth scenarios. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 35&hyph;36). The Department recognizes that all forecasts contain uncertainties. The principal method by which DOE has accounted for uncertainties has been through sensitivity analyses, which, in the past, have been performed on equipment prices, energy prices, projected equipment efficiencies and market discount rates (the last of which models uncertainties in consumer choices of efficiency). The Department favors an explicit representation of the uncertainty in the forecasts. Clearly, the best representation would be a statistical treatment of the uncertainty in each of the important variables, including the coefficients used in the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model. At this time, however, such a specification of the distribution of each of the variables and coefficients does not exist. As the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory Residential Energy Model is updated, such distributions will be generated, which will allow the Department to work towards the capability to perform an uncertainty analysis in the model. Until then, the Department will model uncertainties with sensitivities.
