FR940126-2-00030 FR940126-2-00020 FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY The National Board Fiscal Year 1994 Plan for Carrying Out the Emergency Food and Shelter Program (EFSP) AGENCY: Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice sets out the plan by which the Emergency Food and Shelter Program National Board (National Board) will conduct a program during fiscal year (FY) 1994 to distribute $130,000,000 to private voluntary organizations and local governments for delivering emergency food and shelter to needy individuals. The distribution formula for selecting organizations and localities, and the award amount for each, follow the Plan text. DATES: The award to the National Board was made November 17, 1993. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Fran McCarthy, Emergency Food and Shelter Program, Federal Emergency Management Agency, (202) 646&hyph;3652, or Dennis H. Kwiatkowski, Chair, EFSP National Board, (202) 646&hyph;3487. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title III of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq., authorizes use of funds appropriated by the Congress to supplement and expand ongoing efforts to provide shelter, food, and supportive services to homeless, needy individuals. As in past phases, grant awards from this program are provided to address emergency needs. This program is not intended to address or correct structural poverty or long-standing problems. Rather, this appropriation is intended for the purchase of food and shelter to supplement and expand current available resources and not to substitute or reimburse ongoing programs and services. The National Board has once again adopted the following operating principles: •Speedy administration and funding. •Awards to areas of greatest need. •Local decision-making. •Public/private sector cooperation. •Minimum, but accountable reporting. The National Board expects Local Boards, Local Recipient Organizations (LROs), and State Set-Aside (SSA) Committees to abide by the stated rules of this Plan and to focus on the following concerns and principles mandated by the National Board: •Serve individuals in need without discrimination and avoid duplication of benefits by supplementing food and shelter services which individuals might currently be receiving, as well as by aiding those who are receiving no assistance. •Refuse to authorize the spending of funds on costs that differ from those allowed by the National Board, unless a written request is made in advance and approved by the National Board. •Restrict shelter repairs to the minimum work required to bring the facility into compliance with local building codes and for emergency repairs only to keep the facility open during the program year ($5,000 limit). Avoid decorative or non-essential repairs and purchases as this is outside the intent of this program. The benefit of rehabilitation to provide service should be carefully weighed against the response to needs that exist at the time. Emphasis should be placed on currently existing needs. The National Board is mandated, as are Local Boards, LROs, SSA Committees, and FEMA, to carry out the intent of the law. We must all ensure that as decisions are made, we not only question if a specific expenditure falls within the guidelines for eligible costs, but also if making the expenditure would fulfill the intent of the program and the law. EFSP funding should be used to target special emergency needs. And when we discuss emergency needs we are referring to economic, not disaster-related, emergencies. The funding should supplement feeding and sheltering efforts in ways that make a difference. What this means is: •EFSP is not intended to make up for budget shortfalls or to be considered just a line in an annual budget;
