FR941117-0-00080 FR941117-0-00011 (b) Conferences are scheduled by the FCC at a time and place it may designate, to be conducted in person or by telephone conference call. (c) The failure of any party or attorney, following reasonable notice, to appear at a scheduled conference will be deemed a failure to prosecute, subjecting that party's application or petition to dismissal by the FCC pursuant to ยง22.128(c) or ยง22.130(c). ยง22.137 Assignment of authorization; transfer of control. Authorizations in the Public Mobile Services may be assigned by the licensee to another party, voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, or by transfer of control of a licensee holding such authorizations, only upon approval by the FCC. The assignee is responsible for ascertaining that the station facilities are and will remain in compliance with the terms and conditions of the authorization to be assigned. (a) Application required. The assignor or transferor must file an application for approval of assignment or transfer of control (FCC Form 490). In the case of involuntary assignment, such application must be filed no later than 30 days after the event causing the assignment. The assignee or transferee must file a report qualifying it as a common carrier (FCC Form 430) unless a current report is already on file with the FCC. (b) Notification of completion. Assignments and transfers of control must be completed within 60 days of FCC approval. The assignee or transferee must notify the FCC by letter of the date of completion of the assignment or transfer of control. If an assignment or transfer of control is not completed within this time, the assignor or transferor must so notify the FCC by letter, and the assignee or transferee must submit the authorization(s) to the FCC for cancellation or request an extension of time to complete the assignment or transfer of control. If the assignment or transfer of control is not completed, the authorization(s) remain with the assignor or transferor. (c) Partial assignment of authorization. If the authorization for some, but not all, of the facilities of a Public Mobile Services station is assigned to another party, voluntarily or involuntarily, such action is a partial assignment of authorization. (1) To request FCC approval of a partial assignment of authorization, the following must be filed in addition to the forms required by paragraph (a) of this section: (i) The assignor must notify the FCC (FCC Form 489) of the facilities to be deleted from its authorization upon completion of the assignment. (ii) The assignee must apply for authority (FCC Form 401) to operate a new station including the facilities for which authorization is assigned, or to modify the assignee's existing station to include the facilities for which authorization was assigned. (2) Partial assignments must be completed within 60 days of FCC approval. If an approved partial assignment is not completed within this time, the assignor must notify the FCC (FCC Form 489), and the assignee must submit the authorization(s) to the FCC for cancellation or request an extension of time to complete the assignment. If the assignment is not completed, the authorization(s) remain with the assignor. (d) Limitations. The FCC may deny applications for assignment of authorization or consent to transfer of control if: (1) The FCC is unable to make the findings contained in ยง22.132(a) with respect to both parties to the assignment or transfer; (2) The authorization was obtained for the principal purpose of speculation or profitable resale, rather than provision of common carrier telecommunication services to the public; or, (3) The authorization is for a commercial aviation system in the Air-ground Radiotelephone Service or an unserved area cellular system in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service and the system has not been constructed or operated, or has been operated for less than one year. (i) Licensees must not enter into agreements (e.g. option agreements or management contracts) to assign authorizations before or during the first year of operation, even if the assignment is to take place after the first year of operation.
