FR940325-0-00068 FR940325-0-00016 Friday March 25, 1994 Part II Department of the Interior Office of the Secretary 43 CFR Part 11 Natural Resource Damage Assessments; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 58␣/␣Friday, March 25, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Office of the Secretary 43 CFR Part 11 RIN 1090&hyph;AA22 Natural Resource Damage Assessments AGENCY: Department of the Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule amends the regulations for assessing natural resource damages resulting from a discharge of oil into navigable waters under the Clean Water Act or a release of a hazardous substance under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. The Department of the Interior has previously developed two types of natural resource damage assessment regulations: standard procedures for simplified assessments requiring minimal field observation (the type A rule); and site-specific procedures for detailed assessments in individual cases (the type B rule). This final rule revises the type B rule to comply with all but one aspect of a court order. This rule establishes a procedure for calculating natural resource damages based on the costs of restoring, rehabilitating, replacing, and/or acquiring the equivalent of injured resources. This rule also allows for the assessment of all use values of injured resources that are lost to the public pending completion of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. The Department will soon issue a new proposed rule to address assessment of lost nonuse values of injured resources. EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the final rule is April 25, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary C. Morton, Cecil Hoffmann, or David Rosenberger at (202) 208&hyph;3301. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This preamble is organized as follows: I. Background A. Statutory Provisions B. Regulatory History C. Judicial Review D. Implementation of the Court Order E. Other Rulemakings II. Overview of this Final Rule A. Measure of Damages B. Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan C. Resources Covered by the Natural Resource Damage Assessment Regulations D. Other Significant Issues III. Response to Comments A. General Comments Concerning this Rulemaking B. Overall Damage Assessment Process
