FR940822-2-00113 FR940822-2-00061 • Expressions of Interest By Judges and/or Court Personnel. Does the proposed program have the support of the court system leadership, and of judges, court managers, and judicial education personnel who are expected to attend? (This may be demonstrated by attaching letters of support.) • Budget and matching State contribution. A copy of budget Form E (see Appendix IV) and a budget narrative (see Section VII.B) that describes the basis for the proposed costs and the source of the match offered. •Local courts should attach a concurrence signed by the Chief Justice of the State or his or her designee. (See Form B, Appendix V.) Letters of application may be submitted at any time. However, applicants should allow at least 90 days between the date of submission and the date of the proposed program to allow sufficient time for needed planning. The Board of Directors has delegated its authority to approve Curriculum Adaptation grants to its Judicial Education Committee. The committee anticipates acting upon applications within 45 days after receipt. Formal grant awards will be made only after committee approval and negotiation of the final terms of the grant. (4) Grantee Responsibilities. A recipient of a Curriculum Adaptation grant must: (a) Comply with the same quarterly reporting requirements as other Institute grantees (see Section X.L., infra); (b) Include in each grant product a prominent acknowledgement that support was received from the Institute, along with the ``SJI'' logo, and a disclaimer paragraph based on the example provided in section X.Q. of the Guideline; and (c) Submit two copies of the manuals, handbooks, or conference packets developed under the grant at the conclusion of the grant period, along with a final report that explains how it intends to replicate the program in the future. Applicants seeking other types of funding for developing and testing educational programs must comply with the requirements for concept papers and applications set forth in Sections VI and VII or the requirements for renewal applications set forth in Section IX. ii. National and Regional Education Programs. This category includes support for national or regional training programs developed by any provider, e.g., national organizations, State courts, universities, or public interest groups. Within this category, priority will be given to training projects which address issues of major concern to the State judiciary and other court personnel. Ordinarily, national and regional education projects are expected to develop curricula (as defined in Section III.K.) that may be adapted by State and local courts. Programs to be supported may include:
