FR940930-2-00051 FR940930-2-00030 (i) The Commission may, on a service-specific basis, permit consortia, each member of which individually meets the eligibility requirements, to qualify for any designated entity provisions. (j) The Commission may, on a service-specific basis, permit publicly-traded companies that are owned by members of minority groups or women to qualify for any designated entity provisions. Section 1.2111 Assignment or Transfer of Control: Unjust Enrichment (a) Reporting requirement. An applicant seeking approval for a transfer of control or assignment (otherwise permitted under the Commission's Rules) of a license within three years of receiving a new license through a competitive bidding procedure must, together with its application for transfer of control or assignment, file with the Commission a statement indicating that its license was obtained through competitive bidding. Such applicant must also file with the Commission the associated contracts for sale, option agreements, management agreements, or other documents disclosing the total consideration that the applicant would receive in return for the transfer or assignment of its license. This information should include not only a monetary purchase price, but also any future, contingent, in-kind, or other consideration ( e.g., management or consulting contracts either with or without an option to purchase; below market financing). (b) Unjust enrichment payment: set-asides. As specified in this subsection, an applicant seeking approval for a transfer of control or assignment (otherwise permitted under the Commission's Rules) of a license acquired by the transferor or assignor pursuant to a set-aside for eligible designated entities under §1.2110(c) of the Commission's Rules, or who proposes to take any other action relating to ownership or control that will result in loss of status as an eligible designated entity, must seek Commission approval and may be required to make an unjust enrichment payment (Payment) to the Commission by cashier's check or wire transfer before consent will be granted. The Payment will be based upon a schedule that will take account of the term of the license, any applicable construction benchmarks, and the estimated value of the set-aside benefit, which will be calculated as the difference between the amount paid by the designated entity for the license and the value of a comparable non-set-aside license in the free market at the time of the auction. The Commission will establish the amount of the Payment and the burden will be on the applicants to disprove this amount. No Payment will be required if: (1) The license is transferred or assigned more than five years after its initial issuance, unless otherwise specified; or (2) The proposed transferee or assignee is an eligible designated entity under §1.2110(c) of the Commission's Rules or the service-specific competitive bidding rules of the particular service, and so certifies. (c) Unjust enrichment payment: installment financing. An applicant seeking approval for a transfer of control or assignment (otherwise permitted under the Commission's rules) of a license acquired by the transferor or assignor through a competitive bidding procedure utilizing installment financing available to designated entities under §1.2110(d) of the Rules will be required to pay the full amount of the remaining principal balance as a condition of the license transfer. No payment will be required if the proposed transferee or assignee assumes the installment payment obligations of the transferor or assignor, and if the proposed transferee or assignee is itself qualified to obtain installment financing under §1.2110(d) of the Rules or the service-specific competitive bidding rules of the particular service, and so certifies. (d) Unjust enrichment payment: bidding credits. An applicant seeking approval for a transfer of control or assignment (otherwise permitted under the Commission's Rules) of a license acquired by the transferor or assignor through a competitive bidding procedure utilizing bidding credits available to eligible designated entities under §1.2110(e) of the Rules, or who proposes to take any other action relating to ownership or control that will result in loss of status as an eligible designated entity, must seek Commission approval and will be required to make an unjust enrichment payment (Payment) to the government by wire transfer or cashier's check before consent will be granted. The Payment will be the sum of the amount of the bidding credit plus interest at the rate applicable for installment financing in effect at the time the license was awarded. See §1.2110(e). No payment will be required if the proposed transferee or assignee is an eligible designated entity under §1.2110(e) of the Commission's Rules or the service-specific competitive bidding rules of the particular service, and so certifies. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24303 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
