FR940203-0-00087 FR940203-0-00020 Change to MCSAP Rule, Part 350 This change will allow for distribution of 50 percent of the basic formula allocation to those States which have incompatible intrastate regulations after September 30, 1994. The FHWA has determined that a 50 percent reduction in an incompatible State's basic formula is significant enough to serve as an incentive to the State to enact compatible laws. It is believed that a lesser reduction would not send as strong a message to those States which still have incompatible regulations. Without this change in Part 350, the States with incompatible regulations would not be eligible to receive any Federal MCSAP funding for FY 1995. The formula funds which are withheld from those States which do not have compatible intrastate regulations will be made available to States with comprehensive programs to conduct certain high priority projects that are innovative, successful, cost-efficient and cost-effective. See §4002(k) of the ISTEA. States with incompatible intrastate regulations may also request these funds for activities aimed at achieving a comprehensive program. A comprehensive program is one in which a State has and enforces compatible regulations which pertain to both interstate and intrastate transportation and has a motor carrier safety program which includes roadside inspections; compliance reviews; traffic enforcement; hazardous materials training; drug and alcohol enforcement; a fully-implemented SAFETYNET program, including the National Governors Association accident data collection, and as otherwise defined by FHWA policy. The FHWA believes that States which integrate these activities into their MCSAP have the most effective, cost efficient, and successful commercial vehicle safety programs. States with comprehensive programs which are applying for these redistributed funds should request these funds for high priority projects. High priority projects are those projects identified by FHWA, in consultation with the States, as having the highest impact on commercial motor vehicle and driver safety. Generally, the FHWA would not support the use of these funds for activities that create one-time personnel hiring which could not be funded in following years. High priority projects will change from year to year to support the growth of the program. Current high priority projects include advanced brake inspection technologies, roadside data collection and communication devices, border enforcement to support the North American Free Trade Agreement, local commercial vehicle enforcement, and drug and alcohol enforcement activities. Section-by-Section Analysis Section 350.11␣Adopting and Enforcing Compatible Laws and Regulations This section is amended to correct an error which appears in §350.11(a). This correction changes the word ``applicable'' to ``inapplicable'' in paragraph 350.11(a). This subsection provides the discretion to allow funding notwithstanding the incompatibility of State laws and regulations applicable to intrastate commerce. Section 350.21␣Distribution of Funds This section is amended to clarify that full basic allocations will only be available to those States which have adopted and are enforcing compatible regulations applicable to both interstate and intrastate commerce. States with incompatible intrastate regulations will be eligible for only 50 percent of the basic formula allocation. Appendix C to Part 350, Tolerance Guidelines for Adopting Compatible State Rules and Regulations A paragraph is added to appendix C which allows limited funding for States which have incompatible intrastate regulations. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Administrative Procedure Act
