FR940706-0-00082 FR940706-0-00015 (4) The value of loaned equipment shall not exceed its fair rental value. (5) The following requirements pertain to the recipient's supporting records for in-kind contributions from third parties: (i) Volunteer services must be documented and, to the extent feasible, supported by the same methods used by the recipient for its own employees. (ii) The basis for determining the valuation for personal service, material, equipment, buildings, and land must be documented. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.24 Program income. (a) The Secretary applies the standards contained in this section in requiring recipient organizations to account for program income related to projects financed in whole or in part with Federal funds. (b) Except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section, program income earned during the project period must be retained by the recipient and, in accordance with ED regulations or the terms and conditions of the award, must be used in one or more of the following ways: (1) Added to funds committed to the project by the Secretary and recipient and used to further eligible project or program objectives. (2) Used to finance the non-Federal share of the project or program. (3) Deducted from the total project or program allowable cost in determining the net allowable costs on which the Federal share of costs is based. (c) When the Secretary authorizes the disposition of program income as described in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, program income in excess of any limits stipulated shall be used in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (d) In the event that the Secretary does not specify in program regulations or the terms and conditions of the award how program income is to be used, paragraph (b)(3) of this section applies automatically to all projects or programs except research. For awards that support research, paragraph (b)(1) of this section applies automatically unless the Secretary indicates in the terms and conditions another alternative on the award or the recipient is subject to special award conditions, as indicated in §74.14. (e) Unless ED regulations or the terms and conditions of the award provide otherwise, recipients have no obligation to the Federal Government regarding program income earned after the end of the project period. (f) If authorized by ED or the terms and conditions of the award, costs incident to the generation of program income may be deducted from gross income to determine program income, provided these costs have not been charged to the award. (g) Proceeds from the sale of property shall be handled in accordance with the requirements of the Property Standards (See §§74.30 through 74.37). (h) Unless ED regulations or the terms and condition of the award provide otherwise, recipients have no obligation to the Federal Government with respect to program income earned from license fees and royalties for copyrighted material, patents, patent applications, trademarks, and inventions produced under an award. However, Patent and Trademark Amendments (35 U.S.C. 18) apply to inventions made under an experimental, developmental, or research award. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) §74.25 Revision of budget and program plans. (a) The budget plan is the financial expression of the project or program as approved during the award process. It may include either the Federal and non-Federal share, or only the Federal share, depending upon ED requirements. It shall be related to performance for program evaluation purposes whenever appropriate. (b) Recipients are required to report deviations from budget and program plans, and request prior approvals for budget and program plan revisions, in accordance with this section. (c) For nonconstruction awards, recipients shall request prior approvals from ED for one or more of the following program or budget related reasons:
