FR941216-1-00157 FR941216-1-00012 Subpart Q_Hazardous Component Safety Data Statements (HCSDS) [Reserved] Subpart R_Bibliography ยง184.230 List of Publications. ANSI Z16.4, ``Uniform Record Keeping for Occupational Injuries and Illnesses'' DoD Instruction 6055.2, ``Personal Protective Equipment,'' May 3, 1978_canceled by DoD Instruction 6055.1, ``DoD Occupational Safety and Health Program,'' October 26, 1984 DoD Instruction 6055.5, ``Industrial Hygiene and Occupational Health,'' January 10, 1989 DoD&hyph;STD 2105 (NAVY), ``Hazardous Assessments Tests for Navy Non-Nuclear Ordnance,'' September 9, 1982 Joint Services Safety and Performance Manual, 1972 Military Standard (MIL&hyph;STD)&hyph;882B, ``Systems Safety Program for Systems and Associated Subsystems and Equipment,'' 30 March 1984 NAVAIR 00&hyph;130&hyph;ASR&hyph;2&hyph;1, Joint Munitions Effectiveness Manual, ``Air-to-Surface Joint Service Test Procedures for Bombs and Bomblets,'' December 1968 Subpart S_Glossary ยง184.240 Terminology. The following are descriptions of terms and phrases commonly used in conjunction with ammunition, explosives, and other dangerous materials. These are listed to provide a degree of uniformity of description in the use of technical information throughout these standards. Aboveground magazines. Any type of magazines above ground other than standard or nonstandard earth-covered types of magazines. Administration area. The area in which administrative buildings that function for the installation as a whole are located, excluding those offices located near and directly serving components of explosives storage and operating areas. Aircraft parking area. Any area set aside for parking aircraft not containing explosives. Ammunition and explosives. As used herein, includes (but is not necessarily limited to) all items of ammunition; propellants, liquid and solid; high explosives; guided missiles; warheads; devices; pyrotechnics; components thereof; and substances associated therewith presenting real or potential hazards to life and property. Ammunition and explosives aircraft cargo area. Any area specifically designated for the following: (1) Aircraft loading or unloading of transportation configured ammunition and explosives. (2) Parking aircraft loaded with transportation configured ammunition and explosives. Ammunition and explosives area. An area specifically designated and set aside from other portions of an installation for the development, manufacture, testing, maintenance, storage, or handling of ammunition and explosives. Auxiliary building. Any building accessory to or maintained and operated to serve an operating building, line, plant, or pier area. Explosive materials are not present in an auxiliary building (examples: power plants and changehouses, paint and solvent lockers, and similar facilities). Barricade. An intervening barrier, natural or artificial, of such type, size, and construction as to limit in a prescribed manner the effect of an explosion on nearby buildings or exposures. Blast impulse. The product of the overpressure from the blast wave of an explosion and the time during which it acts at a given point (that is, the area under the positive phase of the overpressure vs. time curve). Blast overpressure. The pressure, exceeding the ambient pressure, manifested in the shock wave of an explosion.
