FR941110-0-00119 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Several commenters proposed an explicit review period during which the State survey agency's central office would give providers an opportunity to question, clarify and develop the issues. Response: We are adopting this proposal with some modification to require dispute resolution by an official in the survey agency and/or HCFA regional office. See discussion under the heading, Dispute resolution. We believe that making an informal dispute resolution process available alleviates many of the concerns expressed above, and gives a provider an opportunity to present its side of the story to the survey agency and/or regional office officials prior to imposition of remedies. Comment: Several commenters wanted a right to appeal all deficiencies, even if no remedy was imposed. Response: We are not accepting this suggestion because if no remedy is imposed, the provider has suffered no injury calling for an appeal. We agree that deficiencies that constitute noncompliance and that result in a remedy imposed are appealable (except for minor remedies such as State monitoring). Comment: Several commenters approved our plan to provide a single hearing for dually participating SNF/NFs. One commenter wanted two hearings, if the same deficiency was cited by two survey agencies, unless the provider requested a single hearing. Response: We are adopting a single hearing, as proposed, in accordance with procedures in 42 CFR part 498, because we believe that it would be extremely burdensome and costly for the government to participate in two hearings. Witnesses would need to testify twice, in different locations. Attorneys would be required to prepare for two separate proceedings, and respond to two different sets of procedural rules. Further, because the two hearings would be based on the same set of facts, a second hearing is not necessary. Before OBRA '87, the practice was to provide one hearing for dually participating facilities, in accordance with procedures at 42 CFR part 498, and this proved to be satisfactory. Comment: One commenter stated that the ombudsman should participate in the hearing because sections 712(a)(3)(E), and 712(a)(5)(B)(iv) of the Older Americans Act Amendments of 1992 authorize ombudsmen to represent the interests of the residents before governmental agencies. Response: We are not adopting this suggestion because residents are not a party to the Medicare or Medicaid agreements between providers and HCFA or the State agency. Moreover, the entire process of surveys, determining compliance or noncompliance, and citing deficiencies is a process designed to protect the interests of the residents. The ombudsman can, of course, advise the survey agency of any concerns relevant to a particular facility. Comment: A few commenters suggested that States should be necessary parties in any hearing, stating that when HCFA decertifies facilities the results of the survey could be used as evidence that the State survey agency was negligent in surveying the facility. Response: This comment apparently refers to decertification of a facility after a HCFA validation survey. We are not adopting this proposal, because in any hearing the parties to the hearing are the complainant (the provider, in this case) and the party who made the decision about which the complaint is made (HCFA in the case of a validation survey). Comment: A few commenters recommended that residents be permitted to be parties in any hearings, to ensure that terminations are used only as a last resort. A few also wanted residents to be able to initiate challenges through the appeal process when either HCFA or the State failed to apply remedies when appropriate. A few wanted residents to be notified of enforcement actions at the same time a nursing home is notified.
