FR940406-0-00010 FR940406-0-00001 Another commenter correctly pointed out that the preamble of the interim rule was incorrect in stating that current regulations require that social security numbers must be verified prior to certifying any applicant household for benefits. Current rules at ยง273.2(f)(1)(v) state that the State agency shall not delay the certification for or issuance of benefits to an otherwise eligible household solely to verify the social security number (SSN) of a household member. The same commenter correctly identified an inconsistency in the interim regulation language at 7 CFR 273.2(f)(8)(i)(A) with respect to the requirement for verification where the source of a household's income has changed. The first sentence of that section correctly states that ``the State agency shall verify a change in income or actual expenses if the source has changed or the amount has changed by more than $25.'' The final sentence inadvertently omits the requirement for verification anytime the source of income changes, even if the amount has changed by $25 or less. The same inconsistency exists at 7 CFR 273.2(f)(8)(ii). This final action amends 7 CFR 273.2(f)(8)(i)(A) and (ii) to correct the inconsistencies. Another commenter criticized the interim rule's interpretation of section 311(D) of Public Law 100&hyph;435. Section 311(D) provides that a State agency may not deny any application for participation solely because of the failure of a person outside of the household to cooperate with a request for providing verification. This provision would not apply when the person refusing to cooperate would otherwise be a household member but for the operation of any of the individual disqualification provisions of subsections (b), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of section 6 of the Food Stamp Act. These subsections require disqualification for any person intentionally making a false or misleading statement or committing any act which violates the Food Stamp Act (section 6(b)); any non-exempt person who is physically and mentally fit and is between the ages of 16 and 60 who refuses to register to work (section 6(d)); any person who is a student enrolled at least half-time in an institution of higher education (section 6(e)); any person who is not a resident of the United States, and is not either a citizen or a lawful alien (section 6(f)); and any individual who receives SSI benefits in a ``cash-out'' State (section 6(g)). When amending 7 CFR 273.2(d)(1) to incorporate the mandate of section 311(D) of Public Law 100&hyph;435, the Department added two more categories to the list of persons outside the household who cause the denial of an application for participation if they fail to cooperate with a request for providing verification. These two new categories were: Individuals disqualified for failure to provide an SSN, and persons who fail to attest to their citizenship or alien status. The commenter who criticized this provision felt that the Department had exceeded its authority in excluding two new categories of non-household members from the third-party verification rule. The commenters correctly point out that the Department has broadened the third party verification rule to include two additional categories of persons who will cause the denial of an application to participate if they failed to cooperate with a request to provide verification. This was done to make this provision consistent with other provisions in the regulations where ineligible or disqualified persons are, in effect, deemed by program regulations to be a household member for purposes of determining eligibility and benefit levels. FNS believes this is appropriate as it is consistent with the desire to simplify program requirements that was expressed by Congress in adopting the Hunger Prevention Act (See, e.g., Senate Report No. 100&hyph;397, p.25). The interim rule also amended verification standards for households subject to monthly reporting and retrospective budgeting (MRRB) at 7 CFR 273.21(i) (1) and (3). Those provisions are not being finalized in this final rule, however, because they have been superseded by amendments made in the final rule on Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting Amendments and Mass Changes, published on December 4, 1991, at 56 FR 63597. Individuals with questions about verification standards for MRRB households should refer to this December 4, 1991 final rule.
