FR940407-2-00154 FR940407-2-00081 Criterion III: Work Program (Maximum: 20 Points) The work plan and business plan(s), where appropriate, must be both sound and feasible. If the applicant is proposing to use project funds to provide technical and/or financial assistance to a third-party private employer to develop or expand a pre-identified business, the application must include a complete business plan. An application that does not include a business plan where one is appropriate may be disqualified and returned to the applicant. The project must be responsive to the needs identified in the Analysis of Need. (i) Work Plan The work plan must include a hypothesis or hypotheses that is significant and includes the key interventions and permits measurement of the extent to which the target population can achieve greater self-sufficiency as a result of its involvement in the project. The key interventions should include the types of technical and financial assistance to be provided the recipients, the level of effort, as well as other activities. If the technical and/or financial assistance is to be provided to pre-identified businesses that will be expanded or franchised, written commitments from the businesses must be included with the application. The work program must set forth realistic quarterly time targets by which the various work tasks will be completed. Critical issues or potential problems that might impact negatively on the project are defined and the project objectives can be reasonably attained despite such potential problems. The application provides a description of the process evaluation which will culminate in the development of a policies and procedures manual. (ii) Business Plan The business plan, where appropriate, is one of the major components that will be evaluated by OCS to determine the feasibility of a jobs creation project. Because the guidelines were written to cover a variety of possibilities, rigid adherence to them is not possible nor even desirable for all projects. For example, a plan for a service business would not require a discussion of manufacturing nor product design. The business plan should include the following: _The Business and its Industry. This section should describe the nature and history of the business if the proposal is an expansion of an existing business, including the following: 1. Products and services; 2. Market research and evaluation (show that the product or service has a substantial market and can achieve sales in the face of competition); 3. Marketing plan (including the estimated market share and sales) 4. Manufacturing and operations plan (describe the kind of facilities, plant location, space, capital equipment and labor force [part and/or full-time wage structure] that are required to provide the company's product or service). 5. Critical risk and assumptions (include a description of the risks and critical assumptions relating to the industry, the venture, its personnel, the product's market appeal, and the timing and financing of the venture). 6. Community benefits (identify low-income individuals to be employed); and 7. A financial plan (In developing the financial plan, the following exhibits must be prepared for the first three years of the business' operation: (a) Profit and Loss Forecasts_for each year; (b) Cash Flow Projections_for each year; (c) pro forma balance sheets_for each year; (d) initial uses of project funds; and (e) any future capital requirements and sources.
