FR941216-1-00117 FR941216-1-00012 The minimum temperature necessary to meet processing requirements shall be used to dry components and pyrotechnic materials. Drying rooms or ovens shall meet the requirements of ยง184.169. ยง184.75 Mixing and blending. Mixing and blending of pyrotechnic compositions commands attention because most injury-producing accidents have occurred during the mixing, blending, or subsequent cleanup operations. Because of the variety within and among these compositions, no single type of mixer or blender can be the exclusively approved equipment for pyrotechnic mixing and blending operations. (a) Each mixing device shall be considered separately with respect to the composition to be processed. When a history of safe operation has not been established, the type of mixer or blender and batch size should be evaluated by appropriate hazard analysis or tests. Generally, devices that use a tumbling action shall be preferred to those using rotating blades, to minimize points where frictional heat may develop or where accidentally introduced foreign material can create hot spots through friction or crushing of composition. Mixers and blenders shall be equipped for pressure relief, to preclude a transition from burning to detonation. Personnel exposures during charging and emptying of mixers shall be minimal. When the energetic characteristics and quantities of composition involved so dictate, mixers and blenders shall be charged, operated, and emptied remotely. When hazard analysis or testing has shown this to be safe, mixers or blenders may be charged or emptied manually. Appropriate interlocks, clutch brakes, and similar devices shall be used to preclude personnel exposure during mixer or blender operation, and to preclude the movement of mixer or blender parts during periods when operators are present. (b) Mixing and blending operations shall be conducted in buildings or cubicles designed for such purposes. Multiple mixing or blending operations may be conducted in the same building, provided that each blender or mixer is located in a separate room, bay, or cell, and separated from other operations by substantial dividing walls. Two or more mixers or blenders may be located in the same cubicle, provided that the hazards are not increased by such installation. Normally, this would require that the materials in process be of significantly low energy content or slow energy release and the mixers be charged and emptied simultaneously. At least one wall or equivalent panel area in each bay shall be frangible so as to provide pressure relief in the event of an incident. Cell arrangement and pressure relief areas shall be located so that personnel cannot pass in front of these areas while mixers or blenders are operating. (c) Exhaust ventilation equipment shall be installed on mixers or in bays where flammable solvents are used and interlocked with the mixers. The interlock shall be designed to preclude mixer operation without ventilation although operation of the ventilation system without the mixer is permitted. Vapor sensors should be used to give automatic warning of a build-up of flammable vapors to a level approaching that of the lower explosive limit. Such sensors should be interlocked to personnel access control devices. Ventilation system designs shall not permit propagation of an incident in one bay to others served by the same system. (d) The operation of mixers or blenders may be observed by remote means such as closed-circuit television, mirrors, or transparent shield providing operator protection. Direct viewing of blender or mixer operation without intervening barriers is prohibited. (e) Manual scraping during the mixing or blending process is prohibited. Manual mixing or blending of fuels and oxidizers is prohibited. (f) The following are the minimum criteria for rotating blade mixing operations: (1) The mix equipment shall be rigidly fixed and stable during mixing to preclude contact between the bowl and the mix blades. (2) Positive controls are provided to physically block or stop bowl or blender head movement in case of hydraulic malfunction to assure clearance at all times between mix bowl and blades. (3) Mix blades and shaft shall be rigid and structurally strong to ensure minimum flex from weight of the mix and speed of the shaft. (4) Any mixer electrical fixtures shall be explosion-proof rated, remotely located, or shrouded and pressurized with inert gas. Purged systems automatically cut off if pressure is lost. (5) Mix blade shaft should include adequate and compatible seals or packing glands to prevent migration of mix or solvent vapor into bearings. Submerged bearings and packing glands should be avoided. If used, they shall be periodically tested for contamination and cleaned.
