FR940114-2-00176 FR940114-2-00102 D. Storm Exemption The permittee may qualify for a storm exemption from the technology-based effluent limitations in Part II.A.1.b. of this NPDES general permit if the following conditions are met: 1. The treatment system is designed, constructed and maintained to contain the maximum volume of untreated process wastewater which would be discharged, stored, contained and used or recycled by the beneficiation process into the treatment system during a 4-hour operating period without an increase in volume from precipitation or infiltration, plus the maximum volume of water runoff (drainage waters) resulting from a 5-year, 6-hour precipitation event. In computing the maximum volume of water which would result from a 5-year, 6-hour precipitation event, the operator must include the volume which should result from the plant site contributing runoff to the individual treatment facility. 2. The operator takes all reasonable steps to maintain treatment of the wastewater and minimize the amount of overflow. 3. The source is in compliance with the Best Management Practices in Part III.A. of this permit. 4. The operator complies with the notification requirements of Parts IV.G. and H. of this permit. IV. Monitoring and Reporting Requirements A. Representative Sampling All samples for monitoring purposes shall be representative of the monitored activity, 40 CFR 122.41 (j). To determine compliance with permit effluent limitations, ``grab'' samples shall be taken as established under Part II.D. of this permit. Specifically, effluent samples for settleable solids, turbidity, and arsenic shall be collected from the settling pond or other treatment systems outlet prior to discharge to the receiving stream. Additionally, turbidity samples shall also be taken above the discharge point at a location that is representative of the receiving stream. Samples for arsenic and turbidity monitoring must be taken during sluicing at a time when the operation has reached equilibrium. For example, samples should be taken when sluice paydirt loading and effluent discharge are constant. B. Reporting of Monitoring Results Monitoring results shall be summarized each month and reported on EPA Form 3320&hyph;1 (DMR). The DMR shall be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Region 10, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Enforcement Section WD&hyph;135, Seattle, Washington 98101&hyph;3188, no later than November 30 each year. If there is no mining activity during the year or no wastewater discharge to a receiving stream, the permittee shall notify EPA of these facts no later than November 30 of each year. The DMR shall also be sent to the regional office of ADEC that has jurisdiction over the mine. The addresses can be found in permit part I.E.3. C. Monitoring Procedures Monitoring must be conducted according to test procedures approved under 40 CFR part 136, unless other test procedures have been specified in this permit. D. Additional Monitoring by the Permittee If the permittee monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by this permit, using test procedures approved under 40 CFR part 136 or as specified in this permit, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the calculation and reporting of the data submitted in the DMR. Such increased frequency shall also be indicated.
