FR940304-1-00092 FR940304-1-00014 Impacts on Utilities Several comments addressed the Department's proposed analysis of the impacts of energy conservation standards on electric utilities. Natural Resources Defense Council stated that the utility analysis needs to consider that under the base cases, there will be less forecasting certainty than would occur under new and revised standards, and a greater probability that utilities would misforecast electricity demand. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 32). The Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council also suggested that the utility analysis should consider the value of reduced uncertainty in utility forecasts as a result of standards. In addition, the Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council gave references to a methodology. (Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council, No. 60 at 6). Increased demand certainty after standards is an effect that was not captured in the utility analysis. It results in substantial benefits to electric utilities, particularly when demand growth is rapid. These benefits accrue because demand growth is uncertain, and if the utility misforecasts demand, it may build too few or too many power plants. This risk of capital misallocation can be substantial in certain cases. With regard to the appropriate measure of dollars to use in the utility impact analysis, Natural Resources Defense Council stated that ``DOE needs to do the utility impact analysis in nominal dollar terms, using actual utility assumptions for depreciation and rate of return. Utility rates and finances are computed in nominal dollars, not real dollars, and this can have a dramatic impact on how new power plant construction will affect rates.'' (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 32). It is true that utilities calculate rates in nominal dollar terms. The Department, therefore, calculated utility impacts in both real and nominal dollars, in order to determine how adding an inflation factor would affect the results. With regard to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;549, November 15, 1990), Natural Resources Defense Council stated that utility expansion plans will need to be consistent with the Act, which will require more controls as the demand for electricity grows. Appliance standards will, all other things being held equal, make compliance with the Clean Air Amendments less expensive for utilities, as it allows them to meet the cap on emissions more easily. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 32, 35). The utility analysis and the environmental analysis are consistent with the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. The Department collected forecasts of the value of marketable permits for sulfur, estimates of the other effects of the Clean Air Act Amendments, and assessments of future utility generation by fuel type. The Department assessed these estimates and assimilated them into the analysis. (See Technical Support Document, Environmental Assessment, Section 2). The Florida Energy Office stated that capacity cost credit (for avoided capacity) should not be limited to combustion turbines but should match the load characteristics of the subject appliance, categorized into peaking, intermediate, and baseload groups. Air conditioners should be categorized according to their load duration characteristics. (Florida Energy Office, No. 42, at 2). The Department agrees that load shape characteristics should be included in an assessment of air conditioner (and other appliances) avoided peak demand. The current utility analysis accounted for these effects. The Department investigated separating energy savings into peaking, intermediate, and baseload categories, to determine if this would have a significant effect on the results. The utility analysis assumed a combustion turbine proxy, which values all peak demand savings at the cost of a combustion turbine. This is the most widely used approach by U.S. utilities. The Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council stated that the utility analysis should consider transmission and distribution capacity savings. (Ohio Office of the Consumers' Council, No. 60 at 5). The Department agrees that transmission and distribution capacity savings should be included in the utility analysis, and did include them. Avoided transmission and distribution costs were based on the value assigned to this avoided transmission and distribution capacity by many different U.S. utilities. Two commentators stated that off-peak water heaters (those that heat water only during off-peak hours) save energy, and that this should be included in the utility analysis. (National Regional Electric Cooperative Association, No. 17 at 1; Vaughn Manufacturing Company, No. 75 at 1). In response, the Department notes that where utilities offer time-of-day rates, the economics of off-peak water heating change dramatically and may be very attractive. However, the Department does not have the authority to require utilities to offer such rates, and believes the lack of these rates offered nation-wide precludes consideration of off-peak water heaters in a national standard. Several comments discussed the impacts of appliance conservation standards on natural gas utilities. The Washington Gas Light, Inc. urged the Department to dedicate a similar level of analytical effort to the utility cost consequences of standards on natural gas appliances as it devotes to impacts on electric utilities from standards on electric appliances. (Washington Gas Light, Inc., No. 37 at 12). The Department initially studied the potential impacts of standards on electric utilities and not natural gas utilities because there were more abundant data on the former. Furthermore, significantly more residential energy consumption is electricity rather than natural gas.
