FR941102-0-00097 FR941102-0-00026 In response to commenters' concerns, the Commission has modified the Rule to require a statement on order confirmations that payment for order flow is received by the broker or dealer and that the source and nature of the payment for order flow received in connection with the particular transaction will be furnished upon written request of the customer. 40 The Commission has determined to allow broker-dealers to conform the statement to the firm's practices, for instance, specifically noting that it limits the receipt of payment for order flow to market orders only, if applicable. Because the definition of payment for order flow includes non-monetary forms of payment for order flow, broker-dealers will be expected to include those forms of compensation in preparing confirmations and to provide the nature and source of the compensation upon written request. The Commission believes that the Rule, as modified, retains informative disclosure to investors. 41 The Commission recognizes that information on the confirmation may not communicate all information of interest to investors about payment for order flow or the quality of order execution. The role of the required disclosures on the confirmation is more limited and is intended to inform customers about the existence of payment for order flow practices and to confirm that which the customer, if interested, already should know about the broker's order handling practices as a result of the new account and annual disclosure statements. 40 In the Companion Release, the Commission solicits comment on whether broker-dealers should be required to provide ranges, on confirmations, of monetary and non-monetary payment for order flow received and quantification of internalization/affiliate practices on a per share basis. See Companion Release, supra note 5. 41 The Commission, however, is proposing in a parallel action, to require quantification of monetary and non-monetary compensation and internalization. Id. IV. Alternative Proposals The Commission also solicited comment in the Proposing Release on alternative approaches to regulating the practice of payment for order flow. The Commission invited commenters to address such alternatives as banning payment for order flow and requiring the broker-dealers to pass payment for order flow through to their customers, 42 and directing securities markets to convert quotations to decimal-based pricing from the current one-eigth fractions. The Commission, however, has determined that these approaches are not the appropriate regulatory response at this time. 42 No commenters fully supported the alternative of passing payments through to customers. Three commenters, however, oppose the alternative and argue that the economic advantages of order flow payments already benefit customers of retail firms in the form of lower commission rates. Moreover, some argue compulsory remission of payments may be administratively burdensome for brokers and difficult to enforce due to the difficulty in allocating direct payments for particular orders. A. Banning Payment for Order Flow The Commission believes disclosure is the appropriate response to the issue raised by payment for order flow. The Commission does not believe that all payment for order flow arrangements are against the customer's best interest and must be banned per se as compromising a broker's duty to seek best execution of the customer's order. 43 For example, it is unclear what harm lurks in specialists' or market makers' payment for order flow practices if unpriced orders are subject to a meaningful opportunity for price improvement, or if other benefits are provided to the customer due to the dealer's ability to use the payments. Additionally, the disclosures required by the new Rule and Rule amendments should mitigate concerns opponents may have that investors are unaware of a broker-dealer's order routing practices. 43 See NASD Rules of Fair Practice, Art. III, section 1, Interpretation of the Board of Governors on Execution of Retail Transactions in the Over-The-Counter Market; and Section 11A(a)(1)(D) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. §78k&hyph;1(a)(1)(D) (1988). Broker-dealers also have obligations under the ``shingle theory,'' which states that a dealer who engages in business impliedly represents that he will deal fairly with the public and in accordance with the standards of the profession. See SEC v. Great Lake Equities Co., 755 F. Supp. 211 (E.D. Mich. Sept. 4, 1990); and N. Wolfson, R. Phillips & T. Russo, Regulation of Brokers, Dealers and Securities Markets ¶2.10, at 2&hyph;51 (1977).
