FR940124-1-00067 FR940124-1-00008 (2) The Advisory Committee or subcommittee shall_ (i) Transmit its written opinion to the Secretary; and (ii) Provide a copy of its opinion to the designated Department official and the accrediting agency. (f)(1) After receiving the Advisory Committee's recommendation, the Secretary issues a decision on whether to limit, suspend, or terminate the agency's recognition, based upon the recommendation of the Advisory Committee and the full record before the Advisory Committee. (2) Either the accrediting agency or the designated Department official may appeal the Advisory Committee's recommendation by filing a notice of appeal with the Secretary within 10 days of receipt of the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation. If either party files an appeal with the Secretary, that party shall simultaneously provide a copy of the notice of appeal to the other party. (3) The party appealing the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation has 30 days after its receipt of the recommendation to make a written submission to the Secretary challenging the recommendation. However, the appealing party may not submit any evidence that was not submitted to the Advisory Committee or subcommittee. The appealing party shall simultaneously provide a copy of the submission to the other party. (4) The nonappealing party has 30 days from the date it receives the appealing party's submission to file a written response to the Secretary regarding the submissions of the appealing party and shall simultaneously provide the appealing party with a copy of its response. The nonappealing party may not submit any evidence that was not submitted to the Advisory Committee or subcommittee. (5) If the Advisory Committee's or subcommittee's recommendation is appealed, the Secretary renders a final decision after taking into account that recommendation and the parties' written submissions on appeal. (g) If the Secretary limits, suspends, or terminates an accrediting agency's recognition during its recognition period, the agency may request that the Secretary reconsider this decision under ยง602.15. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.15 Requests for reconsideration of the Secretary's decisions. (a)(1) An accrediting agency may request a reconsideration of a Secretarial decision if the Secretary_ (i) Denies its application for recognition; (ii) Does not grant its requested scope of recognition; or (iii) Limits, suspends, or terminates the agency's recognition during its recognition period. (2) The agency may request reconsideration only if the agency demonstrates that_ (i) It has new information that could not have been presented previously; and (ii) The new information is likely to result in reversal of the Secretary's decision. (b) To request a reconsideration, the accrediting agency shall_ (1) Notify the Secretary of its intent no later than 10 days after its receipt of the Secretary's decision; and (2) Submit its written request for reconsideration and the reasons for that request no later than 45 days after receipt of the Secretary's decision. (c)(1) Within 60 days after receipt of the accrediting agency's written request for reconsideration, the Secretary renders a final decision based on the information contained in the agency's request and the entire record before both the Advisory Committee or subcommittee and the Secretary. (2) The Secretary may request the opinion of the designated Department official, the Advisory Committee, or the subcommittee before rendering a final decision. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.16 Appeals procedures. An accrediting agency may appeal the Secretary's final decision under this part regarding the agency's recognition to the Federal courts as a final decision in accordance with applicable Federal law. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.17 Publication of list of recognized agencies. (a) The Secretary periodically publishes in the Federal Register a list of recognized accrediting agencies and each agency's scope of recognition.
