FR940603-2-00089 FR940603-2-00053 [UT&hyph;050&hyph;4210&hyph;05; UTU&hyph;9669] Utah: Recreation and Public Purposes (R&PP) Act Classification, Notice of Realty Action AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of Realty Action. SUMMARY: The following public lands in Wayne County, Utah have been examined and found suitable for classification for lease to Wayne County under the provisions of the Recreation and Public Purposes Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq. ). Wayne County proposes to use the lands for a temporary landfill. This action is necessary to provide for solid waste disposal needs on an interim basis while a permanent site is being required. Salt Lake Meridian, Utah T. 27 S., R. 3 E. Sec. 10, NE1/4NW1/4SW1/4 containing 10 acres more or less The lands are conveniently located and are physically adapted for the proposed use. The proposed use of the land for the intended purpose will not have serious adverse effects on the property. The lands are not needed for Federal or State purposes and lease of the land is consistent with current BLM land use planning, local county plans and programs and would be in the public interest. The lease will be subject to the following terms and conditions: 1. Provisions of the Recreation and Public Purposes Act and all applicable regulations of the Secretary of the Interior. 2. The landfill shall be operated in accordance with applicable Federal and State regulations governing solid waste disposal. 3. All valid existing rights documented on the official public land records at the time of lease issuance. 4. A right-of-way for ditches and canals constructed by the authority of the United States. 5. All minerals shall be reserved to the United States, together with the right to prospect for, mine, and remove the minerals. 6. Any other reservations that the authorized officer determines appropriate to ensure public access and proper management of Federal lands and interests therein. Detailed information concerning this action is available at the office of Bureau of Land Management, 150 East 900 North, Richfield, Utah, 84701. Upon publication of this notice in the Federal Register , the lands will be segregated from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the general mining laws, except for lease under the Recreation and Public Purposes Act and leasing under the mineral leasing laws. For a period of 45 days from the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register , interested persons may submit comments regarding the proposed lease or classification of the lands to the District Manager, Richfield District, 150 East 900 North, Richfield, Utah 84701. CLASSIFICATION COMMENTS: Interested parties may submit comments involving the suitability of the land for a temporary landfill. Comments on the classification are restricted to whether the land is physically suited for the proposal, whether the use will maximize the future use or used of the land, whether the use is consistent with the local planning and zoning, or if the use is consistent with the State and Federal programs. APPLICATION COMMENTS: Interested parties may submit comments regarding the specific use proposed in the application and plan of development, whether the BLM followed proper administrative procedures in reaching the decision, or any other factor not related to the suitability of the land for a temporary landfill. Any adverse comments will be reviewed by the State Director. In the absence of any adverse comments, the classification will become effective 60 days from the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Dated: May 20, 1994. Jerry Goodman, District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13574 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;DQ&hyph;M
