FR940128-1-00061 FR940128-1-00006 The harvester's goal should be to bring the fish to an internal temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below as soon as possible after the fish dies to minimize the risk of histamine production. Cooling fish below 59 ○F (15 ○C), and preferably below 50 ○F (10 ○C), greatly reduces the growth of populations of the bacteria that are most likely to cause histamine formation (Ref. 7, p. 95). Once bacterial growth has begun, temperature at or below 41 ○F (5 ○C) halts bacterial growth, although enzymatic histamine formation may slowly continue (Ref. 7, p. 95). Consequently, in proposed Appendix B, section 3.a.1., the agency is recommending a slightly lower flesh temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below. This temperature is consistent with recommendations of safe temperatures in other sections of the proposed regulation. Nonetheless, FDA specifically invites comments on the appropriateness of this temperature. Appendix B, section 3.a.1. recommends that the time/temperature history from the vessel be on a lot-by-lot basis and defines a lot as a discrete storage compartment on the vessel in keeping with industry practice. A lot typically reflects a day's catch. Because a boat's catch can be subject to varying conditions and treatment from day-to-day, the time/temperature records should be specific to each lot. If the time/temperature records suggest that, for a particular lot, the conditions on the vessel were likely to cause, or significantly contribute to, the formation of histamine in the fish, or if no adequate time/temperature records exist for that lot, the guideline provides that a representative sample of fish from the lot be analyzed for histamine Appendix B, section 3.a.2.ii.B.). The samples should be collected on a statistically valid sample schedule because variations in time/temperature abuse are likely at various points in a ship's hold. The second control, organoleptic examination by the processor for decomposition, should be performed regardless of what the time/temperature records show (Appendix B, section 3.a.2.). First, decomposition is a form of adulteration under 403(a)(3) of the act. Second, as indicated earlier, an organoleptic examination provides a screening mechanism for individual fish. It is possible for the conditions on the vessel to be good but for some fish to develop decomposition anyway. Third, also as stated earlier, an examination for decomposition provides a way to verify the time/temperature records. FDA recognizes that an organoleptic examination of each fish can be highly impractical. Consequently, the guideline calls for an examination of a representative number of fish to achieve a 95 percent certainty that the total number of fish in the lot that exhibit decomposition does not exceed 2.5 percent. (The significance of 2.5 percent is addressed in the preamble discussion of Appendix B, section 3. a.2.iii. and a.2.iv.) Using this approach, the number of fish examined will be reasonably close to the total number of fish, so that the goal of screening individual fish is preserved to the maximum extent practicable. Additionally, FDA expects that this representative sample will be large enough so as to provide a sufficient verification of the time/temperature records for the entire lot. Appendix B, section 3.a.2.i. provides that no fish flesh that exhibits any organoleptically detectable decomposition should be used for food. Aside from the clear violation of 402(a)(3) of the act presented by such decomposition, the public health risk presented by decomposition in scombrotoxin forming species is unacceptable. While the existence of decomposition does not mean that scombrotoxin is present, it does mean that a process has begun that can lead to the presence of scombrotoxin over the shelf life of the fish or fishery product. In some instances, e.g., large fish such as tuna, isolated parts of the fish will exhibit decomposition but other parts will be free of decomposition. FDA recognizes that it is possible to remove those parts of a fish that have decomposition and salvage the remainder. Appendix B, section 3.a.2.i. provides for such reconditioning so long as a histamine examination is performed on the flesh that is free of decomposition. FDA believes that a histamine test is prudent under such circumstances to verify that scombrotoxin forming processes are not at work in that flesh. The guideline also provides for how the processor should use organoleptic examination and time/temperature records in tandem to determine whether fish or fishery products from scombroid forming species are fit for further processing or should first be subject to a histamine examination. If no decomposition is found, and the time/temperature records show that conditions on the vessel were unlikely to cause, or significantly contribute to, the formation of histamine in the fish, all the fish from that lot may be further processed or directly entered into commerce (Appendix B, section 3.a.2.ii.). If, as stated earlier, the time/temperature records are inadequate or indicate conditions that could cause histamine, the processor should always conduct a histamine analysis on a representative sample regardless of the decomposition findings.
