FR940314-2-00025 FR940314-2-00010 Preliminary Results of the Review As a result of our review, we preliminarily determine that a margin exists for the period June 1, 1992 through May 31, 1993, as follows: ␣ 1Manufacturer/exporter 1Percent margin Yamaji Fishing Net Co., Ltd 18.30 Interested parties may request disclosure within 5 days of the date of publication of this notice and may request a hearing within 10 days of publication. Any hearing, if requested, will be held 44 days after the date of publication or the first business day thereafter. Case briefs and/or written comments from interested parties may be submitted no later than 30 days after the date of publication. Rebuttal briefs and rebuttals to written comments, limited to issues raised in those comments, may be filed not later than 37 days after the date of publication of this notice. The Department will publish the final results of this administrative review, including the results of its analysis of issues raised in any such written comments or at a hearing. The Department shall determine, and the Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. The Department will issue appraisement instructions on each exporter directly to the Customs Service. Furthermore, the following deposit requirements will be effective, upon publication of the notice of final results of this administrative review, for all shipments of the subject merchandise from Japan that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the publication date of the final results of review, as provided by section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act: (1) The cash deposit rate for the reviewed company will be that established in the final results of this administrative review; (2) for previously reviewed or investigated companies not listed above, the cash deposit rate will continue to be their company-specific rate published for the most recent period; (3) if the exporter is not a firm covered in this review or the original investigation, but the manufacturer is, the cash deposit rate will be the rate established for the most recent period for the manufacturer of the merchandise; and (4) if neither the exporter nor the manufacturer is a firm covered in this or any previous review, and, because the proceeding is governed by an antidumping finding, the cash deposit rate will be set equal to the ``new shipper'' rate established in the first administrative review, as discussed below. On May 25, 1993, the Court of International Trade, in Floral Trade Council v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;79, and Federal-Moqul Corporation and the Torrington Company v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;83, decided that once an ``all others'' rate is established for a company, it can only be changed through an administrative review. The Department has determined that in order to implement these decisions, it is appropriate to reinstate the original ``all others'' rate from the less-than-fair-value (LTFV) investigation (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) in proceedings governed by antidumping duty orders. In proceedings governed by antidumping findings, unless we are able to ascertain the ``all others'' rate from the Treasury LTFV investigation, the Department has determined that it is appropriate to adopt the ``new shipper'' rate established in the first final results of the administrative review published by the Department (or that rate as amended for correction of clerical errors or as a result of litigation) as the ``all others'' rate for the purpose of establishing cash deposits in all current and future administrative reviews. Because this proceeding is governed by an antidumping finding, and we are unable to ascertain the ``all others'' rate from the Treasury LTFV investigation, the ``all others'' rate for the purposes of the review will be 1.94 percent, the ``new shipper'' rate established in the first final results of the administrative review published by the Department (47 FR 28978, July 2, 1982). These deposit requirements, when imposed, shall remain in effect until publication of the final results of the next administrative review. This notice also serves as a preliminary reminder to importers of their responsibility under 19 CFR 353.26 to file a certificate regarding the reimbursement of antidumping duties prior to liquidation of the relevant entries during this review period. Failure to comply with this requirement could result in the Secretary's presumption that reimbursement of antidumping duties occurred and the subsequent assessment of double antidumping duties. This administrative review and notice are in accordance with section 751(a)(1) of the Tariff Act (19 U.S.C. 1675(a)(1)) and 19 CFR 353.22(c). Dated: March 4, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5878 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;M
