FR940228-1-00005 FR940228-1-00002 The Board recommends several amendments to the administrative procedures and operations of the order's programs. The Board recommends changing the name of the regulated product from ``filberts'' or ``filberts/hazelnuts'' to the single name ``hazelnuts'' (§982.4). Another amendment would allow telephone votes taken by the Board to remain unconfirmed until the next Board meeting rather than being confirmed in writing by individual members immediately after the vote (§982.37). Also, the Board proposes an amendment to remove the requirement that ``verbatim'' reports be made of Board proceedings on marketing policy meetings (§982.39). One amendment would remove an incorrect word in the current order language which determines handler credit for ungraded product (§982.51). The Board has recommended an amendment which would provide that, when the Board establishes bonding rates for handlers who temporarily defer meeting their restricted obligations, the Board would use the estimated value of restricted credits rather than the estimated product value of a handler's deferred restricted obligation (§982.54). Further, the Board recommends that defaulted bond payments should be used by the Board to purchase excess restricted credits from handlers rather than purchasing certified merchantable product which has already met restricted obligations (§982.54). Also, the Board recommends a corresponding change that such restricted credits should be used by the handlers to liquidate their restricted obligation rather than be disposed of as restricted product (§982.54). The Board proposes two amendments to the assessment provision to allow the Board to accept advance assessment payments (and provide discounts to those handlers who make advanced payments) and borrow money. Advance payments and borrowed moneys would be used only for meeting administrative obligations before current year assessment payments are available (§982.61). The Board also proposes a new provision that would allow the Board to accept voluntary contributions from willing individuals. Such contributions would be used only for production research, marketing research and development, and marketing promotion, including paid advertising (new §982.63). Finally, the Board proposes that a clarification be added to the exemption provision of the order to make it perfectly clear that mail order sales to destinations outside the area of production are not exempt from order requirements (§982.57). These proposals were submitted by the Board which works with the Department in administering the order. The Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, proposes conforming changes to further clarify and assure consistency with existing provisions of the order. The Board's proposed amendments have not received the approval of the Secretary of Agriculture. The public hearing is held for the purpose of: (1) Receiving evidence about the economic and marketing conditions which relate to the proposed amendments of the order; (2) determining whether there is a need for the proposed amendments to the order; and (3) determining whether the proposed amendments, or appropriate modifications thereof, will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. All persons wishing to submit written material as evidence at the hearing should be prepared to submit four copies of such material at the hearing and should have prepared testimony available for presentation at the hearing. From the time this hearing notice is issued and until the issuance of a final decision in this proceeding, Department employees involved in the decisional process are prohibited from discussing the merits of the hearing issues on an ex parte basis with any person having an interest in the proceeding. The prohibition applies to employees in the following organizational units: Office of the Secretary of Agriculture; Office of the Administrator, AMS; Office of the General Counsel, except designated employees of the Office of General Counsel assigned to represent the Board in this rulemaking proceeding; and the Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS. Procedural matters are not subject to the above prohibition and may be discussed at any time. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 982 Filberts, Hazelnuts, Marketing agreements, Nuts, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. PART 982_FILBERTS/HAZELNUTS GROWN IN OREGON AND WASHINGTON 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 982 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674.
