FR940324-2-00075 FR940324-2-00043 Coordination With Other Federal/Non-Federal Programs: Applicants seeking support under this announcement are encouraged to coordinate with other programs. Program coordination helps to better serve the multiple needs of the patient/client population and to maximize the impact of available resources, and to eliminate duplication of services. Applicants should identify the coordinating organizations by name and address and describe the process used (to be used) for coordinating efforts. Letters of coordination should be included in the application appendices. Examples of Federal programs with which applicants may find coordination productive are included in the complete application kit. Single State Agency Coordination: Coordination with the Single State Agency (SSA) for mental health is encouraged to ensure communication, reduce duplication, and facilitate continuity. The application must include a copy of a letter sent to the SSA briefly describing the grant application. A list of SSAs can be found in the grant application kit. If the target population falls within the jurisdiction of more than one State, all representative SSAs should be involved. Public Health System Reporting Requirements: This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Intergovernmental Review (E.O. 12372): This program is not subject to the intergovernmental review requirements of Executive Order 12372, as implemented through HHS regulations a 45 CFR part 100. Application Procedures: All applicants must use application form PHS 5161&hyph;1 (Rev. 7/92), which contains Standard Form 424 (face page). The following information should be typed in Item Number 10 on the face page of the application form: RFA # SM&hyph;94&hyph;04: CMHS HIV/AIDS Education Program Grant kits (including form PHS 5161&hyph;1 with Standard Form 424, complete application procedures, and accompanying guidance material for the narrative approved under OMB No. 0937&hyph;0189) may be obtained from: Global Exchange, Inc., 7910 Woodmont Avenue, Suite 400, Bethesda, MD 20814&hyph;3015, (301) 656&hyph;3100. Applicants must submit: (1) An original copy signed by the authorized official of the applicant organization, with the appropriate appendices; and (2) two additional, legible copies of the application and all appendices to the following address: Center for Mental Health Services Programs, Division of Research Grants, NIH Westwood Building, Room 240, 5333 Westbard Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland 20892* *If an overnight carrier or express mail is used, the Zip Code is 20816. Only one application seeking Public Health Service (PHS) support for the same programmatic service activities with the same population may be submitted to SAMHSA and that same application may be submitted in response to only one SAMHSA Program Announcement or RFA. Review Process: Applications submitted in response to this RFA will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with established PHS/SAMHSA peer review procedures for grants. Applications that are accepted for review will be assigned to an Initial Review Group (IRG) composed primarily of non-Federal experts. Notification of the IRG's recommendation will be sent to the applicant upon completion of the initial review. In addition, the IRG recommendations on technical merit of applications will undergo a second level of review by the appropriate advisory council whose review may be based on policy considerations as well as technical merit. Applications may be considered for funding only if the advisory council concurs with the IRG's recommendation for approval. Review Criteria: The points noted in the parentheses for each criterion indicate the maximum number of points the reviewers may assign to that criterion. These points will be used to calculate a raw score for each application. The raw score will be converted to the official priority score. Significance of the Project (30) •Appropriateness of the proposed project to the goals of the announcement. •Degree of creativity of the training program. •Consistency of the proposed project relative to the state of the art with respect to knowledge of biologic, neuropsychiatric, and psychosocial aspects of HIV/AIDS. Adequacy and Appropriateness of Project Plans (30) •In terms of the applicant's stated goals and objectives. •In terms of the proposed trainers and trainees, especially from special populations (i.e., appropriate inclusion of gay and bisexual men, women and minorities), and resources. •In terms of the project management plan.
