FR940304-1-00104 FR940304-1-00014 The Wisconsin Blue Flame Council cited an incremental unit cost of $150 to $200 to add automatic ignition devices and flue dampers to residential gas-fired water heaters. (Wisconsin Blue Flame Council, No. 33 at 33). Equitable Resources stated the additional cost for electrical safety controls to be approximately $20 to $50. (Equitable Resources, No. 72 at 2). The Department used an incremental material cost of $49 for a spark ignition system, flue damper, 24-volt plug-transformer, and control relay. 18 Other factory costs were from the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association data. 18 Paul, D.D., Stickford, G.H., & Locklin, D.W. Assessment of Technology for Improving the Efficiency of Residential Gas Water Heaters, Second Interim Report, June 3, 1991, Battelle, Columbus OH, prepared for Gas Research Institute. Design Options for Storage Water Heaters The Rocky Mountain Institute stated that DOE should study insulated pressure relief valves, plastic drain pipes, and flexible anode rods. (Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 4). The Natural Resources Defense Council proposed that DOE evaluate thermal short circuits through insulation. Work performed by the California Energy Commission and the National Institute of Standards and Technology showed that the effective thermal resistance is often 50 percent or less than the thermal resistance calculated from the level of insulation. (Natural Resources Defense Council, No. 13 at 27). Reduced heat leaks were included as one of the design options in the analysis of water heaters. The actual features of this design option were not specified. Measures that could be included in this design option were to eliminate thermal bridges from jacket to feed throughs, to eliminate voids in insulation, to insulate the pressure relief valve, to install plastic drain pipes, and to reduce the number of feed throughs by combining functions. These measures were not modeled separately. The American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy proposed that vacuum panels be considered as a design option. (American Council for an Energy Efficient Economy, No. 6 at 3). Vacuum insulation was considered as one of the design options for both gas-fired and electric storage water heaters. The Rocky Mountain Institute stated that DOE should study more accurate thermostats and pipe insulation. (Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 4). The Department is not aware of any method to quantify energy savings from more accurate thermostats. Pipe insulation, which is not part of the water heater, was not considered as a design option because of concerns that it might not always be installed in the field. The Pacific Power stated its research shows that heat traps add only 1 percent to an electric water heater's efficiency, not 5 percent as assigned in the previous DOE testing procedure for water heaters. (Pacific Power, No. 53 at 2). The Department used data from a letter report prepared for DOE. 19 This report determined actual heat losses out of pipe fittings with and without heat traps. The letter reported that heat traps provide a savings of nine watts on the hot water outlet and seven watts on the inlet. Applied to the baseline model, this results in a 2.5 percent increase in energy factor. 19 James E. Harris, Test Results on the Effectiveness of Heat Traps on Water Heaters, May 1982, Building Equipment Division, Center for Building Technology, National Bureau of Standards. Design Options for Gas-Fired Storage Water Heaters. The Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association recommended that the multiple flues and submerged combustion chamber design options be combined into a single category to be called increased heat transfer surface. (Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association, No. 40 at 4). The Department found enough difference in efficiency and cost between these designs to merit classification as individual design options. Water heaters currently on the market with submerged combustion chambers have recovery efficiencies of 85 percent, whereas currently available units with multiple flues have recovery efficiencies of 80 percent.
