FR941007-2-00020 FR941007-2-00006 Comment 5: Double-Counting of Indirect Expenses in Manufacturers' FMV Calculations Respondents claim that the Department's preliminary calculation includes the cost of chemical factor inputs used in the electroplating stage of paper clip production both in the cost of manufacture ( i.e., raw material valuation) and in factory overhead (which was based on an industry-specific income statement in the Reserve Bank of India Bulletin). Respondents believe that all materials, other than steel, nickel and nickel sulfate, should be treated by the Department in its final determination as indirect, not direct materials, According to respondents, these remaining chemicals are used to bathe the unfinished products during the electroplating stage and are not actually incorporated into the finished product and, therefore, are properly included in factory overhead. In support of this, respondents cite the Final Determination of Extruded Rubber Thread from Malaysia (57 FR 38465, August 25, 1992) which stated that a particular input ``is properly treated as variable overhead rather than a direct cost because if is not part of the finished good.'' Specifically, respondents claim that the factory overhead components of the income statement included the item ``other manufacturing expenses.'' Respondents maintain that although the income statement includes a separate line for ``raw materials, components, etc. consumed'', it does not contain any similar category for indirect materials. Respondents cite additional cases to note the treatment of indirect materials in past NME cases and request the Department to correct its calculation of cost of manufacture by including only direct materials in the final determination. Petitioners contend that the chemical materials used in the electroplating process should be treated as direct materials in the final determination because respondents have failed to provide any evidence that double-counting actually did occur. Furthermore, petitioners assert that respondents' argument that plating chemicals are indirect materials is based on a faulty premise that the chemicals are not physically incorporated into the finished product. According to petitioners, the chemicals which form the bath used to plate the clips are actually incorporated into the clips by ensuring the nickel remains attached to the wire. Without these chemicals, the nickel would not stay on the wire. Petitioners further cite several cases involving the PRC where chemicals used in plating were valued as direct materials. Petitioners request that the Department follow prior determinations and treat plating chemicals as direct materials. DOC Position We agree with petitioners that the chemical inputs in the plating process are direct materials because the chemicals are physically incorporated into, and become part of, the finished product during the plating process ( see HSLW; Final Determination of Sales at Less than fair Value: Chrome-Plated Lug Nuts from the People's Republic of China (56 FR 46153, 10 September 1991) and Sparkers). There is no evidence on the record to prove that the chemical inputs used in the plating process are actually included in the factory overhead category of ``other manufacturing expenses.'' Therefore, we have treated the chemical inputs as direct materials for the calculations in the final determination.
