FR941213-1-00013 FR941213-1-00003 (4) RSMo 444.810.2&hyph;8. Joint Committee on Administrative Rules Missouri requires that any rules promulgated under the authority of the Land Reclamation Commission shall not become effective until it has been approved by the joint committee on administrative rules. Missouri adds these subsections to provide the procedures necessary for this review and approval process. (5) RSMo 444.915.2(4), AML Reclamation Fund Expenditures Missouri eliminates as a priority, expenditures for research and demonstration projects relating to the development of surface mining reclamation and water quality control program methods and techniques. (6) RSMo 444.915.3, AML Reclamation Fund Eligibility Missouri revises this subsection to require that AML fund monies may be used if there is no continuing reclamation responsibility under State or Federal laws for lands or water. Eligibility is defined in one of three ways: (1) as lands and water affected by coal mining, wastebanks, coal processing or other coal mining processes and abandoned or left in an inadequate reclamation status prior to September 28, 1979; (2) A finding must be made that the mining operation occurred between August 4, 1977, and November 21, 1980, and that available funds are insufficient for adequate reclamation or abatement; or (3) A finding may also be made that the mining operation occurred between August 4, 1977, and October 1, 1991, and that the surety became insolvent during that period and that available funds are not sufficient for adequate reclamation or abatement. III. Public Comment Procedures In accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR 884.14, OSM is seeking comments on whether the proposed amendment satisfies the applicable program approval criteria of 30 CFR 884.14 for the approval of reclamation plan amendments. If the amendment is deemed adequate, it will become part of the Missouri AMLR Plan. Written Comments Written comments should be specific, pertain only to the issue proposed in this rulemaking, and include explanations in support of the commenter's recommendations. Comments received after the time indicated under ``DATES'' or at locations other than the Kansas City Field Office will not necessarily be considered in the final rulemaking or included in the administrative record. Public Hearing Persons wishing to testify at the public hearing should contact the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT by 4:00 p.m., c.s.t. December 28, 1994. The location and time of the hearing will be arranged with those persons requesting the hearing. If no one requests an opportunity to testify at the public hearing, the hearing will not be held. Any disabled individual who has a need for a special accommodation to attend a public hearing should contact the individual listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . Filing of a written statement at the time of the hearing is requested as it will greatly assist the transcriber. Submission of written statements in advance of the hearing will allow OSM officials to prepare adequate responses and appropriate questions. The public hearing will continue on the specified date until all persons scheduled to comment have been heard. Persons in the audience who have not been scheduled to testify, and who wish to do so, will be heard following those who have been scheduled. The hearing will end after all persons scheduled to testify and persons present in the audience who wish to testify have been heard.
