FR941130-0-00020 FR941130-0-00002 4. Voting Requirement and Prohibition on the Use of Running Proxies The final rule requires that a proposed conversion be approved by a vote of at least a majority of the bank's depositors and, as reasonably determined by the bank's directors or trustees, other stakeholders of the bank who are entitled to vote on the conversion, unless the applicable state law requires a higher percentage, in which case the higher percentage must be used. The final rule also prohibits the use of running proxies in mutual-to-stock conversions of State Savings Banks. 5. Restrictions on Management Stock Benefit and MRPs The final rule provides that no converted savings bank shall, for one year from the date of the conversion, implement a stock option plan or management or employee stock benefit plan, other than a tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan, unless: each of the plans is fully disclosed in the proxy solicitation and conversion stock offering materials; all such plans are approved by a majority of the bank's stockholders, or in the case of a recently formed holding company, its stockholders, prior to implementation at a duly called meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, to be held no sooner than six months after the completion of the conversion; in the case of a savings bank subsidiary of a mutual holding company, all such plans are approved by a majority of stockholders other than its parent mutual holding company prior to implementation at any duly called meeting of shareholders, either annual or special, to be held no sooner than six months after the stock issuance; for stock option plans, stock options are granted at no lower than the market price at which the stock is trading at the time of grant; and for management or employee stock benefit plans, no conversion stock is used to fund the plans. The MRP restrictions do not include specific percentage limitations. The FDIC will continue to look to MRP percentage limitations in the applicable state law and regulations, as well as in the OTS regulations, as a frame of reference for reviewing proposed conversions of State Savings Banks. The FDIC will presume that MRPs that do not conform with the applicable OTS MRP limitations constitute excessive insider benefits and thereby evidence a breach of the board of directors' or trustees' fiduciary responsibility. Bank management would have the burden of convincing the FDIC otherwise. 6. Eligibility Record Date and Priority of Employee Stock Ownership Plans (ESOPs) A. Eligibility Record Date The final rule requires that the eligibility record date for determining stock subscription rights be no less than one year prior to the date the board of directors/trustees approves the plan of conversion to convert from the mutual to stock form of ownership. B. Priority for ESOPs The final rule requires that ``eligible depositors'' be accorded a higher subscription priority than ESOPs. ``Eligible depositors'' are defined as depositors holding qualifying deposits at the bank as of a date designated in the bank's plan of conversion that is not less than one year prior to the date of adoption of the plan of conversion by the converting bank's board of directors/trustees. 7. Submission of Business Plans The final rule requires that State Savings Banks that propose to undergo a mutual-to-stock conversion submit a business plan which must include, in part, a detailed discussion of how the capital acquired in the conversion will be used, expected earnings resulting from the plan and a justification for any proposed stock repurchases. 8. Post-Conversion Stock Repurchases The final rule provides that an insured mutual state savings bank that has converted from the mutual to stock form of ownership may not repurchase its capital stock within one year following the date of its conversion to stock form, except that stock repurchases of no greater than 5% of the bank's outstanding capital stock may be repurchased during this one-year period where compelling and valid business reasons are established, to the satisfaction of the FDIC. Any stock repurchases are subject to the requirements of Section 18(i). 9. Mutual Holding Companies The final rule retains the statement included in the Proposed Rule that the FDIC's mutual-to-stock conversion rules apply, where appropriate, to mutual holding company reorganizations of State Savings Banks. The FDIC will use the applicable state law and the regulations issued by the OTS (12 CFR 575) as a frame of reference for reviewing proposed State Savings Bank mutual holding company reorganizations and (contemporaneous and post-reorganization) stock issuances. List of Subjects 12 CFR Part 303 Administrative practice and procedure, Authority delegations (Government agencies), Bank deposit insurance, Banks, Banking, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Savings associations. 12 CFR Part 333 Banks, Banking, Corporate powers. Accordingly, the interim rule amending 12 CFR Part 303 which was published at 59 FR 7194 on February 15, 1994, is adopted as a final rule with changes and 12 CFR Part 333 is amended as follows: PART 303_APPLICATIONS, REQUESTS, SUBMITTALS, DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY, AND NOTICES REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY STATUTE OR REGULATION 1. The authority citation for Part 303 continues to read as follows:
