FR940627-0-00223 FR940627-0-00019 (iii) Exposure analysis appendices may be submitted to report any detailed documentation of data used in the analyses and/or calculations determining potential exposures to population(s). If modeling data are used, these should be included in an appendix. (iv) Tier 2 appendices shall contain, for each test performed: (A) Complete protocol used; (B) Documentation of emission generation procedures; and (C) Complete laboratory report in compliance with the reporting standards in §79.60, including detailed test results and conclusions, and descriptions of any problems encountered and their resolution. (v) Laboratory certification/accreditation information, personnel credentials, and statements of compliance with the Good Laboratory Practices Standards specified in §79.60 and the requirements in §79.53(c)(1). (d) Tier 3 Report. Subject to applicability as specified in §79.54, each manufacturer of a designated fuel or fuel additive, or each group of such manufacturers pursuant to the provisions of §79.56, shall submit the following information with respect to each Tier 3 test conducted for such fuels or fuel additives: (1) The test objectives, including a summary of the reason(s) why such additional testing, beyond Tiers 1 and 2, was required; (2) Name, address, and telephone number of each testing facility; (3) Summary of test procedures, results and conclusions; (4) Complete documentation of test protocols and emission generation procedures, complete laboratory reports in compliance with the reporting standards of §79.60, detailed test results and conclusions, including references if used to support such results and conclusions, and descriptions of any problems encountered and their resolution; and (5) Laboratory certification information, personnel credentials, and statements of compliance with the Good Laboratory Practices Standards specified in §79.60. (e) Availability of Information. (1) All health and safety test data and other information concerning health and welfare effects which is submitted by any manufacturer or group pursuant to §§79.52(c), 79.53, or 79.54, shall be considered to be public information and shall be made available to the public by EPA upon request. A reasonable fee may be charged by EPA for copying such materials. Any manufacturer or group who claims that any information concerning the composition of a fuel or fuel additive product, or any other information, submitted under this subpart is confidential business information must state this claim in writing at the time of the submittal. (2) To assert a business confidentiality claim concerning any information submitted under this subpart, the submitter must: (i) Clearly mark the information as confidential at each location it appears in the submission; and (ii) Submit with the information claimed as confidential a separate document setting forth the claim and listing each location at which the information appears in the submission. (3) If any person subsequently requests access to information submitted under this subpart (other than health and safety test data and other information concerning health and welfare effects), and such information is subject to a claim of business confidentiality, the request and any subsequent disclosure shall be governed by the provisions of 40 CFR part 2. §79.60 Good laboratory practices (GLP) standards for inhalation exposure health effects testing.
