FR940318-0-00090 FR940318-0-00015 (5) Tacking of ownership periods _(i) Transferee treated as owning indebtedness for period owned by transferor. To determine whether indebtedness transferred in a qualified transfer is qualified indebtedness, the transferee is treated as having owned the indebtedness for the period that it was owned by the transferor. (ii) Qualified transfer. For purposes of paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section, a transfer of indebtedness is a qualified transfer if_ (A) The transfer is between parties who bear a relationship to each other described in section 267(b) or 707(b) (substituting at least 80 percent for more than 50 percent each place it appears in section 267(b) (and section 267(f)(1)) or 707(b)); (B) The transfer is a transfer of a loan within 90 days after its origination, pursuant to a customary syndication transaction; (C) The transfer is a transfer of newly incurred indebtedness by an underwriter that owned the indebtedness for a transitory period pursuant to an underwriting; (D) The transferee's basis in the indebtedness is determined under section 1014 or 1015 or with reference to the transferor's basis in the indebtedness; (E) The transfer is in satisfaction of a right to receive a pecuniary bequest; (F) The transfer is pursuant to any divorce or separation instrument (within the meaning of section 71(b)(2)); (G) The transfer is pursuant to a subrogation in which the transferee acquires a claim against the loss corporation by reason of a payment to the claimant pursuant to an insurance policy or a guarantee, letter of credit or similar security arrangement; or (H) The transfer is a transfer of an account receivable in a customary commercial factoring transaction made within 30 days after the account arose to a transferee that regularly engages in such transactions. (iii) Exception. A transfer of indebtedness is not a qualified transfer for purposes of paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section if the transferee acquired the indebtedness for a principal purpose of benefiting from the losses of the loss corporation by_ (A) Exchanging the indebtedness for stock of the loss corporation pursuant to the title 11 or similar case; or (B) Selling the indebtedness at a profit that reflects the expectation that, by reason of section 382(l)(5), section 382(a) will not apply to any ownership change resulting from the title 11 or similar case. (iv) Debt-for-debt exchanges. If the loss corporation satisfies its indebtedness with new indebtedness, either through an exchange of new indebtedness for old indebtedness or a change in the terms of indebtedness that results in an exchange under section 1001_ (A) The owner of the new indebtedness is treated as having owned that indebtedness for the period that it owned the old indebtedness; and (B) The new indebtedness is treated as having arisen in the ordinary course of the trade or business of the loss corporation if the old indebtedness so arose. (6) Effective date _(i) In general. This paragraph (d) applies to ownership changes occurring on or after March 17, 1994. (ii) Elections and amended returns _(A) Election to apply this paragraph (d) retroactively. A loss corporation may elect to apply this paragraph (d) to an ownership change occurring prior to March 17, 1994. This election must be made by the later of the due date (including any extensions of time) of the loss corporation's tax return for the taxable year which includes the change date or the date that the loss corporation files its first tax return after May 16, 1994. The election is made by attaching the following statement to the return: ``This is an Election to Apply ยง1.382&hyph;9(d) Retroactively with Respect to the Ownership Change on [Insert Date of Ownership Change] That Occurred in Connection with the Title 11 or Similar Case filed on [Insert Date of Filing].'' This statement must be accompanied by the amended returns described in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. An election under this paragraph (d)(6) is irrevocable.
