FR940620-1-00095 FR940620-1-00009 (ii) For purposes of this clause, special licenses do not include government Purpose License Rights acquired under a prior contract (see subparagraph (b)(6) of this clause). (6) Pre-existing data markings. If the terms of a prior contract or license permitted the contractor to restrict the government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data or computer software, and those restrictions are still applicable, the contractor may mark such data or software with the appropriate restrictive legend for which the data or software qualified under the prior contract or license. The marking procedures in subparagraph (f)(1) of this clause shall be followed. (g) Contractor procedures and records. Throughout performance of this contract, the contractor, and its subcontractors or suppliers that will deliver technical data or computer software with other than unlimited rights, shall_ (1) Have, maintain, and follow written procedures sufficient to assure that restrictive markings are used only when authorized by the terms of this clause; and (2) Maintain records sufficient to justify the validity of any restrictive markings on technical data or computer software delivered under this contract. (h) Removal of unjustified and nonconforming markings. (1) Unjustified markings. The rights and obligations of the parties regarding the validation of restrictive markings on technical data or computer software furnished or to be furnished under this contract are contained in the clauses at ``252.227&hyph;7037, ``Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data'' or 252.227&hyph;7019, ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions_Computer Software'', respectively. Notwithstanding any provision of this contract concerning inspection and acceptance, the Government may ignore or, at the Contractor's expense, correct or cancel a marking if, in accordance with the applicable procedures of those clauses, a restrictive marking is determined to be unjustified. (2) Nonconforming markings. A nonconforming marking is a marking placed on technical data or computer software delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government under this contract that is not in the format authorized by this contract. Correction of nonconforming markings is not subject to 252.227&hyph;7019 or 252.227&hyph;7037. If the contracting officer notifies the contractor of a nonconforming marking or markings and the contractor fails to remove or correct such markings within sixty (60) days, the Government may ignore or, at the Contractor's expense, remove or correct any nonconforming markings.
