FR941206-2-00123 FR941206-2-00082 [Public Notice 2126] Delegation of Authority No. 120&hyph;5; Procurement Executive By virtue of the authority vested in me by Department of State Delegation of authority No. 120&hyph;4 (59 FR 38022&hyph;38023) and in order to implement the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414) and Executive Order 12931, it is directed as follows: 1. Functions Delegated to the Procurement Executive I hereby delegate to the Procurement Executive authority to: a. Oversee the development of procurement goals, guidelines, and innovation; b. Measure and evaluate the performance of Department contracting activities against stated goals; c. Advise the Assistant Secretary for Administration whether goals are being achieved; d. Enhance career development of the procurement work force; e. Promote the acquisition of commercial items and the use of simplified acquisition procedures, to the maximum extent practicable; f. Issue procurement policies, procedures, and regulations that, where practicable, rely on guiding principles that encourage and reward innovation; g. Provide advice and guidance, in consultation with the Office of the Legal Adviser as appropriate, to all Department offices and to diplomatic and consular posts on all matters of procurement law and policy; h. Make determinations and findings or justifications and approvals and take other actions as are deemed consistent with applicable policies, procedures, or regulations, with respect to procurement transactions, except where such actions are required by law or regulation to be made by another officer; i. Appoint contracting officers; j. Participate in the development of government-wide acquisition policies, regulations, and standards, and represent the Department on interagency bodies concerned with acquisition policies and procedures; k. Select and designate an independent advocate for competition for Department of State acquisitions, and provide advice and counsel to such advocate in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; l. Select and designate a task and delivery order ombudsman and a Federal Acquisition Computer Network (FACNET) program manager, in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Streamlining Act of 1994; m. Issue policies, procedures, and regulations governing Federal assistance (grants and cooperative agreements); and n. Appoint grants officers. 2. Re-Delegation The Procurement Executive is authorized to redelegate to the employees of the Department any of the authorities or functions, delegated herein, except that the responsibility under section 1c may not be redelegated. Any redelegation may include authority for further redelegation. 3. General Provisions a. Any official actions taken within the scope of this delegation taken prior to the effective date hereof by officers duly authorized are hereby continued in effect, according to their terms, until modified, revoked, or superseded by action of the Procurement Executive or other officer of the Department acting under authority of this delegation. b. All authorities delegated herein shall be exercised in accordance with the applicable limitations and requirements of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) and other Federal laws and regulations regarding procurement or Federal assistance. 4. This delegation supersedes Department of State Delegation No. 120&hyph;3 (51 FR 16768&hyph;16769) dated May 6, 1986. Dated: November 23, 1994. Patrick F. Kennedy, Assistant Secretary for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29980 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;24&hyph;M
