FR940728-2-00133 FR940728-2-00094 DEPARTMENT OF STATE Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs [Public Notice 2043] Finding of No Significant Impact: Lakehead Pipe Line Company Pipeline at Neche, ND AGENCY: Department of State. ACTION: Notice of a finding of no significant impact with regard to an application to construct, connect, operate and maintain a pipeline to transport crude oil and natural gas liquids across the U.S.&hyph;Canada border. SUMMARY: The Department of State has conducted an environmental assessment of the proposed construction by Lakehead Pipe Line Company of an oil pipeline across the international boundary at Neche, North Dakota. Based on the environmental assessment and after reviewing all comments, the Department of State has concluded that issuance of a Presidential Permit authorizing construction of the proposed pipeline will not have a significant effect on the human environment within the United States. An environmental impact statement will not be prepared. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE PIPELINE PERMIT APPLICATION, CONTACT: Donald E. Grabenstetter, Office of International Energy Policy, Room 3535, U.S. Department of State, Washington, DC, 20520, (202) 647&hyph;4557. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THE ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT, CONTACT: Evelyn Wheeler, Office of Ecology and Terrestrial Conservation, Room 4325, U.S. Department of State, Washington, DC 20520, (202) 647&hyph;3367. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Lakehead Pipe Line Company, Limited Partnership has applied for a Presidential Permit to authorize construction, connection, operation and maintenance of a 20 inch diameter pipeline to convey crude oil and natural gas liquids across the border with Canada at Neche, North Dakota. The proposed pipeline would be constructed in the same right of way presently occupied by three oil pipelines owned and operated by the company. The existing pipelines are operating at full capacity and are unable to transport the volume of oil demanded by U.S. markets in the midwest. The purpose of the proposed new pipeline is to eliminate this capacity constraint. The Department of State has concluded that issuance of the permit will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment within the United States. This finding is based on an environmental assessment conducted by the Department of State which included a review of comments submitted in response to the Notice of Application published on March 4, 1994. On the basis of the environmental assessment, a finding of no significant impact is adopted, and an environmental impact statement will not be prepared. Construction and operation of the proposed pipeline is subject to regulation by the North Dakota Public Service Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Dated: June 16, 1994. Joan E. Spero, Under Secretary of State, for Economic, Business and Agricultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18397 Filed 7&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;07&hyph;M
