FR940224-2-00150 FR940224-2-00093 6. Cross-Cultural Expertise and Area Expertise: Proposals should show evidence of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as relevant knowledge of the target area/country. 7. Multiplier Effect/Follow-On Activities: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, facilitate sharing of information, and establish long-term institutional and individual relationships. Proposals should also reflect an institution's commitment to continued exchange activity beyond the term of the USIA grant. 8. Cost-Effectiveness: Overhead and administrative costs should be kept as low as possible. All other items proposed for USIA funding should be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objective. 9. Cost-Sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as direct funding contributions and/or in-kind support from the prospective grantee institution. 10. Project Evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the activity's success. The applicant should include a draft of a questionnaire or other evaluation technique to demonstrate which evaluation method will be utilized. Applicants will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded, or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. Note: The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by USIA that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the U.S. Government. Awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by the U.S. Congress and allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about June 1, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: February 14, 1994. Barry Fulton, Acting Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3983 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
