FR940114-1-00055 FR940114-1-00009 As a result of these prior rulemaking actions, the National Priority Program Areas currently include the following: 1. Alcohol and Other Drug Countermeasures 2. Police Traffic Services 3. Occupant Protection 4. Traffic Records 5. Emergency Medical Services 6. Motorcycle Safety 7. Pedestrian and Bicycle Safety and 8. Roadway Safety The agencies apply three criteria to determine whether a program area should be identified as a National Priority Program under 23 CFR Part 1205: •Whether the problem is of national concern; •Whether effective countermeasures have been developed in this area which address this concern; and •Whether State programs in the area appear to be among the most effective in reducing crashes, injuries, and fatalities as compared to other traffic safety program areas. In determining whether a problem is of national concern, the agencies consider the relative magnitude of the problem. Today's notice is being issued to solicit comments on a proposal of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) and the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) to expand this list of National Priority Program Areas to include Speed Control, and to obtain comments on the agencies' preliminary determination that School Bus Safety should not be added as a National Priority Program Area at this time. The agencies have considered relevant data, statistics, and other available information in reaching this conclusion and now seek public comments from interested parties on these tentative determinations. The following discussion highlights the key issues and factors considered by the agencies in making these preliminary determinations. (In a separate notice published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , the agencies are requesting comments on revisions and amendments to Highway Safety Program Guidelines relating to several program areas including Speed Control.) Speed Control as a National Priority Area Is Speeding a Problem of National Concern? The issue of speed control has received considerable attention by NHTSA and FHWA. Over the course of the agencies' history, we have funded and promoted many programs and initiatives addressing the problem. Speeding is defined as not only exceeding the posted speed limit, but also driving too fast for conditions. Some common conclusions from these programs and initiatives indicate that higher speeds and speeds too fast for conditions (whether or not travelling in excess of the speed limit) adversely affect the safety of motorists. Speeding is Becoming More Prevalent While many speed/traffic surveys are taken, reliable data on travel speed are relatively limited, and often difficult to compare. The most reliable speed data are those reported by the States for National Maximum Speed Limit (NMSL) roadways posted at 55 mph. The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) publishes an annual report containing a compendium of speed monitoring data submitted by each State. Analyses of recent speed monitoring data by the FHWA indicate that speeds at which many motorists travel have increased in recent years. There are less comprehensive data collected for roadways which have speed limits of less than 55 mph, including the many rural highways and urban/suburban streets and roads which are posted at lower speeds for reasons of road design, traffic patterns, volume, and safety. These non-NMSL roads account for 74 percent of the total paved road mileage in the U.S. and for approximately 47 percent of all traffic deaths. The lack of empirical data makes it difficult to identify the extent of the speeding problem on these non-NMSL roads. A recent FHWA study of these roads entitled Assessment of Current Speed Zoning Criteria found that: (1) On average, seven out of ten motorists exceeded posted limits; (2) average speeds ran approximately two to six mph above posted limits; and (3) prevailing 85th percentile speeds ran approximately eight to twelve mph above posted limits. The observations of law enforcement executives and other highway safety officials confirm that speeds are increasing on these roads. Speed surveys on the Interstate highways also show that average speeds and the percent of traffic travelling at high speeds have also increased on these roads. For example, the percent of vehicles exceeding 65 mph (on roadways with a 65 mph speed limit) were estimated to be 47 percent in 1990 (up from 37% in 1988) while those exceeding 70 mph accounted for approximately 19 percent (up from approximately 16 percent in 1988). After Congress amended the NMSL in 1987 to permit 20 States to increase the speed limit to 65 mph on rural interstates as a demonstration program, NHTSA issued a detailed report on the effects of the increase. This interim report indicated that average speeds increased somewhat on rural interstates. The latest NMSL research, contained in the agency's Report to Congress on the Effects of the 65 mph Speed Limit through 1990 (NHTSA, May 1992), shows the average travel speed on rural 65 mph Interstates in 1990 was 65 mph (up from 63 mph in 1988); the 85th percentile speed was 71 mph (up from 69 mph in 1988); and fatalities on rural interstates were an estimated 30 percent higher in 1990 than the number expected, based on historical trends, had the speed limit remained at 55 mph. A series of focus group discussions held by NHTSA with the general public suggest that most drivers recognize speeding as a violation of the law, but few regard the violation as a serious offense. These studies all suggest that the motoring public does not view speeding per se as an immediate risk to their personal safety.
