FR940303-2-00009 FR940303-2-00006 The analysis is essentially complete and has included a full range of alternatives that respond to issues received from scoping over the past year. One of these is the ``no-action'' alternative, in which no management activities would take place. As a result of the scoping and analysis that has taken place to date, alternatives to the proposed action would include: (1) Restoration of chronic sediment sources and unstable stream channels only. No restoration of dead lodgepole pine stands. (2) Modify the proposed action to use existing roads only. No restoration of lodgepole pine stands in the drainages containing the most unstable stream channels. (3) Modify the proposed action to emphasize big-game habitat effectiveness. (4) Modify the proposed vegetative treatments to minimize fragmentation of old-growth management indicator species habitat. The EIS will document the direct, indirect, and cumulative environmental effects of the alternatives. Past, present and reasonable foreseeable actions on both private and National Forest lands will be considered. The EIS will disclose the site-specific features that reduce or eliminate potential environmental impacts. The draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and available for public review in May, 1994. At that time the EPA will publish a notice of availability of the draft EIS in the Federal Register . The public comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA's notice of availability appears in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes it is important to give reviewers notice at this early stage because of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. Wisconsin Heritage, Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when the agency can meaningfully consider them, and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. (Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points.). Following this comment period, the comments received will be analyzed, considered and responded to by the Forest Service in the final environmental impact statement (FEIS). The FEIS is scheduled to be completed by July 1994. Joel Holtrop, Forest Supervisor, Flathead National Forest, 1935 Third Avenue East, Kalispell, MT 59901, is the responsible official for the preparation of the EIS and will make a decision regarding this proposal considering the comments and responses, environmental consequences discussed in the FEIS, and applicable laws, regulations, and policies. The decision and rationale for the decision will be documented in a Record of Decision. That decision will be subject to appeal under applicable Forest Service regulations. Dated: February 18, 1994. Bert Stout, District Ranger, Tally Lake Ranger District, Flathead National Forest. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4787 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
