FR940511-2-00094 FR940511-2-00058 Program Narrative Statement A. New Applications 1. Objectives and need for assistance. Pinpoint any relevant physical, economic, social, financial, institutional, or other problems requiring a solution. Demonstrate the need for the assistance and state the principal and subordinate objectives of the project. Supporting documentation or other testimonies from concerned interests other than the applicant may be used. Any relevant data based on planning studies should be included or footnoted. 2. Results or Benefits Expected. Identify results and benefits to be derived. The anticipated contribution to policy, practice, theory and/or research should be indicated. 3. Approach. Outline a plan of action pertaining to the scope and detail how the proposed work will be accomplished for each project. Cite factors which might accelerate or decelerate the work and your reasons for taking this approach as opposed to others. Describe any unusual features of the project, such as design or technological innovations, reductions in cost or time, or extraordinary social and community involvements. Provide for each assistance program quantitative projections of the accomplishments to be achieved, if possible. When accomplishments cannot be quantified, list the activities in chronological order to show the schedule of accomplishments and their target dates. Identify the kinds of data to be collected and maintained, and discuss the criteria to be used to evaluate the results and success of the project. Explain the methodology that will be used to determine if the needs identified and discussed are being met and if the results and benefits identified are being achieved. List each organization, cooperator, consultant, or other key individuals who will work on the project along with a short description of the nature of their effort or contribution. 4. Geographic Location. Give a precise location of the project and area to be served by the proposed project. Maps or other graphic aids may be attached. 5. If applicable, provide the following information: for research and demonstration assistance requests, present a biographical sketch of the program director with the following information: Name, address, telephone number, background, and other qualifying experience for the project. Also, list the name, training and background for other key personnel engaged in the project. Describe the relationship between this project and other work planned, anticipated, or underway under Federal assistance. B. Supplemental Applications Explain the reason for all requests for supplemental assistance and justify the need for additional funding. Discuss accomplishments to date and list in chronological order a schedule of accomplishments, progress or milestones anticipated with the new funding request. If there have been significant changes in the project objectives, location, approach or time delays, explain and justify. For other requests for changes, or amendments, explain the reason for the changes(s). If the total budget has been exceeded or if the individual budget items have changed more than the prescribed limits, explain and justify the change and its effect on the project. C. Continuation Applications Continuation applications need only provide information explaining significant changes to the original Program Narrative Statement and a description of accomplishments from the prior budget period. BILLING CODE 4130&hyph;02&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN11MY94.003 E:GRAPHICSEN11MY94.004 E:GRAPHICSEN11MY94.005 BILLING CODE 4130&hyph;02&hyph;C
