FR940930-2-00060 FR940930-2-00034 Executive Order 12372 Review This program is not subject to the Executive Order 12372 review. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.939, HIV Prevention Activities_Non-governmental Organization Based. Other Requirements A. Recipients must comply with the document entitled Content of AIDS-Related Written Materials, Pictorials, Audiovisuals, Questionnaires, Survey Instruments, and Educational Sessions in Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Assistance Programs (June 1992). To meet the requirements for a program review panel, recipients are encouraged to use an existing program review panel, such as the one created by the State health department's HIV/AIDS prevention program. If the recipient forms its own program review panel, at least one member must be an employee (or a designated representative) of a State or local health department. The names of review panel members must be listed on the Assurance of Compliance Form CDC 0.1113, which is also included in the application kit. The recipient must submit the program review panel's report that indicates all materials have been reviewed and approved. B. Requirement for a Certified Public Accountant (CPA): The services of a CPA licensed by the State Board of Accountancy or equivalent must be retained throughout the budget period as a part of the recipient's staff or as a consultant to the recipient's accounting personnel. These services may include the design, implementation, and maintenance of an accounting system to record receipts and expenditures of Federal funds, in accordance with accounting principles, Federal regulations, and cooperative agreement terms. Funds claimed by the recipient for reimbursement under this cooperative agreement must be audited by an independent CPA. This CPA for audit must be separate and independent of the consulting CPA in the above paragraph. This audit must be performed within 90 days after the budget period, or at the close of an organization's fiscal year. The audit must be performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards (established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants), governmental auditing standards (established by the General Accounting Office), applicable Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars, and any other applicable Federal requirements. C. Confidentiality of Records: All identifying information obtained in connection with the provision of services to any person in any program that is being carried out through a cooperative agreement made under this announcement shall not be disclosed unless required by a law of a State or political subdivision or unless written, voluntary informed consent is provided by persons who receive services. D. OMB Review: Projects that involve the collection of information from 10 or more individuals and funded by the cooperative agreement will be subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Application and Submission Deadline The original and two copies of the application PHS Form 5161&hyph;1 must be submitted to Clara M. Jenkins, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Room 320, Mailstop E&hyph;15, Atlanta, GA 30305, on or before December 22, 1994.
