FR940429-0-00237 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: Four commenters believed that §690.83(e) of the proposed regulations does not comply with the statute because, in implementing section 487(c)(7) of the HEA, it places undue restrictions on an institution seeking additional funds which the institution would have been eligible to receive if it had met Federal Pell Grant Program reporting deadlines. One commenter stated that the Secretary had unduly limited the scope of section 487(c)(7) of the HEA by making the provision of this section applicable only to funds received under the Federal Pell Grant Program. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the proposed rule in §690.83(e) is in accordance with the program statute. When an institution's auditor identifies underreported Federal Pell Grant expenditures beyond the normal reporting and reconciliation deadlines for the Federal Pell Grant Program, §690.83(e) provides a mechanism for an institution to receive credit for having properly expended those funds. Congress intended that an institution have such a mechanism available. However, the Secretary does not believe that Congress intended for such accounting recaptures of properly expended funds to continue in perpetuity. In order for the Department to complete its own accounting for the Federal Pell Grant Program appropriations, institutions are expected to timely reconcile the expenditures throughout the award year, with a final accounting made on or before September 30. The procedures in §690.83(e) will provide a further opportunity for an institution to seek credit for having properly expended these funds during a prior award year, but the Secretary believes it is appropriate to limit the circumstances and timing for receiving credit for such prior expenditures. Furthermore, §690.83(e) is limited to the Federal Pell Grant Program because the auditing procedure permitted under §690.83(e) results in an adjustment to the institution's prior year funding authorization for the Federal Pell Grant Program. There is no corresponding capability to adjust prior year funding for the other Title IV, HEA programs. Changes: None. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Comments: Several commenters disagreed with the Department's computation of the annual public reporting and recordkeeping burden contained in the regulations. Another commenter questioned whether the Department had complied with the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act and its implementing regulations in 5 CFR part 1320. This commenter also believed that students should be considered in computing the burden. Discussion: The Department's computation of the annual public reporting and recordkeeping burden in the regulations is an estimate based on the best information available. The Department identified sections of the regulations containing information collection requirements in the preamble to the proposed regulations and complied with all applicable requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act and its implementing regulations in 5 CFR part 1320. The Department appreciates the additional information provided by commenters regarding the estimated burden. To the extent that commenters identified specific regulatory provisions as imposing burdens or provided estimates of the amount of burden imposed, this information has been considered in developing the final regulations. The Department did not consider students in computing the estimated burden of the information collection requirements in the regulations because the regulations govern postsecondary institutions participating in the Title IV student financial assistance programs. If any burden is imposed on students, it is indirect and not subject to computation under the Paperwork Reduction Act. As a result of the comments and revisions to the regulations, the Department is modifying the burden estimates. The total annual reporting and recordkeeping burden that would result from the collection of the information is 123,485 burden hours for the package. Changes: None. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification Comments: In the NPRMs, the Secretary certified that the proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Several commenters suggested that this statement was erroneous and that these rules will definitely have a significant impact on institutions, especially the smaller ones that are not computerized. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes that the regulations will have an impact on small institutions. However, based on Department estimates of the impact, the Secretary does not believe that the impact will be disproportionately or economically significant. The Secretary therefore reaffirms his certification that the regulations would not have a significant economic impact or a substantial significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. To the extent that commenters are able to provide additional information on the economic impact of the regulations, the Secretary invites the commenters to submit this information so that it may be considered in reviewing the regulations to reduce regulatory burden. Changes: None. Executive Order 12866 These final regulations have been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order 12866. Under the terms of the order the Secretary has assessed the potential costs and benefits of this regulatory action. The potential costs associated with the final regulations are those resulting from statutory requirements and those determined by the Secretary to be necessary for administering the Title IV, HEA programs effectively and efficiently. Burdens specifically associated with information collection requirements were identified and explained in the NPRMs that were published on February 17 and February 28, 1994, respectively. In assessing the potential costs and benefits_both quantitative and qualitative_of these regulations, the Secretary has determined that the benefits of the regulations justify the costs. The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal government in the exercise of their governmental functions. Invitation To Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these regulations. The Secretary will consider any comments received within the designated comment period in determining whether to make any changes in these rules. After reviewing any comments received during the comment period, the Secretary will publish changes to the regulations or will publish a notice in the Federal Register indicating that no further changes will be made. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Sections 668.3, 668.8, 668.12, 668.13, 668.14, 668.15, 668.16, 668.17, 668.22, 668.23, 668.25, 668.26, 668.90, 668.96, 668.113, appendix A to 34 CFR part 668, 682.414, 682.416, 682.711, and 690.83 contain information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of these sections to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)) These regulations affect the following types of entities that participate in the programs authorized under Title IV of the HEA: Individuals, States, large and small businesses, for-profit institutions or other for-profit organizations, non-profit institutions, and public institutions. The Department needs and uses the information to enable the Secretary to improve the monitoring and accountability of institutions and third-party servicers participating in the Title IV, HEA programs. Annual public collecting, reporting, and recordkeeping burden for this collection of information is estimated to total 123,485 hours for 64,695 respondents, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. These numbers represent aggregate totals. For further information contact the Department of Education contact person. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Comments on this burden estimate should be submitted by May 31, 1994.
