FR940406-1-00064 FR940406-1-00019 Background As part of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Pub.L. 101&hyph;624; 7 U.S.C. 136i-1), hereinafter referred to as the FACT Act, Congress mandated the establishment, by the Secretary of Agriculture in consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, of requirements for recordkeeping by all certified applicators of federally restricted use pesticides. Applicator certification programs are administered by EPA, other Federal Agencies, and States. A restricted use pesticide, as distinguished from a general use pesticide, is one that has been classified as such under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA, at 7 U.S.C. 136a(d)(1)(C)). EPA regulations issued under FIFRA, further provide that restricted use pesticides may be applied only by, or under the supervision of, a certified applicator. Applicator certification requirements are provided in the EPA regulations (40 CFR 171). A certified applicator may be a commercial applicator or a private applicator. A private applicator is one who uses or supervises the use of any restricted use pesticide for purposes of producing any agricultural commodity: (1) On property that is owned or rented by the applicator, or the employer of the applicator; or (2) if applied without compensation other than trading of personal services between producers of agricultural commodities, on the property of another person. A commercial applicator is one who uses or supervises the use of a restricted use pesticide for any purpose or on any property other than as provided under the definition of a private applicator. On April 9, 1993, final regulations were published in the Federal Register , ``Recordkeeping Requirements for Certified Applicators of Federally Restricted Use Pesticides.'' These regulations went into affect on May 10, 1993. USDA proceeded to implement a national program for recordkeeping of federally restricted use pesticides. One of USDA's first goals was to inform certified pesticide applicators of their responsibilities under the new regulations. Early in the implementation phase of the USDA recordkeeping program, State regulatory agencies and others raised issues involving specific interpretations of the regulations. A lawsuit was filed against the Secretary of Agriculture and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency by the National Coalition Against the Misuse of Pesticides and others. The lawsuit challenged the substance of limited portions of the final regulations promulgated by USDA. After careful consideration of the issues raised by the lawsuit and a thorough review of the regulations, we agreed to propose changes to the regulations for the reasons set forth below. Proposed Amendments to ยง110.2 Definitions Concerns were raised that the regulation's definition of ``medical emergency'' was too restrictive and could hinder the medical treatment by licensed health care professionals of an individual(s) who may have been exposed to a federally restricted use pesticide. It was pointed out that some particular pesticide exposures could require immediate medical treatment or first aid, but would not meet the criteria of the current definition. It is not the intent of USDA to limit medical treatment of an individual(s) who may have been exposed to a restricted use pesticide. Because reactions to some pesticide exposures could require treatment immediately and not fit the current definition of ``medical emergency,'' USDA is proposing to amend the definition of ``medical emergency'' to read as follows: Medical Emergency. A medical emergency shall be defined as a situation that requires immediate medical treatment or first aid. Questions also were raised concerning the definition of ``licensed health care professional.'' There was some confusion as to whether medically trained individuals who had been certified by a State, such as medical technicians on an ambulance or emergency response vehicle, met the definition. USDA wishes to clarify that individuals that have been licensed or certified by a State to provide medical treatment are considered to be ``licensed health care professionals.'' Therefore, individuals such as physicians, nurses, physician assistants, or emergency medical technicians, licensed or certified by a State to provide medical treatment, would fall into the definition of ``licensed health care professionals.'' However, individuals who have been certified only to provide first aid or cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) through organizations such as the American Red Cross would not be ``licensed health care professionals.'' In order to clarify this definition, USDA is proposing to amend the definition of ``licensed health care professional'' to read as follows: Licensed health care professional. A physician, nurse, emergency medical technician, or other qualified individual, licensed or certified by a State to provide medical treatment.
