FR941013-2-00158 FR941013-2-00107 Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the notice of proposed priorities, one party submitted comments. The comments concerned the priority titled ``Collaborative Research on Technology, Media, and Materials for Children and Youth with Disabilities'' proposed under the Technology, Educational Media, and Materials for Individuals with Disabilities Program. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the proposed priorities follows. Technical and other minor changes are not addressed. Comment: The commenter expressed concern that only researchers and practitioners are described as actively involved in all phases of the research under the priority titled ``Collaborative Research on Technology, Media, and Materials for Children and Youth with Disabilities.'' The commenter suggested that the priority be revised to include family members and students with disabilities as active participants in the research. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that collaborative research means partnerships between all stakeholders, including family members and students with disabilities, and that their inclusion is important to reducing the gap between research and practice. Changes: A sentence has been added to the priority to emphasize the importance of including input from family members and students with disabilities in the research project. The new sentence states: ``To further reduce the gap between research and practice, projects are encouraged to include input from family members and students with disabilities.'' Comment: Under the priority titled ``Collaborative Research on Technology, Media, and Materials for Children and Youth with Disabilities'', the same commenter expressed concern that the unique needs of students with cognitive disabilities are too frequently not considered. The commenter suggested that projects should indicate how such research will benefit this population of students. Discussion: The priority as written does not preclude projects that focus on students with cognitive disabilities. However, it is the responsibility of the applicant to develop the project focus in terms of curriculum areas, grade/age levels, disabilities, types of services provided, and/or specific types of technology, media and materials. The Secretary does not believe it would be appropriate to limit projects to certain disability areas, but prefers to give potential applicants the latitude to include any disability. Changes: None. Early Education Program for Children With Disabilities Purpose of Program: The purpose of this program is to support activities that are designed (a) to address the special needs of children with disabilities, birth through age eight, and their families; and, (b) to assist State and local entities in expanding and improving programs and services for these children and their families. Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary gives an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priority. The Secretary will fund under this competition only applications that meet this absolute priority: Proposed Absolute Priority_Early Childhood Research Institute: Follow Through Background: This priority supports an Early Childhood Research Institute to develop, evaluate and disseminate strategies and procedures that will move the successful practices of early intervention and preschool programs into the early elementary school grades. These successful practices include, but are not limited to, (1) family-friendly and family-focused approaches to planning and providing special education and related services, (2) extensive parent involvement in service planning and delivery, (3) integrated and coordinated delivery of services when multiple services are necessary, (4) multi-disciplinary input into service planning and delivery, (5) developmentally appropriate services delivered in ungraded/mixed-age and mixed ability group settings, and (6) a pro-active approach to service planning and delivery in which services (e.g., team teaching, assistive technology applications, use of paraprofessionals) are integrated and concentrated to ensure that as many children with disabilities as possible successfully acquire critical skills taught in the primary grades (e.g., beginning literacy, social skills) that are crucial to children's progress and adjustment in school. The Institute's research, development and evaluation activities must (1) identify administrative, attitudinal, and programmatic barriers to establishing these successful practices in kindergarten through grade three (or equivalent) for children with disabilities and their families; (2) develop and evaluate strategies and procedures that are designed to overcome these barriers, such as strategies parents can use to maintain their involvement once their child reaches school age, and strategies school personnel can use to encourage and facilitate continued parent involvement; and (3) identify effective ways to disseminate the findings and products of the Institute so that successful practices, or combinations of practices, can be adopted easily by school systems. The Secretary anticipates funding one cooperative agreement with a project period of up to 60 months subject to the requirements of 34 CFR 75.253(a) for continuation awards. In determining whether to continue the Institute for the fourth and fifth years of the project period, the Secretary, in addition to applying the requirements of 34 CFR 75.253(a), considers the recommendation of a review team consisting of three experts selected by the Secretary. The services of the review team, including a two-day visit to the project, are to be performed during the last half of the Institute's second year and may be included in that year's evaluation required under 34 CFR 75.590. Priority: The Early Childhood Research Institute considered for funding under this priority must_
