FR940916-1-00139 FR940916-1-00016 (ii) The nearest available repair point on the line of the connecting railroad is no farther than the nearest available repair point on the line of the railroad where the car or locomotive was found defective. (8) The movement of the defective car or locomotive for repairs is not by a train that is departing the initial terminal or point of origin for that train. (9) The movement of the defective car or locomotive for repairs is not by a train having more than 15 percent of the cars in the train with the brakes cut out. (10) The defective car or locomotive is not subject to a Special Notice for Repair under part 216 of this chapter, unless the movement of the defective car is made in accordance with the restrictions contained in the Special Notice. (11) Except for cars or locomotives with brakes cut out enroute and locomotives not in compliance with this part moving light or dead within a yard at speeds that do not exceed 10 mph, the following additional requirements are met: (i) A qualified person shall determine_ (A) That it is safe to move the car or locomotive; and (B) The maximum speed and other restrictions necessary for safely conducting the movement. (ii) The person in charge of the train in which the car or locomotive is to be moved shall be notified in writing and inform all other crew members of the presence of the defective car or locomotive and the maximum speed and other restrictions determined under paragraph (a)(11)(i)(B) of this section. A copy of the tag or card described in paragraph (a)(11)(iii) of this section may be used to provide the notification required by paragraph (a)(11)(ii) of this section. (iii) A tag or card bearing the words ``bad order'' or ``home shop for repairs'' shall be securely attached to each side of a defective car, or in the case of a defective locomotive a tag or card bearing the words ``non-complying locomotive'' shall be securely attached to the control stand on each MU locomotive or cab control locomotive and to the isolation switch or near the engine start switch on every other type of locomotive. These tags or cards shall be readable and contain the following information: (A) The car or locomotive number; (B) The name of the inspecting railroad; (C) The inspection location and date; (D) The nature of each defect; (E) Movement restrictions; (F) The destination for shopping or repair; and (G) The signature of the person making the determinations required by this paragraph. (b) Movement for unloading or purging of defective cars. If the defective car is loaded or contains hazardous material residue, it may not be placed for unloading or purging unless unloading or purging is consistent with determinations made and restrictions imposed under paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section and unloading or purging is necessary for the safe repair of the car. Subpart B_Design Standards for Train Brake Systems ยง232.101 General standards that apply to all trains and equipment. (a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, all equipment shall be equipped with power brakes which meet the specifications and requirements for power brakes and appliances set forth in this part. (b) Interstate Commerce Commission Order 13528, of May 30, 1945, as amended, is hereby revoked. (c) The provisions formerly contained in Interstate Commerce Commission Order 13528, of May 30, 1945, as amended, are codified in this section, which provides that the specifications and requirements for power brakes and appliances for operating power-brake systems used for freight service, set forth in this part, are not applicable to the following equipment: (1) Scale test weight cars; (2) Locomotive cranes, steam shovels, pile drivers, and similar construction and maintenance machines built prior to September 21, 1945; (3) Export, industrial, and other than railroad-owned cars which are not to be used in service, except for movement as shipments on their own wheels to given destinations. Such cars shall be properly identified by a card attached to each side of the car, signed by the shipper, stating that such movement is being made under the authority of this section. (4) Industrial and other than railroad-owned cars which are not to be used in service except for movement within the limits of a single switching district (i.e. within the limits of an industrial facility); (5) Narrow-gauge cars; and (6) Cars used exclusively in switching operations and not used in train movements within the meaning of the Safety Appliance Acts (45 U.S.C. 1&hyph;14, 16). (d) Loss of propelling power shall not reduce the rate of safe deceleration of a train. (e) All equipment built on or after January 1, 1995 shall have train brake systems designed so that an inspector can observe from a safe position the piston travel or an accurate indicator which shows piston travel. The design shall not require the inspector to place himself/herself on, under, or between components of the equipment to observe brake actuation or release. (f) All trains shall be equipped with a train brake system emergency application feature capable of increasing the train's deceleration rate a minimum of 15 percent over the deceleration rate created by a full service brake application. (g) Train brake systems that include on-tread friction brakes shall be designed so that in normal application of the tread brake, the surface temperature of the wheel tread does not exceed 600 degrees F. (h) Train brake systems that include disc friction brakes shall be designed so that in normal application, the disc pad rotor surface temperature does not exceed 750 degrees F. (i) All locomotives shall be equipped with a means to automatically detect wheel slip or slide or automatically adjust propulsion or retarding forces to minimize wheel slip or slide. (j) Each car and each new locomotive shall be equipped with a handbrake. The handbrake shall: (1) Be capable of being applied by hand or by heavy duty springs; (2) Be capable of being released by hand; (3) Be capable of holding the car when fully loaded or locomotive on a three-percent descending grade; and (4) Be associated and in harmony with the primary brake system used to control the movement of the car or locomotive.
