FR940104-1-00011 FR940104-1-00003 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 92&hyph;NM&hyph;157&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; de Havilland, Inc., Model DHC&hyph;7 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking; reopening of comment period. SUMMARY: This document revises an earlier proposed airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;7 series airplanes, that would have required a one-time inspection to assess the adequacy of the clearance between various adapter plates and seal retaining angles on the fuselage side access panel, and modification, if necessary. That proposal was prompted by reports of incidents involving corrosion and fatigue cracking in commuter-class airplanes that are approaching or have exceeded their economic design goal. This action revises the proposed rule by requiring modification of both the forward and rear seal retention angles, regardless of whether damage is found. The actions specified by this proposed AD are intended to prevent degradation of the structural capabilities of the affected airplanes. DATES: Comments must be received by February 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 92&hyph;NM&hyph;157&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from de Havilland, Inc., Garratt Boulevard, Downsview, Ontario M3K 1Y5, Canada. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sol Maroof, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANE&hyph;172, FAA, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, room 202, Valley Stream, New York 11581; telephone (516) 791&hyph;6220; fax (516) 791&hyph;9024. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 92&hyph;NM&hyph;157&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 92&hyph;NM&hyph;157&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations to add an airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;7 series airplanes, was published as a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) in the Federal Register on March 4, 1993 (58 FR 12349). That NPRM would have required a one-time inspection to assess the adequacy of the clearance between: (1) The wing forward pick-up adapter plate and the seal retaining angle on the fuselage side access panel, and (2) the wing rear mounting adapter plates and the seal retaining angle on the fuselage side access panel; and modification, if necessary. That NPRM was prompted by reports of incidents involving corrosion and fatigue cracking in commuter-class airplanes that are approaching or have exceeded their economic design goal. That condition, if not corrected, could result in degradation of the structural capabilities of the affected airplanes. Since the issuance of that NPRM, the FAA has received a comment that has caused the FAA to reconsider its position on certain aspects of the proposed rule. The commenter requests that the proposal be revised to require modification of the forward and rear retention angles and adapter plates, regardless of whether damage is found in the adapter plates. The commenter contends that if the forward and rear seal retainers are not trimmed, they may be inadvertently interchanged with seal retainers from other airplanes in an operator's fleet. The FAA concurs. The FAA has reviewed all available data and has determined that in order to preclude the possibility for installing an untrimmed seal retainer in an airplane that lacks sufficient clearance, the forward and rear seal retainers must be trimmed. Although the referenced service bulletins do not specify trimming the forward and rear seal retainers when the seal retainers are found undamaged, the FAA finds that safety can be best assured when the seal retainers are trimmed, regardless of whether damage is found, to avoid the possibility for inadvertently interchanging seal retainers from other airplanes. Therefore, proposed paragraph (a) of the previously issued NPRM has been revised to propose requiring that Modification 7/2319 (forward adapter plates and seal retaining angle), and paragraph (b) of the NPRM has been revised to propose requiring that Modification 7/2355 (rear adapter plates and seal retaining angle) be accomplished.
