FR940713-1-00057 FR940713-1-00013 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC61 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Proposed Endangered Status for the Jaguar in the United States AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 12-month finding on a petition to extend endangered status to the jaguar ( Panthera onca ) throughout its range under the authority of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). The Service finds that the petitioned action is warranted. The jaguar is currently listed as endangered from Mexico southward to Central and South America. In the United States the primary threat to this species is from shooting. Loss and modification of the jaguar's habitat may have also contributed to its decline. While no breeding population of the jaguar is known to survive in the U.S., the species is present in northern Mexico, and wandering individuals occasionally cross the border. A minimum of 64 jaguars have been killed in Arizona since 1900. The most recent was in 1986. This proposal, if made final, will extend Federal protection provided by the Act for such dispersing animals. Critical habitat is not being proposed. The Service seeks data and comments from the public on this proposal. DATES: Comments from all interested parties must be received by September 12, 1994. Public hearing requests must be received by August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the State Supervisor, Arizona Ecological Services State Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 3616 West Thomas Road, Suite 6, Phoenix, Arizona 85019. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sam Spiller, State Supervisor, at the above address, or telephone 602/379&hyph;4720. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The jaguar ( Panthera onca ) is the largest species of cat native to the Western Hemisphere. Jaguars are muscular cats with relatively short, massive limbs and a deep-chested body. They are cinnamon-buff in color with many black spots. Their range in North America includes Mexico and portions of the southwestern United States (Hall 1981). A number of records of jaguars are known for Arizona, New Mexico, and Texas. Additional reports exist for California and Louisiana. Records of the jaguar in Arizona and New Mexico have been attributed to the subspecies Panthera onca arizonensis . The type specimen of this subspecies was collected in Navajo County, Arizona, in 1924 (Goldman 1932). Nelson and Goldman (1933) described the distribution of this subspecies as the mountainous parts of eastern Arizona north to the Grand Canyon, the southern half of western New Mexico, northeastern Sonora, and, formerly, southeastern California. The records for Texas have been attributed to P. o. veraecrucis . Nelson and Goldman (1933) described the distribution of this subspecies as the Gulf slope of eastern and southeastern Mexico from the coast region of Tabasco, north through Vera Cruz and Tamaulipas, to central Texas.
