FR941128-1-00033 FR941128-1-00005 m. Physical Removal Dry deposition effects for particles are treated using a resistance formulation in which the deposition velocity is the sum of the resistances to pollutant transfer within the surface layer of the atmosphere, plus a gravitational settling term (EPA, 1994), based on the modified surface depletion scheme of Horst (1983). n. Evaluation Studies * * * * * Environmental Protection Agency, 1992. Comparison of a Revised Area Source Algorithm for the Industrial Source Complex Short Term Model and Wind Tunnel Data. EPA Publication No. EPA&hyph;454/R&hyph;92&hyph;014. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. (NTIS No. PB 93&hyph;226751) Environmental Protection Agency, 1992. Sensitivity Analysis of a Revised Area Source Algorithm for the Industrial Source Complex Short Term Model. EPA Publication No. EPA&hyph;454/R&hyph;92&hyph;015. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. (NTIS No. PB 93&hyph;226769) Environmental Protection Agency, 1992. Development and Evaluation of a Revised Area Source Algorithm for the Industrial Source Complex Long Term Model. EPA Publication No. EPA&hyph;454/R&hyph;92&hyph;016. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. (NTIS No. PB 93&hyph;226777) Environmental Protection Agency, 1994. Development and Testing of a Dry Deposition Algorithm (Revised). EPA Publication No. EPA&hyph;454/R&hyph;94&hyph;015. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. * * * * * A. Ref Rerences * * * * * Horst, T. W., 1983. A Correction to the Gaussian Source-depletion Model. In Precipitation Scavenging, Dry Deposition and Resuspension. H. R. Pruppacher, R. G. Semonin, and W. G. N. Slinn, eds., Elseview, NY. 11. Appendix W to Part 51, Appendix B, is amended by: a. Adding two entries to the Table of Contents in numerical order; and b. Adding sections B.32 and B.33 immediately following section B.31. The additions read as follows: Appendix B to Appendix W of Part 51_Summaries of Alternative Air Quality Models Table of Contents * * * * * B.32␣HGSYSTEM B.33␣SLAB * * * * * B.32 HGSYSTEM: Dispersion Models for Ideal Gases and Hydrogen Fluoride References Witlox, H.W.M., 1991. HGSYSTEM: dispersion models for ideal gases and hydrogen fluoride, tutorial and quick-reference guide. Report TNER.91.007. Thornton Research Centre, Shell Research, Chester, England. [EGG 1067&hyph;1150] (NTIS No. DE 93&hyph;000952) Availability The PC-DOS version of the HGSYSTEM software (HGSYSTEM: Version NOV90, Programs for modeling the dispersion of ideal gas and hydrogen fluoride releases. [EGG 1067&hyph;1153]), executable programs and source code, can be installed from ten 51/4 ’ ’ diskettes. These diskettes and all documentation are available as a package from Energy, Science & Technology Center: (615) 576&hyph;1301. Technical Contacts Doug N. Blewitt, Amoco Corporation, Environmental Affairs & Safety Department, Mail Code 4901, 200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, IL 60601, (312) 856&hyph;4099 Howard J. Feldman, American Petroleum Institute, 1220 L Street, Northwest, Washington, D.C. 20005, (202) 682&hyph;8340 Abstract HGSYSTEM is a software package consisting of mathematical models for simulating one or more of the consecutive phases between spillage and far-field dispersion of a non-reactive ideal gas or hydrogen fluoride (HF). The individual models can be described as follows: (1) HFSPILL calculates the time-dependent spill rate of HF liquid or HF vapor from a pressurized vessel; (2) EVAP calculates the spreading and evaporation of a boiling liquid pool on water or non-boiling liquid pool on land; (3) HFPLUME calculates the depressurization to ambient pressure, the jet release and the near-field dispersion from a pressurized release of HF; (4) PLUME calculates the depressurization to ambient pressure, the jet release and the near-field dispersion from a pressurized release of non-reactive, ideal gases; (5) HEGADAS calculates the steady-state or time-dependent ground-level heavy-gas dispersion resulting from either a ground-level pool or a source in a vertical plane; and (6) PGPLUME simulates passive-gas dispersion downwind of a transition point based on a simple Pasquill/Gifford similarity model. The models assume flat, unobstructed terrain. HGSYSTEM can be used to model steady-state, finite-duration and time-dependent releases. The models can be run in either the interactive or batch mode. a. Recommendations for Regulatory Use HGSYSTEM can be used as a refined model to estimate short-term ambient concentrations. For toxic chemical releases (non-reactive chemicals or hydrogen fluoride; 1-hour or less averaging times) the expected area of exposure to concentrations above specified threshold values can be determined. For flammable non-reactive gases it can be used to determine the area in which the cloud may ignite. b. Input Requirements 1. HFSPILL input data: reservoir data (temperature, pressure, volume, HF mass, mass-fraction water), pipe-exit diameter and ambient pressure. 2. EVAP input data: spill rate, liquid properties, and evaporation rate (boiling pool) or ambient data (non-boiling pool). 3. HFPLUME and PLUME input data: reservoir characteristics, pollutant parameters, pipe/release data, ambient conditions, surface roughness and stability class. 4. HEGADAS input data: ambient conditions, pollutant parameters, pool data or data at transition point, surface roughness, stability class and averaging time. 5. PGPLUME input data: link data provided by HFPLUME and the averaging time. c. Output 1. The HGSYSTEM models contain three post-processor programs which can be used to extract modeling results for graphical display by external software packages. GET2COL can be used to extract data from the model output files. HSPOST can be used to develop isopleths, extract any 2 parameters for plotting and correct for finite release duration. HTPOST can be used to produce time history plots. 2. HFSPILL output data: reservoir mass, spill rate, and other reservoir variables as a function of time. For HF liquid, HFSPILL generates link data to HFPLUME for the initial phase of choked liquid flow (flashing jet), and link data to EVAP for the subsequent phase of unchoked liquid flow (evaporating liquid pool). 3. EVAP output data: pool dimensions, pool evaporation rate, pool mass and other pool variables for steady state conditions or as a function of time. EVAP generates link data to the dispersion model HEGADAS (pool dimensions and pool evaporation rate). 4. HFPLUME and PLUME output data: plume variables (concentration, width, centroid height, temperature, velocity, etc.) as a function of downwind distance. 5. HEGADAS output data: concentration variables and temperature as a function of downwind distance and (for transient case) time. 6. PGPLUME output data: concentration as a function of downwind distance, cross-wind distance and height. d. Type of Model HGSYSTEM is made up of four types of dispersion models. HFPLUME and PLUME simulate the near-field dispersion and PGPLUME simulates the passive-gas dispersion downwind of a transition point. HEGADAS simulates the ground-level heavy-gas dispersion. e. Pollutant Types HGSYSTEM may be used to model non-reactive chemicals or hydrogen fluoride.
