FR940617-0-00226 FR940617-0-00026 (4) A copy of the written record is to be submitted to the Manufacturers Operations Division of EPA within five working days of the transfer date. (d) Notwithstanding any other requirement of this subpart or U.S. Customs Service regulations, an ICI may also assume responsibility for the modification and testing of a nonconforming nonroad engine which was previously imported by another party. The ICI must be a holder of a currently valid certificate of conformity for that specific nonroad engine or authorized to import it pursuant to §89.609&hyph;96 at the time of assuming such responsibility. The ICI must comply with all the requirements of §89.603&hyph;96, §89.604&hyph;96, and either §89.605&hyph;96 or §89.609&hyph;96, as applicable. For the purposes of this subpart, the ICI has ``imported'' the nonroad engine as of the date the ICI assumes responsibility for the modification and testing of the nonroad engine. The ICI must submit written notification to the Manufacturers Operations Division of EPA within 10 working days of the assumption of that responsibility. §89.605&hyph;96 Final admission of certified nonroad engines. (a) A nonroad engine may be finally admitted into the United States upon approval of the ICI's application to the Administrator. The application is made by completing EPA forms in accordance with EPA instructions. The application contains: (1) The information required in §89.604&hyph;96(a); (2) Information demonstrating that the nonroad engine has been modified in accordance with a valid certificate of conformity. Demonstration is made in one of the following ways: (i) The ICI attests that the nonroad engine has been modified in accordance with the provisions of the ICI's certificate of conformity; presents to EPA a statement written by the applicable Original Engine Manufacturer (OEM) that the OEM must provide to the ICI, and to EPA, information concerning production changes to the class of nonroad engines described in the ICI's application for certification; delivers to the Manufacturers Operations Division of EPA notification by the ICI of any production changes already implemented by the OEM at the time of application and their effect on emissions; and obtains from EPA written approval to use this demonstration option; or (ii) The ICI attests that the nonroad engine has been modified in accordance with the provisions of the ICI's certificate of conformity. The ICI also attests that it has conducted, within 120 days of entry, an applicable and valid emission test on every third nonroad engine imported under that certificate of conformity to demonstrate compliance with federal emission requirements. The test is to be conducted at a laboratory located within the United States. Sequencing of the tests is determined by the date of importation of each nonroad engine beginning with the prototype nonroad engine used to obtain the applicable certificate of conformity. Should the ICI exceed a threshold of 300 nonroad engines imported under the certificate of conformity without adjustments or other changes in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the amount of required testing is reduced to every fifth nonroad engine.
