FR940805-0-00028 FR940805-0-00010 DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Secretary 24 CFR Part 103 [Docket No. R&hyph;94&hyph;1744; FR&hyph;3754&hyph;F&hyph;01] Fair Housing Complaint Processing AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, HUD. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule amends HUD's Fair Housing Complaint Processing regulations. The regulations govern the authority under sections 812(g) and (h) of the Fair Housing Act (the Act) to make and issue determinations of reasonable cause to believe that a discriminatory practice has occurred and issue charges detailing the determination, and the authority pursuant to section 810(c) of the Act to refer to the Attorney General matters involving breaches of conciliation agreements. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sara K. Pratt, Director, Office of Investigations, Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Room 5206, Washington, D.C. 20410&hyph;2000; telephone (202) 708&hyph;0836; TDD (202) 708&hyph;0015. (These are not toll-free numbers). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Sections 812(g) and (h) of the Fair Housing Act authorize the Secretary to make determinations of reasonable cause to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred. Section 810(c) authorizes the Secretary to refer to the Attorney General matters involving possible breaches of conciliation agreements by respondents for enforcement. Regulations found at 24 CFR parts 103 and 104 govern the conduct of investigations under the Act by the Assistant Secretary and the taking of enforcement action in a number of situations. This rule amends portions of 24 CFR part 103 to clarify that the Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (and the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Investigations and Enforcement), rather than the General Counsel, is authorized to make and issue determinations of reasonable cause to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred and issue charges based on the determinations, and the authority to refer matters involving possible breaches of conciliation agreements to the Attorney General. This authority was previously delegated to the General Counsel and Deputy General Counsel of the Department by the Secretary. Through this final rule, the Secretary has now revoked the delegation to the General Counsel and the Deputy General Counsel of this authority and delegated the authority to the Assistant Secretary. Other Matters Justification for final rule. In accordance with its own regulations on rulemaking in 24 CFR part 10, the Department generally publishes a rule for public comment before issuing a rule for effect. Part 10 provides, however, that notice and comment rulemaking may be omitted with respect to rules governing the Department's organization or its own internal practices or procedures. This final rule is one meeting that is standard, and is therefore issued without opportunity for prior public comment. Environmental Impact. In accordance with 40 CFR 1508.4 of the regulations of the Council on Environmental Quality and 24 CFR 50.20(k) of the HUD regulations, the policies and procedures contained in this rule relate only to internal administrative procedures whose content does not constitute a development decision nor affect the physical condition of project areas or building sites and, therefore, are categorically excluded from the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act. Regulatory Flexibility Act. The Secretary, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this document before publication and by approving it certifies that the rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rule reflects a delegation of authority by the Secretary under the Fair Housing Act. Executive Order 12606, The Family. The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that this rule will not have a significant impact on family formation, maintenance, or well-being. No significant change in existing HUD policies or programs will result from promulgation of this rule, as those policies and programs relate to family concerns. Executive Order 12611, Federalism. The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12611, Federalism, has determined that this rule does not involve the preemption of State law by Federal statute or regulation and does not have Federalism implications. Specifically, the rule will not substantially alter the established roles of HUD and the States and local governments. As a result, the rule is not subject to review. Semiannual Regulatory Agenda. This rule was not listed on the Department's semiannual regulatory agenda published on April 25, 1994 at 59 FR 20424 under Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects in 24 CFR Part 103 Administrative practice and procedure, Aged, Fair housing, Individuals with disabilities, Intergovernmental relations, Investigations, Mortgages, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Accordingly, for the reasons stated in the preamble, title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations, part 103, is amended as follows:
