FR941220-0-00016 FR941220-0-00005 Response: Although we believe that the therapist should have input into the development of the physician's orders for therapy services, this would not be an appropriate revision to the coverage criteria contained in this section as monitoring and compliance efforts would create an additional paperwork burden. This issue is already adequately addressed in the Medicare HHA conditions of participation at 42 CFR 484.18, which requires that ``the therapist and other agency personnel participate in developing the plan of care.'' Comment: One commenter stated that the physician should not be required to order a specific number of visits before care is actually furnished. Response: Although the physician's order is generally required to specify the number of visits ordered, we recognize that this is not possible in all situations. Therefore, this section allows the physician to order a specific range in the frequency of visits or visits ``as needed'' or ``PRN'' when necessary. We believe that this policy provides the needed flexibility in those cases where a physician cannot anticipate the specific number of visits that will be necessary to meet a patient's needs. Comment: One commenter suggested that, when a physician orders a range of visits, the lower end of the range should be used as the specific frequency when determining coverage. Response: We disagree. If the lower end of a range of visits was used as the specific frequency, any services exceeding the lower end, even though they may fall within the range, would not be covered. We believe use of the upper end of the range as the specific frequency affords an HHA the needed flexibility to provide covered services anywhere within the ordered range. Comment: One commenter stated that it was not practical to require a description of the patient's medical signs and symptoms that would occasion a visit as needed (``PRN'') as well as a specific limit on the number of allowable PRN visits. Another commenter stated that this requirement did not provide HHAs with sufficient flexibility to respond to patient needs. Response: We disagree with both comments. As we stated in the preamble of the proposed rule, we believe that removing these requirements would allow unreasonable ``open- ended'' orders for care. The intent of this requirement is to allow physicians and HHAs the flexibility needed to effectively serve patients whose need for care cannot be easily predicted, not to give HHAs ``carte blanche'' to provide an unlimited number of visits with no restrictions. The requirement that a physician must describe the medical signs and symptoms that would occasion a visit ensures that the PRN visits are provided only in specific circumstances, such as a plugged urinary catheter or a leaking heparin lock for an IV antibiotic patient. The requirement that the physician impose a specific limit on the number of PRN visits ensures that he or she will remain informed if the patient's need for visits is greater than anticipated. We believe that, by establishing strict parameters in which PRN visits may be furnished, these requirements protect the patient's health and safety while also guarding against Medicare coverage of unreasonable visits. Comment: One commenter suggested that ยง409.43(c) be revised to require the plan of care to be signed by ``a physician'' instead of ``the physician'' to allow for cases in which multiple physicians are providing patient care.
