FR940216-2-00027 FR940216-2-00015 Special Concerns In its administration of the MCH Services Block Grant, the MCHB places special emphasis on improving service delivery to women and children from culturally identifiable populations who have been disproportionately affected by barriers to accessible care. This means that SPRANS projects are expected to serve and appropriately involve in project activities members of ethnoculturally distinct groups, unless there are compelling programmatic or other justifications for not doing so. The MCHB s intent is to ensure that project outcomes are of benefit to culturally distinct populations and to ensure that the broadest possible representation of culturally distinct and historically underserved groups is supported through programs and projects sponsored by the MCHB. Projects supported under SPRANS are expected to be part of community-wide, comprehensive initiatives, to reflect appropriate coordination of primary care and public health activities, and to target HRSA resources effectively to fill gaps in the Nation s health system for at-risk mothers and children. This applies especially to projects in the 15 communities in the Nation which have received grants from HRSA under the Administration s Healthy Start initiative. Grantees in these communities providing services related to activities of a Healthy Start program are expected to coordinate their projects with the Healthy Start program efforts. Healthy Start communities include: Aberdeen Area Indian Nations, NE/ND/SD; Baltimore, MD; Birmingham, AL; Boston, MA; Chicago, IL; Cleveland, OH; Detroit, MI; Lake County, IN; New Orleans, LA; New York, NY; Oakland, CA; Philadelphia, PA; Pittsburgh, PA; PeeDee Region, SC; and Washington, DC. Grants/Amounts: Up to $600,000 of SPRANS funds will be available to support up to two projects at a maximum of $300,000 per award for a one-year period. Awards are made for grant periods of up to four years. Review Criteria The following general criteria are used, as pertinent, to review and evaluate for funding all applications for SPRANS grants and cooperative agreements: _The quality of the project plan or methodology. _The need for the services, research, training or technical assistance. _The cost-effectiveness of the proposed project relative to the number of persons proposed to be benefitted, served or trained, considering, where relevant, any special circumstances associated with providing care or training in various areas. _The extent to which the project will contribute to the advancement of MCH and/or CSHCN services. _The extent to which rapid and effective use of grant funds will be made by the project. _The effectiveness of procedures to collect the cost of care and service from third-party payment sources (including government agencies) which are authorized or under legal obligation to make such payment for any service (including diagnostic, preventive and treatment services). _The extent to which the project will be integrated with the administration of the Maternal and Child Health Services block grants, State primary care plans, public health, and prevention programs, and other related programs in the respective State(s). _The soundness of the project's management, considering the qualifications of the staff of the proposed project and the applicant's facilities and resources. _The extent to which the project gives special emphasis to improving service delivery to women and children from culturally identifiable populations who have been disproportionately affected by barriers to accessible care and ensures that members of culturally distinct groups are appropriately represented in the activities of approved grants and cooperative agreements. _In communities with Healthy Start projects, a commitment by applicants whose projects are related to activities of a Healthy Start program to coordinate their projects with Healthy Start program efforts. _The strength of the project's plans for evaluation. _The strength of the applicant's prior experience linking health, education and social service professionals together with policy makers in State and local health and education agencies and private sector organizations to solve complex problems facing children and their families that require collaboration. In addition to the above criteria, other special review criteria are used to assess grants announced in this notice. As detailed in the guidance enclosed with the application packet, these special review criteria focus closely on the quality of each element of the program narrative section of the application: the problem; contributing factors; project goals; outcome objectives; methodology; tracking of project implementation; monitoring and evaluations; use of project information; capabilities of the applicant; budget and justification; and the overall significance of the project.
