FR940208-0-00112 FR940208-0-00031 Service Response: The Service fully acknowledges the positive efforts on behalf of the desert tortoise already implemented by the Navy and the Army. Such plans should be considered in establishing recovery areas for the desert tortoise, as recommended by the Draft Recovery Plan. The DOD should work closely with the BLM and the Service in determining where these recovery areas will be located and what actions will be implemented within them to effect recovery of the desert tortoise. Following establishment of recovery areas, the Service will reevaluate its designation of critical habitat. Issue 19: EAFB expressed concern that designation of critical habitat would prevent use of supersonic corridors in the desert. Service Response: The primary potential adverse effects of supersonic flight on the desert tortoise would be to the tortoises themselves, as potential harm or harassment. Supersonic flight is not expected to destroy or adversely modify desert tortoise habitat. Issue 20: The Marine Corps requested that Twentynine Palms Air Ground Combat Center be removed from critical habitat designation in the Ord-Rodman CHU. Service Response: The Service has reevaluated the desert tortoise habitat within the Twentynine Palms Air Ground Combat Center. Off-road travel by armored vehicles, bombing and strafing with live ammunition, and emergency disposal of ordnance and fuel from aircraft have resulted in deterioration of habitat quality over large contiguous areas. Based on this reevaluation, the Service has refined the boundaries of the Ord-Rodman CHU to remove the Twentynine Palms Air Ground Combat Center from designation as critical habitat. Issue 21: A few commenters responded that there is no substantive evidence that directly links the decline in tortoise numbers with livestock grazing, nor is there any evidence that tortoises have suffered because their habitat has been grazed. Service Response: The Service is currently consulting informally with the BLM regarding impacts of livestock grazing on desert tortoise critical habitat. Although no definitive studies on the relation between livestock grazing and the welfare of desert tortoises have yet been completed, there is a significant amount of scientific literature on the adverse effects of livestock grazing on desert ecosystems, in terms of vegetation changes, soil compaction and erosion, and reduction of microorganisms in the soil. The Service will continue discussions with the BLM and the Desert Tortoise Recovery Team on this issue. Issue 22: Some letters stated that utility corridor expansion, road proliferation from illegal OHV activity, legal mineral exploration, and current grazing practices are existing activities that degrade tortoise habitat. Stopping these uses that are destructive to existing critical habitat is the answer to protecting the tortoise. Service Response: As stated previously, designation of critical habitat does not create a land management plan. Federal agencies will enter into consultation pursuant to section 7 of the Act with the Service for all activities that they authorize, fund, or carry out. Through that consultation, the Service will determine if the actions are likely to jeopardize the continued existence of the species or destroy or adversely modify critical habitat. The Federal land management agencies will address the multiple uses on lands under their administration in the process of establishing desert wildlife management areas to implement recovery actions for the desert tortoise. Issue 23: Some people questioned the existence of scientific data that reflects a true depiction of the distribution of desert tortoises in the West Mojave or elsewhere. Service Response: Although not every square inch of land in the Mojave Desert has been inventoried for the presence of desert tortoises, the BLM and other agencies and biologists have spent considerable time and effort conducting desert tortoise surveys throughout the range of the desert tortoise. Such information has been compiled into the BLM's category and density maps for the desert tortoise, which are used by many of the agencies involved in desert tortoise management. This information was also used in preparing the Draft Recovery Plan. 1 Issue 24: Some people stated that the Service should consider the custom and culture and the continued quality of existence of the human species. The customs and culture of the people should have the same consideration as biology and economics in determining critical habitat for the desert tortoise. Service Response: The designation of critical habitat is mandated by the Endangered Species Act and is based on the best scientific data available after taking into consideration the economic impact and any other relevant impact of specifying an area as critical habitat. In developing DWMAs, land management agencies will have the opportunity to consider local custom and culture in their decision processes. Issue 25: One respondent stated that the Service's statements about increasing OHV use as of 1980 statistics did not address the extent of lands made unavailable between the years 1980 and 1993. Currently less than 2 percent of the California desert is accessible for motorized recreation.
