FR941003-1-00084 FR941003-1-00006 (2) Resolution with Council participation. (i) When the Agency Official determines that Council involvement is warranted in accordance with §800.10(a)(2), when the Council notifies the Agency Official in accordance with §800.10(c)(1)(ii), or when the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, or the Council so requests, the Agency Official shall consult with the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Council to avoid or reduce the adverse effects by negotiating acceptable alternatives or modifications to the undertaking as proposed. The Agency Official shall invite interested parties to participate in the negotiation in accordance with §800.10(b)(1). If the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, and the Council agree on how the adverse effects will be resolved, they shall execute a Memorandum of Agreement. (ii) When negotiation is being conducted in accordance with §800.10(c)(1), the Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, or any interested party may request the Council to participate. The Council shall determine if it will participate and notify the requestor of its decision within 30 days of the request. The Council may participate at any point in the Section 106 process without such a request. If the Council decides to participate, negotiation shall be conducted in accordance with §800.10(c)(2). (d) Memorandum of Agreement_ (1) Signatories. The signatories have the sole authority to execute, amend, or terminate the agreement. The Agency Official and the State Historic Preservation Officer are the signatories to a Memorandum of Agreement executed pursuant to §800.10(c)(1). The Agency Official, the State Historic Preservation Officer, and the Council are the signatories to a Memorandum of Agreement executed pursuant to §800.10(c)(2). When an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization has participated in the negotiation, the Agency Official shall invite the governing body of the Indian tribe or the Native Hawaiian organization to concur in any Memorandum of Agreement. Other interested parties may be invited by the signatories to concur in the agreement, but their concurrence is not necessary for the Memorandum of Agreement to take effect. When exercising its authorities under § 800.10(c)(1)(v), the Council will consider any objection to execution of such an agreement raised by an Indian tribe, Native Hawaiian organization, or other interested party. (2) Use of a Memorandum of Agreement for special situations. (i) A Memorandum of Agreement may govern more than one individual undertaking, a large or complex project, or certain situations that do not fall within the normal process of individual project review. These include situations: (A) When effects on historic properties are similar and repetitive or are multi-State or regional in scope; (B) When effects on historic properties cannot be fully determined prior to approval; (C) When non-Federal parties are delegated major decisionmaking responsibilities; or (D) Where routine management activities are undertaken at Federal installations, facilities, or other land-management units. (ii) Such a Memorandum of Agreement shall be developed in the same manner as other Memoranda of Agreement under §800.10, except that if negotiation pertains to a large project involving several undertakings and the parties fail to reach agreement, then the Agency Official shall Comply with §§800.8&hyph;800.10 for each individual undertaking. (3) Duration and reports on implementation. Any Memorandum of Agreement completed in accordance with this part shall include a provision for monitoring of, and reporting on, the implementation of the terms of the agreement. Reports shall be provided to the State Historic Preservation Officer and the Council, and be made available to other interested parties and for public inspection. A Memorandum of Agreement shall also include provisions for termination or reconsideration of terms if the undertaking has not been implemented within a specified period of time. (4) Effect. A Memorandum of Agreement that has been executed pursuant to this part evidences the Agency Official's compliance with Section 106 and this part and shall govern the undertaking and all of its parts, in accordance with Section 110(l) of the Act. The Agency Official must conform to and carry out the terms of the Memorandum of Agreement to satisfy the requirements of Section 106 and this part.
