FR940303-2-00003 FR940303-2-00002 Federal Grain Inspection Service Opportunity for Designation in the Denver (CO), East Indiana (IN), and Kansas Areas AGENCY: Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The United States Grain Standards Act, as amended (Act), provides that official agency designations shall end not later than triennially and may be renewed. The designations of Denver Grain Inspection (Denver), East Indiana Grain Inspection, Inc. (East Indiana), and Kansas State Grain Inspection Department (Kansas), will end August 31, 1994, according to the Act, and FGIS is asking persons interested in providing official services in the specified geographic areas to submit an application for designation. DATES: Applications must be postmarked or sent by telecopier (FAX) on or before March 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Applications must be submitted to Neil E. Porter, Director, Compliance Division, FGIS, USDA, Room 1647 South Building, P.O. Box 96454, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6454. Telecopier (FAX) users may send applications to the automatic telecopier machine at 202&hyph;720&hyph;1015, attention: Neil E. Porter. If an application is submitted by telecopier, FGIS reserves the right to request an original application. All applications will be made available for public inspection at this address located at 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W., during regular business hours. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Neil E. Porter, telephone 202&hyph;720&hyph;8262. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This action has been reviewed and determined not to be a rule or regulation as defined in Executive Order 12866 and Departmental Regulation 1512&hyph;1; therefore, the Executive Order and Departmental Regulation do not apply to this action. Section 7(f)(1) of the Act authorizes FGIS' Administrator to designate a qualified applicant to provide official services in a specified area after determining that the applicant is better able than any other applicant to provide such official services. FGIS designated Denver, main office located in Commerce City, Colorado, East Indiana, main office located in Muncie, Indiana, and Kansas, main office located in Topeka, Kansas, to provide grain inspection services under the Act on September 1, 1991. Section 7(g)(1) of the Act provides that designations of official agencies shall end not later than triennially and may be renewed according to the criteria and procedures prescribed in Section 7(f) of the Act. The designations of Denver, East Indiana, and Kansas end on August 31, 1994. The geographic area presently assigned to Denver, in the States of Colorado, Nebraska, and Wyoming, pursuant to Section 7(f)(2) of the Act, which will be assigned to the applicant selected for designation is as follows: The entire State of Colorado. In Nebraska: Bounded on the North by the northern Scotts Bluff County line; the northern Morrill County line east to Highway 385; Bounded on the East by Highway 385 south to the northern Cheyenne County line; the northern and eastern Cheyenne County lines; the northern and eastern Deuel County lines; Bounded on the South by the southern Deuel, Cheyenne, and Kimball County lines; and Bounded on the West by the western Kimball, Banner, and Scotts Bluff County lines. Goshen and Platte Counties, Wyoming. The following locations, outside of the above contiguous geographic area, are part of this geographic area assignment: Albin Elevator, Albin; Farmers Coop, Burns; Carpenter Elevator, Carpenter; Pillsbury Company, Egbert; and Pine Bluffs Feed and Grain, Pine Bluffs, all in Laramie County, Wyoming (located inside Wyoming Department of Agriculture's area). Exceptions to Denver's assigned geographic area are the following locations inside Denver's area which have been and will continue to be serviced by the following official agency: Hastings Grain Inspection, Inc.: Farmers Coop, and Big Springs Elevator, both in Big Springs, Deuel County, Nebraska. The geographic area presently assigned to East Indiana, in the States of Indiana and Ohio, pursuant to Section 7(f)(2) of the Act, which will be assigned to the applicant selected for designation is as follows: In Indiana: Bounded on the North by the northern Lagrange and Steuben County lines; Bounded on the East by the eastern Stueben, De Kalb, Allen, Adams, Jay, Randolph, Wayne, and Union County lines; Bounded on the South by the southern Union and Fayette County lines; the eastern Rush County line south to State Route 244; State Route 244 west to the Rush County line; and Bounded on the West by the western Rush and Henry County lines; the southern Madison County line west to State Route 13; State Route 13 north to State Route 132; State Route 132 northwest to Madison County; the western and northern Madison County lines; the northern Delaware County line; the western Blackford County line north to State Route 18; State Route 18 west to County Highway 900E; County Highway 900E north to Huntington County; the southern Huntington and Wabash County lines; the western Wabash County line north to State Route 114; State Route 114 northwest to State Route 19; State Route 19 north to Kosciusko County; the western and northern Kosciusko County lines; the western Noble and Lagrange County lines. Darke County, Ohio. The following location, outside of the above contiguous geographic area, is part of this geographic area assignment: Payne Cooperative Association, Payne, Paulding County, Ohio (located inside Lima Grain Inspection Service, Inc.'s, area). The geographic area presently assigned to Kansas, pursuant to Section 7(f)(2) of the Act, which will be assigned to the applicant selected for designation, is the entire State of Kansas. Interested persons, including Denver, East Indiana, and Kansas are hereby given the opportunity to apply for designation to provide official services in the geographic areas specified above under the provisions of Section 7(f) of the Act and section 800.196(d) of the regulations issued thereunder. Designation in the specified geographic areas is for the period beginning September 1, 1994, and ending August 31, 1997. Persons wishing to apply for designation should contact the Compliance Division at the address listed above for forms and information. Applications and other available information will be considered in determining which applicant will be designated. Authority: Pub. L. 94&hyph;582, 90 Stat. 2867, as amended (7 U.S.C. 71 et seq. ) Dated: February 24, 1994. Neil E. Porter Director, Compliance Division [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4732 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;EN&hyph;F
