FR940613-2-00092 FR940613-2-00056 [Release No. 34&hyph;34161; File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;6] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Relating to Interpretation of Rule G&hyph;37 on Political Contributions and Prohibitions on Municipal Securities Business June 6, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on May 24, 1994, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (``Board'' or ``MSRB'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The purpose of the proposed rule change is to provide interpretative guidance concerning rule G&hyph;37 on political contributions and prohibitions on municipal securities business. The Board, pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act, filed the proposal as constituting a stated policy, practice, or interpretation with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing rule of the Board. This renders the proposal effective upon filing with the Commission. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Board is filing the proposed rule change to provide interpretative guidance concerning rule G&hyph;37 on political contributions and prohibitions on municipal securities business. 1 1 The Board plans to publish the interpretations in the June 1994, MSRB Reports. The interpretations also are available for inspection and copying at the Commission's public reference room, and at the MSRB. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Board included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change On April 7, 1994, the Commission approved Board rule G&hyph;37, concerning political contributions and prohibitions on municipal securities business. 2 The Board has, and continues to receive, numerous inquiries concerning the application of the rule. In order to assist the municipal securities industry and, in particular, brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers in understanding and complying with the provisions of the rule, the Board has determined to publish this notice of interpretation which provides, in question-and-answer format, general guidance on rule G&hyph;37. The Board will continue to monitor the application of rule G&hyph;37, and, from time to time, will publish additional notices of interpretations, as necessary. 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33868 (April 7, 1994); 59 FR 17621. The rule applies to contributions made on and after April 25, 1994. The Board believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act, which provides that the Board's rules shall be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition Because the proposed rule change would apply equally to all brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers, the Board does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action
