FR940207-1-00003 FR940207-1-00001 Backgound Under current regulations, a NATO dependent can apply for employment authorization in the United States only if he or she is covered under the terms of a bilateral agreement. A bilateral agreement is a written, signed agreement between the United States and a foreign country. It provides for employment authorization for certain dependents of United States government personnel assigned to official duty in the foreign country whose government entered into the agreement. In turn, it provides for employment authorization for certain dependents of personnel of the foreign government who are assigned to official duty in the United States. This rule expands the eligibility to apply for employment authorization to certain NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 dependents covered by the terms of de facto arrangements and to certain dependents of SACLANT employees. A de facto arrangement is in effect when it is determined that a foreign country allows appropriate employment ``on the local economy'' for certain dependents of United States government personnel assigned to official duty in that foreign country. Based on that determination, certain dependents of foreign government personnel assigned to official duty in the United States may apply for employment authorization. Reciprocity has become an issue in the context of renegotiation of the rights and privileges of United States dependents within the NATO area. NATO member host countries are increasingly unwilling to continue dependent employment privileges absent similar treatment for their dependents in the United States. This rule is intended to provide for such treatment to the extent that de facto privileges are continued or established for dependents of United States military personnel and certain Department of Defense civilian personnel in NATO member states. Given the high cost of living in some countries where U.S. personnel are stationed, and the limited number of jobs available on United States bases abroad, the freedom to work ``on the economy'' abroad can be extremely important to United States families. Further, one of the real stresses on military family life is the constant disruption of the spouse's career that is occasioned by household moves every few years. When the spouse is barred from employment overseas the stress on the family can be considerable. Rule Parallels Regulations Governing Diplomatic Dependents Because of the diplomatic and international affairs considerations involved in NATO matters, this rule parallels, to the extent possible, the regulations governing employment authorization for dependents of foreign government diplomats, officials, and employees assigned to official duty in the United States and classified as A&hyph;1 and A&hyph;2 nonimmigrants. Changes In addition to expanding the eligibility to apply for employment authorization to NATO&hyph;1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 dependents covered by the terms of de facto arrangements, this rule incorporates the following changes: 8 CFR 214.2(s)(1) defines the various NATO nonimmigrant classifications. Additionally, since this rule parallels the regulations governing ``A'' nonimmigrants, and since A&hyph;3 and NATO&hyph;7 classifications are comparable, this rule makes the NATO&hyph;7 periods of admission and extension of stay parallel the periods for A&hyph;3 nonimmigrants. 8 CFR 214.2(s)(2) defines the term dependent of a NATO&hyph;1 through NATO&hyph;6 for purposes of employment in the United States. This definition parallels the definition of dependent used in the regulation governing employment authorization of dependents of foreign government diplomats, officials, and employees assigned to official duty in the United States and classified as A&hyph;1 and A&hyph;2 nonimmigrants. 8 CFR 214.2(s)(3) defines dependent employment requirements based on formal bilateral employment agreements and informal de facto reciprocal arrangements. 8 CFR 214.2(s)(4) specifies that the applicability of the bilateral agreement or the de facto arrangement is based on the NATO member state which employs the principal alien. Additionally, under a de facto arrangement, the principal must be a national of the employing NATO member state. Dependents of SACLANT employees are also eligible to apply for employment authorization under terms of applicable bilateral agreements or de facto arrangements. 8 CFR 214.2(s)(5) details dependent employment application procedures. 8 CFR 214.2(s)(6) extends the period for dependent employment authorization up to three years.
