FR940602-1-00114 FR940602-1-00014 For the reasons set out in the preamble, title 40, Chapter I, of the Code of Federal Regulations, is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 124_PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING 1. The authority citation for part 124 continues to read as follows: Authority: Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq. ; Safe Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C. 300(f) et seq. ; Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ; and Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq. 2. Subpart B is added to read as follows: Subpart B_Specific Procedures Applicable to RCRA Permits Sec. 124.30␣Equitable Public Participation 124.31␣Public participation requirements at pre-application. 124.32␣Public notice requirements at application stage 124.33␣Information repository. Subpart B_Specific Procedures Applicable to RCRA Permits §124.30 Equitable public participation. The applicant and the Director shall make all reasonable efforts when conducting public information activities, such as public briefings, meetings, hearings, and dissemination of notices and fact sheets, to ensure that all segments of the population have an equal opportunity to participate in the permitting process. Reasonable efforts include disseminating multilingual public notices and fact sheets, and providing an interpreter at public meetings and hearings, where the affected community contains a significant non-English speaking population. §124.31 Public participation requirements at pre-application. (a) Prior to the initial submission of a Part B RCRA permit application for a facility, the applicant must hold at least one meeting with the public in order to solicit questions from the community and inform the community of proposed hazardous waste management activities in sufficient detail to allow the community to understand the nature of the operations to be conducted at the facility and the implications for human health and the environment. The applicant shall give an overview of the facility in as much detail as possible, such as identifying the type of facility, the location of the facility, the general processes involved, the types of wastes generated and managed, and implementation of waste minimization and pollution control measures. (b) A stenographic or electronic record shall be made of the meeting, along with a list of attendees and their addresses. The record, list of attendees, and copies of any written comments or materials submitted at the meeting, shall be submitted as part of the permit application. (c) The applicant must provide public notice of the pre-application meeting at least 30 days prior to the meeting in a manner that is likely to reach all affected members of the community. The applicant must provide documentation of this notice in the permit application. (1) Public notice shall be given in the following manner: (i) The notice shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county or equivalent jurisdiction that hosts the proposed location of the facility, and in each adjacent county or jurisdiction, if applicable. In situations where the geographic area of a host jurisdiction or adjacent jurisdictions is very large (hundreds of square miles), the newspaper notice shall cover a reasonable radius from the facility. The notice must be published as a display advertisement. The advertisement shall appear in a place within the newspaper calculated to give the general public effective notice; it must be of sufficient size to be seen easily by the reader. (ii) The applicant must post a notice on a clearly marked sign on the proposed or existing facility property. The sign should be large enough so that the wording is readable from the facility boundary. It is not necessary to display a map on the required posted sign on the facility property. (iii) The notice must be broadcast on at least one local radio station. (2) The notices required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must include: (i) The date, time, and location of the meeting. (ii) A brief description of the purpose of the meeting. (iii) A brief description of the facility and proposed operations, including a map (e.g., a sketched or copied street map) of the facility location. Notices sent to people on the mailing list must show the facility map on the front page of the notice. (iv) A statement that encourages people who need special access (e.g., disabled) to participate in the meeting to provide at least a 72-hour advance notice of their needs to the facility. (d) The requirements of this section do not apply to permit modifications under §270.42 of this chapter, permit renewals under §270.51 of this chapter, or applications that are submitted for the sole purpose of conducting post-closure activities at a facility. §124.32 Public notice requirements at application stage. (a) Notification at application submittal. (1) The Director shall provide public notice as cited in §124.10(c)(1)(ix), that a Part B permit application has been submitted to the Agency, and is available for review. The requirements of this section apply to permit renewals under §270.51 of this chapter as well as to original applications. (2) The notice shall be published within a reasonable period of time after the application is received by the Director. The notice must include: (i) The name and telephone number of the applicant's contact person; (ii) The name and telephone number of the permitting agency's contact office, and a mailing address to which comments and inquiries may be directed throughout the permit review process; (iii) An address to which people can write in order to be put on the facility mailing list; (iv) Location where copies of the permit application and any supporting documents can be viewed and copied; (v) Brief description of the facility and proposed operations, including a map (i.e., sketched or copied street map) of the facility location. Notices sent to people on the mailing list must show the facility map on the front page of the notice; and (vi) The date the application was submitted. (b) Concurrent with the notice required under §124.32(a) of this subpart, the Director must place the permit application and any supporting documents in a location accessible to the public in the vicinity of the permitted facility or at the permitting agency's office. For facilities establishing an information repository pursuant to proposed §§124.33 or 270.30(l)(12) of this chapter, the applicant shall place a copy of the permit application or modification request, and any supporting documents in the information repository. (c) The requirements of this section do not apply to permit modifications under §270.42 of this chapter, and/or applications that are submitted for the sole purpose of conducting post-closure activities at a facility. §124.33 Information repository.
