FR940713-1-00060 FR940713-1-00013 Bailey (1905) stated that the jaguar was once reported as common in southern and eastern Texas but had become extremely rare. Nowak (1975) believed that an established population once occurred in the dense thickets along the lower Nueces River and northeast to the Guadalupe River. He suggested that jaguars probably continued to wander from Mexico into the brush country of the southernmost part of the State. However, brush clearing has possibly reduced chances for reestablishment of the species in Texas. Mexico Leopold (1959) believed the distribution of the jaguar in Mexico included the tropical forests of southeastern Mexico, the coastal plains to the mouth of the Rio Grande on the Gulf of Mexico side, and the Sonoran foothills of the Sierra Madre Occidental on the Pacific side. The highest densities of jaguars were found along heavily forested flatlands and foothills of southern Sinaloa, the swamps of coastal Nayarit, the remaining uncut forests along the Gulf coast as far east as central Campeche, and the great rain forests of northern Chiapas. He indicated that occasional wandering individuals were found far from these areas; some followed tropical gorges far into mountains. He believed that jaguars followed big rivers on their northern movements; they traveled up the Brazos, Pecos, Rio Grande, Gila, and Colorado Rivers. He mentioned a 1955 record of a jaguar near the southern tip of the San Pedro Martir range, Baja California. Leopold asserted that this individual was 500 miles from regularly occupied jaguar habitat. Swank and Teer (1989) described the distribution of the jaguar in North America as a broad belt from central Mexico to Central America. They found that the most northerly established populations, as reported by Mexican officials, were in southern Sinaloa and southern Tamaulipas. Brown (1991) did not believe that the jaguar was extirpated from northern Mexico. Although jaguars were considered relatively common in Sonora in the 1930s and 1940s, he cited the most northern officially reported population as about 800 miles south of the United States-Mexico border. However, Brown suggested that there may be more jaguars in Sonora than are officially reported. He mentioned reports of two jaguars that were killed in central Sonora around 1970. He also discussed assertions by the local Indians that both male and female jaguars still occurred in the Sierra Bacatete. Brown speculated that if a reproducing population of jaguars is still present in these mountains, it may be the source of individuals that travel northward through the Sierra Libre and Sierra Madera until they reach Arizona. Nowak (pers. comm., 1992) reiterated that as late as 1987 the species was still considered common in the Sierra Bacatete near Guaymas, Sonora, which is about 200 miles south of Arizona. Brown (1989) reported that biologists from Mexico have stated that at least two jaguars have been killed in Chihuahua. In 1987, Nowak (pers. comm., 1992) claimed that jaguars were still regularly present along the Soto la Marina River of central Tamaulipas, which is about 150 miles from the southern tip of Texas. He also hypothesized that jaguars may be entering Arizona from Mexico as a result of habitat destruction in Sonora. Large stretches of natural forest have been cleared in central Tamaulipas. In Arizona, by contrast, jaguar prey populations have increased, and large tracts of brush and canyon woodland are still available to provide cover for jaguars. Listing will provide protection for individuals, which may lead to recolonization of currently unoccupied habitat and reestablishment of the species in portions of its historical Arizona range in the United States. Clearing of habitat, destruction of riparian areas, and fragmentation or blocking of corridors may prevent jaguars from recolonizing previously inhabited areas. Although there is currently no known resident population of jaguars in the United States, wanderers from Mexico may cross the border and take up residency in available habitat. B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes In Arizona, the jaguar's gradual decline was concurrent with predator control associated with the settlement of land and the development of the cattle industry (Brown 1983, Service 1990). Lange (1960) summarized the jaguar records from Arizona known up to that time. Between 1885 and 1959, the reports consisted of 45 jaguars killed, 6 sighted, and 2 recorded by sign. Brown (1991) related that the accumulation of all known records indicated a minimum of 64 jaguars were killed in Arizona after 1900. When plotted at ten-year intervals, records of jaguars reported killed in Arizona and New Mexico between 1900 and 1980 demonstrated ``a decline characteristic of an over-exploited resident population'' (Brown 1983). Brown (1983) argued that if the jaguars killed during this period originated in Mexico, the numbers of killings should not suggest a pattern but should rather be irregular and erratic. Bailey (1905) listed seven reports of jaguars killed in Texas between 1853 and 1903. Schmidly (1983) reported another jaguar shot in Mills County in 1904. Taylor (1947) mentioned a jaguar killed near Lyford, Willacy County, in 1912. Brown (1991) indicated jaguars were common in Texas until 1870. The last reports from Texas were of individuals killed in 1946 (San Benito, Cameron County) and 1948 (Kleburg County). Nowak (1975) identified killing of jaguars for commercial sale of their furs as a factor in the extermination of a substantial resident population in central Texas during the late 19th century. Although the demand for jaguar pelts has diminished, it still exists along with the business of hunting jaguars. In 1992, AGFD personnel infiltrated a ring of wildlife profiteers. That operation resulted in the March, 1993, seizure of three jaguar specimens, one of which was allegedly taken from the Dos Cabezas Mountains in Arizona in 1986. Two of the specimens had been covertly purchased from the suspects. During the investigation, several ties to Mexico jaguar hunting were discovered. Hounds bred and trained in the United States were sold to Mexican nationals for the purpose of hunting jaguars. Also, Mexican nationals prosecuted by the Service in 1989 for illegally importing jaguar pelts into the United States were continuing the practice of providing jaguar hunts in Mexico (Terry B. Johnson, Arizona Game and Fish Department, in litt., 1993).
