FR940627-2-00079 FR940627-2-00031 Specifically, as conditions of NIH grants and cooperative agreements, Grantees must fully notify the NIH in a timely manner when an invention has been developed. In any event, disclosure to the NIH must be prior to the publication of any description of the invention. When applying for continued funding in each subsequent funding period, the institution must also provide either a listing of all inventions made during the preceding budget period or a certification that no inventions were made during the applicable period. A final invention statement and certification listing all inventions that were conceived or first actually reduced to practice during the course of work under the funding agreement is required within ninety (90) days following the expiration or termination of support on an applicable project. Additionally, Grantees need to adhere to the specific requirements contained in the patent clauses of their contracts as well as the general provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Furthermore, Grantees must also document their compliance with the requirements of the Act, regulations, and terms and conditions of NIH awards, generally and as related to sponsored research agreements. Such Grantee records must be available for review by authorized Federal officials in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award. For example, concerning access and retention of records under NIH grants and cooperative agreements, regulations require grantees to retain financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other grantee records which may reasonably be considered pertinent to a grant or subgrant. 8 8 The regulations are set forth at 45 CFR Part 74, Subpart D and 45 CFR 92.42. Points for Special Consideration The NIH has identified several situations, outlined below, in which Grantees should exercise heightened sensitivity and scrutiny in the development of sponsored research agreements. Such an exercise should confirm that a sponsored research agreement does not adversely impact NIH funded activities and Grantee concerns such as academic freedom, or shift control of the Grantee's scientific activities, management, and independence into the hands of the sponsor. While there is no requirement that Grantees submit proposed sponsored research agreements to the NIH for review, at the discretion of the Grantee, the NIH may be consulted for additional clarification in instances where special considerations warrant. First, Grantees should subject their sponsored research agreements to heightened scrutiny when one or more of the following threshold criteria apply: (a) the amount of financial support from the sponsor meets or exceeds $5 million in any one year, or, $50 million total over the total period of funding under the agreement; (b) the proportion of funding by the sponsor exceeds 20 per cent of the Grantee's total research funding; (c) the sponsor's prospective licensing rights cover all technologies developed by a major group or component of the Grantee organization, such as a large laboratory, department or center, or the technologies in question represent a substantial proportion of the anticipated intellectual output of the Grantee's research staff; or (d) the duration of the agreement is for 5 or more years. If one or more of these criteria apply, it is more likely that the proposed sponsored research agreement will adversely affect open commercial access, especially for small businesses, to a Grantee's Federally funded research activities and may delay or impede the rapid development and commercialization of technology. Second, Grantees should be concerned if the scope of the sponsored research agreement is so broad that the subsequent exclusive licensing of technology under the agreement provides a single sponsor with access to a wide array of Grantee research findings and technologies that effectively exclude other organizations from reasonable access to a Grantee's technology. This type of arrangement can also delay commercialization if the sponsor does not have the interest or the capability to develop the technology. Third, if the sponsor contributes funds to support a Grantee's general operations rather than specifically defined research projects, the Grantee should consider the amount of the sponsor's general funding in relation to funds contributed from other sources when determining what prospective intellectual property rights the (sponsor will receive in the results of the Grantee's entire research portfolio. There should be a reasonable relationship between the amount of money contributed by the sponsor and the rights that it is granted both to review and license resulting technology or inventions. As an extreme example, a sponsor should not be able to provide 5 percent of the Grantee's total support, review 100 percent of the Grantee's inventions, and receive rights or a first option to 50 percent of the research results generated by the Grantee. Where general funding is involved, a Grantee should consider establishing some mechanism to limit the review and licensing rights of the sponsor to a particular segment or percentage of the inventions and for a set period of time. For example, the Grantee may require the sponsor to select those research areas or projects to which its general funding rights would attach in advance, thereby freeing up research areas that may be of interest to other commercial entities. Because, by its nature, general funding is less directed and its results more imprecise, Grantees should carefully monitor the impact on open competition and fair access by small business of the sponsor's licensing practices for technology supported by general funding. Fourth, Grantees should avoid any other unusual practice or stipulation that might generate public concern or undermine rather than serve the public interest.
