FR940620-0-00036 FR940620-0-00011 B. Standard of Discipline Under the proposed standard of discipline, only violations of ยง10.34 that are willful, reckless, or a result of gross incompetence will subject a practitioner to suspension or disbarment from practice before the IRS. The proposed regulations further provide that a pattern of conduct is a factor that will be taken into account in determining whether a practitioner acted recklessly or with gross incompetence. A commentator suggested that the standard of discipline for ยง10.34 be amended to provide that only a pattern of conduct will subject a practitioner to discipline. This suggestion would permit practitioners to violate the new return preparation standard of Circular 230 at least once without being subject to discipline by the Director of Practice. Treasury does not believe it is appropriate for Circular 230 to countenance improper conduct, or to establish a more lenient standard of discipline in the return preparation context than in other Circular 230 contexts not requiring a pattern of conduct to impose discipline. Accordingly, this suggestion was not adopted. One commentator recommended that a general reasonable cause and good faith exception be expressly incorporated into the standard of discipline for ยง10.34 of Circular 230. Some commentators also asked for a more limited reasonable cause and good faith exception for reasonable reliance on the advice of another practitioner. The existing standard of discipline eliminates the need for an express reasonable cause and good faith exception in that willful, reckless, or grossly incompetent violations of Circular 230 are inconsistent with reasonable cause and good faith. Therefore, these suggestions were not adopted. II. Contingent Fees The proposed regulations ban contingent fees for preparing a return except in the case of certain claims for refund. Under the proposed regulations, a practitioner may charge a contingent fee for preparing a claim for refund if the practitioner reasonably anticipates, at the time the claim is filed, that the claim will be denied by the IRS and subsequently litigated by the client. A number of comments were received concerning the proposed rule on contingent fees. Some commentators expressed concerns about the administrability of the portion of the rule involving claims for refund. These commentators noted that it may be difficult to anticipate whether the IRS will deny a claim and whether a client will choose to litigate the claim if it is denied. They also asserted that a claim's prospects for being denied should be evaluated at the time of the fee arrangement, rather than at the time the claim is filed. Other commentators questioned the need for additional rules in Circular 230 regulating fees at all. These commentators suggested that the preparer and accuracy-related penalties provide adequate safeguards against overly-aggressive positions, that the proposed rule is broader than necessary to counter any use of contingent fee arrangements to exploit the ``audit lottery,'' and that the proposed rule could interfere with reasonable commercial relationships. Treasury continues to believe that a rule restricting contingent fees for preparing tax returns supports voluntary compliance with the tax laws by discouraging return positions that exploit the audit selection process. In response to comments received, the proposed contingent fee rule has been modified in the final regulations to permit contingent fees for claims for refund (other than claims for refund made on original returns) or for amended returns if the practitioner reasonably anticipates, at the time the fee arrangement is entered into, that the return will receive substantive review by the IRS. This determination will be made on a case-by-case basis. Like the proposed rule, the final rule bans contingent fees for preparing original returns.
