FR940819-1-00055 FR940819-1-00011 (4) Occupational illness of a railroad worker. * * * * * 7. By revising the fourth sentence in §225.21(b), by removing §225.21(f) and redesignating §§225.21(g) and 225.21(h) as §§225.21(f) and 225.21(g), respectively and by adding new §§225.21(h), (i), and (j) to read as follows: * * * * * (b) * * * All railroads subject to this part, must show on this form the total number of locomotive train miles, motor train miles, and yard switching miles run during the month, computed in accordance with Train-Mile, Locomotive-Mile, Car-Mile, and Yard Switching accounts in the Uniform System of Accounts for Railroad Companies prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission in 49 CFR part 1200. * * * * * (h) Form FRA F 6180.xx_Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log. Form FRA F 6180.xx shall be used by the railroads to record all reportable and recordable injuries and illnesses to railroad workers for each establishment. This form shall be completed and maintained in accordance with the requirements set forth in §225.25. (i) Form FRA F 6180.xx(a)_Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Log. Form FRA F 6180.xx(a) shall be used by the railroads to record all reportable and recordable rail equipment accidents/incidents for each establishment. This form shall be completed and maintained in accordance with the requirements set forth in §225.25. (j) Form FRA F 6180.xx(b)_Property Damage Estimate Worksheet and Record. Form FRA F 6180.xx(b) shall be used by the railroads to determine the total accident cost for any rail equipment accident/incident. This form shall be completed in accordance with instructions on the form and in the current ``FRA Guide for Preparing Accident/Incident Reports'' and shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements set forth in §225.25. 8. By revising §225.25 to read as follows: §225.25 Recordkeeping. (a) Each railroad shall maintain the Railroad Worker Injury and Illness Log (Form FRA F 6180.xx) of all reportable and recordable injuries and illnesses to railroad workers for each railroad establishment, including, but not limited to, an operating division, general office, and major installation such as a locomotive or car repair or construction facility. (b) Each railroad shall maintain the Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Log (Form FRA F 6180.xx(a)) and Property Damage Estimate Worksheet and Record (Form FRA F 6180.xx(b)) of reportable and recordable collisions, derailments, fires, explosions, acts of God, or other events involving the operation of railroad on-track equipment, signals, track, or track equipment (standing or moving) that result in damages to railroad on-track equipment, signals, tracks, track structures, or roadbed, including labor costs and all other costs for repairs or replacement in kind for each railroad establishment. (c) Each railroad must enter each reportable and recordable injury and illness and each reportable and recordable rail equipment accident/incident on the appropriate log, as required by paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as early as practicable but no later than seven working days after receiving information that an injury or illness or rail equipment accident/incident has occurred. (d) The logs required under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be maintained at the local establishment or alternatively, at a centralized location. If the logs are maintained at a centralized location, but not through electronic means, a paper copy of the logs that is current within 35 days of the month to which it applies must be available for that establishment. If the logs are maintained at a centralized location through electronic means, then the logs for that establishment must be available for review in a hard copy format within four business hours of FRA's request. (e) A listing of all reported injuries and occupational illnesses for the previous month shall be posted in a conspicuous location at each railroad establishment within 30 days after expiration of the month during which the injuries and illnesses occurred. This listing shall be posted in a conspicuous location so that it may be observed by workers at that establishment and shall remain continuously displayed for at least 60 consecutive days. Incidents reported for workers at that establishment shall be displayed in date sequence. (1) The listing shall contain the following information: (i) Name and address of the establishment; (ii) Calendar year of the cases being displayed; (iii) Incident number used to report case; (iv) Date of injury or illness; (v) Location of incident; (vi) Regular job title of worker injured or ill; (vii) Description of the injury/condition; (viii) Number of days absent from work at time of posting; (ix) Number of days of work restriction at time of posting; (x) Date of death, if worker died; (xi) Annual average number of railroad workers reporting to this establishment; (xii) Name, title, phone number, and signature of preparer; and (xiii) Date of report. (2) When there were no reportable injuries or occupational illnesses associated with an establishment, the posting shall make reference to this fact.
