FR940622-2-00104 FR940622-2-00077 Agency Variations 6. Agency-Specific Forms To prevent a proliferation of government application forms and the resulting burden to the public, OMB and OPM would encourage agencies to use the process described in this notice. We anticipate that only rarely would agencies need an agency-specific form, for example, when necessary for an electronic application system or for unique occupations with highly specialized requirements. Agencies are required by the Paperwork Reduction Act to obtain OMB approval of any agency-specific application form required from ten or more persons who are not agency employees. The Act does not preclude an agency, however, from developing its own form for required use by its current employees. Also, agencies would not need OMB approval to develop a computer-compatible (but otherwise identical) version of the Optional Application for Federal Employment and require its use by all applicants. Use of a non-identical computer-compatible application would require OMB approval. 7. Agency-Specific Questions In addition to the information items listed in paragraph 3, agencies would be permitted to add any of the following three items, if applicable, to the information they request for applicants. These items are unique to certain agencies or positions and, therefore, are not included on the proposed optional forms. a. Spouse Preference Under section 806 of the Defense Authorization Act, 1986 (Pub. L. 99&hyph;145), the Department of Defense must give preference in hiring to military spouses. To determine eligibility and extend preference, the Department of Defense may ask the following question. Without this information, Defense could not comply with the preference requirement. The question may be included in any document of Defense's choosing, for example, a vacancy announcement or as an addition to one of the proposed forms. Are you applying to exercise Spouse Preference? (␣) Yes␣␣(␣) No If yes, attach a copy of your sponsor's active duty military orders of assignment to the geographic location of the position vacancy or written evidence or documentation that verifies eligibility. b. Child Care Workers Section 231 of the Crime Control Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;647) requires that employment applications for Federal child care positions contain a question asking whether the individual has ever been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child and for the disposition of the arrest or charge. Also, the application containing this information must state that it is being signed under penalty of perjury, and identify the penalty. The law requires the hiring agency to obtain the applicant's signed receipt of notice that a criminal record check will be conducted and that the applicant has a right to review and challenge the accuracy of the report. To assure compliance with this law, agencies may add the following question to the Declaration for Federal Employment for applicants for child care positions: Have you ever been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child? If ``Yes,'' provide the date, explanation of the violation, disposition of the arrest or charge, place of occurrence, and the name and address of the police department or court involved. Note: A Federal agency is required by law to conduct a criminal check. In addition to the purposes explained in blocks 16 and 18, your signature also certifies that (1) your response to this question is made under penalty of perjury, which is punishable by (insert Federal punishment for perjury); and (2) you have received notice that a criminal check will be conducted, of your right to obtain a copy of the criminal history report made available to the employing Federal agency, and of your right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information contained in the report. c. Indian Child Care Workers Section 408 of the Miscellaneous Indian Legislation (Pub. L. 101&hyph;630) contains a related requirement for positions at the Departments of Interior and Health and Human Services that involve regular contact with or control over Indian children. The agencies must ensure that persons hired for these positions have not been found guilty of or pleaded nolo contendere to violet crimes. To assure compliance with both Pub. L. 101&hyph;630 and Pub. L. 101&hyph;647, Interior and Health and Human Services may add the following question to the Declaration for Federal Employment, for positions that involve regular contact with or control over Indian children: Have you ever (1) been arrested for or charged with a crime involving a child, and/or (2) been found guilty of, or entered a plea of nolo contendere or guilty to, any offense under Federal, State, or tribal law involving crimes of violence; sexual assault, molestation, explanation, contact or prostitution; or crimes against persons? If ``Yes,'' provide the date, explanation of the violation, disposition of the arrest or charge, place of occurrence, and the name and address of the police department or court involved. Note: A Federal agency is required by law to conduct a criminal check. In addition to the purposes explained in blocks 16 and 18, your signature also certifies that (1) your response to this question is made under penalty of perjury, which is punishable by (insert Federal punishment for perjury); and (2) you have received notice that a criminal check will be conducted, of your right to obtain a copy of the criminal history report made available to the employing Federal agency, and of your right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information contained in the report. OPM Computer-Based Applicant Systems 8. OPM Form 1203 OPM uses computer-assisted techniques to rate job applicants. Applicants are asked to complete OPM Form 1203, optical scan forms designed to collect applicant information and qualifications in a format suitable for automated processing. Different but very similar versions of the form are used, depending on the occupation or automated system being used. The 1203 forms are essential to operation of our automated application processing systems and their use is consistent with recommendations of the National Performance Review. However, the current version of Form 1203 contains suitability questions that parallel questions 38&hyph;43 of the SF 171. OPM proposes to revise Form 1203 to remove all suitability questions. OPM has requested that OMB approve the revised OPM Form 1203 series for a 3-year period beginning January 1, 1995. The expiration date of the current form is March 31, 1995. Because of the high level of current stock and the possibility that a supply of the revised form may not be available by January 1995, OPM plans to continue using the current version of Form 1203 until supplies are exhausted on March 31, 1995, whichever occurs first. Beginning January 1, 1995, OPM would instruct applicants not to answer the suitability questions and would not enter any responses in our automated systems. A representative sample of OPM Form 1203 is appended to this notice.
