FR940511-1-00122 FR940511-1-00016 (a) Payment and acceptance policy. All service charges, rental fees, maintenance fees, and location fees shall be payable by United States currency, postal money order, or negotiable instrument payable in United States currency and shall be made payable to the Department of the Interior_Bureau of Land Management, or by a valid credit card acceptable to the Bureau of Land Management. A check or negotiable instrument, including credit cards submitted for payment of charges and/or fees, for which payment is not honored by the issuing authority, and such refusal is not an error of the issuing authority, shall be deemed to be a nonpayment of the charges or fees for which the check or negotiable instrument, including a credit card order, was tendered. See §3833.1&hyph;4(f) and (g) for payments made by credit cards or from Declining Deposit Accounts. (b) Recordation of new mining claims, mill sites, or tunnel sites with the Bureau of Land Management. (1) New location notices or certificates submitted for recording pursuant to §3833.1&hyph;2 that are not accompanied by full payment of the maintenance and location fees required by §3833.1&hyph;4 or 3833.1&hyph;5 shall not be accepted and the submittal will be returned without further action by the authorized officer. The claimant may resubmit the filings with the proper payment of service charges and fees within the same 90 day filing period referred to in §3833.1&hyph;2(a). (2) Failure to provide full payment of service charges set forth in §3833.1&hyph;4 will be curable for new location notices or certificates submitted for recording pursuant to §3833.1&hyph;2 when the proper maintenance and location fees have been submitted. Such documents shall be noted as being recorded on the date received provided that the claimant submits the proper service charge within 30 days of receipt of a deficiency notice that will be sent by the authorized officer. The claimant may resubmit the notices or certificates of location with the proper payment of service charges and fees within the same 90-day filing period referred to in §3833.1&hyph;2(a). Failure to submit the proper service charge as provided in this paragraph will cause the new location notices or certificates to be rejected and returned to the claimant/owner. (c) Mining claims, mill sites, and tunnel sites recorded and serialized by the Bureau of Land Management. (1) Failure to provide full payment of service charges set forth in §3833.1&hyph;4 will be curable for documents and filings made pursuant to §§3833.2 and 3833.3 and amended locations filed under §3833.1. Such documents and filings will be noted as being recorded on the date initially received provided that the claimant submits the proper service charge within 30 days of receipt of a deficiency notice from the authorized officer. Failure to submit the proper service charge as required by this paragraph will cause filings made pursuant to §§3833.2 and 3833.3 and amended locations filed under §3833.1 to be rejected and returned to the claimant/owner. If a payment is received that partially covers the claims submitted, the payment shall be applied to claims in ascending numerical order of serialization. (2) If a claimant fails to submit the proper rental or maintenance fees on or before each August 31, the authorized officer will apply the rental or maintenance fees received to existing recorded and serialized mining claims and sites in ascending numerical order of serialization, unless otherwise directed by the claimant. The authorized officer will note the deficient fees as being paid on the original date received, provided that the claimant submits the proper fees within 30 days of receipt of a deficiency notice from the authorized officer, if that much time remains before August 31. If there are less than 30 days before August 31, the correct fees shall be filed (see §3833.0&hyph;5(m)) by such claimant on or before the August 31 deadline. Failure to submit the proper fees will cause the remaining claims or sites to be forfeited by the claimant/owner. (3) After each August 31 payment deadline, if a claimant failed to file full payment of the proper rental or maintenance fees on time, the authorized officer will apply any rental or maintenance fees received to existing recorded and serialized mining claims and sites in ascending numerical order of serialization. Existing mining claims and sites to which no rental fee or maintenance fee can be applied because of the insufficiency of the funds paid to the authorized officer will be deemed null and void by operation of law, and therefore forfeited by the owner. 26. Section 3833.1&hyph;4 is amended by revising the section title; redesignating existing paragraphs (b) through (f) as (c) through (g), respectively; revising redesignated paragraphs (f) and (g); and adding a new paragraph (b), to read as follows: §3833.1&hyph;4 Service charges and location fees. * * * * * (b) Each notice or certificate of location of a mining claim, mill site, or tunnel site that is located on or after August 11, 1993, and before September 30, 1998, shall, when submitted for recordation, be accompanied by a one time nonrefundable location fee of $25.00.
