FR940328-2-00008 FR940328-2-00006 Mono Basin National Forest Scenic Area Comprehensive Management Plan Amendment # 1 AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare supplemental environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare a supplemental environmental impact statement for a proposal to revise management direction for the Mono Basin National Forest Scenic Area, Mono Lake Ranger District, Inyo National Forest, Mono County, California. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received by July 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions concerning the scope of the analysis to Dennis W. Martin, Forest Supervisor, Inyo National Forest, 873, N. Main Street, Bishop, California, 93514&hyph;2494. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about the proposed action and environmental impact statement should be sent to John Schuyler, Forest Planner, phone 619&hyph;873&hyph;2400. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Mono Basin National Forest Scenic Area Comprehensive Management Plan (CMP) was completed in March 1990. The CMP which is a component of the 1988 Inyo Land and Resource Management Plan, provides direction and recommendations for the management of Mono Lake and the surrounding Scenic Area. The CMP places an overall emphasis on protecting geologic, ecological, and cultural resources, and recommends a lake level that ranges from 6,377 to 6,390 feet in elevation. Furthermore, the CMP recognizes the relationship between lake levels and the impacts on the natural resources of this unique ecosystem. For instance, lower lake levels expose dust-producing relicted lands, while the CMP provides specific direction to work closely with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Great Basin Unified Air Pollution Control District to bring the Mono Basin airshed into compliance with the requirements of the Clean Air Act. Since approval of the CMP, new scientific information relevant to the impacts of various lake levels on resource values, including compliance with air quality requirements, has come to the attention of the Forest Service.The EPA has recently classified the Mono Basin as a non-attainment area in respect to PM-10 emissions, with violations occurring primarily as a result of wind-blown dust from the relicted lands. Review of this new information has revealed the need to amend the CMP so that it can fully and adequately guide the protection and management of the Mono Basin ecosystem. An amendment is also necessary to ensure compliance with the legal mandates of the Clean Air Act. The Forest Service will consider a reasonable range of alternatives. One alternative will be no change in management direction. Other alternatives will examine various lake level ranges and prose direction or make recommendations that will address Mono Basin resource concerns, including air quality requirements. These other alternatives will be based on the new information, in addition to the range of alternatives previously considered in the environmental impact statement that supports the CMP. The responsible official is Dennis W. Martin, Forest Supervisor, Inyo National Forest, 873 North Main Street, Bishop, CA 93514&hyph;2494. Public participation will be especially important at several points during this analysis. The first point is during the scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7). The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies and other individuals or organizations interested in or affected by the proposed action. Information obtained during scoping will be used to prepare the draft supplemental environmental impact statement (DSEIS). The most useful information in preparing a DSEIS will be that pertaining to significant issues, reasonable alternatives, potential environmental effects, and identification of other agencies whose cooperation may be needed. Workshops and open houses, if held, will be announced locally. Federal, State, and local agencies, user groups, and other organizations known to be interested in this action are being invited to participate in the scoping process. The DSEIS will be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and is expected to be available for public review by January 1996. At that time the EPA will publish a notice of availability of the DSEIS in the Federal Register.
