FR940414-1-00074 FR940414-1-00010 Under Option 2, the same population of facilities (i.e, approximately 19 facilities) were evaluated for compliance costs. The estimated incremental capital and annualized total costs for these facilities (which include amortized capital, annual operating and maintenance, and monitoring costs) of complying with Option 2 is estimated to be $11,794 and $1,837, respectively. A comparison of annualized compliance cost to facility revenue was conducted for the 19 facilities with costs under Option 2. The estimated mean compliance cost as a percentage of facility revenue would be 0.026 percent and the estimated median value 0.032 percent, with a range from 0.001 percent to 0.048 percent. No facilities had a cost-to-revenue ratio greater than five percent. (See Table 8.) Table 8 ._Estimated Population Impacts for Subcategory E Facilities 1␣ 1Option 1 1Option 2 No. of facilities with costs 0 19 Total annualized compliance costs 0 $1,837 Facility closures: (Severe economic impacts) 0 0 Moderate economic impacts 0 0 D. Community Impacts As mentioned above, community impacts may result from facility-level impacts. Community impacts are typically evaluated based on projected decreases in employment in communities affected by the regulation. For this analysis, community impacts were assessed on the basis of both primary and secondary employment losses. Primary impacts consist of the employment losses that are expected to occur as a direct result of the regulation. Secondary economic impacts and associated employment losses occur in other businesses than those directly affected by regulation and result from two mechanisms. First, reductions in output at directly affected facilities influence activity and employment levels in linked industries (indirect effects). Second, the losses in employment and employee earnings in both the directly and indirectly affected facilities result in reduced personal consumption expenditures, which may further affect employment levels in the community (induced effects). If the aggregate impacts, including both primary and secondary employment effects, amount to an employment decline of greater than one percent in an affected community, then community impacts are deemed significant. The primary employment losses estimated under Options 1 through 5, including Option 3/S, are presented above. (See Tables 4 and 7.) The worst-case national estimated job losses ranged from a high of 1,173 full-time equivalents (FTEs) under Option 5 to a low of 355 FTEs under the proposed Option 3/S. These job losses are distributed over a large number of facilities, with the average job loss per affected facility under any of the options being about three FTEs. Because the sample was not designed to characterize community or state characteristics, accurate estimates of the distribution of estimated job losses by community or state cannot be made. Nonetheless, the locations of the surveyed impacted facilities show that the impacts are expected to be widely distributed nationally. (See Table 9.) Table 9 ._Distribution of Projected Sample Facility Employment Impacts Under Option 3/S 1State 1FTE loss estimated to occur in state MO 58 MN 37 All others (no greater than 4 in a single state) 20 n,s Total 115 Although a statistically valid analysis of population level employment impacts on a regional or community level cannot be performed, analyses based on assumptions regarding the locational distribution of primary employment impacts can demonstrate that compliance with the proposed regulation is unlikely to have a significant impact on community employment. To assess whether Option 3/S could be expected to result in significant community employment impacts, EPA analyzed aggregate employment effects at the community level under highly conservative and unlikely assumptions. Specifically, this analysis incorporated three assumptions that will likely lead to a substantial overestimation of community-level impacts. First, EPA assumed that both closure and line conversion impacts would result in full loss of PFPR-related employment at affected facilities. Line conversions would not generally be expected to result in employment losses.
