FR940810-0-00222 FR940810-0-00021 Building/facility owner is the legal entity, including a lessee, which exercises control over management and record keeping functions relating to a building and/or facility in which activities covered by this standard take place. Certified Industrial Hygienist (CIH) means one certified in the comprehensive practice of industrial hygiene by the American Board of Industrial Hygiene. Class I asbestos work means activities involving the removal of thermal system insulation or surfacing ACM/PACM. Class II asbestos work means activities involving the removal of ACM which is neither TSI or surfacing ACM. This includes, but is not limited to, the removal of asbestos- containing wallboard, floor tile and sheeting, roofing and siding shingles, and construction mastics. Class III asbestos work means repair and maintenance operations, where ``ACM'', including TSI and surfacing ACM and PACM, may be disturbed. Class IV asbestos work means maintenance and custodial activities during which employees contact ACM and PACM and activities to clean up waste and debris containing ACM and PACM. Clean room means an uncontaminated room having facilities for the storage of employees' street clothing and uncontaminated materials and equipment. Closely resemble means that the major workplace conditions which have contributed to the levels of historic asbestos exposure, are no more protective than conditions of the current workplace. Competent person see ``Qualified person'' Critical barrier means one or more layers of plastic sealed over all openings into a work area or any other physical barrier sufficient to prevent airborne asbestos in a work area from migrating to an adjacent area. Decontamination area means an enclosed area adjacent and connected to the regulated area and consisting of an equipment room, shower area, and clean room, which is used for the decontamination of workers, materials, and equipment that are contaminated with asbestos. Demolition means the wrecking or taking out of any load-supporting structural member and any related razing, removing, or stripping of asbestos products. Director means the Director, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or designee. Disturbance means contact which releases fibers from ACM or PACM or debris containing ACM or PACM. This term includes activities that disrupt the matrix of ACM or PACM, render ACM or PACM friable, or generate visible debris. Disturbance includes cutting away small amounts of ACM and PACM, no greater than the amount which can be contained in one standard sized glove bag or waste bag, in order to access a building or vessel component. In no event shall the amount of ACM or PACM so disturbed exceed that which can be contained in one glove bag or waste bag which shall not exceed 60 inches in length and width. Employee exposure means that exposure to airborne asbestos that would occur if the employee were not using respiratory protective equipment. Equipment room (change room) means a contaminated room located within the decontamination area that is supplied with impermeable bags or containers for the disposal of contaminated protective clothing and equipment. Fiber means a particulate form of asbestos, 5 micrometers or longer, with a length-to-diameter ratio of at least 3 to 1. Glovebag means an impervious plastic bag-like enclosure affixed around an asbestos-containing material, with glove-like appendages through which material and tools may be handled. High-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter means a filter capable of trapping and retaining at least 99.97 percent of all mono-dispersed particles of 0.3 micrometers in diameter. Homogeneous area means an area of surfacing material or thermal system insulation that is uniform in color and texture. Industrial hygienist means a professional qualified by education, training, and experience to anticipate, recognize, evaluate and develop controls for occupational health hazards. Intact means that the ACM has not crumbled, been pulverized, or otherwise deteriorated so that it is no longer likely to be bound with its matrix.
