FR940725-2-00109 FR940725-2-00066 Currently, a MIOER may be collateralized by cash, cash equivalents, one or more qualified equity securities, or a combination thereof. Pursuant to Regulation T, the term ``cash equivalents'' is defined to mean the market value of any of the following instruments with one year or less to maturity: (1) Securities issued or guaranteed by the United States or its agencies; (2) negotiable bank certificates of deposit; or (3) bankers acceptances issued by banking institutions in the United States and payable in the United States. 13 An equity security (other than warrants, rights or options) is qualified to be used as collateral for MIOERs issued to cover short call positions if it is traded on a national securities exchange and substantially meets the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') or American Stock Exchange (``Amex'') or if it is enumerated on the current list of over-the-counter margin stocks published by the Federal Reserve Board. 13 See 12 CFR 220.8(a)(3)(ii) (1990). The current escrow receipt program requires that, at the time the option is written, the total value of the collateral underlying the MIOER must be at least equal to the aggregate initial position value ( i.e., the index value at trade date times the applicable index multiplier times the number of options contracts covered by the collateral). Although the escrow deposit may include only one or even no securities, the customer must affirm that he is writing index options against a diversified portfolio. In addition, the issuing bank or trust company must be approved by OCC if the receipt is to be forwarded to OCC to meet the clearing member's margin obligations. 14 14 There are also certain financial, regulatory and depository standards for MIOER issuers. For further discussion of OCC's monitoring obligations, see OCC approval order, supra, note 5. Thereafter, the terms of the MIOER 15 specify that, if the value of the collateral falls below 55% of the current position value, the issuing bank or trust company promptly must notify the customer and request that the escrow deposit be supplemented. If the value of the collateral falls below 50% of the current position value, the bank or trust company promptly must notify OCC and the broker who, in turn, will disregard the MIOER and request that margin be deposited for the previously covered short position. 15 Under the SROs' rules, escrow receipts must be in a form satisfactory to the exchange. Because the Commission has only reviewed the escrow receipt submitted by OCC, the Commission previously has indicated that approval of these proposals is limited to the use of escrow receipts containing terms and conditions substantively identical to those in the OCC escrow receipt. III. Description of the Proposals The exchanges' most recent amendments (Amendment Nos. 1, 7 and 5 to the CBOE, PSE and Phlx filings, respectively) propose to convert their MIOER programs 16 from pilot to permanent status and to conform their rules with recently approved amendments to OCC's rules. 17 Despite certain refinements, as discussed in more detail below, the current rules will, for the most part, continue to apply. 16 See CBOE Rule 24.11(d); PSE Rule 7.16(d); and Phlx Rule 722(c). 17 See OCC approval order, supra, note 5. First, the SROs proposals will limit acceptable ``cash equivalents'' to securities issued or guaranteed by the United States and having one year or less to maturity (``short-term United States government securities''). As a result, securities issued or guaranteed by agencies of the United States, certificates of deposit and bankers acceptances will no longer be eligible as collateral for MIOERs issued to cover short call position. In addition, the definition of ``qualified equity securities'' will be amended to incorporate all exchange-traded securities, whether or not they meet NYSE or Amex listing standards. The proposals also will make certain editorial changes to the exchanges' rules regarding the use of over-the-counter securities to collateralize an escrow receipt, in order to conform that language with the phrasing used in OCC's rules. The exchanges believe that the proposed rule changes are consistent with Section 6 of the Act in general and, in particular, with Section 6(b)(5), in that they are designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, as well as to protect investors and the public interest by establishing a MIOER consistent with OCC rules and procedures.
