FR940512-1-00008 FR940512-1-00001 ยง185.117 Disqualification of reviewing official or ALJ. (a) A reviewing official or ALJ in a particular case may disqualify himself or herself at any time. (b) A party may file with the ALJ a motion for disqualification of a reviewing official or an ALJ. Such motion shall be accompanied by an affidavit alleging personal bias or other reason for disqualification. (c) Such motion and affidavit shall be filed promptly upon the party's discovery of reasons requiring disqualification, or such objections shall be deemed waived. (d) Such affidavit shall state specific facts that support the party's belief that personal bias or other reason for disqualification exists and the time and circumstances of the party's discovery of such facts. It shall be accompanied by a certificate of the representative of record that it is made in good faith. (e) Upon the filing of such a motion and affidavit, the ALJ shall proceed no further in the case until he or she resolves the matter of disqualification in accordance with this section: (1) If the ALJ determines that a reviewing official is disqualified, the ALJ shall dismiss the complaint without prejudice. (2) If the ALJ disqualifies himself or herself, the case shall be reassigned promptly to another ALJ. (3) If the ALJ denies a motion to disqualify, the authority head may determine the matter only as part of his or her review of the initial decision upon appeal, if any. ยง185.118 Rights of parties. Except as otherwise limited by this part, all parties may_ (a) Be accompanied, represented, and advised by a representative; (b) Participate in any conference held by the ALJ; (c) Conduct discovery as provided under ยง185.122; (d) Agree to stipulations of fact of law, which shall be made a part of the record; (e) Present evidence relevant to the issues at the hearing; (f) Present and cross-examine witnesses; (g) Present oral arguments at the hearing as permitted by the ALJ; and (h) Submit written briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law after the hearing. ยง185.119 Authority of the ALJ. (a) The ALJ shall conduct a fair and impartial hearing, avoid delay, maintain order, and assure that a record of the proceeding is made. (b) The ALJ has the authority to: (1) Set and change the date, time, and place of the hearing upon reasonable notice to the parties; (2) Continue or recess the hearing in whole or in part for a reasonable period of time;
