FR940325-1-00110 FR940325-1-00008 (4) Situations in which continuous season-long grazing would be consistent with achieving healthy, properly functioning ecosystems and riparian systems. (5) Selection criteria and general design standards for the development of springs, seeps, and other projects affecting water and associated resources, that will protect the ecological values of those sites. (6) Situations in which grazing will be authorized on designated ephemeral (annual and perennial) rangelands, including the establishment of criteria for minimum levels of production, minimum residual growth to remain at the end of the grazing season, and the protection of perennial vegetation. (7) Criteria for the protection of riparian-wetland areas, including the location, or need for relocation or removal, of livestock management facilities (corrals or holding facilities, wells, pipelines, fences) outside riparian-wetland areas, or the modification of livestock management practices (e.g., salting and supplement feeding). (8) Grazing management practices or utilization or residual vegetation limits in riparian and wetland areas that will: (i) Maintain, improve, or restore both herbaceous and woody species (where present or potential exists) to a healthy and vigorous condition and facilitate reproduction and maintenance of diverse age classes in the desired plant communities; and (ii) Leave sufficient vegetation biomass and plant residue (including woody debris) to provide for adequate sediment filtering, dissipation of stream energy, streambank stability and stream shading. (f) In the event standards are not developed pursuant to this section prior to (The Date 18 Months After the Effective Date of the Final Rule), the standards provided in this paragraph shall apply until such time as standards are developed pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section: (1) The soil A-horizon is present and unfragmented, and the soil is developed or accumulating on site. Rills and gullies are absent, or if present, they have blunted and muted features. There is no visible scouring, sheet erosion, and/or soil sediment deposition. (2) Plants are well distributed across the site, and photosynthetic activity occurs throughout the growing season. A uniform distribution of litter is evident. The plant community structure results in rooting throughout the available soil profile. (3) Plants display normal growth forms and vigor. The plant communities display a diverse range of age classes. (4) Flood plains are present and well developed and channel sinuosity, width-to-depth ratio, and gradient are in balance with the landscape setting. The authorized officer shall take appropriate action under subparts 4110, 4120, 4130, and 4160 of this part, where a preponderance of evidence, collected through field observations, monitoring, site inventory, or other acceptable study methods, indicates that the standards are not being met. (g) In the event guidelines are not developed and approved by the Secretary pursuant to this section prior to (The Date 18 Months After the Effective Date of the Final Rule), and until such time as guidelines are developed pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section and approved by the Secretary, the authorized officer shall take appropriate action under subparts 4110, 4120, 4130, and 4160 of this part to ensure that all grazing-related activities conform with the following: (1) Grazing management practices will ensure to the extent practicable in the recovery of threatened or endangered species, and prevent candidate species, Category 1 or 2, from becoming threatened or endangered. Emphasis will be toward maintaining or improving plant and animal habitat to avoid future listing. (2) Grazing practices will maintain, restore or enhance water quality and ensure to the extent practicable the attainment of water quality which meets or exceeds State standards. (3) Grazing schedules will include periods of rest during times of critical plant growth or regrowth. The timing and duration of rest periods will be determined by the local authorized officer administering the grazing authorization. (4) Continuous season-long grazing will be authorized only when it has been demonstrated to be consistent with achieving healthy, properly functioning ecosystems and riparian systems, and with meeting identified resource objectives. (5) Development of springs and seeps or other projects affecting water and associated resources will be designed to protect the ecological values of those sites. (6) Grazing will be authorized on designated ephemeral (annual and perennial) rangeland only if reliable estimates of production have been made, an identified level of annual growth or residue to remain on site at the end of the grazing season has been established, and adverse effects on perennial species will be avoided. (7) Livestock management facilities (corrals or holding facilities, wells, pipelines, fences) or livestock management practices (salting and supplement feeding) will be located outside riparian-wetland areas wherever possible. Appropriate action, which may include the relocation or removal of the facilities or modification of the practices, will be taken where standards are not being met. (8) Grazing management practices and utilization or residual vegetation limits will be established and applied in riparian and wetland areas that will: (i) Maintain, improve, or restore a diversity of both herbaceous and woody species (where such species are present or would be present under normal conditions) to a healthy and vigorous condition and facilitate reproduction and maintenance of diverse age classes in the desired plant communities, and (ii) Leave sufficient vegetation biomass and plant residue (including woody debris) to provide for adequate sediment filtering, dissipation of stream energy, streambank stability and stream shading.
