FR940627-0-00028 FR940627-0-00009 In particular, the regulations are being revised to reflect the data used by pipelines to allocate capacity among shippers when available capacity is not sufficient for the pipelines to honor all requests for service. For those pipelines whose tariffs rely upon contract information to allocate capacity, the pipelines will be required to maintain a log (for both affiliates and non-affiliates) of contract dates or other relevant information that they use to allocate capacity. Pipelines that allocate capacity on a pro rata basis (or use a method that does not rely on contract data) will not have to maintain the log. The affiliate log must be posted on the pipelines' EBBs, while the full log (for both affiliates and non-affiliates) must be provided to the Commission, within a reasonable time, upon request according to the specifications and format contained in Form No. 592. 11 11 Form No. 592 is attached as Appendix B and will not be published in the Federal Register . The Commission also is coordinating its posting requirements for affiliate discounts to eliminate duplicative EBB postings. Current §250.16 requires the pipelines to post information about affiliate discounts on their EBBs. Current Standard of Conduct I requires pipelines to make any discount offered to an affiliate contemporaneously available to non-affiliates. In order for the pipelines to fulfill this obligation, the Commission has required that they make a contemporaneous posting on their EBBs of information about affiliate discounts, so that non-affiliates will be aware of the discount and can request a comparable discount if they believe they are similarly situated. 12 To eliminate the posting of duplicative information, the Commission is incorporating a contemporaneous posting requirement for affiliate offers into former Standard I (new Standard H) 13 and is deleting the similar requirement for posting affiliate discounts under §250.16. In effect, the Commission is not adding a new reporting requirement here. It is merely moving a current EBB posting requirement from §250.16 to new Standard H in order to eliminate duplicative postings. 12 Colorado Interstate Gas Company, 65 FERC ¶61,264 at 62,224&hyph;25 (1993). 13 The new designation of Standard H will be used throughout the order. Section 250.16 also required pipelines to maintain discount information for both affiliate and non-affiliate transactions and provide this information to the Commission upon request. The Commission is retaining this maintenance requirement, because information on affiliate and non-affiliate transactions is needed for the Commission to monitor affiliate transactions and compare these transactions with non-affiliate transactions. 14 14 The information must be provided to the Commission according to the specifications and format contained in Form No. 592.
