FR940919-2-00074 FR940919-2-00045 Social Security Administration Privacy Act of 1974; Computer Matching Programs (SSA/Bureau of Prisons) AGENCY: Social Security Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice of Computer Matching Program. SUMMARY: In accordance with the provisions of the Privacy Act, as amended, this notice announces a computer matching program that SSA plans to conduct. DATES: SSA will file a report of the subject matching program with the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget. The matching program will be effective as indicated below. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may comment on this notice by either telefax to (410) 966&hyph;5138 or writing to the Associate Commissioner for Program and Integrity Reviews, 860 Altmeyer Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235. All comments received will be available for public inspection at this address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The Associate Commissioner for Program and Integrity Reviews as shown above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. General The Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 (Public Law (Pub. L.) 100&hyph;503) amended the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a) by adding certain protections for individuals applying for and receiving Federal benefits. Section 7201 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;508) further amended the Privacy Act regarding protections for such individuals. The Privacy Act, as amended, regulates the use of computer matching by Federal agencies when records in a system of records are matched with other Federal, State or local government records. It requires Federal agencies involved in computer matching programs to: (1) Negotiate written agreements with the other agency or agencies participating in the matching programs; (2) Obtain the Data Integrity Boards' approval of the match agreements. (3) Furnish detailed reports about matching programs to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget; (4) Notify applicants and beneficiaries that their records are subject to matching; and (5) Verify match findings before reducing, suspending, terminating or denying an individual's benefits or payments. B. SSA Computer Matches Subject to the Privacy Act We have taken action to ensure that all of SSA's computer matching programs comply with the requirements of the Privacy Act, as amended. Dated: September 9, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security.
