FR940111-2-00004 FR940111-2-00002 Clear Creek District: Clear Creek Courant, published weekly in Idaho Springs, Clear Creek County, Colorado. Sulphur District: Sulphur Sky High News, published weekly in Granby, Grand County, Colorado. Grand Mesa, Uncompahgre and Gunnison National Forests, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions Grand Junction Daily Sentinel, published daily in Grand Junction, Mesa County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions Collbran and Grand Junction Districts: Grand Junction Daily Sentinel, published daily in Grand Junction, Mesa County, Colorado. Paonia District: Delta County Independent, published weekly in Delta, Delta County, Colorado. Cebolla and Taylor River Districts: Gunnison Country Times, published weekly in Gunnison, Gunnison County, Colorado. Norwood District: Telluride Times-Journal, published weekly in Telluride, San Miguel County, Colorado. Ouray District: Montrose Daily Press, published daily in Montrose, Montrose County, Colorado. Pike and San Isabel National Forests Forest Supervisor Decisions Pueblo Chieftain, published daily in Pueblo, Pueblo County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions San Carlos District: Pueblo Chieftain, published daily in Pueblo, Pueblo County, Colorado Comanche District: Plainsman Herald, published weekly in Springfield, Baca County, Colorado. In addition, notice of decisions made by the District Ranger will also be published in the La Junta Tribune Democrat, published daily in La Junta, Otero County, Colorado, and in the Ark Valley Journal, published weekly in La Junta, Otero County, Colorado. Cimarron District: Tri-State News, published weekly in Elkhart, Morton County, Kansas. South Platte District: Daily News Press, published daily in Castle Rock, Douglas County, Colorado. In addition, notice of decisions made by the District Ranger will also be published in the High Timber Times, published weekly in Conifer, Jefferson County, Colorado, and in the Fairplay Flume, published weekly in Fairplay, Park County, Colorado. Leadville District: Herald Democrat, published weekly in Leadville, Lake County, Colorado. Salida District: The Mountain Mail, published daily in Salida, Chaffee County, Colorado. South Park District: Fairplay Flume, published weekly in Fairplay, Park County, Colorado. Pikes Peak District: Gazette Telegraph, published daily in Colorado Springs, El Paso County, Colorado. Rio Grande National Forest, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions Valley Courier, published daily in Alamosa, Alamosa County, Colorado. District Ranger Decisions Valley Courier, published daily in Alamosa, Alamosa County, Colorado. Routt National Forest, Colorado Forest Supervisor Decisions Steamboat Pilot, published weekly in Steamboat Springs, Routt County, Colorado. In addition, for decisions affecting an individual district(s), the local district(s) newspaper will also be used.
