FR941107-2-00004 FR941107-2-00003 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Bureau of Economic Analysis [Docket No. 941005&hyph;4305] Proposed Redefinition of the BEA Economic Areas AGENCY: Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of proposed changes and request for comments. SUMMARY: In a previous notice in the Federal Register (56 FR 13049, March 9, 1993), BEA announced its ``Intent to Revise the Boundaries of the BEA Economic Areas'' and presented the procedures used to define the current economic areas. This notice presents for public comment a proposed redefinition of the economic areas, which reduces their number from 183 to 174. Any additional changes to the proposed economic areas will be based largely on the comments received. The resulting new economic areas, along with a summary of the comments received, will be presented in a later notice. At that time, the new economic areas will supersede the current 183 BEA economic areas. DATES: Persons who wish to comment on the proposed redefinition of the BEA economic areas should do so in writing no later than December 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be submitted to Kenneth Johnson, U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of Economic Analysis BE&hyph;61, Regional Economic Analysis Division, Washington, DC 20230; fax (202) 606&hyph;5321. Comments also may be sent by electronic mail on the Internet to Kenneth Johnson at ken.johnson@opm.gov. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kenneth Johnson, (202) 606&hyph;9219; fax (202) 606&hyph;5321. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Part I: Background Under authority granted in 15 U.S.C. 175 et seq. , BEA develops and presents geographically detailed economic data and facilitates regional economic analysis. As part of this obligation, BEA defined the 183 current economic areas in 1977. The economic areas cover the entire nation. The redefinition now underway is necessary to maintain the analytical usefulness of the areas in light of the substantial changes in area commuting patterns shown by the 1990 Census of Population. Each economic area consists of one or more economic nodes_metropolitan areas or similar areas that serve as centers of economic activity_and the surrounding counties that are economically related to the nodes. (Metropolitan areas include metropolitan statistical areas (MSA's), primary metropolitan statistical areas (PMSA's), and New England county metropolitan areas (NECMA's).) Commuting patterns are the main factor used in determining the economic relationships among counties. The economic-area definition procedure requires that, as far as possible, each area include both the place-of-work and the place-of-residence of its labor force. For some analyses, government agencies and businesses need data that are more geographically detailed than economic-area data. Government agencies often use relatively small areas for design of their program regulations or implementation of their licensing programs. Businesses need such detail for determining plant locations and for defining sales and marketing territories. BEA is responding to these needs as part of the economic-area redefinition by first defining a set of 348 ``Component Economic Areas'' (CEA's) and then using these as building blocks for redefining the larger economic areas. Each CEA consists of a single economic node and the surrounding counties that are economically related to the node. Of the nodes, 90 percent are metropolitan, and 10 percent are nonmetropolitan. Each metropolitan area is the node of a different CEA; with minor exceptions, the nonmetropolitan nodes are nonmetropolitan counties where newspapers widely read in these areas are published.
