FR940505-1-00131 FR940505-1-00012 (c) Applicability. The Agency believes that it is necessary to control emissions from all on-highway motorcycles and engines used in nonroad motorcycles, as defined in the previous section, on a statewide basis to achieve needed emission reductions in the FIP areas. It is the Agency's intent that the standards proposed today, as well as the requirements of 40 CFR part 86 subpart E, apply to all on-highway motorcycles, and engines used in nonroad motorcycles regardless of displacement. The following are examples of vehicles covered by the definition of nonroad motorcycles: dirt bikes, all terrain vehicles, go-cart, and mopeds. It is the Agency's intent that engines used in these vehicles and similar nonroad vehicles meet the standards. It is also the Agency's intent that on-highway motorcycles with displacements less than 50 cc (3.1 cu. in.) meet the proposed standards. (d) Standards. EPA proposes that all motorcycles sold in California meet a 0.8 g/km standards for HC, a 0.8 g/km standard for NO X , and a 12 g/km standard for carbon monoxide. Certification data from current technology on highway motorcycles indicates that over 50 percent of these motorcycles are certifying to exhaust HC emission levels at or below 0.8 g/km HC. EPA believes that by using existing on-highway motorcycle technology it is reasonable to expect that motorcycles should be able to achieve comparable emission levels for HC. The Agency understands that an 0.8 g/km standard may require substitution of 4-stroke nonroad engines for 2-stroke nonroad engines currently used in dirt bikes, ATVs, and similar vehicles. However, EPA is also aware that catalyst technology exists and is currently being applied to 2-stroke motorcycles and mopeds sold in other countries to meet stringent legal emissions levels in those countries. EPA believes that this simple oxidation technology is viable for reducing emissions from engines used in both on-highway and nonroad motorcycles to the 0.8 g/km HC and 0.8 g/km NO X level. The Agency has considered a 0.5 g/km HC standard for on-highway motorcycles and takes comment on restricting emissions from on-highway motorcycles to this more stringent level and on the applicability of this standard to the smaller displacement on-highway motorcycles under 50 cc (3.1 cu. in.). Although the test data on NO X emissions from motorcycles is more limited, experience with light duty cars suggests that with a catalyst, NO X emission levels are approximately equal to HC emission levels. In addition, legal emission levels for motorcycles in Taiwan, beginning in 1996, will be 0.8 g/km for both HC and NO X . Testing data submitted by one catalyst manufacturer shows that HC+NO X levels range between 0.30 g/km and 1.88 g/km. The Agency realizes that there is a trade-off between HC emission and NO X emission and solicits comment on the benefit of setting a combined standard of 1.6 g/km for HC + NO X . EPA also realizes that less emission data exists for nonroad engines used in nonroad motorcycles and solicits data from manufacturers as a basis for evaluating the level of the standards proposed today. (e) Certification and Test Procedure. EPA proposes that the test procedure for on-highway and nonroad motorcycles will be the same as that procedure described in 40 CFR part 86 subpart F. EPA acknowledges that the test procedure described in 40 CFR part 86 subpart F, in general is performed on a dynamometer designed for two-wheeled motorcycles and that many motorcycles as defined above have more than two wheels. The test procedure described in 40 CFR part 86 subpart F, involves testing motorcycles as whole vehicles on chassis dynamometers designed for two-wheeled motorcycles, driving the same driving cycle (vehicle speed versus time) that is used for cars and light trucks. Current Federal regulations contain a general provision for EPA to authorize special test procedures for vehicles which cannot be properly tested under the standard procedures. EPA believes it is appropriate to test all of the new motorcycles and engines included in today's proposal as whole vehicles under this same procedure used for current motorcycles. The special test procedure provision would be applied as necessary to test any vehicles which cannot be physically tested using current motorcycle dynamometers. For example, vehicles having more than one drive wheel on an axle exceeding the width of current motorcycle dynamometer rolls might be tested using normal passenger car chassis dynamometers, or motorcycle dynamometers with specially widened rolls. Vehicles with multiple drive axles would be handled, as much as possible, like four-wheel drive passenger cars and light trucks are currently tested, with all the power supplied through only one primary drive axle. If the foregoing adaptations of the currently available motorcycle and passenger car chassis dynamometers cannot be applied, EPA would expect to apply special procedures involving directly connecting the drive axle to a dynamometer, driven at an axle speed that corresponds to the required vehicle speed. EPA solicits comments on the test procedures outlined in 40 CFR, Subpart F, and its applicability to four-wheeled nonroad motorcycles. EPA specifically requests comments on J1088 as an alternative test procedure. For J1088 and other alternative procedures suggested, EPA specifically requests data to allow correlation between the stringency of the proposed standards as measured on the test procedure defined in 40 CFR, Subpart F, and any test suggested by commentors.
