FR940707-2-00084 FR940707-2-00049 Under 45 CFR 100.8(a)(2), a SPOC has 60 days from the application due date to comment on proposed new or competing continuation awards. However, because PNS grant applications are due 30 days from the date of publication, and grants are to be awarded in September 1994, there is insufficient time to allow for a complete SPOC comment period. Therefore, we have reduced the comment period to 30 days from the closing date for applications. These comments are reviewed as part of the award process. Failure to notify the SPOC can result in delays in awarding grants. SPOCs are encouraged to eliminate the submission of routine endorsements as official recommendations. Additionally, SPOCs are requested to clearly differentiate between mere advisory comments and those official State process recommendation which may trigger the ``accommodate or explain'' rule. When comments are submitted directly to ACF, they should be addressed to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, Sixth Floor, 370 L'Enfant Promenade SW., Washington, DC 20447, Attn: 93.631 ADD_Projects of National Significance. Contact information for each State's SPOC is found at the end of this Part. B. Notification of State Developmental Disabilities Planning Councils A copy of the application must also be submitted for review and comment to the State Developmental Disabilities Council in each State in which the applicant's project will be conducted. A list of the State Developmental Disabilities Councils is included at the end of this announcement. C. Deadline for Submittal of Applications One signed original and two copies of the application must be submitted on or before August 8, 1994 to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC. 20447, Attn: 93.631 ADD_Projects of National Significance. Applications may be mailed or hand-delivered. Hand delivered applications are accepted during the normal working hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Applications shall be considered as meeting an announced deadline if they are either: 1. Received on or before the deadline date at the ACF Grants Office specified in this section; or 2. Sent on or before the deadline date and received by ACF in time for the independent review. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing) Late applications: Applications which do not meet the criteria stated above are considered late applications. ACF/ADD shall notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in the current competition. Extension of deadlines: ACF may extend the deadline for all applicants due to acts of God, such as floods, hurricanes or earthquakes; or when there is a widespread disruption of the mails. However, if the granting agency does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicants. D. Instructions for Preparing the Application and Completing Application Forms The SF 424, SF 424A, SF 424A, Page 2 and Certifications have been reprinted for your convenience in preparing the application. You should reproduce single-sided copies of these forms from the reprinted forms in the announcement, typing your information onto the copies. Please do not use forms directly from the Federal Register announcement, as they are printed on both sides of the page.
