FR940606-1-00038 FR940606-1-00008 (a) Waterborne coatings. Waterborne coatings utilize a resin system that is dispersible in water. A portion of the organic solvent is then replaced with water. The organic solvent may be 5 to 40 percent by weight of the waterborne coating, compared to a conventional organic solvent-based coating containing as much as 80 percent by weight solvent. In addition to the lower solvent content, waterborne coatings have other advantages over solvent-based coatings. Less overspray and improved spray transfer efficiency may be achieved with waterborne coatings than with conventional coatings that utilize solvents with a density less than that of water. Additionally, because of the reduced solvent content, waterborne coatings may be less toxic and present a reduced fire hazard. Waterborne coatings have limitations such as requiring spray guns with specific materials of construction, protection from freezing, and better control of temperature and humidity during application. In addition, waterborne coatings generally require longer drying times, are more sensitive to substrate material and cleanliness, and have lower salt spray resistance. (b) Higher solids . Higher solids coatings are solvent-based coating formulations that have been modified to lower the solvent-to-solids ratio. The coatings usually contain 50 to 65 percent by volume solids, compared to conventional solvent-based coatings that may contain up to 40 percent by volume solids. The increased solids content gives greater surface area coverage per gallon of coating, which reduces the total volume of coating required. Consequently, solvent emissions are also reduced when higher solids coatings are used to apply the same volume of solids that are applied with a conventional solvent-based coating. Higher solids coatings generally have higher viscosities and longer drying times than conventional solvent-based coatings. The higher viscosity tends to make spray application more difficult because it is harder to control gloss and film thickness, and may require the coating to be heated before application. Higher solids coatings typically are not used as dip coatings due to the difficulty in maintaining a uniform dispersion of solids in the dip tank. (c) Powder . Powder coatings are a class of coatings applied electrostatically in dry form and then baked to cure. The coatings consist of fine, dry particles of paint solids. During the curing step, the particles fuse to create a continuous film. Use of powder coatings requires that the substrate must be able to withstand the high temperatures (typically greater than 121 ○C (250 ○F) and frequently greater than 177 ○C (350 ○F)) necessary to cure the paint. The major advantage of using powder coatings is greatly reduced solvent emissions. The lack of a solvent base also reduces fire hazard, toxicity, and the make-up air requirements of the spray booth. Powder coatings must be applied electrostatically, so they cannot be used on non-conductive parts such as composites. Other reported disadvantages of powder coatings are the difficulty in obtaining a high quality appearance, production must be shut down for color changes, the powder must remain dry at all times prior to application, and higher energy costs. As noted above, the high curing temperatures of powder coatings precludes their use on temperature-sensitive substrates. (d) Self-priming topcoats . Self-priming topcoats eliminate the need to apply a primer coat between the substrate and the topcoat. Self-priming topcoats have the adhesion and corrosion characteristics of a conventional primer and the environmental resistance and functional fluid resistance of a conventional topcoat. These coatings also eliminate the need for chrome-containing primers. (2) Product reformulation_hand-wipe cleaning solvents . Product reformulations for hand-wipe cleaning that are prevalent in the aerospace industry can be classified as aqueous, hydrocarbon-based, and non-chemical. Each category is discussed below:
