FR940603-1-00165 FR940603-1-00009 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (describe) XXXX . B. Trees that are felled shall be cut to commercial wood lengths, stacked neatly, and left on the right-of-way for the landowner. Commercial wood length means the length designated by the Owner but in no case shall it be required to be less than ( XXXX ) feet. Brush, branches, and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Owner will direct (Owner to strike out methods not to be used): 1. Burned. 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way. 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (describe) XXXX . ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION S_SUBSTATION ASSEMBLY UNITS A substation assembly unit consists of the complete substation ready for connection of the line conductors, as shown on the substation drawings attached. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION UD_UNDERGROUND CABLE ASSEMBLY UNITS An underground cable assembly unit consists of the installation of 1,000 feet of cable for underground primaries, secondaries or services. It does not include the plowing, trenching and backfilling, or the termination of the primary cable which are provided for in other assembly units. It includes the labor for the termination, connection and sealing of secondary and service cables and conductors as shown in the specifications and construction drawings, and the labor for making all primary, secondary and service cable splices (buried cable may be spliced only when and where permitted by the Owner 1 , 2 .) In computing the compensation to the Contractor for underground cable assembly units, only the distance between stakes, paralleling the cable shall be used. The number of units so computed includes all installation of cable in all specified trenches, risers, conduits, crossings, manholes, transformers, terminal housings and meter boxes. 3 The conductor or cables listed are the manufacturer's designation of types, size, voltage rating and material. The Contractor and the Owner shall jointly perform cable acceptance tests on installed cable in accordance with the specifications using test equipment furnished by the XXXX (Owner to insert Owner or Contractor). 1 XXXX Owner check here if primary splices are permitted. 2 XXXX Owner check here if secondary and service splices are permitted. 3 XXXX Owner check here if 12 feet of service conductor is to be left as a coil 3 feet from the building with ends capped instead of connection to meter box. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION UG_UNDERGROUND TRANSFORMER ASSEMBLY UNITS An underground transformer assembly unit consists of the installation of the transformer, its housing, warning sign, switches, over-current protective devices, grounding loop, and its hardware and leads with their connectors and supporting insulators. This unit also includes the installation of primary cable terminations but not of lightning arresters, fault indicators or ground rods, nor does it include any trenching. For pad-mount transformers, it does not include installation of the pad, drainable material, backfilling, compaction, or site preparation which are included in the pad assembly units. For submersible transformers it includes the installation of cable terminations, of the enclosure and cover, of drainable material (when specified) 4 and the excavation. 4 XXXX Owner check here if drainable material is specified.
