FR940927-0-00007 FR940927-0-00001 (a) You must have records, which can be independently verified, of planted acreage and production for each optional unit for at least the last crop year used to determine your production guarantee. (b) You must plan the crop in a manner that results in a clear and discernable break in the planting pattern at the boundaries of each optional unit. (c) You must have records of measurement of stored or marketed production from each optional unit maintained in such a manner that we can verify the production from each optional unit or the production from each optional unit must be kept separate until after loss adjustment under the policy is completed. (d) Each optional unit must meet one or more of the following criteria as applicable; (1) Optional Units by Section, Section Equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number: Optional units may be established if each optional unit is located in a separate legally identified Section. In the absence of Sections, we may consider parcels of land legally identified by other methods of measure including, but not limited to: Spanish grants, railroad surveys, leagues, labors, or Virginia Military Lands an equivalent of Sections for unit purposes. In areas which have not been surveyed using the systems identified above, or another system approved by us, or in areas where such systems exist but boundaries are not readily discernable, each optional unit must be located in a separate farm identified by a single ASCS Farm Serial Number. (2) Optional Units on Acreage Including Both Irrigated and Non-irrigated Practices: In addition to or instead of establishing optional units by Section, section equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number, optional units may be based or irrigated acreage or non-irrigated acreage if both are located in the same Section, section equivalent, or ASCS Farm Serial Number. The irrigated acreage may not extend beyond the point at which your irrigation system can deliver the quantity of water needed to produce the yield on which your guarantee is based and you may not continue into non-irrigated acreage in the same rows or planting pattern. You must plant, cultivate, fertilize, or otherwise care for the irrigated acreage in accordance with recognized good irrigated farming practices. Basic units may not be divided into optional units on any basis including, but not limited to: Production practice, type, variety, or planting period, other than as described above. If you do not comply fully with these provisions, we will combine all optional units which are not in compliance with these provisions into the unit from which they were formed. We may combine the optional units at any time we discover that you have failed to comply with these provisions. If failure to comply with these provisions on all optional units is determined to be inadvertent, and the optional units are combined, premium paid for the purpose of electing optional units will be refunded to you. 3. Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities
