FR940803-2-00046 FR940803-2-00037 Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 93D&hyph;0120] Revised Procedural Guidance Document of the Advertising and Promotional Labeling Staff, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research; Availability Agency: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. Action: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing the availability of a revised guidance document prepared by the ~~Advertising and Promotional Labeling Staff (APLS) within the Office of Establishment Licensing and Product Surveillance (OELPS), Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER). This document revises the original procedural guide. FDA revised the guide to address comments received and also to address the submission of promotional materials for products reviewed under the regulations for accelerated approval. ADDRESSES: Correspondence concerning advertising and promotion of biologic products from manufacturers or distributors of biologic products should be directed to the Advertising and Promotional Labeling Staff (HFM&hyph;202), Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 1401 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852&hyph;1448. Persons with access to INTERNET may request this document from ``CBER_INFO@A1.CBER.FDA.GOV.'' or by calling the CBER FAX Information System at 301&hyph;594&hyph;1939 from a FAX machine with a touch tone phone attached or built in. Submit written requests for single copies of the APLS Procedural Guidance to the Congressional and Consumer Affairs Branch (HFM&hyph;12), Food and Drug Administration, 1401 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852&hyph;1448. Send two self-addressed adhesive labels to assist that office in processing your requests. Submit written comments on the guidance to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. Requests and comments should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. A copy of the APLS Procedural Guidance and received comments are available for public examination in the Dockets Management Branch between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Toni Stifano, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (HFM&hyph;202), Food and Drug Administration, 1401 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852&hyph;1448, 301&hyph;594&hyph;2084. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA is making available a revised APLS Procedural Guidance document. This document supersedes the APLS Procedural Guide that was announced in the Federal Register of August 9, 1993 (58 FR 42340). FDA revised the guide to address received comments and also to address requirements for the submission of promotional materials for products reviewed under the regulations for accelerated approval (21 CFR part 601 subpart E). The APLS Procedural Guidance document details the approach that manufacturers and distributors should follow in submitting advertising and promotional material for review by CBER, and APLS' approach in the review and evaluation of this material. The APLS Procedural Guidance document also provides guidance on CBER's current interpretation of the regulation requiring the reporting of important proposed changes in the labeling, specifically promotional labeling, of biological products for which a license is in effect or for which an application for license is pending (21 CFR 601.12). In general, the changes to the original procedural guide respond to requests for additional clarification and guidance in several areas involving biologic advertising and promotion. The term ``significant amendment'' has been changed throughout the document to ``any supplement requiring a labeling change.'' A brief description of the types of supplements that would require a labeling change has also been added. The guide also contains information on advertising and promotional materials for products reviewed under the accelerated approval regulations (21 CFR part 601, subpart E). The revised procedural guide also addresses the submission for pre-review of ``Coming Soon'' advertising as part of the introductory campaign. FDA also clarifies when Part I versus Part II of the FDA form 2567 is used. As with other procedural guidance documents, FDA does not intend this revised document to be all-inclusive. Alternative approaches may be warranted in specific situations, and certain aspects may not be applicable to all situations. If a manufacturer believes that a procedure described in this guidance document is inapplicable to a particular product and other procedures are appropriate for CBER's consideration, the manufacturer may wish to discuss the matter further with the agency to prevent expenditure of money and effort on activities that later may be determined to be unacceptable by FDA. CBER will continue to review advertising and promotional materials on a case-by-case basis. This document does not bind FDA and does not create or confer any rights, privileges, or benefits on or for any person, but is intended merely for guidance. Interested persons may submit to the Dockets Management Branch (address above) written comments on this guide. Two copies of any comments are to be submitted, except that individuals may submit one copy. Comments and information should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. The APLS Procedural Guidance and received comments are available for public examination in the Dockets Management Branch between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FDA will consider any comments received in determining whether additional revisions to the guide are warranted. FDA will announce the availability of any revised guidance statement in the Federal Register . Dated: July 28, 1994. William K. Hubbard, Acting Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18845 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
