FR941205-0-00109 FR941205-0-00025 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 48 CFR Chapter 16 RIN 3206&hyph;AG35 Federal Employees Health Benefits Program; Interest Assessment on Audit Findings AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Interim regulations with request for comments. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management (OPM) is issuing interim regulations to clarify its intentions concerning the assessment of interest on monies due the Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) Program when a comprehensive medical plan (CMP) submits defective cost or pricing data to support its community rate. This clarification is necessary because a few FEHB Program carriers are misinterpreting OMP's current regulations. DATES: Interim regulations are effective January 4, 1995. Comments must be received on or before February 3, 1995. ADDRESSES: Written comments may be sent to Lucretia F. Myers, Assistant Director for Insurance programs, Retirement and Insurance Group, Office of Personnel Management, P.O. Box 57, Washington, DC 20044; delivered to OPM, Room 4351, 1900 E Street NW., Washington, DC; or FAXed to (202) 606&hyph;0633. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary Ann Mercer, (202) 606&hyph;0191. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Recent final audit reports on community-rated plans issued by OPM's Office of Inspector General include monetary findings based on interest income lost to the FEHB Program because of FEHB Program carrier overcharges. A few carriers have questioned the period covered by the interest charges assessed by OPM. Specifically, they question OPM's policy of charging interest on the overcharges from the date the Government pays the inflated rate to the date of the carrier's full repayment to the Government. They believe that, in the absence of a specific contractual provision, OPM should charge interest not from the date of the overpayment by the Government, but from 30 days after its first written demand, as provided in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) general interest clause at 52.232&hyph;17. Because the monetary findings are significant in value, OPM is issuing these regulations to clarify its policy. In FEHB Program contracts with CMP's using community rates, premiums and subscription income are determined on the basis of community rating. A community rate is deemed the equivalent of the FAR's description of an established catalog or market price. Each CMP certifies to the accouracy of its pricing; or, if granted an exemption by OPM, represents that all the statements made on or attached to its SF 1412, Claim for Exemption from Submission of Certified Cost or Pricing Data, are correct. If, upon audit, it is determined that the rates are not correct and the carrier has overcharged the FEHB Program, OPM assesses an interest charge in accordance with FAR 52.215&hyph;23, Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data_Modifications. This provision allows the contracting officer to charge simple interest on the amount of the overpayment computed from the date the overpayment is made to the contractor to the date the Government is repaid by the contractor. FAR 52.215&hyph;23 applies to contract modifications involving a price adjustment exceeding $100,000, but does not apply to modifications for which the price is (1) based on adequate price competition; (2) based on established catalog or market prices of commercial items sold in substantial quantities to the general public; or (3) set by law or regulation. OPM applies this clause as follows: A community rate is deemed the equivalent of an established catalog or market price; however, the defective community rates constitute that part of the quoted rate that does not fall within the catalog or market part of the price. Had the carrier priced the FEHB contract correctly according to the catalog or market price, this clause would not become operative. The defective portion of the rate is not a market or catalog price; that is, the defective portion is a modification to the catalog or market price. Since the carrier did not comply with the terms of its submission, it is responsible for correcting the price so that it is the catalog or market price and for making the government whole by paying interest from the date the government was overcharged. By restating this interest provision in a specific clause in the FEHB Program acquisition regulations at FEHBAR 1652.215&hyph;70, OPM makes it clear that its policy is to charge interest from the date it pays the carrier the higher rate to the date the full repayment is made to OPM. Waiver of Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Pursuant to section 553(b)(3)(A) of title 5 of the U.S. Code, I find that good cause exists for waiving the general notice of proposed rulemaking. The notice is being waived because the regulations simply interpret rules and clarify OPM's current policy with respect to the assessment of interest on amounts that become payable by the contractor to the FEHB Fund. E.O. 12866, Regulatory Review This rule has been reviewed by OMB in accordance with E.O. 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because it merely reiterates and clarifies OPM's existing policy.
