FR941227-1-00046 FR941227-1-00011 Based upon: (1) The finding of nondetriment by the Scientific Authority, and (2) information available from the previously export-approved States, the Service proposes to issue Management Authority approval for the export of American alligators legally harvested during 1995&hyph;1997 from those States previously approved for such export, including Arkansas. Multiyear Findings The Service has monitored existing State programs for the American alligator in most of the previously approved States for many years and expects these States will continue to satisfy CITES requirements. States seeking for the first time to establish a harvest program for alligators should apply for CITES export approval no later than January 2 of the year before they plan to initiate such a program. To ensure that export-approved States maintain successful programs and that export is not detrimental to the survival of the species, the Service plans to continue annual monitoring of State management and export marking programs through evaluation of State annual reports and export reports from U.S. ports. Annual State program reports should be provided to the Office of the Management Authority (address given above) for review no later than May 31 of each year. Proposed Findings The Service proposes to find that the status of the species and State programs is such that the 1995&hyph;1997 harvests of American alligators for export will not be detrimental to the survival of the species. Accordingly, the Service proposes to approve exports of 1995&hyph;1997 harvested alligators from the States previously approved for export, including Arkansas, on the grounds that both Scientific Authority and Management Authority export requirements have been satisfied. Comments Solicited The Service requests comments on these proposed findings. Final findings will take into consideration the comments and any additional information received, and such consideration may lead to final findings that differ from this proposal. The Service requests information on environmental or economic impacts and effects on small entities (including small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions) that would result from findings for or against export approval. This information may aid the Service in further evaluating the conclusions stated below. This proposal is issued under the authority of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .; 87 Stat. 884, as amended) and was prepared by Carol L. Carson, Office of Management Authority. Effects of the Rule and Required Determinations The Service has determined that these proposed findings are not a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment under the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321&hyph;4347), and therefore the preparation of an environmental impact statement is not required. This rule was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. For the 1995&hyph;97 harvest years, the Service analyzed the impacts and again concluded that the 3-year rule was not a major rule and did not have significant economic effects on a substantial number of small entities as outlined under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq .). Because the proposed rule treats exports on a State-by-State basis and proposes to approve export in accordance with State programs, the rule would have little effect on small entities in and of itself. The proposed rule would allow continued international trade in American alligators in accordance with CITES, and it does not contain any Federalism impacts as described in Executive Order 12612. It also has been determined that this proposed rule does not contain information collection requirements that require approval by OMB under 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq . List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 23 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Treaties. PART 23_ENDANGERED SPECIES CONVENTION Accordingly, the Service proposes to amend Part 23 of Title 50, Code of Federal Regulations, as set forth below: 1. The authority citation for Part 23 continues to read as follows:
