FR940524-1-00031 FR940524-1-00010 The anticipated subjects and sequence of the NIOSH rulemaking, according to this modular approach are: ␣ 1Subject area 1Anticipated timetable for proposed rule Particulate Filter Tests May 1994. Assigned Protection Factors Late 1994. Administrative Program (application submittal and processing, fee structure, etc.) Early 1995. Quality Assurance Requirements Early 1995. Gas and Vapor Requirements Mid 1995. Positive Pressure SCBA Requirements Early 1996. Simulated Workplace Protection Factor Test Early 1997. NIOSH is proposing a limited revision to the existing requirements of 30 CFR part 11 in this first ``module'', requiring updated particulate filter tests. These proposed changes would produce significant improvements in the level of protection provided to the wearers of the respiratory protective devices and would enable users to easily discern the level of protection that can be expected when using a particular respirator, with little impact on the certification process. NIOSH estimates that these changes to the particulate filter requirements will affect approximately 80% of all respirators currently marketed. These new filter requirements would update the existing 30 CFR part 11 provisions to provide a particulate efficiency determination and classification system consistent with advances in respiratory protection technology. The tests to determine the respirator filter's particulate efficiency enable classification of the filters on their ability to inhibit the penetration of particulates of the most penetrating size. The effectiveness of a device to remove particulates from the ambient air would be reflected in a three-tiered classification system based on the filter's demonstrated efficiency. Classification of the filters in this manner eliminates the need to test and classify the filter respirator according to composition of contaminant (e.g., ``dust, fume, and mist'', ``asbestos''), since the penetration rate for particulates in the atmosphere, regardless of composition, will not exceed that of the test particulate. To revise respirator nomenclature to be consistent with this fundamental change in certification philosophy, the words ``dust, fume and mist'' have been changed to ``particulate'' in the proposed rule. NIOSH has long been concerned with the health risks to workers due to the inappropriate selection and use of dust/mist and dust/fume/mist respirators. Assigned Protection Factor (APF) values are used in the respirator selection process to indicate the expected protection level. NIOSH has considered the possibility of reducing the Assigned Protection Factor (APF) values given in the NIOSH Guide to Industrial Respiratory Protection and in the Respirator Decision Logic for dust and fume respirators to account for filter penetration that can occur, theoretically, when these respirators are inappropriately used against aerosols less than 2 micrometers in diameter. On September 15, 1992, NIOSH prepared a draft report, ``A Performance Evaluation of DM and DFM Filter Respirators Certified for Protection Against Toxic Dusts, Fumes, and Mist,'' explaining its concerns and suggested course of action. NIOSH solicited an external scientific peer review of this draft report on September 15, 1992. This review did not support an immediate revision of the APF values. The reviewers recommended that NIOSH address the concern about excessive filter penetration by incorporating improved filter-penetration tests into the respirator certification regulation. After careful consideration of this issue, NIOSH agrees with the scientific reviewers that, during the transition period for the implementation of the provisions contained in this rule, an adjustment of APF values is unnecessary and may confuse respirator users. NIOSH will continue to recommend the APF values contained in the NIOSH Guide to Industrial Respiratory Protection (September 1987) and in the Respirator Decision Logic (May 1987) for respirators previously certified under the provisions of 30 CFR part 11. For respirators certified for protection against particulate exposures under the new part 84 which would replace the existing Dust/Mist and Dust/Fume/Mist filter respirators under 30 CFR part 11, NIOSH will be recommending new APF values that account for the new nomenclature and test criteria. These new values, updating the recommendations cited above, will be published in a Respirator User's Notice accompanying publication of this rule as final. It is anticipated that the module on Assigned Protection Factors will be proposed in late 1994, at which time public comment will be solicited.
