FR941202-0-00077 FR941202-0-00010 Solvent/air interface area means; for a vapor cleaning machine, the surface area of the solvent vapor zone that is exposed to the air; for an in-line cleaning machine, it is the total surface area of all the sumps; for a cold cleaning machine, it is the surface area of the liquid solvent that is exposed to the air. Solvent cleaning machine means any device or piece of equipment that uses halogenated HAP solvent liquid or vapor to remove soils from the surfaces of materials. Types of solvent cleaning machines include, but are not limited to, batch vapor, in-line vapor, in-line cold, and batch cold solvent cleaning machines. Solvent vapor zone means; for a vapor cleaning machine, the area that extends from the liquid solvent surface to the level that solvent vapor is condensed. This condensation level is defined as the midline height of the primary condenser coils. Sump means the part of a solvent cleaning machine where the liquid solvent is located. Sump heater coils means the heating system on a cleaning machine that uses steam, electricity, or hot water to heat or boil the liquid solvent. Superheated vapor system means a system that heats the solvent vapor, either passively or actively, to a temperature above the solvent's boiling point. Parts are held in the superheated vapor before exiting the machine to evaporate the liquid solvent on them. Hot vapor recycle is an example of a superheated vapor system. Vapor cleaning machine means a batch or in-line solvent cleaning machine that boils liquid solvent generating solvent vapor that is used as a part of the cleaning or drying cycle. Water layer means a layer of water that floats above the denser solvent and provides control of solvent emissions. In many cases, the solvent used in batch cold cleaning machines is sold containing the appropriate amount of water to create a water cover. Working mode means the time period when the solvent cleaning machine is actively cleaning parts. Working-mode cover means any cover or solvent cleaning machine design that allows the cover to shield the cleaning machine openings from outside air disturbances while parts are being cleaned in the cleaning machine. A cover that is used during the working mode is opened only during parts entry and removal. A cover that meets this definition can also be used as an idling-mode cover if that definition is also met. ยง63.462 Batch cold cleaning machine standards. (a) Each owner or operator of an immersion batch cold solvent cleaning machine shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraph(a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. (1) Employ a tightly fitting cover that shall be closed at all times except during parts entry and removal, and a water layer at a minimum thickness of 2.5 centimeters (1.0 inch) on the surface of the solvent within the cleaning machine, or (2) Employ a tightly fitting cover that shall be closed at all times except during parts entry and removal and a freeboard ratio of 0.75 or greater.
