FR940525-1-00024 FR940525-1-00007 (Question 14) While the agencies believe that a ratings-based multi-level approach may be less costly for banking organizations and thrifts than a multi-level approach that depends more heavily on quantitative and qualitative analysis of individual securitizations and the positions within them, the agencies request comment on the costs of obtaining and monitoring ratings over time and on how these costs might compare with the cost of having to examine each position for purposes of determining its risk-based capital requirement. B. Multi-Level Approach for Unrated Securitizations The ratings-based multi-level approach relies on credit ratings to permit reduced risk-based capital requirements for qualifying credit enhancements and senior securities in certain asset securitizations. However, not all asset securitizations are rated and, in some securitizations, certain portions may be rated while others may be unrated. The Agencies recognize that there could be a need for a separate multi-level approach to establish capital requirements for unrated securitizations and unrated portions of rated securitizations. In theory, there are several ways to proceed. The ideal multi-level approach for unrated securitizations would set capital requirements roughly equivalent to those for rated securitizations. To determine whether the credit quality of an unrated credit enhancement or security is similar to a rated credit enhancement or security, banking organizations and thrifts would need to: (1) Know the current loss position of the credit enhancement or security being evaluated, and (2) have current information on the credit quality of the underlying assets. This information could then be used in conjunction with a formula that relates the capital requirement for a credit enhancement or security to its loss position and the credit quality of the underlying assets. Alternatively, the Agencies could develop a multi-level approach for unrated securitizations that assigns capital requirements based purely on a quantitative measure of sequential loss exposure (that is, the amount of loss protection provided by more junior positions), without regard to underlying asset quality. A refinement in this approach would be to develop quantitative measures for each asset type to reflect each type's default characteristics. These alternatives represent two of the possible ways to establish a multi-level approach for unrated securitizations. The Agencies request comment on these and any other options. If the Agencies do not proceed with a multi-level approach for unrated securitizations, they expect to extend the current risk-based capital treatment of recourse transactions to all unrated credit enhancements ( i.e. , capital would be required against the face amount of the credit enhancement plus all more senior positions). The Agencies request comment on the following questions: (Question 15) Is there a need for a multi-level approach for unrated securitizations and unrated portions of rated securitizations? (Question 16) Should the credit quality of the underlying loans be given additional consideration (beyond that present in the current risk-based capital requirements) in the capital requirements for unrated transactions? If so, how would this be accomplished? What other information, if any, should be considered in determining the capital requirements? (Question 17) Should the loss position of the credit enhancement or security be taken into account in determining capital requirements for unrated transactions? If so, how would the loss position be determined? In particular, how should forms of prior enhancement such as overcollateralization and spread accounts be treated? (Question 18) If the Agencies were to develop a multi-level approach that incorporates both qualitative and quantitative elements (the first alternative presented above), what problems might banking organizations and thrifts encounter in obtaining and maintaining the necessary information on loss positions and credit quality? How could the Agencies ensure consistent use of this information in determining loss positions and assigning capital requirements? (Question 19) If the Agencies were to develop a multi-level approach based solely on quantitative measurement of loss positions (the second alternative presented above), how should such an approach be designed? (Question 20) How might a multi-level approach be designed so that positions that would not, if rated, qualify for reduced capital requirements under the ratings-based approach, also would not qualify for reduced capital requirements under the multi-level approach for unrated transactions? (Question 21) How can a multi-level approach for unrated securitizations be designed so it does not create an unreasonable bias toward or away from obtaining ratings? IV. Application of Any Final Rules The Agencies intend that any final rules adopted in connection with this notice of proposed rulemaking and advance notice of proposed rulemaking that result in increased risk-based capital requirements for banking organizations or thrifts would apply only to transactions that are consummated after the effective date of such final rules. The Agencies intend that any final rules adopted in connection with this notice that result in reduced risk-based capital requirements for banking organizations or thrifts would apply to all transactions outstanding as of the effective date of such final rules and to all subsequent transactions. V. Sample Applications of the Ratings-Based Multi-Level Approach Example 1A_Senior/Subordinated Structure Bank A issues three classes of securities that are backed by a $212 million, well-diversified pool of residential mortgage loans that individually qualify for the 50% risk-weight category_a bottom-level subordinated class of $12 million, a middle-level subordinated class of $20 million and a senior class of $180 million. Bank A retains the bottom-level class and sells the other two classes to banking organizations or thrifts. Bank A, retaining the bottom-level subordinated class, would be required to hold risk-based capital equal to 4% of the $212 million pool ( i.e. , the full effective risk-based capital requirement for the outstanding amount of the assets enhanced). Because this subordinated class provides sufficient first dollar loss enhancement, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization gives the $20 million middle class an investment grade rating. Since this class is rated investment grade, risk-based capital would be held against it at the 100% risk-weight, based solely on its carrying value. That is, the holder of the middle-level class would not be required to hold any capital against the senior class it supports. The same rating organization gives its highest credit rating to the $180 million senior class. Since this is the most senior class, has the highest possible credit rating, and all prior enhancements are performance risk-free, risk-based capital would be calculated at the 20% risk-weight. Table 1 summarizes this example.
