FR940419-1-00057 FR940419-1-00009 b. Section 964.110 Resident membership on HA Board of Commissioners would encourage resident membership on HA Board of Commissioners. c. Section 964.115 Resident council requirements would describe the provisions necessary for the Resident Council to receive official recognition from the HA and HUD. In the current rule, this provision was included in the definitions section, and in this proposed rule it becomes a separate section. d. Section 964.117 Resident council partnerships would be added to encourage and promote partnerships between the resident councils and public/private organizations. While the Department encourages partnerships to complement council activities, such organizations must not become the governing entity of the resident council. e. Section 964.120 Resident management corporation requirements would establish characteristics in order to receive formal recognition by the HA and HUD. In the current rule, this was included in the definitions sections and in this proposed rule, it becomes a separate section. f. Section 964.125 Eligibility for resident council membership would be added to provide guidance on eligibility for council membership. This section establishes that any member of a household, who is on the lease, may be a member of a resident council. However, in order to be a voting member of the resident council, a person's name must appear on the lease of a unit in the public housing development, and he/she must be: (1) A legal head of household (means the member of the family who is the head of the household for purposes of determining income eligibility and rent), or (2) 18 years of age or older. g. Section 964.130 Election procedures and standards would be added to provide minimum standards for resident council elections including the requirement for supervision by an independent third party. HAs shall monitor the resident council's elections to ensure compliance with HUD's minimum standards. h. Section 964.135 Resident involvement in HA management would be added to provide policy on resident involvement in HA management operations. Residents shall participate fully in the overall policy development and direction of a HA operations. i. Section 964.140 Resident training would be added to encourage HAs to take the lead in providing training opportunities for public housing residents. If residents are willing, they may receive training from the HA and become involved in implementing various Federal programs. j. Section 964.145 Conflict of interest would be added to provide policy on resident council officers serving as contractors or as employees of a HA. k. Section 964.150 Funding tenant participation would be added to establish policy on funding duly elected resident councils. Subject to appropriations, HAs shall provide funds to the duly elected resident council for tenant participation activities. This rule also proposes amendment to 24 CFR part 990 for tenant services to include up to $25 per unit per year, subject to the availability of appropriations, as an add-on to the Performance Funding System (PFS). 3. Subpart C would be amended as follows: a. Section 964.200 General would be added to provide information on the provisions of the TOP. b. Section 964.205 Eligibility would be added to define who is eligible to apply and receive a technical assistance grant, and would outline eligible activities under TOP. c. Section 964.210 Announcement of funding availability would be added to describe notification of funding availability for obtaining funds to participate in TOP. d. Section 964.215 Grant agreement would provide the terms of the grant agreement for the proposed activities under the TOP program. e. Section 964.220 Technical assistance would describe HUD's commitment to fund TOP activities. f. Section 964.225 Resident management requirements would provide minimal guidelines for HAs and residents for the performance of management functions. g. Section 964.230 Audit and administrative requirements would provide audit and administrative guidelines for recipients of TOP grant funds and resident management corporations contracting with a HA for management responsibilities. 4. Subpart D would be added to the part 964 as follows: a. Section 964.300 General would provide the purpose and program provisions of the FIC program. FIC provides families living in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and independence. b. Section 964.305 Eligibility for FIC would provide eligible activities and requirements under the FIC program. c. Section 964.308 Supportive services requirements for FIC would provide supportive services requirements essential for families living with children in public housing. d. Section 964.310 Audit/Compliance Requirements for FIC would provide audit and compliance requirements governing the program. e. Section 964.315 HAs role in FIC activities under this part would provide the process required to assure that HA residents are informed about FIC. f. Section 964.320 HUD policy on training, employment, contracting and subcontracting of public/Indian housing residents under FIC would state HUD's policy on resident training, employment and contracting under FIC. g. Section 964.325 Announcement of funding availability for FIC would indicate that the Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) will be published periodically and contain specific information regarding eligibility, funding criteria, etc. h. Section 964.330 Grant set-aside assistance for FIC would state HUD's policy of permitting up to five percent (5%) of amounts available in any fiscal year to augment grants previously awarded under this program. i. Section 964.335 Grant agreement for FIC would provide the grant agreement term.
