FR940825-2-00072 FR940825-2-00049 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Announcement 405] Grants for Injury Control Research Centers; Notice Availability Of Funds for Fiscal Year 1995 Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces that grant applications are being accepted for Injury Control Research Centers (ICRC's). The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority areas of Violent and Abusive Behavior and Unintentional Injuries. For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the Section ``Where to Obtain Additional Information.'' Authority This program is authorized under Sections 301 and 391&hyph;394 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 and 280b&hyph;280b&hyph;3). Program regulations are set forth in 42 CFR, Part 52. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants include all nonprofit and for-profit organizations. Thus, universities, colleges, research institutions, hospitals, other public and private organizations, State and local health departments, and small, minority and/or women-owned businesses are eligible for these grants. Applicants from non-academic institutions should provide evidence of a collaborative relationship with an academic institution. Current recipients of CDC injury control research center grants and injury control research program project grants are eligible to apply. Availability of Funds Approximately $1,500,000 is expected to be available in fiscal year (FY) 1995 to fund approximately one new or re-competing center award. (A portion of this amount may be allocated to support currently approved but unfunded phases of newly funded ICRCs.) New awards can be made for a project period not to exceed three years, and re-competing awards can be made for a project period not to exceed five years. The amount of funding available may vary and is subject to change. Beginning award dates for each submission are shown in the ``Receipt and Review Schedule'' section of this announcement. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. New center grant awards will not exceed $500,000 per year (total of direct and indirect costs) with a project period not to exceed three years. Depending on availability of funds, re-competing existing center awards may range from $750,000 to $1,500,000 per year (total of direct and indirect costs) with a project period not to exceed five years. The range of support provided is dependent upon the degree of comprehensiveness of the center in addressing the phases of injury control (i.e., Prevention, Acute Care, and Rehabilitation) as determined by the Injury Research Grants Review Committee (IRGRC). Incremental levels within this range for successfully recompeting ICRC's will be determined as follows: Base funding (included in figures below): Up to $750,000 One phase ICRC (addresses one of the three phases of injury control): Up to $1,000,000 Two phase ICRC (addresses two of the three phases of injury control): Up to $1,250,000 Comprehensive ICRC (addresses all three phases of injury control): Up to $1,500,000 Subject to program needs and the availability of funds, supplemental awards to expand/enhance existing projects, to add a new phase(s) to an existing ICRC grant, or to add biomechanics project(s) that support phases may be made for up to $250,000 per year. Purpose The purposes of this program are: A. To support injury prevention and control research on priority issues as delineated in: Healthy People 2000; Injury Control in the 1990's: A National Plan for Action; Injury in America; Injury Prevention: Meeting the Challenge; and Cost of Injury: A Report to the Congress. Information on these reports may be obtained from the individuals listed in the section `` Where to Obtain Additional Information ''; B. To support ICRC's which represent CDC's largest national extramural investment in injury control research and training, intervention development, and evaluation; C. To integrate collectively, in the context of a national program, the disciplines of engineering, epidemiology, medicine, biostatistics, public health, law and criminal justice, and behavioral and social sciences, in order to prevent and control injuries more effectively; D. To identify and evaluate current and new interventions for the prevention and control of injuries; E. To bring the knowledge and expertise of ICRC's to bear on the development and improvement of effective public and private sector programs for injury prevention and control; and
