FR940610-1-00038 FR940610-1-00007 The second test in the proposed regulations addresses the mortality component of the transferred interest. The Internal Revenue Service previously addressed this issue in Rev. Rul. 66&hyph; 307, 1966&hyph;2 C.B. 429, and Rev. Rul 80&hyph;80. Rev. Rul. 66&hyph;307 set forth the rule that the value of a life or remainder interest would be determined by taking into account the health of the life tenant if it was known on the valuation date that the life tenant was afflicted with a fatal and incurable disease in its advanced stages and that the life tenant could not survive for more than a brief period of time. Rev. Rul. 80&hyph;80 clarified the ``brief period'' test in Rev. Rul. 66&hyph;307, and stated that the standard life actuarial factors are to be applied to value the interest unless death is clearly imminent. In the view of the Service, because the test for determining whether death is imminent set forth in Rev. Rul. 66&hyph;307 and Rev. Rul. 80&hyph;80 does not satisfactorily quantify the probability of death occurring within 1 year from the valuation date, this test may permit the use of standard actuarial factors in inappropriate situations. These regulations propose to explicitly quantify the applicable standard for purposes of applying this test. Under the proposed regulations, if an individual who is a measuring life of the interest being transferred is known to be terminally ill, the mortality test of the proposed regulations is not satisfied and a special section 7502 actuarial factor, rather than a standard actuarial factor must be used in valuing the interest. Terminal illness is defined in the proposed regulations as an incurable illness or other deteriorating physical condition that would substantially reduce a person's life expectancy to the extent that there is at least a 50 percent probability that the individual will not survive for more than 1 year from the valuation date. Exceptions are made in the regulations for special situations under sections 2013, 2037, and 2042. In the case of the simultaneous death of the transferor and an individual who is the measuring life of a property interest, the proposed regulations specifically preclude use of the standard factors in the tables to value that interest. This is pertinent in determining the previously taxed property credit under section 2013 and reaffirms the position of the Fifth Circuit in the Carter case. Special Analyses It has been determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, an initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, this notice of proposed rulemaking will be submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on its impact on small business. Comments and Requests for a Public Hearing Before these proposed regulations are adopted as final regulations, consideration will be given to any written comments that are submitted timely (preferably a signed original and eight copies) to the Internal Revenue Service. In particular, the Service invites comments on whether the proposed definition of terminal illness adequately deals with certain illnesses that are known to cause death in a short period of time but are often diagnosed more than 1 year before death. All comments will be available for public inspection and copying. A public hearing may be scheduled if requested in writing by a person that timely submits written comments. If a public hearing is scheduled, notice of the date, time, and place for the hearing will be published in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal author of these proposed regulations is William L. Blodgett, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Passthroughs and Special Industries), Internal Revenue Service. However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 20 Estate taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 26 CFR Part 25 Gift taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Proposed Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR parts 1, 20 and 25 are proposed to be amended as follows:
