FR940323-0-00111 FR940323-0-00025 (e) The BRRB chairperson may exercise the authority of the full BRRB under an expedited review process when, in his/her judgment, the research proposal meets the minimal risk standard and involves only the following: (1) The study of existing data, documents, or records; and/or (2) The study of individual or group behavior or characteristics of individuals, where the investigator does not manipulate subjects' behavior and the research will not involve stress to subjects. Such research would include test development and studies of perception, cognition, or game theory. If a proposal is processed under expedited review, the BRRB chairperson must document in writing the reason for that determination. (f) The Chief, ORE, shall review all recommendations made and shall submit them in writing to the Director, Bureau of Prisons. (g) The Director, Bureau of Prisons, has final authority to approve or disapprove all research proposals. The Director may delegate this authority to the Assistant Director, Information, Policy, and Public Affairs Division. (h) The approving authority shall notify in writing the involved region(s), institution(s), and the prospective researcher of the final decision on a research proposal. ยง512.15 Access to Bureau of Prisons records. (a) Employees, including consultants, of the Bureau who are conducting authorized research projects shall have access to those records relating to the subject which are necessary to the purpose of the research project without having to obtain the subject's consent. (b) A non-employee of the Bureau is limited in access to information available under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). (c) A non-employee of the Bureau may receive records in a form not individually identifiable when advance adequate written assurance that the record will be used solely as a statistical research or reporting record is provided to the agency (5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(5)). ยง512.16 Informed consent. (a) Before commencing a research project requiring participation by staff or inmates, the researcher shall give each participant a written informed consent statement containing the following information: (1) Identification of the principal investigator(s); (2) Objectives of the research project; (3) Procedures to be followed in the conduct of research; (4) Purpose of each procedure; (5) Anticipated uses of the results of the research; (6) A statement of benefits reasonably to be expected; (7) A declaration concerning discomfort and risk, including a description of anticipated discomfort and risk; (8) A statement that participation is completely voluntary and that the participant may withdraw consent and end participation in the project at any time without penalty or prejudice (the inmate will be returned to regular assignment or activity by staff as soon as practicable); (9) A statement regarding the confidentiality of the research information and exceptions to any guarantees of confidentiality required by federal or state law. For example, a researcher may not guarantee confidentiality when the subject indicates an intent to commit future criminal conduct or harm himself/herself or someone else, or, if the subject is an inmate, indicates an intent to leave the facility without authorization. (10) A statement that participation in the research project will have no effect on the inmate participant's release date or parole eligibility; (11) An offer to answer questions about the research project; and (12) Appropriate additional information as needed to describe adequately the nature and risks of the research. (b) A researcher who is an employee of the Bureau shall include in the informed consent statement a declaration of the authority under which the research is conducted.
