FR940810-0-00300 FR940810-0-00021 (5) Data to Rebut PACM. Where the building owner and employer have relied on data to demonstrate that PACM is not asbestos-containing, such data shall be maintained far as long as they are relied upon to rebut the presumption. (6) Records of Required Notifications. Where the building owner has communicated and received information concerning the identification, location and quantity of ACM and PACM, written records of such notifications and their content shall be maintained by the building owner for the duration of ownership and shall be transferred to successive owners of such buildings/facilities. (7) Availability. (i) The employer, upon written request, shall make all records required to be maintained by this section available to the Assistant Secretary and the Director for examination and copying. (ii) The employer, upon request, shall make any exposure records required by paragraphs (f) and (n) of this section available for examination and copying to affected employees, former employees, designated representatives, and the Assistant Secretary, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20(a) through (e) and (g) through (i). (iii) The employer, upon request, shall make employee medical records required by paragraphs (m) and (n) of this section available for examination and copying to the subject employee, anyone having the specific written consent of the subject employee, and the Assistant Secretary, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. (8) Transfer of records. (i) The employer shall comply with the requirements concerning transfer of records set forth in 29 CFR 1910.20 (h). (ii) Whenever the employer ceases to do business and there is no successor employer to receive and retain the records for the prescribed period, the employer shall notify the Director at least 90 days prior to disposal and, upon request, transmit them to the Director. (o) Competent person_(1) General. On all construction worksites covered by this standard, the employer shall designate a competent person, having the qualifications and authorities for ensuring worker safety and health required by Subpart C, General Safety and Health Provisions for Construction (29 CFR 1926.20 through 1926.32). (2) Required Inspections by the Competent Person. Section 1926.20(b)(2) which requires health and safety prevention programs to provide for frequent and regular inspections of the job sites, materials, and equipment to be made by competent persons, is incorporated. (3) Additional Inspections. In addition, the competent person shall make frequent and regular inspections of the job sites, in order to perform the duties set out below in paragraph (p)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section. For Class I jobs, on-site inspections shall be made at least once during each work shift, and at any time at employee request. For Class II and III jobs, on-site inspections shall be made at intervals sufficient to assess whether conditions have changed, and at any reasonable time at employee request. (i) On all worksites where employees are engaged in Class I or II asbestos work, the competent person designated in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall perform or supervise the following duties, as applicable: (A) Set up the regulated area, enclosure, or other containment; (B) Ensure (by on-site inspection) the integrity of the enclosure or containment; (C) Set up procedures to control entry to and exit from the enclosure and/or area; (D) Supervise all employee exposure monitoring required by this section and ensure that it is conducted as required by paragraph (f) of this section; (E) Ensure that employees working within the enclosure and/or using glove bags wear protective clothing and respirators as required by paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section; (F) Ensure through on-site supervision, that employees set up and remove engineering controls, use work practices and personal protective equipment in compliance with all requirements;
