FR940722-0-00107 FR940722-0-00019 72. The Second Report and Order established a 20 percent down payment by winning bidders to discourage default between the auction and licensing and to ensure payment of the penalty if such default occurs. We concluded that a 20 percent down payment was appropriate to ensure that auction winners have the necessary financial capabilities to complete payment for the license and to pay for the costs of constructing a system, while at the same time not being so onerous as to hinder growth or diminish access. Most of the commenters addressing this issue generally support our proposal that winning bidders increase their deposits with the Commission up to an amount equalling 20 percent of their winning bid or bids. See, e.g. , comments of BellSouth at 43&hyph;44, PageNet at 35&hyph;36, and Telocator at 13. Some commenters feel that a 20 percent down payment requirement would be too high. See comments of Sprint at 18 (prefers a 10 percent down payment). 73. We believe that the reasoning that led us to conclude that 20 percent is the appropriate down payment applies to broadband PCS auctions. We therefore will require that, with the exception of bidders eligible for installment payments in the entrepreneurs' blocks ( see Section VII, infra ), winning bidders in broadband PCS auctions supplement their upfront payments with a down payment sufficient to bring their total deposits up to 20 percent of their winning bid(s). 51 Winning bidders will be required to submit the required down payment by cashier's check or wire transfer to our lock-box bank by a date to be specified by Public Notice, generally within five (5) business days following the close of bidding. All auction winners will generally be required to make full payment of the balance of their winning bids within five (5) business days following award of the license. Grant of the license will be conditioned on this payment. 51 If the upfront payment already tendered by a winning bidder, after deducting any bid withdrawal and default penalties due, amounts to 20 percent or more of its winning bids, no additional deposit will be required. If the upfront payment amount on deposit is greater than 20 percent of the winning bid amount after deducting any bid withdrawal and default penalties due, the additional monies will be refunded. If a bidder has withdrawn a bid or defaulted but the amount of the penalty cannot yet be determined, the bidder will be required to make a deposit of 20 percent of the amount bid on such licenses. When it becomes possible to calculate and assess the penalty, any excess deposit will be refunded. Upfront payments will be applied to such deposits and to bid withdrawal and default penalties due before being applied toward the bidder's down payment on licenses the bidder has won and seeks to acquire. 74. An auction winner that is eligible to make payments through an installment plan ( see Section VII, infra ) will be subject to different payment requirements. Such an entity will be required to bring its deposits with the Commission up to only 5 percent of its winning bid after the bidding closes, and will pay an additional 5 percent of its winning bid to the Commission after a license is granted. 2. Bid Withdrawal and Default Penalties 75. As we discussed in the Second Report and Order , it is critically important to the success of our system of competitive bidding that potential bidders understand that there will be a substantial penalty assessed if they withdraw a high bid, are found not to be qualified to hold licenses or default on payment of a balance due. There was substantial support in the comments for the notion that the Commission is authorized to and should order forfeiture of upfront and down payments if the auction winner later defaults or is disqualified. See, e.g. , comments of CTIA at 29&hyph;30, AT&T at 35, n.43, PageNet at 35&hyph;36, Cook Inlet at 47, and BellSouth at 42&hyph;44. We concluded, however, that forfeiture of all amounts that a bidder may have on deposit with the Commission may, in some circumstances, be too severe a penalty and would not necessarily be rationally related to the harm caused by withdrawal, default or disqualification. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 197. 76. This logic applies to broadband PCS auctions, so for these auctions we will employ the bid withdrawal, default and disqualification penalties adopted in the Second Report and Order , which are reflected in Sections 1.2104(g) and 1.2109 of the Commission's Rules. Any bidder who withdraws a high bid during an auction before the Commission declares bidding closed will be required to reimburse the Commission in the amount of the difference between its high bid and the amount of the winning bid the next time the license is offered by the Commission, if this subsequent winning bid is lower than the withdrawn bid. 52 No withdrawal penalty will be assessed if the subsequent winning bid exceeds the withdrawn bid. After bidding closes, a defaulting auction winner ( i.e. , a winner who fails to remit the required down payment within the prescribed time, fails to pay for a license, or is otherwise disqualified) will be assessed an additional penalty of three percent of the subsequent winning bid or three percent of the amount of the defaulting bid, whichever is less. See 47 CFR §§1.2104(g) and 1.2109. The additional three percent penalty is designed to encourage bidders who wish to withdraw their bids to do so before bidding ceases. We will hold deposits made by defaulting or disqualified auction winners until full payment of the penalty. 53 We believe that these penalties will adequately discourage default and ensure that bidders have adequate financing and that they meet all eligibility and qualification requirements. As we explained in the Second Report and Order , we further believe that this approach is well within our authority under both Section 309(j)(4)(B) and Section 4(i) of the Communications Act, 47 U.S.C. §154(i), as it is clearly necessary to carry out the rapid deployment of new technologies through the use of auctions. 54 52 If a license is re-offered by auction, the ``winning bid'' refers to the high bid in the auction in which the license is re-offered. If a license is re-offered in the same auction, the winning bid refers to the high bid amount, made subsequent to the withdrawal, in that auction. If the subsequent high bidder also withdraws its bid, that bidder will be required to pay a penalty equal to the difference between its withdrawn bid and the amount of the subsequent winning bid the next time the license is offered by the Commission. If a license which is the subject of withdrawal or default is not re-auctioned, but is instead offered to the highest losing bidders in the initial auction, the ``winning bid'' refers to the bid of the highest bidder who accepts the offer. Losing bidders would not be required to accept the offer, i.e. , they may decline without penalty. We wish to encourage losing bidders in simultaneous multiple round auctions to bid on other licenses, and therefore we will not hold them to their losing bids on a license for which a bidder has withdrawn a bid or on which a bidder has defaulted. 53 In rare cases in which it would be inequitable to retain a down payment, we will entertain requests for waiver of this provision. 54 See Second Report and Order at ¶ 198.
