FR941206-1-00051 FR941206-1-00007 At a minimum, the Work Practice Implementation Plan should specifically identify procedures (e.g., checklists) for confirming: 1. That all storage containers are normally closed, that is, closed unless an operator is actively engaged in activities such as emptying or filling the container; 2. That organic solvents are not used for spray booth cleaning, except as allowed by the proposed rule; 3. That conventional air spray guns are not in use at any finishing application station, except as allowed by the proposed rule; 4. That cleaning solvent from gun cleaning and line flushing is collected in a normally closed container; 5. That the washoff tank is normally closed; and 6. That dripping from the washoff tank is minimized by tilting and rotating the part to drain as much solvent as possible. Other programs to be incorporated into the Work Practice Implementation Plan include: 1. An inspection and maintenance (I&M) plan to address equipment leaks from transfer operations; 2. An operator training program; 3. An accounting system for washoff and cleaning solvents; and 4. A formulation assessment plan. The I&M plan for equipment leaks must require, at a minimum, inspection of all equipment (e.g., pumps, valves, and flanges) used to transfer or apply finishing materials, adhesives, and solvents. The inspection may be a visual inspection only, but must be conducted at a minimum frequency of once per month, with repairs to leaking equipment made within 15 calendar days. The operator training program must require that all new and existing personnel involved in finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations be trained. All new personnel, those hired after the effective date of the standard, shall be trained upon hiring. All existing personnel, those hired before the effective date of the standard, shall be trained within 6 months of the effective date of the standard. All personnel shall be given refresher training annually. The training must include, at a minimum, appropriate application techniques, appropriate cleaning and washoff procedures, appropriate equipment setup, and appropriate management of cleaning wastes. The solvent accounting system must require, at a minimum, that the facility record the quantity and type of solvent used for washoff and cleaning, the number of pieces washed off and the reasons why, and the quantity of spent solvent generated from each site. The work practice standards also must require the owner or operator of the affected source to develop a formulation assessment plan (FAP). The plan requires the facility to track usage of those volatile HAP that are listed in the proposed rulemaking pursuant to section 112(g) as ``nonthreshold,'' ``high concern,'' or ``unrankable'' (collectively these are called ``VHAP of potential concern''). Under the FAP, each facility would identify a baseline level of usage for each VHAP of potential concern presented in Table 4 of the proposed rule. The baseline usage level would be the highest annual usage from 1994, 1995, or 1996. If, after November 1998, the annual usage of the VHAP exceeds its baseline level, the owner or operator of the affected source must provide a written notification to the permitting authority that describes the amount of increase and explains the reasons for exceedance of the baseline level. The following explanation would relieve the owner or operator from further action, unless the affected source is not in compliance with any State regulations or requirements for that VHAP. 1. The increase is de minimis (no more than 15.0 percent above the established baseline); 2. The facility complies with any State air toxics regulations or guidelines for that VHAP; 3. It results from the adoption of low VOC coatings, that is, coatings with a VOC content of no more than 1.0 lb VOC/lb solids, as applied (the potential increase in HAP being deemed acceptable because it is offset by a decrease in VOC); or 4. The usage is below the de minimis values presented in Table 4 of ยง63.803 of the proposed rule.
