FR940506-1-00073 FR940506-1-00014 ( 3 ) State that payment of the principal has been received, including the date of receipt. (B) Demands must be postmarked on or before the 40th day after payment was made, except that_ ( 1 ) If the postmark is illegible or nonexistent, the demand must have been received and annotated with the date of receipt by the designated billing office on or before the 40th day after payment was made, or ( 2 ) If the postmark is illegible or nonexistent and the designated billing office fails to make the required annotation, the demand's validity will be determined by the date the Contractor has placed on the demand; provided , such date is no later than the 40th day after payment was made. (iii)(A) The additional penalty shall be equal to 100 percent of any original late payment interest penalty that is due on or after January 22, 1990, except_ ( 1 ) For additional penalties due on or before January 22, 1992, such penalties shall not exceed $2,500. ( 2 ) After January 22, 1992, the additional penalty shall not exceed $5,000. ( 3 ) The additional penalty shall never be less than $25. (B) If the interest penalty ceases to accrue in accordance with the limits stated in subdivision (a)(4)(iii) of this clause, the amount of the additional penalty shall be calculated on the amount of interest penalty that would have accrued in the absence of these limits, subject to the overall limits on the additional penalty specified above. (C) For determining the maximum and minimum additional penalties, the test shall be the interest penalty due on each separate payment made for each separate contract. The maximum and minimum additional penalty shall not be based upon individual invoices unless the invoices are paid separately. Where payments are consolidated for disbursing purposes, the maximum and minimum additional penalty determination shall be made separately for each contract therein. (D) The additional penalty does not apply to payments regulated by other Government regulations (for example, payments under utility contracts subject to tariffs and regulation). (b) Contract financing payments _(1) Due dates for progress payments . If this contract provides for contract financing, requests for payment shall be submitted to the designated billing office as specified in this contract or as directed by the Contracting Officer. Contract financing payments shall be made on the ( insert day as prescribed by agency head; if not prescribed, insert 30th day ) day after receipt of a proper contract financing request by the designated billing office. In the event that an audit or other review of a specific financing request is required to ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of the contract, the designated payment office is not compelled to make payment by the due date specified. (2) Due dates for other contract financing . For advance payments, loans, or other arrangements that do not involve recurrent submissions of contract financing requests, payment shall be made in accordance with the corresponding contract terms or as directed by the Contracting Officer. (3) Interest penalty not applicable . Contract financing payments shall not be assessed an interest penalty for payment delays. (c) Subcontract clauses requirements . The Contractor shall include in each subcontract for property or services (including a material supplier) for the purpose of performing this contract the following: (1) Prompt payment for subcontractors . A payment clause which obligates the Contractor to pay the subcontractor for satisfactory performance under its subcontract not later than 7 days from receipt of payment out of such amounts as are paid to the Contractor under this contract. (2) Interest for subcontractors . An interest penalty clause which obligates the Contractor to pay to the subcontractor an interest penalty for each payment not made in accordance with the payment clause_ (i) For the period beginning on the day after the required payment date and ending on the date on which payment of the amount due is made; and (ii) Computed at the rate of interest established by the Secretary of the Treasury, and published in the Federal Register , for interest payments under section 12 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 611) in effect at the time the Contractor accrues the obligation to pay an interest penalty.
