FR940302-2-00028 FR940302-2-00014 Department of the Navy Privacy Act of 1974; Amend Record Systems AGENCY: Department of the Navy, DOD. ACTION: Amend record systems. SUMMARY: The Department of the Navy proposes to amend six systems of records to its inventory of record systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: The amendments will be effective on April 1, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Head, PA/FOIA Branch, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations (N09B30), 2000 Navy Pentagon, Washington, DC 20350&hyph;2000. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mrs. Gwendolyn Aitken at (703) 614&hyph;2004 or DSN 224&hyph;2004. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of the Navy record system notices for records systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the address above. The specific changes to the systems of records are set forth below followed by the systems of records notices published in their entirety, as amended. The amendments are not within the purview of subsection (r) of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, which requires the submission of new or altered systems reports. Dated: February 24, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. N01001&hyph;3 System name: Naval Reserve Intelligence/Personnel File (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10693). Changes: * * * * * System location: Delete entry and replace with `Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720.' * * * * * Safeguards: Delete entry and replace with `Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in locked file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is a sensitive compartmented information facility which is protected by enhanced security devices. Access is controlled by password or other user code system.' * * * * * System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720.' Notification procedure: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. The request should contain the full name of the requester, home address and date and place of birth. An unsworn declaration in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746 or a notarized statement may be required for identity verification.' Record access procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. The request should contain the full name of the requester, home address and date and place of birth. An unsworn declaration in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746 or a notarized statement may be required for identity verification.' * * * * * N01001&hyph;3 System name: Naval Reserve Intelligence/Personnel File. System location: Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. Categories of individuals covered by the system: All officers and enlisted personnel of the Naval Reserve Intelligence Program and applicants for affiliation with the program. Categories of records in the system: Name, Social Security Number, individual's residence history, education, professional qualifications, occupational history, foreign country travel and knowledge, foreign language capabilities, history of active military duty assignments and military promotions. Authority for maintenance of the system: National Security Act of 1947, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations; 10 U.S.C. 503, Department of the Navy; 10 U.S.C. 6011, Navy Regulations; 44 U.S.C. 3101, Records Management by Federal Agencies, and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To determine qualifications for members of the Naval Reserve Intelligence Program and to provide a personnel management device for career development programs, manpower and personnel requirements for program activities, assignment of support projects of the reserve program and mobilization planning requirements. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Computerized floppy/hard disk; microform; and paper records. Retrievability: Name, Social Security Number, or any file element. Safeguards: Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in locked file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is a sensitive compartmented information facility which is protected by enhanced security devices. Access is controlled by password or other user code system. Retention and disposal: Records are maintained for a period of five years after last data filed and then destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. The request should contain the full name of the requester, home address and date and place of birth. An unsworn declaration in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746 or a notarized statement may be required for identity verification. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. The request should contain the full name of the requester, home address and date and place of birth. An unsworn declaration in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746 or a notarized statement may be required for identity verification. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Reserve data submitted by the individual and investigative reports from the Naval Criminal Investigative Service. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. N01070&hyph;7 System name: NEXCOM Military Personnel Information System (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10698). Changes: * * * * * System location: Delete entry and replace with `Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724.' * * * * * Authority for maintenance of the system: Change `5031' to read `5013.' * * * * * System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Policy Official: Commander, Navy Exchange System, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Record Holder: Director, Office of Military Personnel, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724.' Notification procedure: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Military Personnel, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Written requests must include full name, Social Security Number and military duty status. At the time of a personal visit, the requester must provide proof of identity containing the requester's signature.' Record access procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Military Personnel, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Written requests must include full name, Social Security Number and military duty status. At the time of a personal visit, the requester must provide proof of identity containing the requester's signature.' * * * * * N01070&hyph;7 System name: NEXCOM Military Personnel Information System. System location: Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Present and past military officers and key enlisted personnel assigned to the Navy Exchange System. Categories of records in the system: Name; rank or rate; dependency status; Social Security Number; designation; date of rank; date reported; rotation date; educational level; lineal number; location of assignments; preference of assignment, biographical information, and orders. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations; 10 U.S.C. 5013; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To assist officials and employees of the Navy Exchange Service Command in the management, supervision, and administration of its personnel. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Computerized records, printed reports, card files, and file folders. Retrievability: Name and Social Security Number. Safeguards: Supervised office spaces and computers are accessible only through the computer center whose entry is limited to authorized personnel only. All information is maintained in locked file cabinets or locked archives. Computer systems are password protected. Retention and disposal: Destroyed three years following an individual's discharge/retirement from the Navy. System manager(s) and address: Policy Official: Commander, Navy Exchange System, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Record Holder: Director, Office of Military Personnel, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Military Personnel, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Written requests must include full name, Social Security Number and military duty status. At the time of a personal visit, the requester must provide proof of identity containing the requester's signature. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Military Personnel, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Written requests must include full name, Social Security Number and military duty status. At the time of a personal visit, the requester must provide proof of identity containing the requester's signature. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: U.S. Navy Manpower Information System; Bureau of Naval Personnel; the individual; and the individual's supervisor. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. N01070&hyph;8 System name: Correction Board Case Files System (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10699). Changes: * * * * * System location: Delete entry and replace with `Board for Correction of Naval Records, Department of the Navy, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5100. Decentralized segments located in the Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001; Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001; and, the individual military personnel record of the service member concerned.' * * * * * Categories of records in the system: In lines 19 and 21, delete the words `Naval Military Personnel Command' and replace with `Bureau of Naval Personnel.' Authority for maintenance of the system: At end of entry, add `and E.O. 9397.' Purpose(s): In paragraph two, delete the words `Naval Military Personnel Command' and replace with `Bureau of Naval Personnel.' * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `Manual and computerized records.' Retrievability: Delete entry and replace with `Last name of the applicant and cross-filed by docket number and social security number.' Safeguards: At end of entry, add `Computer systems are password protected.' Retention and disposal: Delete entry and replace with `Permanent. After three years, records are retired to the Washington National Records Center, Suitland, MD.' * * * * * N01070&hyph;8 System name: Correction Board Case Files System. System location: Board for Correction of Naval Records, Department of the Navy, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5100. Decentralized segments located in the Bureau of Naval Personnel, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5001; Headquarters, U.S. Marine Corps, 2 Navy Annex, Washington, DC 20380&hyph;0001; and, the individual military personnel record of the service member concerned. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Any member or former member of the U.S. Navy or Marine Corps who has applied for the correction of his/her naval record. Categories of records in the system: Records consist of file cards with basic information and computer records derived therefrom, case files containing records of board proceedings, material submitted for correction and supporting documentation, correspondence and transcripts of board formal hearings. The basic case information and computer records derived therefrom include the following: Rank; Social Security Number/service number; docket number; date application received; subject category; subject category description; examiner's initials; date examiner assigned; branch of service; board decision; date of board decision; date decision promised if interested members of Congress; date case forwarded to the Secretary of the Navy; lineal number of officer applicant; officer designated; date officer case forwarded to Bureau of Naval Personnel/Commandant of the Marine Corps; date officer case returned from Bureau of Naval Personnel/Commandant of the Marine Corps; date advisory opinion requested; identity of advisor's organization; date advisory opinion received; date service record ordered; date medical record ordered; date court-martial record ordered; date confinement record order; date Navy Discharge Review Board record ordered; date other record ordered; date service record received; date medical record received; date court-martial record received; date confinement record received; date Navy Discharge Review Board record received; date other record received; number of Navy applications received; number of Marine Corps applications received; total number of Navy and Marine Corps applications received; percent of total to grand total; total number of Navy discharge cases; total number Marine Corps discharge cases; Navy grant count; Navy deny count; Navy modify count; Marine grant; Marine deny count; Marine modify count. Authority for maintenance of the system: 10 U.S.C. 1552; 32 CFR part 723; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To review applicant's Naval record to determine the existence of alleged error or injustice and to recommend appropriate corrective action when warranted - to report its findings, conclusions and recommendations to the Secretary of the Navy in appropriate cases - to respond to inquiries from applicants, their counsel, and members of Congress. To provide officials of the Bureau of Naval Personnel with advisory opinions in cases involving present and former Navy personnel - to correct records of present and former Navy personnel in accordance with approved Board decisions. To provide officials and employees of the Bureau of Medicine and Surgery with advisory opinions on medical matters. To provide the Naval Council of Personnel Boards/Office of Naval Disability Evaluation with advisory opinions on medical matters. To provide officials and employees of HQ, U.S. Marine Corps with advisory opinions in cases involving present and former Marine Corps personnel - to correct records of present and former Marine Corps personnel in accordance with approved correction Board decisions. To officials and employees of the Litigation Division, NJAG, to prepare legal briefs and answers to complaints against the Department of the Navy. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Manual and computerized records. Retrievability: Last name of the applicant and cross-filed by docket number and Social Security Number. Safeguards: Access to building is protected by uniformed security officers requiring positive identification; for admission after hours, records are maintained in areas accessible only to authorized personnel. Computer systems are password protected. Retention and disposal: Permanent. After three years, records are retired to the Washington National Records Center, Suitland, MD. System manager(s) and address: Executive Director, Board for Correction of Naval Records, Department of the Navy, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5100. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Executive Director, Board for Correction of Naval Records, Department of the Navy, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5100. Individual should provide full name, and Social Security Numbers or service numbers. Visitors should be able to provide proper identity, such as a drivers license. Written requests must be signed by a requester or his/her legal representative. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Board for Correction of Naval Records, Department of the Navy, Washington, DC 20370&hyph;5100. Individual should provide name, military status, branch of service and Social Security Number. Current address and telephone numbers should be included. Personal visits may be made only to the Board for Correction of Naval Records, Arlington Annex, Columbia Pike and Southgate Road, Arlington, VA. For personal visits, identification will be required. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: All official Naval records, Department of Veterans Affairs and police and law enforcement records. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. N03461&hyph;2 System name: POW/MIA Captivity Studies (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10730). Changes: System name: Delete entry and replace with `POW Follow-up Program.' System location: Delete entry and replace with `Naval Aerospace Medical Institute, Special Studies Department (25), Naval Air Station, Pensacola, FL 32508&hyph;1047.' Categories of individuals covered by the system: Delete entry and replace with `Prisoners of War (POWs) from 1974 to present; matched comparison group consisting of former aviators; some spouses.' Categories of records in the system: Delete entry and replace with `Medical records; X-rays; dental and somatotype photographs; newspaper clippings; research questionnaires, Social Security Number.' Authority for maintenance of the system: At end of entry, add `and E.O. 9397.' Purpose(s): Delete entry and replace with `To research the effects of the captivity experience on the man and his family and for recommending changes in training and improved health care delivery services, as well as for professional publications.' * * * * * Retrievability: Delete entry and replace with `Retrieved by name.' * * * * * Retention and disposal: Delete entry and replace with `Permanent.' Notification procedure: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Commanding Officer, Naval Aerospace Medical Institute, ATTN: Code 25, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, FL 32508&hyph;1047. Individuals should provide full name, military or civilian status, POW status, security clearance, and service affiliation.' Record access procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Commanding Officer, Naval Aerospace Medical Institute, ATTN: Code 25, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, FL 32508&hyph;1047. Individual should provide full name, military or civilian status, POW status, security clearance, and service affiliation.' * * * * * Record source categories: Delete entry and replace with `Personal interviews with returned POWs and families of POW/MIA/KIA/hostages/civilian POWs; newspapers and periodicals; Department of the Army; Bureau of Medicine and Surgery; and Marine Corps Headquarters.' * * * * * N03461&hyph;2 System name: POW Follow-up Program. System location: Naval Aerospace Medical Institute, Special Studies Department (25), Naval Air Station, Pensacola, FL 32508&hyph;1047. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Prisoners of War (POWs) from 1974 to present; matched comparison group consisting of former aviators; some spouses. Categories of records in the system: Medical records; X-rays; dental and somatotype photographs; newspaper clippings; research questionnaires, Social Security Number. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301 and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To research the effects of the captivity experience on the man and his family and for recommending changes in training and improved health care delivery services, as well as for professional publications. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Files consist of file folders, magnetic and video tapes, key-punched IBM cards, computer tapes, microfiche and microfilm. Retrievability: Retrieved by name. Safeguards: All files in this system are protected by limited, controlled access, locked doors and class 6 security cabinets. Only professional and/or research staff with appropriate security clearances are given access to files. Retention and disposal: Permanent. System manager(s) and address: Head, RPOW Data Analysis Division, Naval Aerospace Medical Institute, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, FL 32508&hyph;1047. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Commanding Officer, Naval Aerospace Medical Institute, ATTN: Code 25, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, FL 32508&hyph;1047 Individual should provide full name, military or civilian status, POW status, security clearance, and service affiliation. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Commanding Officer, Naval Aerospace Medical Institute, ATTN: Code 25, Naval Air Station, Pensacola, FL 32508&hyph;1047. Individual should provide full name, military or civilian status, POW status, security clearance, and service affiliation. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Personal interviews with returned POWs and families of POW/MIA/KIA/hostages/civilian POWs; newspapers and periodicals; Department of the Army; Bureau of Medicine and Surgery; and Marine Corps Headquarters. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. N03834&hyph;1 System name: Special Intelligence Personnel Access File (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10733). Changes: * * * * * System location: Delete entry and replace with `Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Suitland Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720.' * * * * * Authority for maintenance of the system: Delete entry and replace with `National Security Act of 1947, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations; 10 U.S.C. 503, Department of the Navy; 10 U.S.C. 6011, Navy Regulations; 44 U.S.C. 3101, Records Management by Federal Agencies; E.O. 9397; and E.O. 12356, National Security Information.' * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `Active files consist of paper and computerized records. Inactive files are retained on microfiche and optical storage.' Retrievability: Delete entry and replace with `Name and Social Security Number.' Safeguards: Delete entry and replace with `Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in locked file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is a sensitive compartmented information facility which is protected by enhanced security devices. Access is controlled by password or other user code system.' * * * * * System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Suitland Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720.' Notification procedure: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. The request should contain the full name of the requester, home address and date and place of birth. An unsworn declaration in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746 or a notarized statement may be required for identity verification.' Record access procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking access to records about themselves should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. The request should contain full name, residence address and date and place of birth. An unsworn declaration in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746 or a notarized statement may be required for identity verification.' * * * * * N03834&hyph;1 System name: Special Intelligence Personnel Access File. System location: Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Suitland Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. Categories of individuals covered by the system: All civilian and military personnel of the Department of the Navy and contractors and consultants of the Department of the Navy. Categories of records in the system: Records pertaining to the eligibility of Department of the Navy personnel (civilian, military, contractor and consultant) to be granted access to Special Intelligence which include documents of nomination, personal history statements, background investigation date and character, narrative memoranda of background investigation, eligibility documents for access to special intelligence, proof of indoctrination and debriefings as applicable and record of hazardous activity restrictions assigned. Authority for maintenance of the system: National Security Act of 1947, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations; 10 U.S.C. 503, Department of the Navy; 10 U.S.C. 6011, Navy Regulations; 44 U.S.C. 3101, Records Management by Federal Agencies; E.O. 9397; and E.O. 12356, National Security Information. Purpose(s): To permit a determination of an individual's eligibility for access to Special Intelligence information. This information may be provided to the Department of Defense and all its components to certify Special Compartmented Intelligence (SCI) access status of naval personnel. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: To officials and employees of the Central Intelligence Agency, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the National Security Agency, the Department of Energy, the Department of Treasury, and to any other federal agency in the performance of their official duties, to certify SCI access status of Naval personnel. The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices also apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Active files consist of paper and computerized records. Inactive files are retained on microfiche and optical storage. Retrievability: Name and Social Security Number. Safeguards: Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in locked file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is a sensitive compartmented information facility which is protected by enhanced security devices. Access is controlled by password or other user code system. Retention and disposal: Records are retained indefinitely. Inactive files are retained on microfiche. System manager(s) and address: Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Suitland Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. The request should contain the full name of the requester, home address and date and place of birth. An unsworn declaration in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746 or a notarized statement may be required for identity verification. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves should address written inquiries to the Director, Office of Naval Intelligence, 4251 Silver Hill Road, Washington, DC 20395&hyph;5720. The request should contain full name, residence address and date and place of birth. An unsworn declaration in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 1746 or a notarized statement may be required for identity verification. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Personal History Statement and related forms from the individual. Access forms and documents prepared by the system manager. Correspondence between system manager and activities requesting access status. Exemptions claimed for the system: Parts of this system may be exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(1) and (k)(5) as applicable. An exemption rule for this system has been promulgated in accordance with requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2) and (3), (c) and (e) and published in 32 CFR part 701, subpart G. For additional information contact the system manager. N07230&hyph;2 System name: NEXCOM Payroll Processing (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10806). Changes: * * * * * System location: Delete `Naval Station New York Staten Island, Staten Island, NY 10305&hyph;5097' and replace with `3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724' and delete `Subic Bay.' Categories of individuals covered by the system: Delete `Subic Bay.' * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `Computer tape.' * * * * * System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Policy Official: Commander, Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Record Holder: Controller, Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724.' Notification procedure: In line five, delete the words `Naval Station New York Staten Island, Staten Island, NY 10305&hyph;5097' and replace with `3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724.' Record access procedures: In line five, delete the words `Naval Station New York Staten Island, Staten Island, NY 10305&hyph;5097' and replace with `3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724.' * * * * * N07230&hyph;2 System name: NEXCOM Payroll Processing. System location: Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724 and at all Navy Exchanges located in CONUS, Guam, and Japan. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: All Navy Exchange System employees located in CONUS, Guam, and Japan. Categories of records in the system: The Master Payroll Files and Leave Year Record File will contain at a minimum employee name, Social Security Number, department, exchange number, payroll number, birth date, marital status, citizenship, hire date, adjusted date of hire, job grade and step, employee category, pay basis, pay status (exempt/nonexempt), employee benefit, deduction information. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To maintain a data base which will permit the contractor to supply bi-weekly payroll processing which includes, but is not limited to preparation and issuance of time cards, be-weekly pay checks and pay check stubs, check registers and payroll registers; preparation and issuance of various bi-weekly, monthly, quarterly, semi-annual and annual reports; establishment and maintenance of current payroll master file; annual preparation and distribution of wage and tax statements, Form W&hyph;2; and, payroll tax filing services. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Computer tape. Retrievability: Name, Social Security Number, exchange number, and payroll number. Safeguards: Contractor facility is protected with an ADT Alarm System which is in operation 24 hours per day, seven days a week. All rooms within the facility, as well as the entire perimeter of the facility, are on-line with this system. All alarms are wired to the Security Company as well as the local police station. The Navy Exchange Service Command (NEXCOM) data cannot be obtained through any dial-up method by other than an authorized Navy Exchange location. Retention and disposal: Records are maintained by the contractor for the life of the contract (three years or more). Once contract is complete, records are returned to NEXCOM where they are maintained for seven years and then destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Policy Official: Commander, Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Record Holder: Controller, Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Comptroller, Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. The request must contain individual's full name and Social Security Number and must be signed. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system of records should address written inquiries to the Comptroller, Navy Exchange Service Command, 3280 Virginia Beach Boulevard, Virginia Beach, VA 23452&hyph;5724. The request must contain individual's full name and Social Security Number and must be signed. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in the Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Timekeeping management documents. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4722 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
