FR940628-2-00085 FR940628-2-00065 b. An institutional conflict-of-interest policy should require that each investigator disclose to a responsible representative of the institution all significant financial interests of the investigator (including those of the investigator's spouse and dependent children) (i) that would reasonably appear to be directly and significantly affected by the research or educational activities funded or proposed for funding by NSF; or (ii) in entities whose financial interests would reasonably appear to be directly and significantly affected by such activities. The term `investigator' means the principal investigator, co-principal investigators, and any other person at the institution who is responsible for the design, conduct, or reporting of research or educational activities funded or proposed for funding by NSF. The term `significant financial interest' means anything of monetary value, including, but not limited to, salary or other payments for services (e.g., consulting fees or honoraria); equity interests (e.g., stocks, stock options or other ownership interests); and intellectual property rights (e.g., patents, copyrights and royalties from such rights). The term does not include: •salary, royalties or other remuneration from the institution; or any ownership interests in the institution, if the institution is an applicant under the Small Business Innovation Research Program or Small Business Technology Transfer Program; •income from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by public or nonprofit entities; •income from service on advisory committees or review panels for public or nonprofit entities; or •financial interests in business enterprises or entities if the value of such interests do not exceed $5,000 or represent more than a 5% ownership interest for any one enterprise or entity when aggregated for the investigator and the investigator's spouse and dependent children. c. An institutional policy must ensure that investigators have provided all required financial disclosures at the time the proposal is submitted to NSF. It must also require that those financial disclosures are updated during the pendency of the award, either on an annual basis, or as new reportable significant financial interests are obtained. d. An institutional policy must designate one or more persons to review financial disclosures, determine whether an actual or potential conflict of interest exists, and determine what conditions or restrictions, if any, should be imposed by the institution to manage, reduce or eliminate such conflict of interest. An actual or potential conflict of interest exists when the reviewer(s) reasonably determine that a significant financial interest could affect the design, conduct, or reporting of the research or educational activities funded or proposed for funding by NSF. Examples of conditions or restrictions that might be imposed to manage, reduce or eliminate actual or potential conflicts of interest include: •public disclosure of significant financial interests; •monitoring of research by independent reviewers; •modification of the research plan; •disqualification from participation in the portion of the NSF-funded research that would be affected by the significant financial interests; •divestiture of significant financial interests; or •severance of relationships that create actual or potential conflicts. If the reviewer(s) determines that imposing conditions or restrictions would be either ineffective or inequitable, and that the potential negative impacts that may arise from a significant financial interest are outweighed by interests of scientific progress, technology transfer, or the public health and welfare, then the reviewer(s) may allow the research to go forward without imposing such conditions or restrictions. e. The institutional policy must include adequate enforcement mechanisms, and provide for sanctions where appropriate. f. The institutional policy must include arrangements for keeping NSF appropriately informed if the institution finds that it is unable to satisfactorily manage an actual or potential conflict of interest.
