FR940805-1-00072 FR940805-1-00013 (14) Traditional practitioners. The facility shall allow inmates to participate in or receive traditional healing ceremonies and to use traditional healing methods, limited only to the degree necessary to preserve institutional security and order. (15) Prohibited use of detainees. Inmates shall not perform direct patient services, schedule health care appointments, determine access of other inmates to health care services, access first aid kits, handle or have access to surgical instruments, syringes, needles, medications, or health records, or operate equipment for which they are not trained. (16) Management of medications. The administrator and health authority shall provide for the proper management of individual doses of medications kept in the facility. The administrator and health authority shall review the policy annually and update it as needed. (17) Administration of medications. The administrator or designee shall ensure that persons administering medications have received training appropriate to their assignment. Employees shall administer medications according to direct or physician orders and shall record the administration of medications in a manner and on a form approved by the responsible physician. (18) Preliminary health care screening. Health-trained staff shall perform medical screening of all inmates on arrival at the facility and record findings on a printed screening form approved by the health authority. The screening process shall include: (i) inquiry into: (A) current and chronic illness and health problems, including dental problems and suicidal thoughts; (B) sexually transmitted diseases and other infectious diseases; (C) medication taken and special health requirements; (D) use of alcohol and other drugs, which includes types of drugs used, mode of use, amount used, frequency used, date or time of last use and history of problems that may have occurred after ceasing use (e.g., convulsions); (E) past or present treatment or hospitalization for mental disturbance or suicide; (F) other health problems designated by the responsible physician; and (G) mental illness; (ii) observation of: (A) behavior, including state of consciousness, mental status, appearance, conduct, tremor or sweating; and (B) body deformities, trauma markings, bruises, lesions, jaundice and ease of movements; and (iii) disposition to: (A) housing in general population; (B) housing in general population and referral to appropriate heath care service or substance abuse treatment provider; and/or (C) referral to appropriate health care service on an emergency basis. (19) Health appraisal. The health authority shall provide a health appraisal for each inmate within seven days of admission. A health-trained professional or otherwise qualified personnel shall collect health history and vital signs. Only qualified health care personnel shall collect other data. The health appraisal shall include: (i) review of the intake health screening and emergency medical assessment if performed; (ii) screening for diet counselling for medical reasons; (iii) collection of additional data to complete the medical, dental, psychiatric and immunization histories, with attention to elements that may indicate the presence of chronic disease, such as diabetes; (iv) recording of height, weight, pulse, blood pressure and temperature; (v) administration of laboratory and other tests and examinations as appropriate; (vi) notation of additional comments as needed; and (vii) initiation of therapy as appropriate. (20) Health examination. Qualified health care personnel shall complete a health examination for each inmate within thirty days of admission. The examination shall include: (i) a ``hands-on'' examination by an appropriately licensed health care professional; (ii) dental screening, hygiene and treatment when the health of the inmate would be adversely affected; (iii) mental health appraisal; and (iv) additional health care services as indicated by qualified health care personnel. (21) First aid kits. The administrator shall ensure that first aid kits are available in designated areas of the facility as determined by the Safety Officer during the annual inspection. The health care provider shall determine the appropriate content of first aid kits. (22) Special medical/mental health programs. The health authority shall provide specialized health education and treatment programs, including, but not limited to, personal hygiene, diet and exercise, family planning, communicable diseases, including sexually transmitted diseases and substance abuse education, prevention, intervention and treatment. (23) Serious and infectious disease. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan for the management of inmates with serious and infectious disease. The administrator and health authority shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. The plan shall include, at a minimum: (i) precautions taken to prevent the spread of disease; (ii) special needs or requirements of the inmate; (iii) procedures for treatment, limiting activities, if appropriate, legally mandated reporting and medical pass-on as directed by the health authority; and (iv) housing location. (24) Detoxification. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to guide the clinical management of chemically dependent inmates. The plan shall specify the process for involving the health authority and the substance abuse program on both a continuing and crisis-intervention basis. The plan shall include:
