FR940324-1-00003 FR940324-1-00001 Section 113.3 currently provides licensees with criteria for selection and submission of veterinary biological products, such as vaccines, bacterins, antiserums, and toxoids to NVSL; however, it does not state the number of samples of diagnostic test kits and Master Seeds and Cells needed by NVSL for evaluation. The proposed amendments would specify that a minimum of 1 diagnostic test kit, 10 samples of Bacterial Master Seeds, 13 samples of Viral Master Seeds, and 36 milliliters of Master Cell Stocks would be needed for evaluation by NVSL. Minor editorial changes would also be made in ยง113.309 to reflect organizational changes within APHIS. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. There are currently no criteria in the regulations which specify the number of samples needed by NVSL to evaluate diagnostic test kits and Master Seeds and Cells. However, almost all of the 114 currently licensed veterinary biologics companies submit samples of Master Seeds and Cells to NVSL for testing. In addition, at least 25 of these companies produce veterinary diagnostic test kits and submit samples of them to NVSL for testing. Many of these companies would be considered small entities. This proposed amendment would benefit these entities. This proposed rule, if adopted, would reduce the licensees' time and expense in submitting samples to the NVSL by clearly stating the number of samples required to be submitted, by increasing the uniformity of sample submissions, and by allowing for more efficient handling of samples by licensees and APHIS personnel. In addition, this amendment could potentially increase revenues for manufacturers of veterinary diagnostic test kits by allowing them to return unrequested samples to inventory for sale. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.) Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. If this proposed rule is adopted: (1) All State and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with this rule will be preempted; (2) no retroactive effect will be given to this rule; and (3) administrative proceedings will not be required before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed rule contains no new information collection or recordkeeping requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). List of Subjects in 9 CFR part 113 Animal biologics, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Accordingly, 9 CFR part 113 would be amended as follows:
