FR940616-0-00089 FR940616-0-00011 Response. HUD agrees with the commenter and believes that the revision made to the definition of ``accessible route'' by this final rule, which is to adopt the ADAAG definition of ``accessible route,'' addresses the commenter's concern. Definition of ``Adaptability'' (§9.103) Comment: HUD Should Adopt the Definition of Adaptability Used in Fair Housing Regulations. Two commenters urged the Department to adopt the definition of ``adaptability'' in the Fair Housing Act regulations (24 CFR 100.205), and stated that the part 9 rule should not use a different definition than that contained in the Fair Housing Act regulations. Response. The more explicit description of ``adaptability'' in the Fair Housing Act regulations results from the fact that the statutory language of the Fair Housing Act is explicit as to what constitutes accessibility and adaptability under the Act. The language in §100.205(c) of HUD's Fair Housing Act regulations is taken directly from section 804(f)(3)(C) of the Fair Housing Act. However, the features of adaptable design and construction described in §100.205(c) do not include all the features that may be required under part 9. For example, the accessibility/adaptability requirements of the Fair Housing Act do not require adjustable cabinetry, fixtures and plumbing. ( See discussion of this issue in the preamble to the Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines codified at 24 CFR, Ch. I, Subch. A, App. III.) Additionally, the Fair Housing Act does not require accessible/adaptable features for individuals with hearing or vision impairments. The section 504 definition of ``adaptability'' includes adjustable cabinetry and fixtures, and design features for persons with impaired hearing and vision. Thus, the Fair Housing Act definition of adaptability, which is directed largely to individuals with mobility impairments, is inappropriate for section 504 purposes. Definition of ``Auxiliary Aids'' (§9.103) Comment: Definition Should Include Devices for Persons With Impaired Cognitive Skills. Two commenters stated that the definition of ``auxiliary aids'' in the part 9 rule limits these aids to persons with impaired sensory, manual or speaking skills. The commenters stated that auxiliary aids and services should not exclude individuals with mental disabilities, and suggested that the definition be revised as follows: ``Auxiliary aids means services or devices that enable persons with impaired sensory, manual, cognitive, interpersonal, or speaking skills to have equal opportunity .␣.␣.␣.'' Response. HUD's definition of auxiliary aids and services is consistent with the DOJ's definition for these terms. The DOJ interprets auxiliary aids and services as those aids and services designed to provide effective communication, e.g., making aurally and visually delivered information available to persons with hearing, speech and vision impairments. This interpretation was recently reiterated in DOJ's final rules implementing title II and title III of the ADA. ( See 28 CFR part 35 (title II); and 28 CFR part 36 (title III); see, especially discussion in preamble to title III final rule at 56 FR 35565). To the extent that individuals with cognitive or learning disabilities have impaired sensory, manual, or communication skills, these individuals are covered by the definition of auxiliary aids and services. Definition of ``Individuals With Disabilities'' (§9.103) Comment: Definition Omits the Human Immunodeficiency Virus. Four commenters stated that the definition for ``individuals with disabilities'' in the part 9 rule omits from the list of physical and mental impairments the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The commenters stated that it is important to clarify that individuals who test positive for the HIV are covered because subsection (b) of the definition for ``individuals with disabilities'' excludes individuals who currently have contagious diseases and who pose a direct health and safety threat to others, or who, by reasons of the disease, cannot perform the duties of the job.
