FR940419-2-00071 FR940419-2-00035 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention [Announcement_501] Public Health Conference Support Grant Program Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of funds in fiscal year (FY) 1995 for the Public Health Conference Support Grant Program. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to all of Healthy People 2000 priority areas, except HIV Infection (a separate announcement for HIV entitled, ``Public Health Conference Support Cooperative Agreement Program for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Prevention'' will be published). (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section ``Where To Obtain Additional Information.'') Authority This program is authorized under section 301 (42 U.S.C. 241) and section 310 (42 U.S.C. 242n) of the Public Health Service Act. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants include non-profit and for-profit organizations. Thus, universities, colleges, research institutions, hospitals, other public and private (e.g., community-based, national, and regional) organizations, State and local health departments or their bona fide agents, federally recognized Indian tribal governments, Indian tribes or Indian tribal organizations, and small, minority and/or women-owned businesses are eligible for these grants. Availability of Funds Approximately $300,000 is expected to be available in FY 1995 to fund approximately 15&hyph;20 awards. The awards range from $1,000 to $30,000 with the average award being approximately $15,000. The awards will be made for a 12-month budget and project period. The funding estimates may vary and are subject to change, based on the availability of funds. Use of Funds 1. CDC funds may be used for direct cost expenditures: salaries, speaker fees, rental of necessary equipment, registration fees, and transportation costs (not to exceed economy class fare) for non-Federal employees. 2. CDC funds may Not be used for the purchase of equipment, payments of honoraria, alterations or renovations, organizational dues, entertainment or personal expenses, cost of travel and payment of a Federal employee, nor per diem or expenses other than local mileage for local participants. 3. CDC funds may Not be used for reimbursement of indirect costs. 4. Although the practice of handing out novelty items at meetings is often employed in the private sector to provide participants with souvenirs, Federal funds Cannot be used for this purpose. 5. CDC funds may be used for only those parts of the conference specifically supported by CDC as documented in the grant award. Purpose The purpose of the conference support grants is to provide Partial support for specific non-Federal conferences in the areas of health promotion and disease prevention information/education programs, (Except HIV Infection). Applications are being solicited for conferences on: (1) Chronic disease prevention; (2) infectious disease prevention; (3) control of injury or disease associated with environmental, home, and work-place hazards; (4) environmental health; (5) occupational safety and health; (6) control of risk factors such as poor nutrition, smoking, lack of exercise, high blood pressure, and stress; (7) health education and promotion; (8) laboratory practices; and (9) efforts that would strengthen the public health system. Because conference support by CDC creates the appearance of CDC co-sponsorship, there will be active participation by CDC in the development and approval of those portions of the agenda supported by CDC funds. In addition, CDC will reserve the right to approve or reject the content of the full agenda, speaker selection, and site selection. CDC funds will not be expended for non-approved portions of meetings. Contingency awards will be made allowing usage of only 10% of the total amount to be awarded until a final full agenda is approved by CDC. This will provide funds for costs associated with preparation of the agenda. The remainder of funds will be released only upon approval of the final full agenda. CDC reserves the right to terminate co-sponsorship if it does not concur with the final agenda. Because CDC's mission and programs relate to the promotion of health and the prevention of disease, disability, and premature death, only conferences focusing on such programmatic areas will be considered. Those topics concerned with health-care and health-service issues and areas other than prevention should be directed to other public health agencies.
