FR940602-1-00059 FR940602-1-00013 (iii) At any time the concentration in any compartment reaches the level specified as hazardous by the fumigant manufacturer or by part 1910, subpart Z of this chapter, whichever is lower, all employees shall be removed from such compartments and shall not be permitted to re-enter until such time as tests demonstrate that the atmosphere is within allowable limits. (iv) No employee shall be permitted to enter any compartment in which grain fumigation has been carried out, or any compartment immediately adjacent to such a compartment, until it has been determined by test that the atmosphere in the compartment to be entered is within allowable limits for entry. (v) In the event a compartment containing a hazardous or unknown concentration of fumigants must be entered for the purpose of testing the atmosphere, or for emergency purposes, each employee entering shall be protected by respiratory protective equipment in accordance with the provisions of ยง1918.102, and by any protective clothing or other personal protective equipment recommended by the fumigant manufacturer for protection against the particular hazards. At least two other employees shall be stationed outside the compartment as observers, to provide rescue services in the event of an emergency. The observers shall be equipped with similar personal protective equipment. (vi) One or more employees on duty shall be equipped and trained to provide any specific emergency treatment stipulated for the particular fumigant. (vii) Emergency equipment required by this subparagraph shall be readily accessible wherever fumigated grains are being handled. (4) In the event that a compartment is treated for local infestation before loading grain by a chemical other than a fumigant, the employee applying the treatment, and any other employees entering the compartment, shall be provided with and required to use any personal protective equipment which may be recommended by the manufacturer of the product to protect them against the effects of exposure. (c) Fumigated tobacco. The employer shall not load tobacco until the carrier has provided written notification as to whether or not the cargo has been fumigated. If break-bulk tobacco cargo has been treated with any toxic fumigant, loading shall not commence until written warranty has been received from the fumigation facility that the aeration of the cargo has been such to reduce the concentration of the fumigant to within allowable limits. Such notification and warranty shall be maintained for at least 30 days after the loading of the tobacco has been completed, and shall be available for inspection. (d) Other fumigated cargoes. Before commencing to load fumigated cargo other than the cargo specifically addressed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the employer shall ascertain that such cargo does not contain a concentration of fumigants in excess of allowable limits found in subpart Z of part 1910 of this chapter. (e) Grain dust. When employees are exposed to concentrations of grain dusts in excess of allowable limits found in subpart Z of part 1910 of this chapter, they shall be protected by suitable respiratory protective equipment in accordance with the requirements of ยง1918.102. (f) Catch of Menhaden and similar species of fish. (1) The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply in the case of vessels having and utilizing refrigerated holds for the carriage of all cargo. (2) After a vessel has arrived at berth for discharge of menhaden, but before personnel enter the hold, and as frequently thereafter as tests indicate to be necessary, tests shall be made of the atmosphere in the vessel's hold to ensure a safe work space. The tests shall be performed for the presence of hydrogen sulfide and for oxygen deficiency. (3) Tests required by paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall be made by designated supervisory personnel, trained and competent in the nature of potential hazards and the use of test equipment and procedures. (4) The hydrogen sulfide content of the atmosphere in a compartment, hold, or any enclosed space shall be maintained at not more than 10 parts per million (ppm) (0.0010%) as an 8-hour time weighted average. The short term exposure limit shall be 15 ppm (0.0015%) measured over a 15 minute period. The oxygen level must be maintained to at least 19.5 percent. Employees shall not be permitted in the hold unless these conditions are met and maintained. ยง1918.95 Sanitation. (a) Washing and toilet facilities. (1) Accessible washing and toilet facilities sufficient for the sanitary requirements of employees shall be readily accessible at the worksite. The number of toilet facilities shall be provided in accordance with the table found in this section. The facilities shall have: (i) Running water, including hot and cold or tepid water at a minimum of one accessible location (when longshoring operations are conducted at locations without permanent facilities, potable water may be provided in lieu of running water); (ii) Soap; (iii) Individual hand towels, clean individual sections of continuous toweling, or warm air blowers; and (iv) Fixed or portable toilets in separate compartments with latch-equipped doors. Numbers of toilet facilities shall comply with the Toilet Facilities Table. Separate toilet facilities shall be provided for male and female employees except when toilet rooms will be occupied by only one person at a time. (2) Washing and toilet facilities shall be regularly cleaned and maintained in good order.
