FR940505-1-00084 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) Fairness. Statewide rules would provide a more level playing field than do area-specific requirements. Area-specific pesticide controls, for example, might place parsley growers in Ventura at a competitive disadvantage compared to parsley growers in San Joaquin. Statewide rules minimize the potential for such inequities, helping fulfill one of the FIP goals discussed in section I.B of this NPRM. In addition, many parts of California besides the FIP areas have significant ambient ozone problems, including San Diego, the San Joaquin Valley, and the Southeast Desert. These areas may also need the statewide controls described in this NPRM in order to attain the health-based ozone standard. (iii) Reduce costs to industry. From an industry perspective, it is important for certain types of rules to be consistent throughout the state. In this instance, EPA believes that most manufacturers support statewide regulations for the suggested source categories. Coating manufacturers complain, for example, of the current expense and complexity of complying with different standards in California's many districts. These expenses accrue not only from research resources needed to develop multiple coatings, but from subsequent complexities in marketing, distributing, and tracking compliance. All these tasks would be simplified, however, by establishing one standard for the entire State as proposed in this NPRM. b. Architectural Coatings_ Architectural and industrial maintenance (AIM) coatings are coatings or paints generally used by consumers and contractors. These coatings are formulated and recommended for field application to structures (e.g., residences, commercial buildings, and bridges) and their appurtenances (e.g., doors, cabinets, fences, railings, and gutters). AIM coatings primarily provide a decorative and/or general protective function. Although there are a myriad of types and grades, AIM coatings are generally classified as exterior and interior paints, industrial maintenance coatings, roof coatings, primers, lacquers, stains, traffic paints, and specialty coatings. These coatings are formulated with a variety of components including pigments, resins, solvents, and additives. Solvents, which are typically VOCs, often contribute to the formation of ozone as they volatilize after application. AIM coatings have been regulated in California since the late 1970s and all major metropolitan areas in the State have an architectural coating rule. AIM coating emissions for California were estimated at 197 tpd (in 1989), with approximately 50 percent of the emissions within the three FIP areas. 1990 FIP area emissions were estimated at 92 tpd in the South Coast, 5 tpd in Ventura, and 12 tpd in the Sacramento area. Because of the magnitude of emissions resulting from this group of coatings, EPA is proposing a FIP measure which will provide reductions to help demonstrate attainment in the FIP areas.
