FR941121-0-00130 FR941121-0-00013 For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 650 is amended as follows: PART 650_ATLANTIC SEA SCALLOP FISHERY 1. The authority citation for part 650 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. §650.22 [Amended] 2. In §650.22(a), the phrase ``DAS exemption program'' is removed and the phrase ``state waters exemption program'' is added in its place. 3. Section 650.27 is revised to read as follows: §650.27 State waters exemption program. (a) DAS exemption . Any owner of a vessel issued a limited access scallop permit under §650.4(a) may request an exemption from the DAS Program, in accordance with notification requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section, while fishing exclusively landward of the outer boundary of a state's waters. Any such exemption granted will exempt the vessel from the DAS requirements specified under §650.24(c) as long as the vessel complies with paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section. (b) Gear restriction exemption. (1) Limited access permits. Any vessel issued a limited access scallop permit for which an exemption has been granted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section will also be exempted from the gear restrictions specified under §650.21(a), (b), (e)(1) and (e)(2) while fishing exclusively landward of the outer boundary of the waters of a state that has been listed as an eligible state as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, as long as the vessel complies with paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section. (2) General permits. Any owner of a vessel issued a general scallop permit shall be exempted from the gear restrictions specified in §650.21(a), (b), (e)(1) and (e)(2) while fishing exclusively landward of the outer boundary of the waters of a state that has been listed as an eligible state as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, as long as the vessel complies with paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. (3) State eligibility for gear exemption. (i) Vessels may be granted an exemption from gear restrictions as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section if such vessels are fishing exclusively landward of the outer boundary of the waters of a state that has been determined by the Regional Director to have an Atlantic sea scallop fishery and a scallop conservation program that does not jeopardize the fishing mortality/effort reduction objectives of the FMP. (ii) State eligibility . The following states have been determined to have an Atlantic sea scallop fishery and a scallop conservation program that do not jeopardize the fishing mortality/effort reduction objectives of the FMP: (A) Maine. (B) New Hampshire. (C) Massachusetts. (iii) Changes in state eligibility . The states that have been determined to be eligible, as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, shall immediately notify the Regional Director of any changes in their scallop conservation program. The Regional Director will review these changes and, if a determination is made that the state's conservation program jeopardizes the fishing mortality/effort reduction objectives of the FMP or that the state no longer has a sea scallop fishery, the Regional Director shall publish a final rule in the Federal Register terminating that state's eligibility. The Regional Director may add any other state that is determined eligible, as described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, by publication of a final rule in the Federal Register . (c) Notification requirements. (1) VTS notification . Vessel owners requesting a state waters exemption via a VTS shall: (i) Notify NMFS, via their VTS, prior to the vessel's first trip under the state waters exemption program, that the vessel will be fishing exclusively in state waters; and
