FR940919-2-00055 FR940919-2-00033 4. Both VIA USA and Telegroup filed motions to strike the comments filed by MCI, Sprint and COMTELCA/INTEL. AT&T, MCI, Sprint and COMTELCA/INTEL opposed the motions to strike the supporting comments. VIA USA and Telegroup argue in their motions that the comments supporting AT&T's petition are untimely, procedurally defective requests for the Commission to reconsider its initial grant of Section 214 authority to the above-captioned applicants. In particular, VIA USA and Telegroup state that Section 1.106(g) of the Commission's Rules only contemplates the filing of ``oppositions'' to petitions for reconsideration, not comments in support of such petitions. Further, they state that, in addition to repeating and expounding upon AT&T's arguments in its petition, the COMTELCA/INTEL comments raise new issues relating to the legality of call-back services under international law and the law of foreign countries. Alternatively, VIA USA and Telegroup contend that, if we do not grant their motions to strike, we should extend the reply period several months because COMTELCA/INTEL have raised new arguments not previously raised by any party, which significantly expand the scope of the proceeding. 5. The comments supporting AT&T's petition raise issues involving complex questions of international law, international comity and the law of foreign countries. In particular, COMTELCA/INTEL raise the argument that call-back services employing an uncompleted call signaling configuration violate international law, i.e. Article 1.5 and 3.3 of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU) Regulations. 4 In addition, COMTELCA/INTEL's comments also claim that the applicants may not offer uncompleted call signalling services except pursuant to appropriate operating agreements with foreign telecommunications administrations. Moreover, COMTELCA/INTEL have submitted evidence as to the effect that our authorization of this service may have on international comity. 5 4 In the initial proceeding, the record did not address the argument that the proposed call-back services violated international law. See VIA USA, Ltd. et al., 9 FCC Rcd at 2292, n. 37. 5 COMTELCA/INTEL further contend that there are other forms of call-back services that raise similar issues under international law and the law of foreign countries which the Commission did not address in its initial decision. For instance, COMTELCA/INTEL reference the ``hot line'' method whereby a U.S. reseller continuously places calls to the telephone of a subscriber located outside the United States. The called party's telephone has a disconnected ringer. When the called party wants to access a U.S. dial tone to place an international call to a U.S. location or elsewhere, he or she simply picks up the receiver and ``answers'' one of several thousand continuous calls made to that particular phone during the day and receives a dial tone at the reseller's U.S. location. COMTELCA/INTEL assert that the international law and public interest issues raised by this practice should be addressed in this proceeding, or, alternatively, should be addressed in a rulemaking proceeding that covers the full range of issues raised by the proliferation of call-back methods used to provide U.S. dial tone to foreign parties. 6. We conclude that the issues raised in the comments supporting AT&T's petition merit examination. Therefore, we will, on our own motion, seek additional comment from the parties and members of the public on all of the issues raised in the comments supporting AT&T's petition. 7. Because we have decided on our own motion to expand the scope of this reconsideration proceeding, we find that the motions to strike the supporting comments of MCI, Sprint and COMTELCA/INTEL are moot. These supporting comments address the issues which we will be examining, and therefore will be made part of the record. We will, however, grant VIA USA's and Telegroup's alternative request that we further extend the period for filing comments. In addition, we will seek the advice of the Department of State regarding the issues of international law, international comity, and the laws of foreign countries. Further, in order to augment the record with respect to AT&T's assertion that uncompleted call signalling violates the federal wire fraud statute, we also will seek the advice of the Department of Justice on this issue. Finally, as noted above, because of the general importance of the issues in this case, we will entertain additional comments from all interested members of the public as well as from the parties to this proceeding. 8. This Section 214 proceeding will continue to be conducted as a non-restricted proceeding in which written and oral ex parte contacts are permitted, but subject to disclosure. See 47 CFR Part 1206. 9. Accordingly, it is ordered that the comments of MCI, Sprint and COMTELCA/INTEL are accepted into the record of this proceeding, and Telegroup's and VIA USA's motions to strike the comments are dismissed as moot. 10. It is further ordered that this proceeding is opened to the general public and interested persons are invited to file comments on any of the issues raised in AT&T's petition or the supporting comments by October 14, 1994, and reply comments by November 14, 1994. 11. It is further ordered that the Secretary shall serve a copy of this Order on each party to this proceeding by certified mail. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23102 Filed 9&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
