FR941110-0-00035 FR941110-0-00016 B. Validation Surveys and HCFA Oversight Sections 1819(g)(3)(A) and 1919(g)(3)(A) of the Act direct the Secretary to conduct onsite surveys of a representative sample of nursing homes within 2 months of the last day of survey when the Secretary is validating the State survey agency's performance. If the State determines that the facility is in compliance, but the Secretary finds that the facility is out of compliance, the Secretary's determination as to the facility's noncompliance is binding and supersedes that resulting from the State survey as specified at §488.234(a)(2) of our NPRM and section 1919(h)(6)(B) of the Act. However, section 1919(h)(6)(A) specifies that when the State finds noncompliance and the Secretary makes no such finding, the State's noncompliance decision and enforcement actions control. We incorporated this in §488.234(a)(1) of our proposed rule. At paragraph (a)(3) of §488.234, we proposed that, when HCFA's survey findings take precedence, HCFA could_ •Impose any of the alternative remedies we specify in our proposed §488.206 (Available remedies); or •Permit payments to continue to the NF and dually participating facility if the applicable conditions at our proposed §488.232 (Continuation of payments to a facility with deficiencies) are satisfied. These provisions proposed to specify the means to determine compliance or noncompliance for the Medicaid NF which would then become the compliance/noncompliance decision for the Medicare SNF. In our proposed §488.234(b), we stated that, if both the Secretary and the State disagree over the decision to terminate a non-State operated NF or dually participating facility_ •HCFA's decision to terminate the participation of a facility takes precedence when_ +␣Both HCFA and the State find that the facility has not met all requirements; and +␣HCFA, but not the State, finds that the facility's participation should be terminated. We proposed that HCFA would permit continuation of payment during the period prior to the effective date of termination not to exceed 6 months from the last day of the survey. •The State's decision to terminate a facility's participation and the timing of termination would take precedence when_ +␣The State, but not HCFA, finds that a facility's participation should be terminated; and +␣The State's timing for the termination is for no later than 6 months after the last day of survey. In paragraph (c) of the proposed §488.234, we stated that when the State and HCFA disagree over timing of termination of a facility, the State's timing takes precedence if it does not occur later than 6 months after the date of the finding to terminate. Paragraph (d) stated that when there is overlap of State and HCFA remedies, the HCFA remedies apply, and paragraph (e) stated that, regardless of whose decision controlled in paragraphs (b), (c), or (d), the compliance and enforcement decision for the Medicaid agreement is binding on the Medicare agreement in the case of a dually participating facility. C. Hearings and Appeals At §488.180(e)(1), we proposed that the State must impose remedies on any Medicaid provider_
