FR941003-2-00048 FR941003-2-00032 For Grants for the Establishment of Departments of Family Medicine, the following definitions apply: High rate means that 20 percent of all graduates of the medical school in 1990 or 1991, whichever is greater, are spending at least 50 percent of their work time in clinical practice in the specified settings. Significant increase in the rate means that, between academic years 1992&hyph;93 and 1993&hyph;94, the rate of placing 1990 or 1991 graduates in the specified settings has increased by at least 50 percent and that not less than 15 percent of graduates from the most recent year (1991) are working in these settings. Additional general information regarding the implementation of the statutory general preference has been published in the Federal Register at 59 FR 15741, dated 4/4/94. Additional Statutory Funding Preference for Grants for the Establishment of Departments of Family Medicine An additional statutory funding preference applies only to Grants for the Establishment of Departments of Family Medicine. Under section 747(b), a funding preference is provided for qualified applicants that agree to expend the award for the purpose of: (1) Establishing an academic administrative unit defined as a department, division, or other unit, for programs in family medicine; or (2) substantially expanding the programs of such a unit. Information Requirements Provision All of the Family Medicine Training grant programs are subject to the information requirements provision. Under section 791(b) of the Act, the Secretary may make an award under certain title VII grant programs only if the applicant for the award submits to the Secretary the following required information: 1. A description of rotations or preceptorships for students, or clinical training programs for residents, that have the principal focus of providing health care to medically underserved communities. 2. The number of faculty on admissions committees who have a clinical practice in community-based ambulatory settings in medically underserved communities. 3. With respect to individuals who are from disadvantaged backgrounds or from medically underserved communities, the number of such individuals who are recruited for academic programs of the applicant, the number of such individuals who are admitted to such programs, and the number of such individuals who graduate from such programs. 4. If applicable, the number of recent graduates who have chosen careers in primary health care. 5. The number of recent graduates whose practices are serving medically underserved communities. 6. A description of whether and to what extent the applicant is able to operate without Federal assistance under this title. Additional details concerning the implementation of this information requirement have been published in the Federal Register at 58 FR 43642, dated August 17, 1993, and will be provided in the application materials. Application Requests Requests for application materials and questions regarding grants policy and business management issues should be directed to Grants Management Branch, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 8C&hyph;26, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Completed applications should be returned to the Grants Management Branch at the above address. Please see Table 1 for specific names and phone numbers for each grant program. If additional programmatic information is needed, please contact the Division of Medicine, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 9A&hyph;20, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Please see Table 1 for specific names and phone numbers for each grant program. Paperwork Reduction Act The standard application form PHS 6025&hyph;1, HRSA Competing Training Grant Application, General Instructions and supplement for these grant programs have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act. The OMB Clearance Number is 0915&hyph;0060. Deadline Dates The deadline date for receipt of applications for each of these grant programs is shown in Table 1. Applications will be considered to be ``on time'' if they are either: (1) Received on or before the established deadline date, or (2) Sent on or before the established deadline date and received in time for orderly processing. (Applicants should request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) Late applications not accepted for processing will be returned to the applicant.
