FR940324-2-00086 FR940324-2-00044 Recommended Approach: CSAP invites applications that will permit CSAP to answer questions such as, but not limited to, those identified here: 1. What combination of strategies is effective in developing communication, social, and life skills among youth at risk for becoming witnesses, victims, and/or perpetrators of AOD-related violence? 2. Which combination of strategies is effective in improving family functioning to reduce levels of family violence and AOD use? 3. What combination of strategies is effective in promoting and sustaining the involvement of youth at risk for AOD-related violence in positive, pro-social activities? 4. What strategies are effective in promoting a community-based approach to identifying and addressing the AOD-related problems in the target population? 5. Which strategies are suitable and effective in AOD-related violence prevention with sub-sets of youth (for example, by age, gender, race/ethnicity/culture) as well as with their families, schools, peers, and communities? 6. What strategies are effective in changing the behavioral norms that support violence in communities experiencing high rates of AOD use? These questions are in addition to the ATOD-specific questions listed in the Outcome Evaluation section of part IV. CSAP strongly recommends that applicants propose to implement comprehensive, community-based prevention strategies that address multiple risk and/or protective factors in three or more domains. Applicants may choose to target one or both of the designated sub-populations of high risk youth; that is, applicants may propose programs for 6 to 11 year olds and/or 12 to 14 year olds. Applicants should design interventions to influence not only alcohol and other drug use and AOD-related violence, but also such associated conditions and outcomes as lack of neighborhood structure, lack of positive role-models, school drop-out, and vandalism. Programs are asked to address risk factors outside the individual that can precipitate, precede, or co-exist with AOD use and AOD-related violence. Applicants are particularly encouraged to design prevention projects that involve significant persons in the youthful participant's family and social network, especially siblings. At the same time that programs should be comprehensive, they should also take into account the particular needs of individual program participants. Strategies should be developmentally appropriate. Strategies must also be tailored to meet the cultural, linguistic, gender, and ethnic characteristics of program participants. In order to ensure a community-based approach, applicants are requested to demonstrate that they have in existence a coalition consisting of community members who are willing and able to address relevant risk/protective factors. Representatives of the community, including youth, should be involved in identifying the relevant risk/protective factors and in developing the strategies to address them. Applicants are encouraged to consider implementing improvements in the way services are delivered in their community to ensure that the local service delivery system can support the multifaceted, community-based prevention approach recommended for AOD and AOD-related violence prevention. For example, applicants should consider the need and appropriateness of linking and coordinating services through formal or informal agency and organizational agreements.
