FR940912-2-00146 FR940912-2-00100 2. Make available information and technical assistance from government sources, within available resources and as determined appropriate by the COTR. This shall include data from state and national accident databases, human factors data, or any other resources within the government that may be of use in supporting research efforts; 3. Provide liaison with other government agencies and organizations as appropriate; and 4. Help expand the knowledge base of collision avoidance systems and enabling technologies by publishing nonproprietary information developed at Government expense in the scientific literature, thus making it available to all organizations involved in research and product development in this area. Period of Support The research and development effort described in this notice may be supported through the award of a cooperative agreement. NHTSA reserves the right to make multiple cooperative agreement awards for the effort described in this notice depending on the merits of the applications received and the amount of Federal funding available. Contingent on the availability of funds and satisfactory performance, cooperative agreement(s) will be awarded to eligible organization(s) for project periods of up to 3 years. Eligibility Requirements To be eligible to participate in this cooperative agreement program, an applicant must be a for-profit business organization (small or large), a non-profit organization, or an educational institution. Regardless of the type of organization applying for Federal funding assistance, no fee or profit will be allowed. While the proposed research effort may require extensive collaboration among several organizations, it is envisioned that during the pre-application process, these various organizations will designate one organization to prepare and submit the formal application. Application Procedure Each applicant must submit one original and two copies of its application package to: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Office of Contracts and Procurement (NAD&hyph;30), ATTN: Henrietta Mosley, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Room 5301, Washington, DC 20590. Only complete application packages received on or before October 5, 1994 shall be considered. Submission of three additional copies will expedite processing, but is not required. The applicant shall specifically identify any information in the application for which confidentiality is requested, in accordance with the procedures of 49 CFR Part 512, Confidential Business Information.
