FR940325-0-00030 FR940325-0-00009 Today's action amends the credit accounting method used in the ABT program such that manufacturers must utilize the credits generated in the earliest model years before using later credits to cover credit needs. EPA believes that this accounting procedure is more likely to produce the benefits intended from the ABT program and will avoid the unintended reduction in program effectiveness that could occur under the current LIFO credit accounting procedure. Forcing manufacturers to average first with new credits from cleaner technology engines may actually encourage a manufacturer to continue using dirtier technology in the years when previously banked credits are still available, to avoid the loss of these banked credits through expiration. The current LIFO procedures could therefore have the unintended and adverse impact of delaying the introduction of cleaner technology until manufacturers have depleted their bank of credits. That result would be contrary to the goals of the ABT program. In addition, today's action extends the time period for submitting corrections to end-of-year reports from 180 days after the end of the model year to 270 days after the end of the model year. This extension will provide manufacturers a more equitable and reasonable time period than previously allowed for collecting first delivery information on their engines. The reasons for these changes to the ABT program are explained in greater detail in the preamble to the notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) published on June 10, 1993 (58 FR 32498). EPA proposed these changes to the ABT program in conjunction with the NPRM of June 10, 1993 for the Clean Fuels Fleet Emissions Standards, Conversions, and General Provisions (CFF). EPA published a second notice on July 1, 1993 which indicated that a public hearing on that rule would not address the ABT portion of the NPRM, unless otherwise requested. No request for a hearing was made, and the comment period for the ABT portion closed on August 2, 1993. Finally, EPA also split off the ABT portion from the CFF rulemaking in order to expedite a final ABT rule. EPA will issue a separate final rulemaking for the CFF program. This preamble provides a description of today's action and includes a summary of the major comments received on relevant portions of the NPRM and EPA's responses to those comments. II. Public Participation No public hearing was requested on the proposed ABT changes, and no hearing was held. EPA received written comments from the Detroit Diesel Corporation (DDC), Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA), Manufacturers of Emission Controls Association (MECA), the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC), the American Lung Association (ALA), and Michael Walsh. Comments have been placed in Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;30 (see ADDRESSES above). EPA has carefully reviewed all comments, and the following discussion addresses all major comments. III. Analysis of Comments A. Meaning of 40 CFR 86.091&hyph;15(a)(2)(iii) 40 CFR 86.092&hyph;15(a)(2)(iii) states that: Engine families within a given averaging set may not both generate and use like emission credits in the same model year. EMA commented that changes to this provision may not be necessary, because, as DDC also noted, ยง86.091&hyph;15(a)(2)(iii) does not specify that LIFO credit accounting must be used. However, EPA believes that ยง86.091&hyph;15(a)(2)(iii) clearly requires LIFO credit accounting. This is based on the text of the provision, as well as the preamble discussion of this provision in 55 FR 30599 on July 26, 1990. The discussion addresses the background and context of the provision and very clearly states that credits should not be both withdrawn and used from a given averaging set in a given model year. Both EMA and DDC noted that the preamble used the term ``rolling banking'' to refer to FIFO credit accounting. Although the term ``rolling banking'' does not appear in the preamble to the final rule for the ABT program, the term ``rolling program'' is addressed in the preamble and refers not to FIFO credit accounting, but to the three-year credit life, which is entirely independent of credit accounting. In any case, both EMA and DDC oppose imposition of LIFO accounting procedures. DDC rejected the LIFO interpretation on the basis that LIFO is ``illogical and inconsistent with the purposes of the ABT program.'' EPA is in agreement with this statement and highlights this point as the main reason for this rulemaking. B. Environmental Impact of the Credit Accounting Change Need for Further Study NRDC, MECA and ALA raised concerns on the environmental impact of the proposed credit accounting change, suggesting that EPA withhold making any such change until the agency completed a more thorough analysis of environmental consequences, including a comprehensive evaluation of the impact of the whole ABT program. This rulemaking only addresses two aspects of the ABT program_the credit accounting procedures and the timing of annual reports. Given the limited nature of this rulemaking, EPA does not believe a comprehensive evaluation of the entire program is necessary to determine the appropriate accounting and reporting requirements.
