FR940721-2-00159 FR940721-2-00086 ␣Can be accomplished with the available or expected resources during the proposed project period; ␣Indicates when the objective, and major activities under each objective, will be accomplished; ␣Specifies who will conduct the activities under each objective; and ␣Supports a project that will be completed, self-sustaining, or financed by other than ANA funds at the end of the project period. (4) Results or Benefits Expected. (20 points). Completion of the proposed objectives will result in specific, measurable results. The application shows how the expected results will help the community meet its long-range goals. The specific information provided in the narrative and objective work plans on expected results or benefits for each objective is the standard upon which its achievement can be evaluated at the end of each budget year. (5) Budget. (10 points). There is a detailed, and fully explained, budget provided for each budget period requested. It justifies each line item in the budget categories in Section B of the Budget Information of the application, including the applicant's non-Federal share and its source. Sufficient cost and other necessary details are included and explained to facilitate the determination of cost allowability and the relevance of these costs to the proposed project. The funds requested are appropriate and necessary for the scope of the project. For business development projects, the proposal demonstrates that the expected return on the funds used to develop the project provides a reasonable operating income and return within a future specified time frame. G. Application Due Date The closing date for submission of applications under this competitive area is: May 19, 1995. H. For Further Information Contact: Hank Aguirre (202) 690&hyph;6439, Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Administration for Native Americans, 200 Independence Avenue, S.W., Room 348&hyph;F, Washington, D.C. 20201&hyph;0001. Competitive Area 3. Indian Environmental Regulatory Enhancement Projects A. Purpose and Availability of Funds The purpose of this competitive area is to announce the anticipated availability of fiscal year 1995 funds for environmental regulatory enhancement projects. Approximately $3 million of financial assistance is anticipated to be available under this announcement for environmental regulatory enhancement projects. ANA expects to award approximately 35 grants under this competitive area. The funding level for a budget period of 12 months will be up to $250,000. B. Background Despite an increasing environmental responsibility and growing awareness of environmental issues on Indian lands, there has been a lack of resources available to tribes to develop tribal environmental programs that are responsive to tribal needs. In many cases, this lack of resources has resulted in a delay in action on the part of the tribes. Some of the critical issues identified by tribes before Congressional committees include: •The need for assistance to train professional staff to monitor and enforce tribal environmental programs; •The lack of adequate data for tribes to develop environmental statutes and establish environmental quality standards; and •The lack of resources to conduct studies to identify sources of pollution and the ability to determine the impact on existing environmental quality. As a result, Congress enacted the Indian Environmental Regulatory Enhancement Act of 1990 (Public Law 101&hyph;408) to strengthen tribal governments through building capacity within the tribes in order to identify, plan, develop, and implement environmental programs in a manner that is consistent with tribal culture. ANA is to support these activities on a government-to-government basis in a way that recognizes tribal sovereignty and is consistent with tribal culture. The Administration for Native Americans believes that responsibility for achieving environmental regulatory enhancement rests with the governing bodies of Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages, and with the leadership of Native American groups.
