FR940617-2-00185 FR940617-2-00100 Generating has been advised that, depending on maturity and other factors, the annual interest rate on obligations, interest on which is so excludable from gross income, historically has been, and can be expected at the time of issuance of the Refunding Fixed Rate Bonds to be, 11/2% to 21/2% or more lower than the rates of obligations of like terms and comparable quality, interest on which is fully subject to Federal income tax. In any event, on series or Refunding Fixed Rate Bonds will be issued at rates in excess of those generally obtained at the time of pricing for sales of substantially similar tax-exempt bonds (having the same maturity, issued by entities of comparable credit quality and having similar terms, conditions and features). As of June 1, 1994, Generating anticipated that the interest rate for the Refunding Fixed Rate Bonds would be 7.25% without any credit enhancement and 6.75% with bond insurance. Generating will not agree, without further Commission authorization, to the issuance of any Refunding Fixed Rate Bond by the City (i) if the stated maturity of any such Bond shall be more than forth (40) years, (ii) if the rate of interest to be borne by any such Bond shall exceed 8% per annum, (iii) if the discount from the initial public offering price of any such Bond shall exceed 5% of the principal amount thereof, or (iv) if the initial public offering price shall be less than 95% of the principal amount thereof. Generating also proposes to provide credit enhancement for the Refunding Bonds in the form of a letter of credit, surety bond or bond insurance and pay any related fees. As a supplement or alternative to a letter of credit, surety bond or bond insurance, AEP proposes to guarantee the Refunding Bonds. Any letter of credit would not exceed $55 million and would be for a term ranging from one to five years and would be renewable. Drawings under the letter of credit would bear interest at no more than 1% above the bank's prime rate. Generating may pay an annual fee which would not exceed 1.25% of the face amount of the letter of credit. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14736 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
