FR941227-1-00028 FR941227-1-00007 (a) Are there other definitions of ``medical treatment'' that could clarify reportability? D. Injury/Illness Reportability (1) How are cases involving alleged noise-induced hearing loss by employees subjected to review or evaluation within companies to determine whether FRA reportability criteria have been met? (2) Does the railroad's reporting officer determine reportability of noise-induced hearing loss or is this determination made by another employee ( e.g. , industrial hygienist, supervisor)? If the ``reportability'' decision is made by someone other than the reporting officer, how is this decision conveyed to the reporting officer? (3) Should the proposed internal control plan indicate how the review of an alleged noise-induced hearing loss case is accomplished? E. ``Recordable'' Injury/Illness FRA proposed to define ``recordable'' injury or illness as intending to encompass any condition, not otherwise reportable, of a railroad worker that is associated with an event, exposure, or activity in the work environment that causes or requires the worker to be examined or treated by a qualified health care professional. Such treatment would usually occur at a location other than the work environment. (1) Does this proposed definition of ``recordable'' result in greater risk of a railroad supervisor exerting pressure on an injured or ill employee to avoid seeing a physician so that the injury or illness is not reported to FRA? F. ``Recordable'' Rail Equipment Accident/Incident Likewise, a ``recordable'' rail equipment accident/incident would encompass any event not otherwise reportable involving the operation of on-track equipment that causes physical damage to either the on-track equipment or the track upon which such equipment was operated and that requires the removal or repair of rail equipment before any rail operations over the track can continue. A ``recordable'' rail equipment accident/incident, if not tended to, would thus disrupt railroad service. (1) FRA does not wish to place an undue reporting burden on railroads by requiring them to maintain a log of ``fender bender'' accidents. What term or threshold could be used to capture these accidents in a listing or log? (2) What elements or fields should be kept in the log that would provide FRA inspectors with enough information to audit these nonreportable accidents without placing an undue burden on the railroads? (3) Is there a method of recording these accidents (below the reporting threshold) by means other than a standard form? (4) Please comment on the following alternate definition for a ``recordable'' rail equipment accident: a ``recordable'' rail equipment accident/incident is any event not otherwise reportable, involving the operation of on-track equipment that causes physical damage to either the on-track equipment or to the track, roadbed, signals and/or structures provided such equipment could be safely operated to its full range of function without repairs. (Note: Incidents arising from broken knuckles, failed journals, and dragging equipment that does not cause damage beyond that of the item of equipment that failed, are not required to be ``logged'' on Form FRA F 6180.xx). G. Calculation of Damage Costs FRA proposed that material/equipment costs could be calculated based upon the costs of acquired new material, even if the railroad chooses to use used or refurbished materials in its actual repairs. (1) What method(s) could be employed to accurately reflect the cost of accidents that would provide a comparable method of comparison when using refurbished equipment? (2) What alternative method could be employed that would accurately reflect the severity of accidents such that when two identical derailments occur, they are reflected or rated identically even though their actual repair cost using refurbished material are very different? H. Seven-Day Notification (Proposed Section 225.39(a)) FRA proposed that each railroad worker must notify his or her employer, in writing, of any reportable or recordable injury or illness within seven calendar days of incurring or obtaining knowledge of such injury or illness. (1) Should railroads require more immediate notice? (2) Should the railroad worker be assessed a monetary penalty for failure to report an accident or injury to his or her employer?
