FR941012-2-00200 FR941012-2-00119 Subsection 47107(a)(13) in turn requires an airport sponsor to give written assurances that it will maintain a schedule of charges at the airport that will make the airport as self-sustaining as possible under the circumstances existing at the airport. Subsection 47107(b) requires the airport sponsor to give written assurances that revenue generated by the airport will be used for the capital and operating costs of the obligated airport, the sponsor's local airport system or other facilities owned or operated by the sponsor and directly and substantially related to the air transportation of persons or property. Certain other uses of airport revenue mandated by statutes or assurances in debt obligations in effect before September 2, 1982 are expressly excluded from this requirement. Uses of airport revenue not in accordance with section 47107(b) are referred to as airport revenue diversion. New subsection 47107(l) further directs the Secretary to prohibit, at a minimum, four specific practices as diversion of airport revenue. Section 112 of the Authorization Act also amends 49 U.S.C. 47111 by adding new sanctions for airport revenue diversion. As amended, section 47111 directs the Secretary to withhold approval of new grant applications for funds and to withhold approval under 49 U.S.C. 40117 of any new passenger facility charge if the Secretary has found an airport sponsor to be engaged in airport revenue diversion and the sponsor has failed to take appropriate corrective action. In addition section 47111 authorizes the Secretary to seek judicial enforcement of all grant assurances made by a sponsor. Modifications to Proposed Policy Statement DOT/FAA are making four modifications to the proposed policy statement in response to statutory direction. First, the proposed supplemental guidance on the DOT/FAA role in resolving airport/aeronautical user disputes is being modified to reflect the statutory directive to determine the reasonableness of fees charged to air carriers and foreign air carriers when requested by the airport or upon complaint of a carrier, if a significant dispute exists. Second, supplementary guidance on financial self-sufficiency is being modified to reflect the statutory directive on this subject contained in section 112 of the 1994 Authorization Act. Third, the proposed supplemental guidance on the generation and use of airport revenue is being modified to incorporate the new statutory policy guidance added by section 110 of the 1994 Authorization Act. As noted, section 110 provides that ``in establishing new fees, rates, and charges, and generating revenues from all sources, airport owners and operators should not seek to create revenue surpluses that exceed the amounts to be used for airport system purposes. *␣*␣*.'' Section 110 is being implemented in this way, rather than through the guidance on fair and reasonable rates, because the DOT/FAA do not consider section 110 to require the regulation of the level of total airport revenue or to establish a standard for reasonableness for nonaeronautical rates and charges under the grant assurances. This conclusion is based on a number of considerations. First, the 1994 Authorization Act explicitly authorizes compensatory as well as residual pricing arrangements. Under the compensatory system, air carrier user charges are based on costs of serving air carriers without regard to the profit or loss generated by other users of the airport. To construe the reasonableness requirement of the statute as creating a legally enforceable right to limit the amount of nonaeronautical generated revenue would be inconsistent with the express authorization of compensatory pricing.
