FR940208-0-00114 FR940208-0-00031 Service Response: The Service anticipates that, although Federal land managers may close some roads as a result of critical habitat designation, there will still be opportunities for scenic touring and other motorized uses on designated roads and trails within CHUs. Issue 32: One letter stated that the management decision to set aside millions of acres violates the Federal Land Policy and Management Act because it exceeds 100,000 acres and requires approval of Congress within 90 days thereafter. Therefore, the designation of critical habitat has no force and effect. Service Response: Designation of critical habitat is not a land withdrawal nor a land management action, but rather an action required by section 4 of the Endangered Species Act. Land-use actions authorized, funded, or carried out by Federal agencies must undergo section 7 consultation, whereby the Service will determine if such actions are likely to jeopardize the continued existence of the desert tortoise or destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. Exclusion of activities is not automatic upon the designation of critical habitat. Issue 33: One letter stated that designation of critical habitat may severely limit the ability of State game agencies to travel off-highway to develop wildlife enhancement projects involving construction of roads or other facilities. Service Response: Designation of critical habitat will not prohibit construction and maintenance of wildlife developments. Each such development will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis through section 7 consultation between the Federal land management agency and the Service. Although the land management agency may restrict off-road travel within critical habitat, delivery of construction materials can most often be accomplished by other means, such as by foot, horseback, or helicopter. Issue 34: Some letters recommended that areas that have traditionally been heavily used for recreation should be excluded, as enforcement will be costly and ineffective. Service Response: The Service has included those areas containing constituent elements consistent with recommendations in the Draft Recovery Plan. In the final rule, the Service, where practicable, has deleted areas that do not contain constituent elements. No such information was provided for the recreation areas described. Land management agencies can consider these recreation areas during their establishment of recovery areas for desert tortoises.
