FR940620-2-00026 FR940620-2-00018 Notice of Issuance of Decisions and Orders by the Office of Hearings and Appeals, Week of March 28 Through April 1, 1994 During the week of March 28 through April 1, 1994, the decisions and orders summarized below were issued with respect to appeals and applications for exception or other relief filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy. The following summary also contains a list of submissions that were dismissed by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. Copies of the full text of these decisions and orders are available in the Public Reference Room of the Office of Hearings and Appeals, Room 1E&hyph;234, Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585, Monday through Friday, between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m., except federal holidays. They are also available in Energy Management: Federal Energy Guidelines , a commercially published loose leaf reporter system. Dated: June 13, 1994. George B. Breznay, Director, Office of Hearings and Appeals. Appeal Cowles Publishing Company, 3/30/94, LFA&hyph;0360 Cowles Publishing Company (Cowles) filed an Appeal from a partial denial by the DOE's Richland Operations Office of a Request for Information which the firm had submitted under the Freedom of Information Act (the FOIA). In considering the Appeal, the DOE found that it was unable to render a determination on the threshold issue of whether the withheld documents constituted ``agency records'' for purposes of the FOIA. Accordingly, the DOE remanded the matter to the Richland Operations Office with instructions to investigate and review the matter further and to consider several relevant inquiries raised by Cowles on Appeal. Requests for Exception Marbob Energy Corporation, 3/28/94, LEE&hyph;0066 Marbob Energy Corporation (Marbob) filed an Application for Exception from the requirement that it file Form EIA&hyph;23, the ``Annual Survey of Domestic Oil and Gas Reserves.'' Marbob claimed that it lacked the necessary technical personnel to provide the information requested in Form EIA&hyph;23. In considering the request, the DOE found that there were no technical personnel required to complete the form other than those already employed by Marbob. The DOE also concluded that the firm was not suffering a serious hardship and was not adversely affected by the reporting requirement in a way that was significantly different from the burden borne by similar reporting firms. Therefore, the DOE denied Marbob's Application for Exception. Ward Oil Co., 3/29/94, LEE&hyph;0088 Ward Oil Co. (Ward) filed an Application for Exception from the provisions of the Energy Information Administration (EIA) reporting requirements which the firm sought relief from filing Form EIA&hyph;782B, entitled ``Resellers'/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering the request, the DOE found that the firm was suffering a gross inequity due to the long illness and death of the firm's office manager. Accordingly, the DOE determined that the exception request be granted in part and that Ward should be removed from the survey from March 1994 through December 1994.
