FR940204-1-00044 FR940204-1-00003 (i) Endurance tests; general. The propulsion drive system, as defined in paragraph (c)(1) must be tested as prescribed in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii) through (c)(4)(ix), for at least 200 hours plus the time required to meet paragraph (c)(4)(ix). For the 200-hour portion, these tests must be conducted as follows: (A) twenty each, ten-hour test cycles consisting of the test times and procedures in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii) through (c)(4)(viii); and (B) The test torque must be determined by actual powerplant limitations. (ii) Endurance tests; takeoff torque run. The takeoff torque run endurance test must be conducted as follows: (A) The takeoff torque run must consist of a one-hour run on the engine(s) at the torque corresponding to takeoff power, but with the engine power setting alternately cycled every five minutes to as low an engine idle speed as practicable. (B) Deceleration and acceleration of the engines and/or of individual engines and drive systems must be performed at the maximum rate. (This corresponds to a one-second power setting change from idle to takeoff setting, and one second from takeoff setting to idle.) (C) The time duration of all engines at takeoff power setting must total one hour and does not include the time required to go from takeoff to idle and back to takeoff speed. (iii) Endurance tests; maximum continuous run. Three hours of continuous operation, at the torque corresponding to maximum continuous power and speed, must be conducted. (iv) Endurance tests; 90 percent of maximum continuous run. One hour of continuous operation, at the torque corresponding to 90 percent of maximum continuous power, must be conducted at maximum continuous rotational propeller shaft speed. (v) Endurance tests; 80 percent of maximum continuous run. One hour of continuous operation, at the torque corresponding to 80 percent of maximum power, must be conducted at the minimum rotational propeller shaft speed intended for this power. (vi) Endurance tests; 60 percent of maximum continuous run . Two hours of continuous operation, at the torque corresponding to 60 percent of maximum continuous power, must be conducted at the minimum rotational propeller shaft speed intended for this power. (vii) Endurance tests; engine malfunctioning run. It must be determined whether malfunctioning of components, such as the engine fuel or ignition systems, or unequal engine power can cause dynamic conditions detrimental to the drive system. If so, a suitable number of hours of operation must be accomplished under those conditions, one hour of which must be included in each cycle, and the remaining hours of which must be accomplished at the end of 20 cycles. This testing is to be equally divided between the following four conditions: (1) Engine # 1 ``ON''/engine # 2 ``IDLE''; (2) engine # 1 ``ON''/engine # 2 ``OFF''; (3) engine # 1 ``IDLE''/engine # 2 ``ON''; (4) engine # 1 ``OFF''/engine # 2 ``ON''. If no detrimental condition results, an additional hour of operation in compliance with paragraph (ii) of this section must be conducted. (viii) Endurance tests; overspeed run. One hour of continuous operation must be conducted at the torque corresponding to maximum continuous power, and at 110 percent of rated maximum continuous rotational propeller shaft speed. It the overspeed is limited to less than 110 percent of maximum continuous speed by the speed and torque limiting devices, the speed used must be the highest speed allowable, assuming that speed and torque limiting devices, if any, function properly.
