FR940425-2-00098 FR940425-2-00067 In view of the above, GSCC hereby requests that its authorization to implement the executing firm feature be made permanent. In the alternative, if the Commission determines that the granting of such permanent authorization is not appropriate at this time, GSCC requests that it be granted a renewal of its temporary authorization to implement the executing firm feature. GSCC also proposes to amend GSCC Rule 2, Section 10 and GSCC Rule 11, Section 4 to permit GSCC to accept trades of a member after voluntary termination or insolvency in order to ensure an orderly settlement of the member's net settlement position. (b) The proposed rule change would allow GSCC to further improve its comparison rate and to provide the benefits of its comparison and netting processes to more transactions and more market participants. Thus, GSCC believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder. 4 4 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1 (1988). B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition GSCC does not believe that the proposed rule change imposes any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Comments on the proposed rule change have not yet been solicited or received. Members will be notified of the rule change, and comments will be solicited, by an Important Notice. GSCC will notify the Commission of any written comments received by GSCC. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so findings or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organizations consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of GSCC. All submissions should refer to file number SR&hyph;GSCC&hyph;94&hyph;2 and should be submitted by May 16, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9847 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
