FR940722-1-00009 FR940722-1-00005 The Commission believes that it is appropriate for an ethics training provider to make such a certification. 11 The Congressional mandate for ethics training is intended ``to ensure that registrants understand their responsibilities to the public under [the] Act, including responsibilities to observe just and equitable principles of trade, any rule or regulation of the Commission, any rules of any appropriate contract market, registered futures association, or other self-regulatory organization or any other applicable Federal or State law, rule or regulation.'' 12 The Commission believes that it would be anomalous, inconsistent with the Congressional mandate and contrary to the public interest for a person to teach others about their responsibilities under those laws and rules if such person has a disciplinary history that would disqualify him from registration under the Act or service on SRO governing broads or committees, or is involved in an adjudicatory proceeding or the subject of an investigation pertaining to violations of such laws and rules. The Commission is also proposing that the certification requirement be a continuous one so that if circumstances change and the certification becomes inaccurate, the person must so inform the registered futures association, which shall then refuse to include such person on, or remove such person from, the list of ethics training providers. 13 11 The items discussed above would apply to a certification from any ethics training provider. If the ethics training provider will offer training via videotape or electronic presentation, the provider's certification would also be required to include a statement with respect to verification of the registrant's attendance. This is discussed below under Heading C, Videotape or Electronic Presentation. 12 Section 4p(b) of the Act. 13 However, if a firm is subject to a pending adjudicatory proceeding or investigation as described above, the Commission believes that it could submit a certification to a registered futures association with an explanation describing the circumstances of the proceeding or investigation, particularly with respect to the scope and nature of the proceeding or investigation in relation to the size of the firm. For example, an investigation limited to a single branch office of a firm that does not involve fraud or failure to supervise might be treated differently than a proceeding involving such allegations against the top management of a firm. The Commission would expect the registered futures association to consult the Commission as to any particular certification submitted or in cases where a firm on the list becomes subject to a proceeding or investigation. The purpose of this amendment is to permit National Futures Association (NFA), currently the only registered futures association, to maintain the list of eligible ethics training providers for purposes of Commission Rule 3.34 and to clarify that the specific content of an ethics training program is not being approved by the Commission or by NFA, as discussed more fully below. The Commission would delegate authority to NFA to establish guidance as to the required experience of ethics training providers and permit NFA to receive and evaluate complaints concerning such providers and make other appropriate review of providers' operations, subject to Commission oversight. NFA would also be delegated authority to develop appropriate procedures to verify certifications filed by a potential ethics training provider, for having such certifications updated periodically and for refusing to include persons on the list of ethics training providers. 14 NFA would submit its procedures to the Commission for review pursuant to Section 17(j) of the Act, 15 which governs approval of registered futures association rules. 14 Misrepresentations contained in such certification would also constitute federal criminal violations. See 18 U.S.C. 1001 (1988). 15 7 U.S.C. 21(j)(1988). B. Permissible Representations When the Commission has granted applications to provide ethics training, it has stated in letters to the applicants, among other things, that it has not approved the specific content of the ethics training program proposed and expresses no opinion as to the program's quality or accuracy. Indeed, it would be impossible for the Commission to do so since it has normally been presented with only an outline of the training course from those who filed applications. 16 The Commission therefore believes that it is appropriate to clarify the effect of the blanket reference in Rule 3.34 to an SRO or state-accredited continuing education entity as ethics training providers, as well as the effect of a registered futures association's listing of other persons providing such training. 16 See Item B4 in the September 1993 notice, 58 FR 47890, 47891. Accordingly, the Commission is proposing to provide in new paragraph (b)(5)(i) that no SRO, state-accredited continuing education entity or other person included on a list of ethics training providers ``may represent or imply in any manner whatsoever that such person has been sponsored, recommended or approved, or that such person's abilities or qualifications, the content, quality or accuracy of his training program, or the positions taken in the course of resolving any actual or hypothetical situations presenting ethical issues, have in any respect been passed upon or endorsed, by the Commission or a registered futures association.'' Proposed new paragraph (b)(5)(i) would further provide that any promotional or instructional material used in connection with ethics training ``must prominently state that the Commission and any registered futures association have not reviewed or approved the specific content of the training program and do not recommend the provider of such training.'' 17 17 Proposed paragraph (b)(5)(i) would also contain a proviso that it ``shall not be construed to prohibit a statement that a person is included on a list of ethics training providers maintained by a registered futures association if such statement is true in fact and if the effect of such a listing is not misrepresented.'' The effect of this statement is intended to be that such person is not precluded from providing ethics training by reason of ``unfitness'' as defined by the Act and the Commission's rules on statutory disqualification.
