FR941117-0-00002 FR941117-0-00001 NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION 12 CFR Part 704 Corporate Credit Unions AGENCY: National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NCUA is amending its regulations governing corporate credit unions to reduce the close ties between many corporate credit unions and credit union trade associations. The final rule requires that at least a majority of a corporate credit union's directors, including the chair, be representatives of member credit unions. The rule provides that a majority of a corporate credit union's directors may not be individuals who also serve as officers, directors, or employees of the same trade association or affiliated trade associations. The rule requires that the chief executive officer of a corporate credit union answer solely to the board of directors and not also serve as an employee of a trade association. While the rule imposes these and other requirements to ensure corporate credit union governance is controlled by member credit unions, substantial revisions from the Board's earlier proposed rule have been made to address concerns raised by commenters. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 1, 1996. ADDRESSES: National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, VA 22314&hyph;3428. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: H. Allen Carver, Director, Office of Corporate Credit Unions, (703) 518&hyph;6640, or Robert M. Fenner, General Counsel, (703) 518&hyph;6540, at the above address. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background On April 12, 1994, the NCUA Board issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPR) regarding the relationship between corporate credit unions and credit union leagues and trade associations. 59 FR 18503, April 19, 1994. The ANPR noted that approximately half of the corporate credit unions are closely tied to leagues and trade associations, through integrated boards or management relationships. The ANPR requested comment on whether Part 704 should be amended to require that the board of directors of a corporate credit union be independently elected by its members, with the condition that a majority of the board seats be held by representatives of member credit unions, that all or a majority of the corporate credit union board be comprised of representatives who do not also serve on the board of a league or trade association, and that management of a corporate credit union report solely to the board of the corporate credit union. NCUA received 400 comment letters in response to the ANPR, 115 expressing general support for the proposed changes, 278 expressing general opposition, and 7 commenting on tangential issues. Remaining concerned that a corporate credit union system independent of trade association control is important to the safety and soundness of the credit union system, the Board determined to request comment on specific proposed changes. Accordingly, on September 16, 1994, the Board issued a notice of proposed rulemaking. 59 FR 48832, September 23, 1994. It was proposed that the definition of ``corporate credit union'' be amended by providing that a corporate credit union could not require its members to belong to any other organization. It was proposed that at least a majority of a corporate credit union's directors, including the chair, be individuals who represented member credit unions and who were not officers, directors, or employees of a credit union-related organization. ``Credit union-related organization'' was proposed to be defined as a credit union league or trade association, an affiliate of a credit union league or trade association, or an entity operated or controlled by a credit union league, trade association, or affiliate. For purposes of meeting the required majority, it was proposed that an individual be prohibited from serving as a director of a corporate credit union if another individual from his or her credit union was serving as an officer, director, or employee of a credit union-related organization. To implement the existing requirement that elections be conducted by mail ballot, revisions were proposed to the standard corporate federal credit union bylaws. In addition, it was proposed that state chartered corporate credit unions be required to comply with those bylaws. It was proposed that if an individual ceased to be the representative of an organization for any reason, his or her seat would be declared vacant and filled by the corporate credit union board in accordance with the bylaws. Finally, it was proposed that the recusal provision be strengthened, that management report solely to the board, and that no management official or other employee of a corporate credit union could be an employee or official of a credit union-related organization. B. Comments
