FR940803-2-00072 FR940803-2-00058 8. Applicants state that the Transactions will not place any of the Trust, Multimedia, or existing shareholders of the Trust in a position less advantageous than that of any other of such persons. The Trust's assets transferred to Multimedia (and the shares received in return) will be based on their fair value as computed on the day of the transfer in accordance with the requirements of the Act. The shares of Multimedia will be distributed as a dividend to the shareholders in the same investment posture immediately following the Transaction as before. 9. Applicants also assert that the Transaction comports with the policies underlying rule 17a&hyph;8, which exempts from section 17(a) a merger, consolidation, or purchase or sale of substantially all of the assets involving registered companies which may be affiliated persons, or affiliated persons of an affiliated person, solely by reason of having a common investment adviser, common directors, and/or common officers. While the Trust and Multimedia will be affiliated briefly because of the Trust's ownership of Multimedia, the only potential affiliation after the distribution will be a commonality of investment adviser, directors, and certain officers. The Trust's Board of Directors, including a majority of the directors who are not interested persons of the Trust, have made the following findings required by rule 17a&hyph;8: (a) that participation in the Transaction is in the best interests of the Trust; and (b) that the interests of the existing shareholders of the Trust will not be diluted as a result of its effecting the transactions. In addition, as required by rule 17a&hyph;8, such findings, and the basis upon which the findings were made, will be recorded fully in the minute book of the Trust. 10. Accordingly, applicants believe that the standards of sections 17(b) and 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder are met. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18825 Filed 8&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
