FR940304-1-00102 FR940304-1-00014 The Department decided a separate product class was not appropriate for add-on heat pumps. Since this type of heat pump is always used with a storage tank, there is no difference in the utility provided to the consumer. No detailed information describing the location of electric water heaters in existing houses was provided. Lacking better data, DOE assumed sufficient volume of air circulation would be available to allow proper operation of heat pump water heaters. Most of the heat pump water heaters considered in this analysis are currently available. They are all equipped with freeze protection and have backup resistance elements. This permits operation under adverse conditions. Providing condensate drains was included in the installation costs for all heat pump water heaters. The Department rejected the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association's comment that heat pump water heaters not be considered in the analysis because of their low sales volume. The Department would agree with the Gas Appliance Manufacturers Association if heat pump water heaters warranted a separate class; however, since they are treated as a design option, DOE concluded that they warrant consideration. The effect on water heater manufacturers of standard levels requiring heat pump water heaters was considered in the manufacturing impact analysis. The low heating rate of electric instantaneous water heaters presents a disadvantage with respect to their capability to provide a large quantity of hot water as rapidly as an electric resistance storage water heater. This difference justified two product classes (instantaneous and all other) for electric water heaters. There is little that can be done to improve the efficiency of electric instantaneous water heaters. Therefore, standards were not developed for electric instantaneous water heaters. Gas-fired instantaneous water heaters can provide unlimited amounts of hot water, but at limited rates. The Department judged this to be a significant difference in utility to the consumer. Gas instantaneous water heaters were, therefore, specified as a separate product class, and analyzed as such for standards.
