FR941110-1-00082 FR941110-1-00011 The importers granted permits for a year would be asked to furnish information upon the import of each shipment of used controlled substance. EPA is requesting comment on a list of information requirements in paragraph B.1. to determine those that best verify that an imported controlled substance is used. Such information would become the reporting requirements for each particular shipment for individuals holding a permit to import used controlled substances. The yearly permit system described may be easier to implement and comply with than a permit system for each imported shipment of used controlled substance. A permit system for each shipment, however, could provide more detailed information and potential control over each particular import of used substances. The Agency seeks comments on the options discussed above and also solicits suggestions on other approaches for permit requirements that are not burdensome but adequately ensure that imported used controlled substances are in fact ``used.'' C. Adjustments and Clarifications of the Allowance Program to Become Effective January 1, 1995 This section describes proposed changes to the current regulation in an effort to address issues that have arisen since the December 10, 1993 rule. The proposed clarifications in this section are made to increase the efficiency of the requirements and reduce the administrative burden for affected individuals and the Agency. The following paragraphs propose changes to the current rule that would go into effect January 1, 1995, for the last control period before the phaseout begins on January 1, 1996. 1. Changes in Requirements for Export to Article 5 Countries In accordance with the Montreal Protocol, limited production of controlled substances for export to Article 5 countries may continue after the phaseout. Specifically, Article 2 of the Protocol allows Parties to produce beyond the January 1, 1996 phaseout to meet the basic domestic needs of Article 5 countries. Article 5 countries are defined by the Parties as developing countries ``whose annual calculated level of consumption of class I, Group I controlled substances is less than 0.3 kilograms per capita.'' Article 5 countries are listed in Appendix E to Subpart A. Under the current Allowance Program, a company must have production and consumption allowances before producing a controlled substance for export to an Article 5 country. Companies with a baseline allocation of consumption and production allowances for specific controlled substances currently are given an allocation of potential production allowances amounting to ten percent of their baseline production allowances until January 1, 2000, and fifteen percent of baseline production allowances from January 1, 2000, until January 1, 2011 based on phaseout dates required by the Clean Air Act (see discussion below regarding proposed changes in percentage allocations, based on accelerated phaseout dates). These companies may request the conversion of these potential production allowances to production allowances after exporting a controlled substance to an Article 5 country. Effective January 1, 1995, EPA proposes changing the name of potential production allowances to Article 5 allowances. In today's rule, EPA also proposes to eliminate the process for converting potential production allowances to production allowances beginning January 1, 1995. This proposed change would eliminate the current process where companies expend production and consumption allowances up-front to produce a controlled substance for export to an Article 5 country and, after the export, request the conversion of potential production allowances to production allowances. The changes are proposed to anticipate the elimination of production allowances for class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide) after January 1, 1996, and to ease the administrative burdens created by the current process. EPA proposes that beginning January 1, 1995, the Agency assign Article 5 allowances to companies that have an allocated baseline of production allowances. 9 Under the proposed system, a company would notify the Agency at the end of the quarter in which they exported to Article 5 countries. EPA would then deduct the amount of controlled substance exported to Article 5 countries from the balance of Article 5 allowances held by the company, rather than require an application to convert potential production allowances to production allowances. 9 Under a separate Federal Register notice, EPA is allocating Article 5 allowances for production of methyl bromide (class I, Group VI) to persons with baseline production allowances. The Agency is also proposing to correct the date from which, and until which, companies may produce 15 percent of baseline allowances for export to Article 5 countries. CAA section 604(e)(2)(C) permits production for developing countries to exceed baseline allowances by up to 15 percent beginning January 1, 2000, and to continue until January 1, 2010 (2012 in the case of methyl chloroform). However, the Protocol permits production for export to Article 5 countries at 15 percent of baseline allowances beginning with the phaseout date (January 1, 1994, for halons, and January 1, 1996, for CFCs, methyl chloroform and carbon tetrachloride) and continuing for ten years after the Protocol phaseout (until 2003 for halons and until 2006 for CFCs, methyl chloroform and carbon tetrachloride). Since the terms of the Protocol are more stringent than those of the CAA, EPA proposes to permit production of class I substances for export to Article 5 countries to continue until 2006 (2003 for halons).
