FR941212-2-00037 FR941212-2-00031 Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Under section 6(c), the SEC may exempt any person or transaction from any provision of the Act or any rule thereunder to the extent that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. 2. Section 2(a)(32) defines a ``redeemable security'' as a security that, upon its presentation to the issuer, entitles the holder to receive approximately his or her proportionate share of the issuer's current net assets, or the cash equivalent of those assets. Because the imposition of deferred sales charge may cause a redeeming unitholder to receive an amount less than the net asset value of the redeemed Units, applicants seek an exemption from section 2(a)(32) so that Units subject to a deferred sales charge are considered redeemable securities for purposes of the Act. 2 2 Without an exemption, a trust selling units subject to a deferred sales charge could not meet the definition of a unit investment trust under section 4(2) of the Act. Section 4(2) defines a unit investment trust as an investment company that issues only ``redeemable securities.'' 3. Section 2(a)(35) defines the term ``sales load'' to be the difference between the sales price and the proceeds to the issuer, less any expenses not properly chargeable to sales or promotional expenses. Because a deferred sales charge is not charged at the time of purchase, an exemption from section 2(a)(35) is necessary. 4. Section 22(c) and rule 22c&hyph;1 require that the price of a redeemable security issued by an investment company for purposes of sale, redemption, and repurchase be based on the investment company's current net asset value. Because the imposition of a deferred sales charge may cause a redeeming unitholder to receive an amount less than the net asset value of the redeemed Units, applicants seek an exemption from this section and rule. 5. Section 22(d) requires an investment company and its principal underwriter and dealer to sell securities only at a current public offering price described in the investment company's prospectus. Because sales charges traditionally have been a component of the public offering price, section 22(d) historically required that all investors be charged the same load. Rule 22d&hyph;1 was adopted to permit sale of redeemable securities ``at prices that reflect scheduled variations in, or elimination of, the sales load.'' Because rule 22d&hyph;1 does not extend to scheduled variations in deferred sales charges, applicants seek relief from section 22(d) to permit them to waive or reduce their deferred sales charge in certain specified instances. 6. Section 26(a)(2) in relevant part prohibits a trustee or custodian of a unit investment trust from collecting from the trust as an expense any payment to a depositor or principal underwriter thereof. Because of this prohibition, applicants need an exemption to permit the trustee to collect the deferred sales charge installments from distribution deductions or Trust assets. 7. Applicants believe that implementation of the deferred sales charge program in the manner described above would be fair and in the interests of the unitholders of the Trusts. Thus, granting the requested order would be appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. 8. Section 11(c) prohibits any offers of exchange of the securities of a registered unit investment trust for the securities of any other investment company, unless the terms of the offer have been approved by the SEC. Applicants assert that the reduced sales charge imposed at the time of exchange is a reasonable and justifiable expense to be allocated for the professional assistance and operational expenses incurred in connection with the exchange. Applicants' Conditions Applicants agree that any order granting the requested relief will be subject to the following conditions: 1. Whenever the exchange option is to be terminated or its terms are to be amended materially, any holder of a security subject to that privilege will be given prominent notice of the impending termination or amendment at least 60 days prior to the date of termination or the effective date of the amendment, provided that: (a) No such notice need be given if the only material effect of an amendment is to reduce or eliminate the sales charge payable at the time of an exchange, to add one or more new Series eligible for the exchange option, or to delete a Series which has terminated; and (b) no notice need be given if, under extraordinary circumstances, either (i) there is a suspension of the redemption of units of the Trust under section 22(e) and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or (ii) a Trust temporarily delays or ceases the sale of its Units because it is unable to invest amounts effectively in accordance with applicable investment objectives, policies, and restrictions. 2. The sales charge collected at the time of any exchange or conversion shall not exceed 2% of the public offering price of the Unit being acquired on each exchange. 3. The prospectus of each Trust offering exchanges and any sales literature or advertising that mentions the existence of the exchange option will disclose that the exchange option is subject to modification, termination, or suspension, without notice except in certain limited cases. 4. Each Series offering Units subject to a deferred sales charge will include in its prospectus the table required by item 2 of Form N&hyph;1A (modified as appropriate to reflect the differences between unit investment trusts and open-end management investment companies) and a schedule setting forth the number and date of each installment payment. By the Commission. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30467 Filed 12&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
