FR940603-2-00120 FR940603-2-00077 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Patriots Point Development Authority; U.S. Maritime Administration; N.S. SAVANNAH; Environmental Assessment and Finding of no Significant Impact Regarding License Amendment [Docket No. 50&hyph;238] The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is considering issuance of an amendment to the Amended Facility License No. NS&hyph;1 issued to the Patriots Point Development Authority (PPDA) and the U.S. Maritime Administration (MARAD) for possession but not operation of the nuclear reactor facility aboard the N.S. Savannah. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action By application dated May 19, 1994, as supplemented by letters dated May 24, and May 25, 1994, PPDA and MARAD requested authorization to (1) delete the PPDA as a co-licensee, allow relocation of the N.S. Savannah to the James River Reserve Fleet (JRRF), (2) change responsibility for the performance of radiological health physics coverage, surveillance and response to the U.S. Army Center for Public Works, Humphries Engineering Center, (3) change the composition of the Review and Audit Committee to be consistent with the deletion of PPDA as a co-licensee, and (4) make other minor changes and discontinue public access to the facility. PPDA has decided to discontinue use of the ship as a museum exhibit and return the ship to MARAD, which has retained ownership. The ship was removed from the PPDA pier on May 24, 1994, under the existing license. The ship will be towed to Baltimore, Maryland, for drydock repairs, also under the existing license. The ship will then be relocated to the JRRF, near Fort Eustis, Virginia for long term storage. Need for Proposed Action The proposed action is needed in order to remove the PPDA as co-licensee, to relocate the N.S. Savannah to the JRRF, near Fort Eustis, Virginia, for long term storage following repairs in drydock, and to change Technical Specifications consistent with these changes in licensee and location. Environmental Impact of the Proposed Action The potential environmental impact associated with this action is the relocation of the ship to the JRRF for long term storage. With regard to potential radiological impacts, twenty two years ago, the reactor was defueled, the control rods were disengaged from their mechanisms, primary system pump rotors were removed from the pumps and other physical changes were performed to make the reactor permanently inoperable. Core internals and primary system piping and components are entombed within the heavily shielded containment vessel which is sealed. No additional radioactivity will be produced, and the existing residual radioactivity will continue to decrease by radioactive decay. From 1981 until 1993, the ship was open to the public as a museum with no measurable radiation exposure to any member of the public. To prevent public access to potential contaminated or radiation areas in the ship, these areas will continue to be sealed and security for the ship will be maintained at the JRRF effectively similar to that in place at the PPDA pier. In the unlikely event that radioactive waste is produced on the ship, all waste will be removed, packaged, and shipped offsite, or released in accordance with radiological control procedures that are in place and implemented to ensure that releases of radioactive wastes from the facility are within the limits of 10 CFR part 20 and are as low as reasonably achievable (ALARA). Based on the review of the proposed activities associated with the license amendment for the N.S. Savannah , the staff has determined that there will be no significant increase in the amounts of effluents that may be released offsite, and no significant increase in individual or cumulative occupational or population radiation exposure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that the proposed action would result in no significant radiological environmental impact. With regard to potential non-radiological impacts, after leaving drydock, the N.S. Savannah will be towed to the JRRF using established navigation channels. It will be located within the existing boundary of the Reserve Fleet in the James River. No extensive preparation to the site will be required for the N.S. Savannah . It is intended to moor the N.S. Savannah alongside the decommissioned U.S. Army Corps of Engineers MH&hyph;1A Floating Nuclear Power Barge Sturgis. The staff has determined that the proposed activities will not result in any significant impacts on air, water, land, or biota in the area or have any other significant non-radiological environmental impact. Based on the above, the Commission concludes that there are no significant environmental impacts associated with the proposed amendment. Alternatives to the Proposed Actions Since the Commission concluded that there are no significant environmental impacts that would result from the proposed action, any alternative with equal or greater environmental impacts need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the proposed amendment request would be to deny the request. This denial would force the PPDA to remain as a co-licensee and the ship to be returned to the PPDA pier. However, the PPDA returned the ship to the MARAD in accordance with the charter agreement and the authorizing legislation (Pub. L. 96&hyph;311, August 28, 1980). Alternative Use of Resources No alternatives appear that will have different or lesser effect on the use of available resources. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted the U.S. Coast Guard, and the States of South Carolina and Virginia in reviewing the request from the licensees. Finding Of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed action based upon the foregoing environmental assessment. The Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment for the reasons set out above. For detailed information with respect to this proposed action, see the application for amendment dated May 19, 1994, as supplemented by letters dated May 24, and May 25, 1994. These documents are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, 27th day of May 1994. For The Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Seymour H. Weiss, Director, Non-Power Reactors and Decommissioning Project Directorate, Division of Operating Reactor Support, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13502 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
