FR940811-2-00109 FR940811-2-00066 5.4␣Exclusive dealing In the intellectual property context, exclusive dealing occurs when a license prevents the licensee from licensing, selling, distributing, or using a competing technology. Although such restraints can be procompetitive in some circumstances, in other situations they can deny rivals sufficient outlets for competitively viable exploitation of their technologies and thus can be anticompetitive. See section 4.3.2. 5.5␣Cross-Licensing and Pooling Arrangements Cross-licensing and pooling arrangements are agreements of two or more owners of different items of intellectual property to license one another or third parties. These arrangements may promote economic welfare by integrating complementary technologies, reducing transactions costs, clearing blocking positions, and avoiding costly infringement litigation. By promoting the dissemination of technology, cross-licensing and pooling arrangements are often procompetitive. Cross-licensing and pooling arrangements can have anticompetitive effects in certain circumstances. When these arrangements are a mechanism to accomplish price fixing, or market or customer allocation, they can lead to a significant lessening of competition. See United States v. New Wrinkle, Inc., 342 U.S. 371 (1952) (price fixing); United States v. United States Gypsum Co., 333 U.S. 364 (1948) (customer allocation). The joint marketing of pooled intellectual property rights, with collective price setting or coordinated output restrictions, may violate section 1 of the Sherman Act. Compare NCAA v. Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma, 468 U.S. 85 (1984) (output restriction on college football broadcasting held unlawful because it was not reasonably related to any purported justification) with Broadcast Music, Inc. v. CBS, 441 U.S. 1 (1979) (blanket license for music copyrights upheld because the cooperative price was found necessary to the creation of a new product). Settlements involving the cross-licensing of intellectual property rights can be an efficient means to avoid litigation over infringement and interference proceedings, and, in general, courts favor such settlements. When such cross-licensing involves horizontal competitors, however, the Department will consider whether the effect of the settlement is to diminish rivalry that would otherwise have occurred. In the absence of offsetting efficiencies, such settlements may be challenged as unlawful restraints of trade. Cf. United States v. Singer Manufacturing Co., 374 U.S. 174 (1963) (cross-license agreement was part of broader combination to exclude competitors). Pooling arrangements and the like generally need not be open to all who would like to join. Cross-licensing and pooling arrangements among parties that collectively possess market power may, under some circumstances, harm competitions by significantly disadvantaging competitors. Cf Northwest Wholesale Stationers, Inc v. Pacific Stationery & Printing Co., 472 U.S. 284 (1985) (exclusion of a competitor from a purchasing cooperative not unlawful absent a showing of market power). Another possible anticompetitive effect of pooling arrangements may occur when participation in the arrangement deters or discourages participants from engaging in research and developing, thus retarding innovation. A pooling arrangement in which members grant licenses to each other for current and future technology at minimal cost may encourage free-riding and reduce the incentives of its members to compete in their research and development efforts. See generally United States v. Automobile Manufacturers Association, 307 F. Supp. 617 (C.D. Cal 1969), modified sub nom. United States v. Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association, 1982&hyph;83 Trade Cas. (CCH) ¶ 65,088 (C.D. Cal 1982); United States v. Manufacturers Aircraft Association , 1976&hyph;1 Trade Cas . (CCH) ¶ 60,810 (S.D.N.Y. 1975). Such an arrangement is more likely to cause competitive problems where the arrangement includes a large fraction of the potential participants in research and development. Example 9 Situation: As in Example 8, two of the leading manufacturers of a consumer electronic product hold patents that cover alternative circuit designs for the product. The manufactures assign several of their patents to a separate corporation wholly owned by the two firms. That corporation licenses the right to use the circuit designs to other consumer product manufacturers and establishes the license royalties. In this example, however, the manufacturers assign to the separate corporation only patents that are blocking. None of the patents assigned to the corporation can be practiced without infringing a patent owned by the other firm. Discussion: Unlike the previous example, the joint assignment of patent rights to the wholly owned corporation in this example can have procompetitive benefits in the use of dissemination of the technology. Because the manufacturer's patents are blocking, the manufacturers are not in a horizontal relationship with respect to those patents. Neither patent can be practiced without the right to a patent owned by the other firm, so the patents are not economic substitutes. (The pooling of patents also would not raise competitive problems in the relevant technology market if the pool involved complementary patents and enabled licensing of a package whose value exceeded the sum of its component patents.) As in Example 8, the firms are horizontal competitors in the relevant goods market. In the absence of evidence suggesting that the joint assignment of patent rights is also contributing to coordinated pricing of the firms' final products, the Department would be unlikely to challenge this arrangement. 5.6␣Grantbacks A grantback is an arrangement under which a licensee agrees to extend to the licenser of intellectual property the right to use the licensee's improvements to the licensed technology. Grantbacks can have procompetitive effects, such as providing a means for the licensee and the licensor to share risks and rewarding the licensor for making possible further innovation based on or informed by the licensed technology. Such arrangements can both promote innovation in the first place and promote the subsequent licensing of the results of the innovation. Grantbacks may adversely affect competition, however, if they substantially reduce the licensee's incentives to engage in research and development and limit rivalry in innovation markets. In deciding whether to challenge a grantback, the Department will consider the extent to which, as compared with no license at all, the license with the grantback provision may diminish total research and development investment or lessen competition in innovation or technology markets.
