FR940207-2-00158 FR940207-2-00074 (B) Clearing Fund As described above, PCC interfaces with NSCC on behalf of its participants and guarantees the performance of its participants' obligations to NSCC. As a result, participants now are required to contribute to a clearing fund established by PCC to ensure that PCC maintains adequate funds to fulfill its guarantee obligations to NSCC and to cover losses suffered by PCC or its participants which are incident to PCC's clearance and settlement operations. 16 In connection with the contribution requirement, PCC and each of its participants will enter into a Clearing Fund Agreement 17 which sets out PCC's and each participant's rights and obligations with respect to the clearing fund. 18 16 Each PCC participant is required to make a minimum contribution to the clearing fund in an amount fixed by PCC. The minimum contribution, which must be in cash, is currently $20,000. A participant also may be required to contribute an amount in addition to the minimum contribution as a result of calculations using PCC's clearing fund formula. Currently, PCC has adopted the formula used by NSCC to calculate clearing fund contributions. NSCC requires its members to make a minimum cash contribution of $10,000. For a discussion of the formula used by NSCC, refer to NSCC Rules and Procedures, Section XV. 17 The Clearing Fund Agreement is attached as Exhibit C to the PCC filing [File No. SR&hyph;PCC&hyph;92&hyph;1]. 18 For example, PCC's investment of cash contained in the clearing fund and PCC's permitted uses of the clearing fund are governed by PCC Rules 7.4 and 7.5, respectively. If a PCC participant fails to discharge any liability to PCC or to PSE, its clearing fund contribution or a portion thereof will be applied to discharge the liability. 19 If PCC suffers a loss due to a participant's default and that loss exceeds the amount of the participant's contribution to the clearing fund, PCC may satisfy the remainder out of other participants' contributions to the clearing fund. Any such loss charged to the clearing fund will be charged pro rata against the required contribution of the nondefaulting participants. The participants and the Commission will be notified of the amount of and the reason for any charge against the clearing fund. After pro rata charges are made against participants' required contributions, each participant must pay immediately upon PCC's demand the difference between the participant's minimum requirement and the actual amount it has in the clearing fund. 19 Obligations of PCC participants to PSE are subordinated and are junior to those of the participants to PCC and to other PCC participants. PCC Rule 7.5(d). (C) Participant Agreement The Participant Agreement, 20 an agreement between each PSE specialist/specialist firm 21 and PCC, sets out the rights and obligations between PCC and each participant with respect to clearance and settlement activities. Specialists' obligations include, among other things, (1) maintaining the net capital requirements required by PSE Rules, (2) ensuring the availability of funds for PCC's settlements with NSCC and DTC, (3) reviewing and verifying all records of their transactions provided by PCC, and (4) acting promptly upon receipt of dividend, reorganization, and buy-in notices. 20 See Form 19b&hyph;4, Exhibit B, File No. SR&hyph;PCC&hyph;92&hyph;1. 21 PSE specialists are categorized as either individuals registered as specialists with PSE or firms, referred to as backers, registered as specialists with PSE. Only PSE specialists and PSE specialist firms can be participants of PCC. II. Discussion The Commission believes PCC's proposal is consistent with the Act and in particular with section 17A(b)(3)(F) thereunder. 22 That section requires that the rules of a clearing agency be designed (1) to ensure the safeguarding of securities and funds in the clearing agency's custody or control or for which it is responsible, (2) to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in the clearance and settlement of securities transactions, and (3) to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement securities transactions. The Commission believes that PCC's rules and procedures, which are designed to facilitate the clearance and settlement at PCC, NSCC, and DTC of PSE specialists' securities transactions and which aid PCC in acting as an intermediary between its participants and NSCC, are consistent with PCC's requirements under the Act. 22 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1988).
