FR940323-0-00058 FR940323-0-00020 No. The Corporation will reject an application for a project if an application for funding or educational awards for the same project is already pending before the Corporation. Subpart H_Evaluation Requirements §2519.800 What are the evaluation requirements for Higher Education programs? The monitoring and evaluation requirements for recipients of grants and subgrants under part 2516 of this chapter, relating to school-based service-learning programs, apply to recipients under this part. PART 2520_GENERAL PROVISIONS: AMERICORPS PROGRAMS Sec. 2520.10␣What is the purpose of the AmeriCorps program described in parts 2520 through 2524 of this chapter? 2520.20␣What types of service activities are allowable for programs supported under parts 2520 through 2524 of this chapter? 2520.30␣Are there any activities that are prohibited? Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. §2520.10 What is the purpose of the AmeriCorps program described in parts 2520 through 2524 of this chapter? The purpose of the AmeriCorps grant program is to provide financial assistance to support AmeriCorps programs that address educational, public safety, human, or environmental needs through national and community service to provide AmeriCorps education awards to participants in such progams. §2520.20 What types of service activities are allowable for programs supported under parts 2520 through 2524 of this chapter? (a) The service must either provide a direct benefit to the community where it is performed, or involve the supervision of participants or volunteers whose service provides a direct benefit to the community where it is performed. Moreover, the approved AmeriCorps activities must result in a specific identifiable service or improvement that otherwise would not be provided with existing funds or volunteers and that does not duplicate the routine functions of workers or displace paid employees. Programs must develop service opportuntities that are appropriate to the skill levels of participants and that provide a demonstrable, identifiable benefit that is valued by the community. (b) In certain circumstances, some activities may not provide a direct benefit to the communities in which service is performed. Such activities may include, but are not limited to, clerical work and research. However, a participant may engage in such activities if the performance of the activity is incidental to the participant's provision of service that does provide a direct benefit to the community in which the service is performed. §2520.30 Are there any activities that are prohibited? Yes. Some activities are prohibited altogether. Although all prohibited activities may be performed voluntarily by participants on their own time, they may not be performed by participants in the course of their duties, at the request of program staff, or in a manner that would associate the activities with the AmeriCorps program or the Corporation. These activities include: (a) Any effort to influence legislation, as prohibited under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)); (b) Organizing protests, petitions, boycotts, or strikes; (c) Assisting, promoting or deterring union organizing; (d) Impairing existing contracts for services or collective bargaining agreements; (e) Engaging in partisan political activities, or other activities designed to influence the outcome of an election to any public office; (f) Engaging in religious instruction, conducting worship services, providing instruction as part of a program that includes mandatory religious instruction or worship, constructing or operating facilities devoted to religious instruction or worship, maintaining facilities primarily or inherently devoted to religious instruction or worship, or engaging in any form of religious proselytization; (g) Providing a direct benefit to_ (1) A business organized for profit; (2) A labor union; (3) A partisan political organization; (4) A nonprofit organization that fails to comply with the restrictions contained in section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 except that nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent participants from engaging in advocacy activities undertaken at their own initiative; and (5) An organization engaged in the religious activities described in paragraph (e) of this section, unless Corporation assistance is not used to support those religious activities; and (h) Such other activities as the Corporation may prohibit. PART 2521_ELIGIBLE AMERICORPS PROGRAM APPLICANTS AND TYPES OF GRANTS AVAILABLE FOR AWARD Sec. 2521.10␣Who may apply to receive an AmeriCorps grant? 2521.20␣What types of AmeriCorps program grants are available for award? 2521.30␣How will AmeriCorps program grants be awarded? Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. §2521.10 Who may apply to receive an AmeriCorps grant? (a) States (including Territories), subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, public or private nonprofit organizations (including labor organizations), and institutions of higher education are eligible to apply for AmeriCorps grants. However, the fifty States, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico must first receive Corporation authorization for the use of a State Commission or alternative administrative or transitional entity pursuant to part 2550 of this chapter in order to be eligible for an AmeriCorps grant. (b) The Corporation may also enter into contracts or cooperative agreements for AmeriCorps assistance with Federal agencies that are Executive Branch agencies or departments. Bureaus, divisions, and local and regional offices of such departments and agencies may only receive assistance pursuant to a contract or agreement with the central department or agency. The requirements relating to Federal agencies are described in part 2523 of this chapter. §2521.20 What types of AmeriCorps program grants are available for award? The Corporation may make the following types of grants to eligible applicants. The requirements of this section will also apply to any State or other applicant receiving assistance under this part that proposes to conduct a grant program using the assistance to support other national or community service programs. (a) Planning grants ._(1) Purpose. The purpose of a planning grant is to assist an applicant in completing the planning necessary to implement a sound concept that has already been developed. (2) Eligibility. (i) States may apply directly to the Corporation for planning grants. (ii) Subdivisions of States, Indian Tribes, public or private nonprofit organizations (including labor organizations), and institutions of higher education may apply either to a State or directly to the Corporation for planning grants. (3) Duration. A planning grant will be negotiated for a term not to exceed one year. (b) Operational grants._ (1) Purpose. The purpose of an operational grant is to fund an organization that is ready to establish, operate, or expand an AmeriCorps program. An operational grant may include AmeriCorps educational awards. An operational grant may also include a short planning period of up to six months, if necessary, to implement a program. (2) Eligibility. (i) States may apply directly to the Corporation for operational grants.
