FR941102-0-00043 FR941102-0-00007 It appears that the Rule has also provided significant benefits. The comments indicated that by establishing a uniform system of measurement, the Rule enabled consumers to compare various products from different manufacturers. 6 One comment concluded, ``the rule and industry standard have virtually eliminated the possibility of consumer deception regarding television screen size.'' 7 The Rule's uniform system of measurement has also served the consumer electronics industry. A television manufacturer indicated that the rule has provided a significant benefit to the company and the industry, and created ``a legal framework in which a standard industry practice of planar, diagonal-dimension measurement of the viewable screen area has emerged.'' 8 After reviewing these comments, the Commission believes the Rule has provided a clear public benefit, as well as a service to the industry, while imposing minimal costs on the industry. 6 Comments of Chuck Cooper at 1; Electronic Industries Association at 2; Zenith at 1. 7 Comment of Zenith at 1. 8 Comment of Zenith at 1. 2. Is There A Continuing Need for This Rule? Just as the comments generally maintain that the Rule has provided significant benefits, most of the comments also support retaining the Rule. A trade association maintained that the Rule is still needed to ensure the consistency in screen measurements that is relied upon by both consumers and industry members. 9 One manufacturer expressed concern that if the Federal Trade Commission repealed the Rule, then other manufacturers would return to using deceptive measurements in their advertisements. 10 Based upon these comments, the Commission finds that there is a continuing need for the Picture Tube Rule. 9 Comment of Electronic Industries Association at 3. 10 Comment of Zenith at 1. 3. What Burdens Does Adherence With This Rule Place on Entities Subject to Its Requirements? As noted above, while the Picture Tube may have imposed a burden on advertisers and manufacturers when it was first promulgated, it appears that the Rule does not impose any current significant burden on any entities subject to the Rule. A trade association noted that the industry has incorporated the regulation's requirements into common business practice, and thus, the Rule is no longer a burden on industry members. 11 A manufacturer also indicated that the Rule ``places virtually no burden whatsoever on entities subject to it.'' 12 One comment, however, suggested that the Rule did impose a burden on the Federal Trade Commission through administration and enforcement of the Rule. 13 The Commission has found that enforcing the Rule has entailed relatively little administrative burden on the agency, given the industry's general compliance with the Rule. Further, in seeking public comment, the Commission was soliciting information concerning the burden on other entities rather than the agency itself. 11 Comment of Electronic Industries Association at 3. 12 Comment of Zenith at 2. 13 Comment of AAAA at 1. 4. What Changes Should Be Made to This Rule to Minimize the Economic Effect on Such Entities? Although most of the comments supported preserving the Picture Tube Rule, a few comments from industry members suggested changes to the Rule. The Electronic Industries Association urged the Commission to eliminate the horizontal dimension as the default measurement. 14 Currently, the advertised dimensions must reflect the horizontal measurement unless the alternative method of measurement is clearly and conspicuously disclosed in close proximity to the size designation. According to the Association, however, the prevailing practice within the industry is to use the diagonal plane to measure the screen, and this is the measurement that is most familiar to consumers. Thus, the comment urges the Commission to amend the Rule to reflect current industry practice. A manufacturer, however, recommended that the Commission retain the existing provision concerning the disclosure of the method of measurement, suggesting that methods of measuring picture tubes are still not likely to be instinctively understood by consumers. 15 14 Comment of the Electronic Industries Association at 3. 15 Comment of Zenith at 1&hyph;2.
