FR940228-1-00119 FR940228-1-00010 (1) Include performing any function required by any statutory provision of or applicable to Title IV of the HEA, any regulatory provision prescribed under that statutory authority, or any applicable special arrangement, agreement, or limitation, such as, but not restricted to_ (i) Processing student financial aid applications; (ii) Performing need analysis; (iii) Determining student eligibility and related activities; (iv) Certifying loan applications; (v) Processing output documents for payment to students; (vi) Receiving, disbursing, or delivering Title IV, HEA program funds, excluding lock-box processing of loan payments and normal bank electronic fund transfers; (vii) Conducting activities required by the provisions governing student consumer information services in subpart D of this part; (viii) Preparing and certifying requests for advance or reimbursement funding; (ix) Loan servicing and collection; (x) Preparing and submitting notices and applications required under 34 CFR part 600 and subpart B of this part; and (xi) Preparing a Fiscal Operations Report and Application to Participate_FISAP; (2) Exclude the following functions_ (i) Publishing ability-to-benefit tests; (ii) Performing functions as a Multiple Data Entry Processor (MDE); (iii) Financial and compliance auditing; (iv) Mailing of documents prepared by the institution; and (v) Warehousing of records; and (3) Notwithstanding the exclusions referred to in paragraph (2) of this definition, include any activity comprised of any function described in paragraph (1) of this definition. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088) Undergraduate student: A student enrolled in an undergraduate educational program at an institution who_ (1) Has not earned a baccalaureate or first professional degree; and (2) Is in an undergraduate educational program that usually does not exceed 4 academic years, or is enrolled in a 4- to 5-academic-year program designed to lead to a first degree. A student enrolled in a program of any other length is considered an undergraduate student for only the first four academic years of that program. U.S. citizen or national: (1) A citizen of the United States; or (2) A person defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22), who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States. (Authority: 8 U.S.C. 1101) Valid institutional student information report (valid ISIR): A valid institutional student information report as defined in 34 CFR 690.2 for purposes of the Federal Pell Grant Program and in 34 CFR 691.2 for purposes of the PAS Program. Valid student aid report (valid SAR): A valid student aid report (valid SAR) as defined in 34 CFR 690.2 for purposes of the Federal Pell Grant Program and in 34 CFR 691.2 for purposes of the PAS program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq., unless otherwise noted) 4. Section 668.8 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.8 Eligible program. (a) General. An eligible program is an educational program that_ (1) Is provided by a participating institution; and (2) Satisfies the other relevant requirements contained in this section. (b) Definitions. For purposes of this section_ (1) The Secretary considers the ``equivalent of an associate degree'' to be_ (i) An associate degree; or (ii) The successful completion of at least a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor's degree and qualifies a student for admission into the third year of a bachelor's degree program; (2) A ``week'' is a consecutive seven-day period; and (3) The Secretary considers a ``week of instruction'' to be any week in which at least one day of regularly scheduled instruction, examinations, or preparation for examinations occurs. Instruction does not include periods of orientation, counseling, vacation, or other activity not related to class preparation or examinations. (c) Institution of higher education. An eligible program provided by an institution of higher education must_ (1) Lead to an associate, bachelor's, professional, or graduate degree; (2) Be at least a two-academic-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor's degree; or (3) Be at least a one-academic-year training program that leads to a certificate, degree, or other recognized educational credential and that prepares a student for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. (d) Proprietary institution of higher education and postsecondary vocational institution. An eligible program provided by a proprietary institution of higher education or postsecondary vocational institution_ (1)(i) Must require a minimum of 15 weeks of instruction, beginning on the first day of classes and ending on the last day of classes or examinations;
