FR940817-2-00074 FR940817-2-00043 As Roels et al. (1992) and other investigators have noted, a threshold for the neurotoxic effects of Mn has not been reported in the epidemiological literature. Therefore, instead of a NOAEL, a LOAEL was obtained from the study by Roels et al. (1992) by dividing the geometric mean integrated respirable dust concentration (793 μg Mn/m 3 × years) by the average period of worker exposure (5.3 years) to eliminate time (in years) from the time-weighted average, thereby yielding a LOAEL of 150 μg Mn/m 3 . (The geometric mean concentration was used to represent the average exposure because the workers' exposure measurements were log-normally distributed, and the arithmetic mean exposure period was used because it was the only value reported by Roels et al. (1992).) The workplace-based LOAEL of 150 μg Mn/m 3 was then adjusted for nonoccupational lifetime exposure by multiplying it by (1) the quotient of 10 m 3 /day divided by 20 m 3 /day (for worker versus nonworker ventilation rates) and (2) the quotient of 5 days divided by 7 days (for work week versus full week). The resulting adjusted LOAEL, labeled the human equivalent concentration (HEC), was 50 μg Mn/m 3 , which was then divided by a total uncertainty factor of 1,000 to yield an RfC of 0.05 μg/m 3 . The total uncertainty factor of 1,000 incorporated the following factors: 10 to protect sensitive individuals; 10 for using a LOAEL in lieu of a NOAEL; and a composite factor of 10 for database limitations reflecting the less-than-chronic periods of exposure and the lack of reproductive and developmental toxicity data, as well as potential but unquantified differences in the toxicity of different forms of Mn. A modifying factor was not used (i.e., it was set equal to 1). Each RfC is assigned an overall rating of low, medium, or high confidence level, based on two subsidiary confidence ratings reflecting the quality of the evidence from the principal studies and the quality of the overall database for the chemical in question, respectively. The revised Mn RfC was assigned a medium level of confidence. The evidence for the neurobehavioral effects of low-level Mn exposure by inhalation was compelling and consistent across several well-conducted studies. However, the limited duration of exposure and the lack of a NOAEL for neurotoxicity in any of the principal or supporting studies prevented assigning a confidence level greater than medium. Also, the lack of definitive data on the concentration-response relationship and on the potential reproductive and developmental toxicity of inhaled Mn limited the degree of confidence in the database to a medium rating. Virtually all of the human health evidence is based on healthy, adult male workers. No known studies have investigated human female reproductive function, and even though male worker reproductive function is known to be affected by Mn exposure, it has not received adequate investigation. The limited available information concerning the developmental toxicity of inhaled Mn suggests the possibility that prenatal exposure of laboratory rodents to MnO 2 (via the air supplied to the pregnant mother) may depress neurobehavioral activity in neonatal rats and that continued postnatal exposure of the pups may intensify this depression. In addition, several studies have demonstrated alterations in neurochemical (dopamine) levels in young mice and rats exposed during early postnatal development to Mn via other routes. Thus, the potential for developmental toxicity due to Mn exposure exists. The concentrations and durations of exposure sufficient to induce such effects are not known. Although adequate epidemiological studies of children and the elderly have not been conducted, it is known that certain populations, such as children, pregnant women, elderly persons, iron- or calcium-deficient individuals, and individuals with liver impairment, may have an increased potential for excessive Mn body burdens due to increased absorption or altered clearance mechanisms. Another concern raised by the lack of studies involving longer periods of exposure and/or older subjects is that the compensatory or reserve capacity of certain neurological mechanisms may be stressed by Mn exposure earlier in life, with manifestations of impairments only becoming evident much later, perhaps at a geriatric stage. One reason for the latter concern is that Parkinson's disease is typically a geriatric disease in which symptoms are only seen when the loss of brain cells that produce dopamine (which is also apparently involved in Mn toxicity) reaches 80% or more. Indeed, some neurologists think that a long latency period of perhaps several decades may precede various parkinsonian syndromes. These points lead to a concern that if Mn reduces the compensatory or reserve capacity of the nervous system, parkinsonian-type effects might occur earlier in life than they would otherwise. Thus, several questions remain to be answered before higher confidence in the accuracy of the RfC can be achieved. The two studies of Roels et al. (1992, 1987) were considered coprincipal studies for the derivation of the revised RfC, with supporting evidence in the reports of Mergler et al. (1994), Iregren (1990), and Wennberg et al. (1991, 1992). Given the fact that these studies involved exposure to various oxides and salts of Mn, the RfC is designated as applying to Mn and Mn compounds (including Mn 3 O 4 ). The previous RfC of 0.4 μg Mn/m 3 applied to Mn only, due to undifferentiated forms of Mn in the principal study. Given that different forms of metals may have different toxic properties (due to different oxidation states, different solubilities, and possibly other factors), it is likely that different compounds of Mn vary in toxicity. However, sufficient data on the comparative toxicity of various compounds of Mn are not available to judge the relative toxicity of Mn 3 O 4 specifically.
