FR940523-2-00030 FR940523-2-00019 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Intent To Establish the Environmental Management Site Specific Advisory Board AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of intent to establish. Pursuant to section 14(a)(2)(A) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Pub. L. 92&hyph;463), and in accordance with title 41 of the Code of Federal Regulations, ยง101&hyph;6.1015(a), and following consultation with the Committee Management Secretariat, General Services Administration, notice is hereby given that the Environmental Management Site Specific Advisory Board has been established for a two-year period. The purpose of the Board is to provide the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Restoration and Waste Management with advice and recommendations on environmental management projects and issues such as risk management, economic development, future land use, and budget prioritization activities, from the perspectives of affected groups and State and local Governments. Board membership shall reflect the full diversity of views in the affected community and region and be composed primarily of people who are directly affected by site clean-up activities. Members may include, but will not be limited to, interested stakeholders from local governments, Indian Tribes, environmental and civic groups, labor organizations, universities, waste management and environmental restoration firms, and other interested parties. Representatives from DOE, the Environmental Protection Agency and state governments shall be ex-officio members of the board. Selection and appointment of group members shall be accomplished using procedures designed to ensure a diverse board membership and a balance of viewpoints. Consensus recommendations to the Department of Energy from the Board on pragmatic nationwide resolution of numerous difficult issues will help achieve the Department's objective of an integrated environmental restoration program. Additionally, the establishment of the Site Specific Advisory board has been determined to be compelled by considerations of health and safety, essential to the conduct of Department of Energy business, and to be in the public interest in connection with the performance of duties imposed on the Department of Energy by law and agreement. The Board will operate in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee Act, the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95&hyph;91), and rules and regulations issued in implementation of those Acts. Further information regarding this advisory board may be obtained from Rachel Murphy Samuel at (202) 586&hyph;3279. Issued in Washington, DC, on May 18, 1994. Marcia L. Morris, Deputy Advisory Committee, Management Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12538 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
