FR940414-2-00109 FR940414-2-00076 [Release No. IC_20206; 813&hyph;122] Morgan Stanley Venture Investors, L.P.; Notice of Application April 8, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANT: Morgan Stanley Venture Investors, L.P. (the ``Partnership''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Applicant seeks an order under sections 6(b) and 6(e) granting an exemption from all provisions of the Act except section 9, certain provisions of sections 17 and 30, sections 36 through 53, and the rules and regulations thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicant seeks an order that would grant an exemption from most provisions of the Act, and would permit certain affiliated and joint transactions. Applicant is an employees' securities company within the meaning of section 2(a)(13) of the Act. FILING DATES: The application was filed on November 19, 1993, and amended on March 4, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on May 3, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the applicant, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicant, 1251 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10020. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John V. O'Hanlon, Senior Attorney, at (202) 272&hyph;3922, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 272&hyph;3018 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. Morgan Stanley Group Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the ``Morgan Stanley Group'') constitute a global financial services firm. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated (``MS&Co.''), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Morgan Stanley Group Inc., is the principal broker-dealer affiliate of the Morgan Stanley Group and is registered as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ``Exchange Act''). MS&Co. and Morgan Stanley Group Inc. are registered as investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the ``Advisers Act''). 2. The Partnership is a newly-formed Delaware limited partnership that was formed for the purpose of enabling certain employees, officers, directors, and advisory directors of the Morgan Stanley Group to pool their investment resources and to participate in various types of investment opportunities, including venture capital and private equity investments, without the necessity of each investor seeking to identify investments and to analyze their merit. The pooling of resources permits diversification and participation in investments that usually would not be offered to individual investors. The goal of the Partnership is to reward and retain key personnel by enabling them to participate in investment opportunities that would not otherwise be available to them and to attract other individuals to the Morgan Stanley Group. 3. The Partnership will operate as a non-diversified closed-end management investment company. The Partnership will seek to achieve a high rate of return through long-term capital appreciation by providing expansion capital to a diversified group of private emerging growth companies. The Partnership will co-invest alongside two venture capital funds (the ``MS Venture Capital Funds'') that recently were organized by the Morgan Stanley Group for third party investors. The MS Venture Capital Funds are exempt from registration under the Act in reliance upon section 3(c)(1) thereunder. 4. The general partner of the Partnership is Morgan Stanley Venture Partners II, L.P. (the ``General Partner''). At present, the sole limited partner of the Partnership is Morgan Stanley Venture Capital II, Inc. (``MSVC II''), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Morgan Stanley Group Inc. The General Partner and MSVC II are registered as investment advisers under the Advisers Act. MSVC II is the managing general partner of the General Partner. 5. Interests in the Partnership will be offered without registration under a claim of exemption pursuant to section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the ``Securities Act''). Interests will be offered and sold only to ``Eligible Employees'' of the Morgan Stanley Group or trusts established by such Eligible Employees for their benefit or the benefit of their immediate family. To be an Eligible Employee, an individual must currently be an employee, officer, director, or advisory director of a member of the Morgan Stanley Group and, except for certain individuals who will manage the day-to-day affairs of the Partnership, and ``accredited investor'' meeting the income requirements set forth in rule 501(a)(6) of Regulation D under the Securities Act. 1 The limitations on the class of persons who may acquire interests, in conjunction with other characteristics of the Partnership, will qualify the Partnership as an ``employees' securities company'' under section 2(a)(13) of the Act. 1 Three of the individuals who will manage the day-to-day affairs of the Partnership are not ``accredited investors.'' Each of these individuals is a partner of the General Partner, had reportable income from all sources in the calendar year immediately preceding such person's admission as a partner of the General Partner in excess of $120,000, and has a reasonable expectation of reportable income in the years in which such person will be required to make capital contributions to the General Partner of at least $150,000.
