FR940104-0-00002 FR940104-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Parts 907 and 908 [FV93&hyph;907&hyph;1FIR] Navel and Valencia Oranges Grown in Arizona and Designated Parts of California; Change in Reporting Requirements AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Department of Agriculture (Department) is adopting as a final rule, without change, the provisions of an interim final rule changing reporting requirements prescribed under the California-Arizona navel and Valencia orange marketing orders. The marketing orders regulate the handling of navel and Valencia oranges grown in Arizona and designated parts of California and are administered locally by the Navel and Valencia Orange Administrative Committees (committees). This rule modifies language in the orders' rules and regulations to discontinue the use of Form 38 (Weekly Report of By-Product Oranges) and specify that Form 3 (Daily Manifest Report of Oranges Subject to Allotment) only be utilized for reporting rail car shipments. These actions reduce the burden of information collection requirements under the marketing orders. EFFECTIVE DATE: February 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Caroline C. Thorpe, Marketing Specialist, Marketing Order Administration Branch, F&V, AMS, USDA, room 2522&hyph;S, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456: telephone: (202) 720&hyph;5127; or Maureen Pello, California Marketing Field Office, Marketing Order Administration Branch, F&V, AMS, USDA, 2202 Monterey Street, suite 102B, Fresno, California, 93721; telephone: (209) 487&hyph;5901. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This final rule is issued under Marketing Order Nos. 907 and 908 (7 CFR parts 907 and 908), as amended, regulating the handling of navel and Valencia oranges grown in Arizona and designated parts of California, hereinafter referred to as the ``orders.'' These orders are effective under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674), hereinafter referred to as the ``Act.'' The Department is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this action. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 8c(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and request a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. A handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after date of the entry of the ruling. Pursuant to requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this action on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility.
