FR940524-1-00072 FR940524-1-00010 (1) Protected against damage and external influence; and (2) Designed and constructed to prevent inward leakage of contaminated air. (c) Check valves designed and constructed to allow airflow toward the facepiece only shall be provided in the connections to the facepiece or in the hose fitting near the facepiece of all Type A, AE, B, and BE supplied-air respirators. §84.138 Head harnesses; minimum requirements. Facepieces shall be equipped with adjustable and replaceable head harnesses which are designed and constructed to provide adequate tension during use, and an even distribution of pressure over the entire area in contact with the face. §84.139 Head and neck protection; supplied-air respirators; minimum requirements. Type AE, BE, and CE supplied-air respirators shall be designed and constructed to provide protection against impact and abrasion from rebounding abrasive materials to the wearer's head and neck. §84.140 Air velocity and noise levels; hoods and helmets; minimum requirements. Noise levels generated by the respirator will be measured inside the hood or helmet at maximum airflow obtainable within pressure and hose length requirements and shall not exceed 80 dBA. §84.141 Breathing gas; minimum requirements. (a) Breathing gas used to supply supplied-air respirators shall be respirable breathing air and contain no less than 19.5 volume-percent of oxygen. (b) Compressed, gaseous breathing air shall meet the applicable minimum grade requirements for Type I gaseous air set forth in the Compressed Gas Association Commodity Specification for Air, G&hyph;7.1 (Grade D or higher quality). (c) Compressed, liquefied breathing air shall meet the applicable minimum grade requirements for Type II liquid air set forth in the Compressed Gas Association Commodity Specification for Air, G&hyph;7.1 (Grade B or higher quality). §84.142 Air supply source; hand-operated or motor driven air blowers; Type A supplied-air respirators; minimum requirements. (a) Blowers shall be designed and constructed to deliver an adequate amount of air to the wearer with either direction of rotation, unless constructed to permit rotation in one direction only, and to permit the free entrance of air to the hose when the blower is not operated. (b) No multiple systems, whereby more than one user is supplied by one blower, will be approved, unless each hose line is connected directly to a manifold at the blower. §84.143 Terminal fittings or chambers; Type B supplied-air respirators; minimum requirements. (a) Blowers or connections to air supplies providing positive pressures shall not be approved for use on Type B supplied-air respirators. (b) Terminal fittings or chambers employed in Type B supplied-air respirators, shall be: (1) Installed in the inlet of the hose. (2) Designed and constructed to provide for the drawing of air through corrosion resistant material arranged so as to be capable of removing material larger than 0.149 mm. in diameter (149 micrometers, 100-mesh, U.S. Standard sieve). (3) Installed to provide a means for fastening or anchoring the fitting or chamber in a fixed position in a zone of respirable air. §84.144 Hand-operated blower test; minimum requirements. (a) Hand-operated blowers shall be tested by attaching them to a mechanical drive and operating them 6 to 8 hours daily for a period of 100 hours at a speed necessary to deliver 50 liters of air per minute through each completely assembled respirator. Each respirator shall be equipped with the maximum length of hose with which the device is to be approved and the hose shall be connected to each blower or manifold outlet designed for hose connections. (b) The crank speed of the hand-operated blower shall not exceed 50 revolutions per minute in order to deliver the required 50 liters of air per minute to each facepiece. (c) The power required to deliver 50 liters of air per minute to each wearer through the maximum length of hose shall not exceed one-fiftieth horsepower, and the torque shall not exceed a force of 2.3 kg. (5 pounds) on a 20 cm. (8-inch) crank, as defined in §84.146. (d) The blower shall operate throughout the period without failure or indication of excessive wear of bearings or other working parts. §84.145 Motor-operated blower test; minimum requirements. (a) Motor-operated blowers shall be tested by operating them at their specified running speed 6 to 8 hours daily for a period of 100 hours when assembled with the kind and maximum length of hose for which the device is to be approved and when connected to each blower or manifold outlet designed for hose connections. (b) The connection between the motor and the blower shall be so constructed that the motor may be disengaged from the blower when the blower is operated by hand. (c) The blower shall operate throughout the period without failure or indication of excessive wear of bearings or other working parts. (d) Where a blower, which is ordinarily motor driven, is operated by hand, the power required to deliver 50 liters of air per minute to each wearer through the maximum length of hose shall not exceed one-fiftieth horsepower, and the torque shall not exceed a force of 2.3 kg. (5 pounds) on a 20 cm. (8-inch) crank, as defined in §84.146. (e) Where the respirator is assembled with the facepiece and 15 m. (50 feet) of the hose for which it is to be approved, and when connected to one outlet with all other outlets closed and operated at a speed not exceeding 50 revolutions of the crank per minute, the amount of air delivered into the respiratory-inlet covering shall not exceed 150 liters per minute. §84.146 Method of measuring the power and torque required to operate blowers.
