FR940805-1-00119 FR940805-1-00013 (5) Supervision of coed activities. Facility staff shall supervise male and female inmates in coed activities and spaces continuously and directly. (6) Male and female staff requirement. When both males and females are housed in the facility, at least one male and female staff member shall be on duty during the times when both sexes are held in the facility. (7) Prohibited supervision. No inmate or group of inmates shall be given control or authority over other inmates. (8) Cell checks. An officer personally shall observe high and medium security inmates at least every thirty minutes, but on an irregular schedule. The administrator shall require observation every fifteen minutes for inmates who are mentally disordered or who demonstrate unusual or bizarre behavior and continuous observation of suicidal inmates. (9) Counts. The facility shall have a system to physically count inmates that includes strict accountability for inmates assigned to work and education release and other approved temporary releases. (10) Movement. Officers shall regulate all inmate movement. (11) Transportation of inmates. The administrator shall govern the safe and secure transportation of inmates outside the facility. (12) Use of vehicles. The administrator shall govern the use of departmental and personal vehicles for official purposes and shall prohibit the use of personal vehicles for transportation of inmates. (13) Shift activity log. The facility shall maintain a written record of the following: (i) personnel on duty; (ii) inmate population at the beginning and end of each shift; (iii) record of counts taken; (iv) shift activities; (v) entry and exit of professional and other visitors; (vi) unusual occurrences or incidents; (vii) hours of programs provided; and (viii) clothing and linen exchange. (14) Weekly inspection. The administrator or designee shall inspect all facility spaces and devices at least weekly, to determine the status of all security items and the sanitary condition of the facility. The administrator or designee shall document the inspection and shall initiate corrective action if needed. (15) Monthly inspection. The administrator shall inspect all areas of the facility at least monthly to inventory security equipment to determine numbers, usefulness and expiration dates, to determine the status of all security and safety items and to determine the sanitary condition of the facility. The administrator shall document the inspection and shall initiate corrective action if needed. (16) Fire safety inspection. A qualified fire protection specialist shall inspect the facility to test the fire suppression and detection system, equipment and facility training in compliance with 29 CFR 1910,.36(d), 1910.37(m), 1910.37(n), 1910.38, and 29 CFR 1960, Subpart D. (17) Use of restraints. Staff shall use instruments of restraint only used as a precaution against escape during transfer, for medical reasons at the direction of the health authority and as a prevention against inmate self-injury, injury to others or property damage. Staff shall apply restraints only with the approval of the administrator or designee and only for the amount of time that is absolutely necessary. (18) Security equipment issue. The administrator shall maintain a written record of routine and emergency distributions of security equipment. (19) Contraband control. The administrator shall provide for searches of facilities and inmates to control contraband and to provide for its disposition. When a new crime is suspected, the administrator shall be notified. The administrator shall maintain and make available to the appropriate authorities all evidence. (20) Body cavity and visual inspections. Manual or instrument inspection of inmate body cavities shall be conducted only by medical personnel, when there is reason to do so and when authorized by the administrator or designee. Trained staff shall conduct visual inspections of unclothed inmates only when there is a reasonable belief that the inmate is carrying contraband or other prohibited material. Medical personnel shall conduct all manual or instrument inspections in private. Trained staff of the same sex as the inmate shall conduct all visual inspections in private.
