FR940706-0-00088 FR940706-0-00015 (vii) Location and condition of the equipment and the date the information was reported. (viii) Unit acquisition cost. (ix) Ultimate disposition data, including date of disposal and sales price or the method used to determine current fair market value where a recipient compensates ED for its share. (2) Equipment owned by the Federal Government must be identified to indicate Federal ownership. (3) A physical inventory of equipment must be taken and the results reconciled with the equipment records at least once every two years. Any differences between quantities determined by the physical inspection and those shown in the accounting records must be investigated to determine the causes of the difference. The recipient shall, in connection with the inventory, verify the existence, current utilization, and continued need for the equipment. (4) A control system must be in effect to insure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft of the equipment. Any loss, damage, or theft of equipment shall be investigated and fully documented; if the equipment was owned by the Federal Government, the recipient shall promptly notify the Secretary. (5) Adequate maintenance procedures must be implemented to keep the equipment in good condition. (6) Where the recipient is authorized or required to sell the equipment, proper sales procedures must be established which provide for competition to the extent practicable and result in the highest possible return. (g) When the recipient no longer needs the equipment, the equipment may be used for other activities in accordance with the following standards: (1) For equipment with a current per unit fair market value of $5000 or more, the recipient may retain the equipment for other uses provided that compensation is made to ED or its successor. The amount of compensation shall be computed by applying the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program to the current fair market value of the equipment. (2) If the recipient has no need for the equipment, the recipient shall request disposition instructions from the Secretary. The Secretary shall determine whether the equipment can be used to meet ED requirements. If no requirement exists within ED, the availability of the equipment shall be reported to the General Services Administration by the Secretary to determine whether a requirement for the equipment exists in other Federal agencies. The Secretary issues instructions to the recipient no later than 120 calendar days after the recipient's request and the following procedures govern: (i) If so instructed or if disposition instructions are not issued within 120 calendar days after the recipient's request, the recipient shall sell the equipment and reimburse ED an amount computed by applying to the sales proceeds the percentage of Federal participation in the cost of the original project or program. However, the recipient shall be permitted to deduct and retain from the Federal share $500 or ten percent of the proceeds, whichever is less, for the recipient's selling and handling expenses. (ii) If the recipient is instructed to ship the equipment elsewhere, the recipient is reimbursed by ED by an amount which is computed by applying the percentage of the recipient's participation in the cost of the original project or program to the current fair market value of the equipment, plus any reasonable shipping or interim storage costs incurred. (iii) If the recipient is instructed to otherwise dispose of the equipment, the recipient is reimbursed by ED for costs incurred in its disposition. (iv) The Secretary may reserve the right to transfer the title to the Federal Government or to a third party named by the Federal Government when the third party is otherwise eligible under existing statutes. This transfer shall be subject to the following standards: (A) The equipment must be appropriately identified in the award or otherwise made known to the recipient in writing. (B) The Secretary issues disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after receipt of a final inventory. The final inventory must list all equipment acquired with grant funds and federally-owned equipment. If the Secretary does not issue disposition instructions within the 120 calendar day period, the recipient shall apply the standards of this section, as appropriate. (C) When the Secretary exercises the right to take title, the equipment is subject to the provisions for federally-owned equipment. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) ยง74.35 Supplies and other expendable property. (a) Title to supplies and other expendable property shall vest in the recipient upon acquisition. If there is a residual inventory of unused supplies exceeding $5,000 in total aggregate value upon termination or completion of the project or program and the supplies are not needed for any other federally-sponsored project or program, the recipient shall retain the supplies for use on non-Federal sponsored activities or sell them, but shall, in either case, compensate the Federal Government for its share. The amount of compensation shall be computed in the same manner as for equipment. (b) The recipient may not use supplies acquired with Federal funds to provide services to non-Federal outside organizations for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services, unless specifically authorized by Federal statute as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the supplies. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110)
