FR940114-2-00163 FR940114-2-00102 Overburden can also be removed by hydraulicking. Hydraulicking consists of the loosening of material by water delivered under pressure through a hydraulic giant (monitor). The material then flows, usually by gravity, to the sluice box if the overburden is to be processed with the mineral bearing material below. Overburden consisting of barren material may be directed away from the sluice box so that only mineral bearing material is processed in the sluice. b. Mining Methods. Placer mining methods range from dredging systems to open-cut mining. Dredging systems are classified as hydraulic or mechanical, depending on the methods of digging. A floating dredge consists of a supporting hull with a mining control system, excavating and lifting mechanism, gold recovery circuits, and waste disposal system. They are all designed to work as a unit to dig, classify, beneficiate ores and dispose of waste. Suction dredges, the most common hydraulic dredging system, are quite popular in Alaska with the small or recreational gold placer miner. A bucket-line dredge has been the traditional gold placer mechanical dredging tool in Alaska. Excavation equipment consists of a chain of buckets, traveling continuously around a truss or plate-girder ladder, that scoop up a load as they are forced against the mining face while pivoting around the lower tumbler and then dump as they pivot around the upper tumbler. The ladder is raised or lowered as required by a large hoisting winch through a system of cables and sheaves. About six placer miners operate bucket-line dredges in Alaska. c. Processing Methods. A large percentage of the present gold placer mining operations use some type of sluice box to perform the primary processing function, beneficiation. An increasing number of jig plants are also being used. Many operations make use of feed size classification which involves the physical separation of large rocks and boulders from smaller materials such as gravel and sand. The object of classification is to prevent the processing of large-sized material which is unlikely to contain gold values. Commonly used classification equipment includes: grizzlies, trommels and static or vibrating screens. The most common gold recovery method is sluicing. A sluice is a long, sloped trough into which water is directed to effectuate separation of gold from ore. A slurry of water and ore flows down the sluice and the gold, due to its relatively high density, is trapped in riffles along the sluice. 2. Suction Dredging. A suction dredge is a mechanical device which floats on the stream surface and which pumps stream water and stream bed material through a suction intake conduit to a sluice box from which gold or other minerals may be recovered. The discharge from suction dredges consists totally of stream water and bed material. These discharges are becoming numerous in the state. The discharge limits and monitoring requirements are identical for the majority of these discharges. This category of discharges meets the qualifications of 40 CFR 122.59 for the issuance of General Discharge Permits. This general discharge permit will expedite processing the numerous applications and provide the same regulatory controls over the discharges as an individual permit would. II. Effluent Characteristics Discharges from placer mining operations consist of water and the naturally occurring materials found in the alluvial deposits (e.g. sand, silt, clay, trace minerals and metals, etc.). Some of the elements measured in placer mine effluent are derived principally from sulfide, oxide, carbonate, and silicate mineral species, and include antimony, arsenic, cadmium, copper, iron, lead, mercury, nickel, silver, and zinc. Most of these parameters are found in trace amounts and are of little significance. Based on review of sampling data collected by EPA and upon evaluation of Alaska Water Quality Standards (WQS), EPA has concluded that the pollutants of primary concern are settleable solids, turbidity, and arsenic. Arsenic is the only toxic pollutant of concern due to its naturally occurring abundance in most Alaskan soils. III. Basis for Effluent Limitations A. Background Effluent limits required in this permit for the control of pollutants are published in 40 CFR part 440, Subpart M_Gold Placer Mine Subcategory, which was promulgated May 24, 1988, in 53 FR 18764. Additional information regarding the basis for establishing the effluent limits is summarized in the EPA publication titled ``Development Document for Effluent Limitations Guidelines and New Source Performance Standards for the Ore Mining and Dressing Point Source Category_Gold Placer Mine Subcategory'' (May 1988). This final rule establishes effluent limitations guidelines and standards based on the best practicable control technology currently available (BPT), the best available technology economically achievable (BAT), and new source performance standards (NSPS) based on the best available demonstrated technology. The BAT and NSPS limitations represent the minimum technology required to be in place for all placer mining operations covered under 40 CFR part 440, subpart M.
