FR940812-0-00051 FR940812-0-00015 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The transportation conformity final rule, entitled ``Criteria and Procedures for Determining Conformity to State or Federal Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Funded or Approved Under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act,'' was published in the Federal Register on November 24, 1993 (58 FR 62188). This action was required under Section 176(c)(4) of the Clean Air Act (CAA) as amended in 1990. The transportation conformity rule requires each ozone nonattainment area and maintenance area to perform a regional analysis of motor vehicle volatile organic compound and NO X emissions from any planned transportation project. This analysis must demonstrate that the emissions which would result from the proposed transportation system if the transportation plan were implemented are within the total allowable level of emissions described in the motor vehicle emissions budget. Until an attainment demonstration or maintenance plan is approved by the EPA, this emissions analysis must pass the build/no-build test. This analysis must demonstrate that the emissions from the planned transportation project, if implemented, would be less than the emissions without the planned transportation project. Thus, the build/no-build test is intended to ensure that the transportation plan contributes to annual emissions reductions consistent with the CAA until such time as the attainment demonstration or maintenance plan is approved. Transportation Conformity and 182(f) Exemptions On June 17, 1994 (59 FR 31238) the EPA published a national interpretation of transportation conformity and 182(f) exemptions entitled ``Transportation Conformity; General Preamble for Exemption From Nitrogen Oxides Provisions'' (General Preamble). This General Preamble clarifies and interprets how ozone nonattainment areas classified as less than marginal, which have air quality monitoring data demonstrating attainment of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for ozone, may be exempted from certain NO X requirements. As discussed in the General Preamble, both the transportation conformity rule and CAA Section 182(f)(1)(A) state that NO X requirements shall not apply in nonattainment areas if the Administrator determines that additional reductions of NO X would not contribute to attainment of the NAAQS for ozone in the area. The EPA also issued two guidance documents on 182(f) exemptions. These two documents, ``State Implementation Plan (SIP) Requirements for Areas Submitting Requests for Redesignation to Attainment of the Ozone and Carbon Monoxide (CO) National Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS) on or after November 15, 1992'' dated September 17, 1993, and ``Guideline for Determining the Applicability of Nitrogen Oxide Requirements under Section 182(f)'' dated December, 1993, state that if an area has attained the ozone standard, additional NO X reductions would not contribute to attainment. As explained in the General Preamble, the EPA believes that a demonstration of attainment made through adequate air quality monitoring data, consistent with 40 CFR part 58 and recorded in EPA's Aerometric Information Retrieval System (AIRS), can qualify an area as a ``clean data area''. Further, the EPA believes these ``clean data areas'' can request an exemption from the NO X provisions of transportation conformity. The 182(f) exemption will be conditioned upon the area's monitoring data continuing to demonstrate attainment after an exemption is granted. If the EPA determines that an exempted area has violated the ozone standard, the 182(f) exemption will be rescinded. Any decision to rescind the NO X exemption would be based on an evaluation of the air quality data recorded in AIRS. Past conformity determinations and transportation plans would not be affected, but new conformity determinations would be subject to the NO X provisions of the conformity rule. Analysis of State Submittal Victoria County, Texas, retained its ozone nonattainment designation and was classified as an incomplete data area for ozone on November 6, 1991 (56 FR 56694). The Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission has operated an ozone monitor in Victoria County continuously since May of 1991. No violations of the .12 parts per million ozone standard have been recorded since that time. On May 4, 1994, the State of Texas submitted a petition to the EPA requesting that the Victoria County incomplete data ozone nonattainment area be exempted from the requirement to perform the NO X portion of the build/no-build test required by the new transportation conformity rule. This exemption request is pursuant to the recently published General Preamble for transportation conformity NO X exemptions.
