FR940428-0-00034 FR940428-0-00012 The Veterans Benefits Act of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;568, contains a provision which now allows eligible veterans and servicemembers to receive educational assistance allowance for pursuing solo flight training. Therefore, these amendments contain provisions governing such flight training. The Secretary of Veterans Affairs has certified that these amended regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as they are defined in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612. Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the amended regulations, therefore, are exempt from the initial and final regulatory flexibility analyses requirements of sections 603 and 604. This certification can be made because those provisions governing solo flight training affect only individuals. While the amended regulations governing flight training in a flight simulator will directly affect some small entities, VA does not believe that they will affect a substantial number of them. Most of the schools or entities which now will be able to seek approval are under the control of the major airlines. These airlines would not qualify as small entities. Furthermore, the economic impact on the few small entities that would qualify to seek approval for additional training would be positive since there may be additional veterans who would pursue the courses offered by those small entities. VA does not think that this would be a significant economic impact since the number of veterans enrolling in any course would probably be small. VA finds that the Administrative Procedures Act allows a retroactive effective date for these amended regulations. The amended regulations governing flight training in flight simulators contain only liberalizing provisions which relieve a restriction imposed on the approval of flight courses. Furthermore, the department is aware that although the regulations did not permit approval of courses offered pursuant to part 61, 14 CFR, some courses have been approved due to a misunderstanding as to the nature of some of these courses and some veterans have received educational assistance for pursuing them. Since, in these cases, FAA-approved training of the kind covered by these regulations was provided based on administrative approval of the courses, VA believes it appropriate that this promulgation of regulations also ratify such course approvals. Accordingly, VA is making the amendments to §§21.4263(g)(1), 21.4263(g)(4), 21.4263(g)(4)(i) and the new paragraph 21.4263(h)(1)(iii) effective September 30, 1990, which is the same as the effective date for the earliest of these approvals. The Department of Veterans Affairs finds that good cause exists for making the amendments to remaining regulations, like the provisions of law they implement, retroactively effective on October 1, 1992. It is necessary to implement these provisions of law as soon as possible. These provisions are intended to achieve a benefit for the individual. The maximum benefits intended in the legislation will be achieved through prompt implementation. Hence, a delayed effective date would be contrary to statutory design, would complicate administration of these provisions of law; and might result in the denial of a benefit to someone who is entitled to it. These regulations have been reviewed by OMB (the Office of Management and Budget) under Executive Order 12866. The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance numbers for the programs affected by these amended regulations are 64.120, 64.124 and 12.609. List of Subjects in 38 CFR Part 21 Civil rights, Claims, Education, Grant programs-education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Schools, Veterans, Vocational education, Vocational rehabilitation. Approved: March 15, 1994. Jesse Brown, Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
