FR940428-2-00124 FR940428-2-00058 [Release No. 34&hyph;33933; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;14] April 20, 1994. Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Health Care Portfolio Market Index Target-Term Securities Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on April 12, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the Exchange. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to list for trading Market Index Target-Term Securities (``MITTS''), 3 the return on which is based upon a portfolio of securities of U.S. companies in the health care industry (``Health Care Portfolio''), Initially, the Health Care Portfolio will contain the securities of 22 health care companies that are traded in the United States on the NYSE or are National Market System securities traded through the facilities of the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (``NASDAQ''). 4 3 ``MITTS'' and ``Market Index Target-Term Securities'' are service marks of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (``Merrill Lynch''). 4 The companies represented in the Health Care Portfolio are: Abbott Laboratories; American Home Products Corporation; Baxter International Inc.; Beverly Enterprises, Inc.; Bristol-Meyers Squibb Company; FHP International Corporation; Foundation Health Corporation; Genesis Health Ventures, Inc.; Health Management Associates, Inc.; Health Care and Retirement Corporation; The Hillhaven Corporation; Horizon Healthcare Corporation; Johnson & Johnson; Eli Lilly and Company; Living Centers of America, Inc.; Pacificare Health Systems, Inc.; Pfizer Inc.; Sierra Health Services, Inc.; United Healthcare Corporation; U.S. Healthcare, Inc.; Warner-Lambert Company; and Wellpoint Health Networks Inc. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in the Item IV below. The NYSE has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Pursuant to the listing criteria set forth in Section 703.19 of the Exchange's Listed Company Manual (``Manual''), the Exchange proposes to list and trade MITTS. MITTS are securities that entitle the holder to receive from the issuer upon maturity an amount based upon the change in the market value of a stock index or portfolio, provided that a minimum amount (90% of the principal amount) will be repaid. The Exchange is submitting the proposed rule change specifically to enable the Exchange to list for trading MITTS on the Health Care Portfolio (``Health Care Portfolio MITTS'') issued by Merrill Lynch. Health Care Portfolio MITTS will allow investors to combine protection of a substantial portion of the principal amount of the MITTS with the potential additional payments based on a portfolio of securities of selected health care companies. The Health Care Portfolio MITTS will provide that at least 90% of the principal amount thereof will be repaid at maturity.
