FR941011-2-00024 FR941011-2-00006 Notice of Government Owned Inventions Available for Licensing AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology Commerce. SUMMARY: The inventions listed below are owned by the U.S. Government, as represented by the Department of Commerce, and are available for licensing in accordance with 35 U.S.C. 207 and 37 CFR Part 404 to achieve expeditious commercialization of results of federally funded research and development. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Technical and licensing information on these inventions may be obtained by writing to: Marcia Salkeld, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Office of Technology Commercialization, Physics Building, Room B&hyph;256, Gaithersburg, MD 20899; Fax 301&hyph;869&hyph;2751. Any request for information should include the NIST Docket No. and Title for the relevant invention as indicated below. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The inventions available for licensing area: NIST Docket No. 90&hyph;030D Title: Monomers For Double Ring-Opening Polymerization With Expansion Description: NIST researchers have created a new class of monomers that undergo double ring-opening polymerization with an expansion in volume. When used in resinous compositions the result is a volume neutral curing process at ambient temperature, and a final product that exhibits high adhesive strength. NIST Docket No. 90&hyph;036 Title: Epitaxial Iron Films Exhibiting Large Polar Kerr Rotation Description: The invention is a magneto-optic iron film that greatly enhances Kerr rotation compared with conventional iron films. The material could be utilized in magneto-optic data storage media. NIST Docket No. 93&hyph;028C Title: Nanocomposite Material for Magnetic Refrigeration and Superparamagnetic System using the Same Description: NIST researchers have developed new materials and systems that make magnetic refrigeration practical for household uses. The materials are atomically-engineered superparamagnetic materials that exhibit a large magnetocaloric effect at selected temperatures. NIST Docket No. 93&hyph;042 Title: Photochromic Compositions and Materials Containing Bacteriorhodopsin Description: This invention is a method to form photochromic compositions and materials from the light-sensitive protein, bacteriorhodopsin. The invention can be used to record and store information in real time. NIST Docket No. 93&hyph;047 Title: Process For UV&hyph;Photopatterning of Thiolate Monolayers Self-Assembled on Gold, Silver and Other Substrates Description: New NIST technology provides a photopatterning process to precisely control the spatial position of thiol compounds on a surface. The process creates a monolayer that can be used to bind biological species such as proteins or enzymes at known locations on a surface, and could be very important for a variety of technologies including biosensing, immunoassay diagnostics, pharmacological testing, and cell growth studies. NIST Docket No. 94&hyph;017CIP Title: Method and Apparatus for Visualization of Internal Stresses in Solid Non-Transparent Materials by Ultrasonic Techniques and Ultrasonic Computer Tomography of Stress Description: New NIST technology makes visualing internal stresses in sold materials in three dimensions possible. By using an acoustic microscope, an ultrasonic generator and a computer, this technology provides for the measurement of residual stresses and their distribution as a function of depth. Dated: October 3, 1994. Samuel Kramer, Associate Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25050 Filed 10&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;13&hyph;M
