FR940811-2-00108 FR940811-2-00066 The evaluation of procompetitive efficiencies, of the reasonable necessity of a restraint to achieve them, and of the duration of the restraint may depend on the market context. A restraint that may be justified by the needs of a new entrant, for example, may not have a procompetitive efficiency justification in different market circumstances. Cf. United States v. Jerrold Electronics Corp. , 187 F. Supp. 545 (E.D. Pa. 1960), aff'd per curiam , 365 U.S. 567 (1961). 4.5␣Restraints Subject to a Quick-Look Analysis A rule of reason analysis may require no more than a ``quick look'' at the anticompetitive effects of a particular restraint and the extent to which the restraint is reasonably necessary to achieve an efficiency-producing integration. When the restraint is one that ordinarily warrants per se treatment, and a quick look at the claimed efficiencies reveals that the restraint is not reasonably necessary to achieve procompetitive efficiencies, the Department will likely challenge the restraint without further analysis. See FTC v. Indiana Federation of Dentists , 476 U.S. 447, 459&hyph;60 (1986); NCAA v. Board of Regents of the University of Oklahoma , 468 U.S. 85, 109&hyph;10 & n.39 (1984). 5. Application of General Principles This section illustrates the application of these principles to particular licensing restraints and to arrangements that involve the cross-licensing, pooling, or acquisition of intellectual property. The restraints and arrangements identified are typical of those that are likely to encounter antitrust scrutiny; however, they are not intended as an exhaustive list of practices that could raise competitive concerns. 5.1␣Horizontal Restraints While licensing arrangements among horizontal competitors, like joint ventures, often promote rather than hinder competition, there are a number of circumstances in which antitrust scrutiny is warranted. Generally speaking, the licensor and the licensee are deemed to be horizontal competitors only if they own or control technologies that are economic substitutes for each other or if they are competitors in a goods market other than through the use by the licensee of the licensed technology. See section 3.3. Consistent with the principles set forth in section 3.4, the Department will challenge certain types of horizontal restraints as per se unlawful in appropriate cases. Horizontal restraints in licensing arrangements that constitute price fixing, allocation of markets or customers, agreements to reduce output, and certain group boycotts may merit per se treatment. In other cases, the restraints will be evaluated under the rule of reason, following the general principles set forth in section 4. Example 8 Situation: Two of the leading manufacturers of a consumer electronic product hold patents that cover alternative circuit designs for the product. None of the patents is blocking; that is, each of the patents can be practiced without infringing a patent owned by the other firm. The different circuit designs are economic substitutes. Each permits the manufacture at similar cost of products that consumers consider to be interchangeable. The manufacturers assign their patents to a separate corporation wholly owned by the two firms. That corporation licenses the right to use the circuit designs to other consumer product manufacturers and establishes the license royalties. Discussion: In this example, the manufacturers are horizontal competitors in the goods market for the consumer product and in the related technology markets. The competitive issue with regard to a joint assignment of patent rights is whether the assignment has an adverse impact on competition in technology and goods markets that is not outweighed by procompetitive benefits in the use or dissemination of the technology. Each of the patent owners has a right to exclude others from practicing its patent. That right does not extend, however, to the agreement to assign rights jointly. To the extent that the patent rights cover technologies that are substitutes, the joint determination of royalties may result in higher royalties and higher goods prices than the owners would have charged on their own. In the absence of evidence establishing efficiencies from the joint assignment of patent rights, the Department may conclude that the joint marketing of competing patent rights constitutes horizontal price fixing and could be challenged as a per se unlawful horizontal restraint of trade. If there are plausible efficiency justifications for the joint marketing arrangement, the Department would evaluate the arrangement under the rule of reason. However, the Department may conclude that the anticompetitive effects are sufficiently apparent, and the proposed integrative efficiencies are sufficiently weak or unrelated to the restraints, to require only a ``quick look'' rule of reason analysis ( see section 4.5). 5.2␣Resale Price Maintenance Resale price maintenance is illegal when ``commodities have passed into the channels of trade and are owned by dealers.'' Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. John D. Park & Sons Co. , 220 U.S. 373 (1911). It has been held per se illegal for a licensor of an intellectual property right in a product to fix a licensee's resale price of that product. United States v. Univis Lens Co. , 316 U.S. 241, 243&hyph;45, 249&hyph;51 (1942); Ethyl Gasoline Corp. v. United States , 309 U.S. 436, 446&hyph;48, 452, 457 (1940). 14 Consistent with the principles set forth in section 3.4, the Department will enforce the per se rule against resale price maintenance in the intellectual property context. 14 But cf. United States v. General Electric Co., 272 U.S. 476 (1926) (holding that an owner of a product patent may condition a license to manufacture the product on the fixing of the first sale price of the patented product). Subsequent lower court decisions have distinguished the GE decision in various contexts. See, e.g., Royal Indus. v. St. Regis Paper Co. , 420 F.2d 449, 452 (9th Cir. 1969) (observing that GE involved a restriction by a patentee who also manufactured the patented product and leaving open the question whether a nonmanufacturing patentee may fix the price of the patented product); Newburgh Moire Co. v. Superior Moire Co. , 237 F.2d 283, 293&hyph;94 (3rd Cir. 1956) (grant of multiple licenses each containing price restrictions does not come within the GE doctrine); Cummer-Graham Co. v. Straight Side Basket Corp. , 142 F.2d 646, 647 (5th Cir.) (owner of an intellectual property right in a process to manufacture an unpatented product may not fix the sale price of that product), cert. denied , 323 U.S. 726 (1944); Barber-Colman Co. v. National Tool Co. , 136 F.2d 339, 343&hyph;44 (6th Cir. 1943) (same). 5.3␣Tying Arrangements A transaction is said to involve tying if: (1) There are two separate products, and (2) the sale of one product is conditioned on the purchase of the other. Thus, conditioning the ability of a customer to license one or more items of intellectual property on the customer's purchase of another item of intellectual property or a good or service has been held to constitute illegal tying. See, e.g., United States v. Paramount Pictures, Inc. , 334 U.S. 131, 156&hyph;58 (1948) (copyrights); International Salt Co. v. United States , 332 U.S. 392 (1947) (patents). Tying can, however, be efficiency-enhancing under some circumstances. See, e.g., Jerrold Electronics Corp. v. Westcoast Broadcasting Co. , 341 F.2d 653 (9th Cir.), cert. denied , 382 U.S. 817 (1965). The Department would be likely to challenge a tying arrangement if: (1) The seller has sufficient economic power in the market for the tying product to enable it to restrain trade in the market for the tied product, (2) the arrangement has an adverse effect on competition in the relevant market for the tied product, and (3) efficiency justifications for the arrangement do not outweigh the anticompetitive effect. 15 The Department will not presume market power solely from the existence of a patent or other intellectual property right. 16 15 As is true throughout these Guidelines, the factors listed are those that guide the Department's internal analysis in exercising its prosecutorial discretion. They are not intended to circumscribe how the Department will conduct the litigation of cases that it decides to bring, nor to opine on how the courts should resolve questions that are currently unsettled in the case law. 16 See section 2.2. This policy is consistent with the requirement that market power be demonstrated to establish patent misuse based on tying. 35 U.S.C. §271(d) (1988) (as amended by Pub. L. No. 100&hyph;703, 201 Stat. 4676 (1988)). Package licensing_the licensing of multiple items of intellectual property in a single license or in a group of related licenses_may be a form of tying arrangement, but only if the items licensed constitute ``separate products'' and the licensing of one product is used to force the acceptance of a license of another. Such practices can be efficiency enhancing under some circumstances. When multiple licenses are needed to practice any single item of intellectual property, for example, a package license may present such efficiencies. If a package license constitutes a tying arrangement, the Department will evaluate its competitive effects under the same principles it applies to other tying arrangements.
