FR940127-1-00090 FR940127-1-00019 (g) The representative of the Secretary or the authorized tribal representative will promptly determine if a trespass has occurred. The appropriate representative shall issue an official notice of trespass to the alleged trespasser and, if necessary, the possessor or potential buyer of any trespass products. The notice will inform the trespasser, buyer, or processor, that the Bureau of Indian Affairs has determined that a trespass has occurred, of the basis for the determination, and of the seizure of forest products and/or equipment involved in trespass and that the determination and the seizure may be administratively appealed as actions of the Bureau of Indian Affairs under part 2 of this Title. Said representative shall post a trespass notice on the property. Any forest product seized under these procedures may be sold or otherwise disposed of as determined appropriate by the Bureau of Indian Affairs and such action shall not be stayed by the filing of an administrative appeal. The Secretary's and tribe's representatives will be jointly responsible to coordinate prosecution of trespass actions and involve the appropriate officers of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the tribe(s). Except where the Secretary defers to tribal prosecution or the tribe chooses not to be so bound, said representatives will determine the appropriate forum(s) for prosecution of each case not administratively settled. (h) The Secretary may accept payment of damages in full in the settlement of civil trespass cases without resort to court action. In the absence of a court decision, the Secretary will determine the procedure and approve acceptance of any negotiated settlements. (i) The Secretary may delegate by written agreement or contract, responsibility for detection and investigation of forest trespass to Indian tribes. (j) Indian tribes that adopt the regulations set forth in this section, conformed as necessary to tribal law, shall have concurrent civil jurisdiction to enforce section 307 of the National Indian Forest Resources Management Act of 1990 and this section against any person. (1) The Secretary shall acknowledge said civil jurisdiction over trespass, upon: (i) Receipt of a formal tribal resolution documenting the tribe's adoption of this section; and (ii) Notification of the ability of the tribal court system to properly adjudicate forest trespass cases, including a statement that the tribal court will enforce the Indian Civil Rights Act or a tribal civil rights law that contains provisions for due process and equal protection that are similar to or stronger than those contained in the Indian Civil Rights Act. (2) Where an Indian tribe has acquired concurrent civil jurisdiction on trespass cases as set forth in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, the Secretary shall, upon request of the tribe, defer prosecution of forest trespasses to the tribe. Where said deferral is not requested, the designated Bureau of Indian Affairs forestry trespass official shall coordinate with the forest trespass official of each tribe the exercise of concurrent tribal and Federal trespass jurisdiction as to each trespass. Such officials shall review each case, determine in which forums to recommend bringing an action, and promptly provide their recommendation to the officials responsible for initiating cases in the selected forum(s). (3) The Secretary may rescind deferral to prosecute civil trespass: (i) Upon determination by a court of competent jurisdiction that the tribal court has not adhered to the due process and equal protection requirements of the Indian Civil Rights Act in forest trespass cases, and the failure of the tribal court to meet said requirements; or (ii) If no determination is forthcoming after one year from a tribal court's action in a forest trespass case that the Secretary determines violates said requirements. (4) If the Secretary determines that said rescission is justified, he or she shall provide written notice to the chief judge of the tribal judiciary of the findings justifying said rescission and of steps needed to remedy violations of due process and/or equal protection. If said steps are not taken within 60 days, the Secretary may rescind deferral. The affected tribe(s) may appeal a rescission under part 2 of this Title. ยง163.30 Revocable road use and construction permits for removal of commercial forest products. (a) The Secretary may request tribes and/or other beneficial owners to sign revocable permits designating the Secretary as Agent for the landowner and empowering him or her to issue revocable road use and construction permits to users for the purpose of removing forest products.
