FR940930-0-00173 FR940930-0-00028 The incremental costs for new CFV acquisitions and their operation were summed for each future year between 1998 and 2010 to yield an estimated total annual cost of the fleet program for LDVs and LDTs. The present value costs under Scenario I for the years 1998 through 2010 is almost $709 million in 1998 dollars. Under Scenario II, the present value of the potential costs in years 1998 through 2010 is estimated at $673 million in 1998 dollars. (In contrast to the proposal, the discount rate used in this analysis is 7 percent instead of 10 percent as recommended by EPA's Office of Policy, Planning, and Evaluation.) 44 Projected annual costs for each of the years from 1998 to 2010 are presented in the RIA. This analysis does not take into account infrastructure costs. EPA has examined the sensitivity of the projected incremental acquisition and operating costs results in the RIA to other reasonable estimates of future acquisition and operating costs and concluded that the impact on the cost effectiveness is not major. 44 EPA Office of Policy, Planning and Evaluation, ``OMB Presentation and Discussion on OMB Circular A&hyph;94 Regarding Discount Rates and Benefit-Cost Analysis,'' Memorandum from Brett Snyder to Addressees, March 23, 1993. b. Heavy-duty vhicles. As described in the draft RIA for the proposal, incremental acquisition costs were estimated for conventional gasoline and diesel HDVs expected to be capable of meeting CFV standards through the use of technological changes rather than the use of clean fuels themselves. However, possible manufacturing process changes or slightly higher component costs may be incurred when adapting these technologies to HDEs. The analysis projects that these changes could increase the variable production cost of heavy-duty gasoline engines by $50.00 and heavy-duty diesel engines by about $100.00. Factoring in a 29 percent overhead and profit mark-up would bring the estimated increase in manufacturing costs to $65 and $129 per engine for gasoline and diesel engines respectively. In addition to this increased manufacturing/component cost per engine, consumers will also have to pay for the amortized cost of research and development and engine certification, as well as retail price mark-up. Manufacturers are expected to recover the development costs over the first five years of engine sales. Thus, using a more conservative range of projected costs than in the proposal, the total incremental acquisition cost is estimated at $246 more per gasoline engine and $477 more per diesel engine for the first five years of the program as compared with engines used in conventional heavy-duty vehicles. During the remaining years of the program, the total incremental acquisition cost is estimated at $178 more per gasoline engine and $338 more per diesel engine. Gasoline- and diesel-fuel HDVs meeting CFV standards are not expected to have added fuel or maintenance costs compared to conventional HDVs. However, EPA expects that approximately 10 percent of all fleet HDVs will need to be operated on reformulated gasoline in an area where reformulated gasoline is not routinely supplied. Thus, as in the proposal, an incremental fuel cost of five cents per gallon is applied to approximately 10 percent of all fleet HDVs. The incremental costs for new CFV acquisitions and operations were summed for each year from 1998 to 2010 to yield an estimated total annual cost of the fleet program for HDVs. As described in the proposal, three scenarios were developed based on differing assumptions about vehicle mix and about costs of alternative-fuel vehicles compared to conventional HDVs. The first scenario, Scenario A, assumes conventional-fuel vehicles will be purchased for the fleet program, while the second, Scenario B, assumes 20 percent of CFVs will be nonconventional-fuel vehicles. The third scenario, Scenario C, assumes 30 percent of CFVs are nonconventional-fuel vehicles. Thus, for the first twelve years of the program 1998 present value cost is estimated to be $67 million for Scenario A, $99 million for Scenario B, and $30 million for Scenario C (using a discount rate of 7 percent). 45 45 As in proposal, Scenario C assumes that purchases of nonconventional-fuel vehicles are driven by a hypothetical combined acquisition and operating cost that is below the cost of conventional HDVs. 2. Program Benefits As with the draft RIA for the proposal, the final RIA presents an analysis of the expected emission benefits of the Clean Fuel Fleet Program. These benefits were estimated by comparing the total emissions from covered fleet vehicles to the emissions which the same number of conventional vehicles would produce in the absence of a fleet program. As in the economic analysis, the emission benefits of LDVs and LDTs were studied separately from HDVs, and the results of both are summarized below. The same scenarios used in the economic analysis (i.e., assuming different degrees of participation by non-petroleum fueled vehicles) were used in the benefits analysis. Along with vapor emission reductions, reductions in NMOG, NO X , and CO combustion emissions from LDVs and LDTs, and reductions in NMHC, NO X , and CO combustion emissions from HDVs, are discussed below.
