FR940124-0-00031 FR940124-0-00003 §907.11 Maintenance reserve. (a) General. Maintenance and capital replacement reserves are required, unless the availability of the funds needed for maintenance and capital replacement is adequately addressed under the affordability standard adopted in accordance with §907.8(c). (b) Purpose of reserves. The purpose of these reserves shall be to provide a source of reserve funds for maintenance, repair and replacement, as necessary to ensure the long-term success of the plan, including protection of the interests of purchasers and the Housing Authority. The amounts to be set aside, and other terms of this reserve, shall be as necessary and appropriate for the particular homeownership plan, taking into account such factors as prospective needs for nonroutine maintenance and replacement, the homeowners' financial resources, and any special factors that may aggravate or mitigate the need for reserves. §907.12 Purchase prices and financing. (a) Purchase price. To ensure affordability by eligible purchasers, by the standard adopted under §907.8(c), a homeownership plan may provide for below-market purchase prices or below-market financing, or a combination of the two. Discounted purchase prices may be determined on a unit-by-unit basis, based on the particular purchaser's ability to pay, or may be determined by any other fair and reasonable method (e.g., uniform prices for a group of comparable dwellings, within a range of affordability by a group of potential purchasers). (b) Financing. Any type of private or public financing may be used (e.g., conventional, Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), or a State or local program). The Housing Authority may finance or assist in financing purchase by any methods it may choose, such as purchase money mortgages, guarantees of mortgage loans from other lenders, shared equity, or lease-purchase arrangements. The homeownership plan shall avoid using financing, such as a mortgage that is not fully amortizing (such as a ``balloon'' mortgage) or that involves negative amortization, that would impair the continued affordability of the property for eligible families. §907.13 Protection against fraud and abuse. A homeownership plan shall include appropriate protections against any risks of fraud or abuse that are presented by the particular plan, such as extended use of the dwelling by the purchaser as rental property, or collusive sale that would circumvent the resale profit limitation of §907.14. §907.14 Limitation on resale profit. (a) General. If a dwelling is sold to the initial purchaser for less than fair market value, the homeownership plan shall provide for appropriate measures to preclude realization by purchasers of windfall profit on resale. ``Windfall profit'' means all or a portion of the resale proceeds attributable to the purchase price discount (the fair market value at date of purchase from the Housing Authority less the below-market purchase price), as determined by one of the methods described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Subject to that requirement, however, purchasers should be permitted to retain any resale profit attributable to appreciation in value after purchase, or a reasonable portion of such profit, under a limited or shared equity arrangement, along with any portion of the resale profit that is fairly attributable to improvements made by them after purchase. (b) Promissory note method. Where there is potential for a windfall profit because the dwelling unit is sold to the initial purchaser for less than fair market value, the initial purchaser shall execute a promissory note, payable to the Housing Authority, along with a mortgage securing the obligation of the note, on the following terms and conditions: (1) The principal amount of indebtedness shall be the lesser of:
