FR940617-2-00242 FR940617-2-00119 1.2␣ Alcoholic beverage shall mean any liquid suitable for human consumption, which contains one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume. 1.3␣ Barter or bartering shall mean the trading for any commodity, act or consideration whether or not there is intrinsic value in the item traded. 1.4␣ Beer shall mean any malt beverage containing more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume. 1.5␣ Distilled spirits shall mean any alcoholic beverage that is not beer, wine, sparkling wine or alcohol. 1.6␣ Enterprise of the Tribe shall mean the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe, a member of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe or his or her spouse, or a business entity or association owned and controlled by any of the foregoing, that is licensed by the Tribal Council and pays the appropriate fee set by the Tribal Council by Resolution at not less than Two Hundred ($200.00) Dollars and no more than Five Thousand ($5,000.00) Dollars annually. 1.7␣ Liquor shall mean all varieties of liquid, semisolid, or solid substance containing alcohol, whether brewed, fermented, formulated, or distilled, which is intended for human consumption. 1.8␣ Minor shall mean any person under twenty-one (21) years of age. 1.9␣ Possession or possessing shall mean having on one's person, vehicle or other property and includes constructive possession through control without regard to ownership. 1.10␣ Purchase shall mean the exchange, barter, traffic, receipt with or without consideration in any form. 1.11␣ Sale shall mean the exchange, barter, traffic, donation, with or without consideration, in addition to the selling, supplying or distribution by any means, by any person, to any person. 1.12␣ Transport shall mean the introduction of alcoholic beverage onto the St. Regis Mohawk Indian Reservation of the State of New York by any means of conveyance for the purpose of sale, or distribution, to any licensed dealer. 1.13␣ Tribal Council shall mean the duly elected governing body of the St. Regis Mohawk Indian Tribe of New York, a federally recognized Indian Tribe. Section 2. Relation of Other Tribal Regulations Any and all prior ordinances, resolutions, regulations or other form of control of the St. Regis Mohawk Tribe of the State of New York whether written or unwritten, which authorize, prohibit, or deal with the sale of alcohol are hereby repealed and have no further force and effect. No Tribal Ordinance or Regulation shall be applied in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this ordinance. Section 3. Prohibition The introduction on the Reservation for resale, wholesale purchase, sale and dealing in liquor other than by the Tribe or an Enterprise of the Tribe is prohibited. Possession of liquor on the Reservation by any person not prohibited by Federal law shall be lawful so long as possession is in conformity with this Ordinance. Section 4. Conformity With State Laws Tribal standards for liquor transactions and possessions and consumption of liquor shall meet or exceed those required by the State of New York including but not limited to: (a) Hours of Sale: Wine, Beer and Mixed Beverages. The Tribe or an Enterprise of the Tribe may sell or offer for sale wine, beer and mixed beverages at all times not specifically prohibited by this Section. The Tribe or an Enterprise of the Tribe may not sell or offer for sale wine and beer and mixed beverages on Sunday between the hours of 2 a.m. and 12 noon. On any other day, the Tribe or an Enterprise of the Tribe may not sell or offer for sale wine, beer, or mixed beverages between the hours of 2 a.m. and 8 a.m. (b) Minor. A minor is any person who has not celebrated his or her twenty-first (21st) birthday. (c) Purchase of Alcohol by a Minor. Purchase of an alcoholic beverage by a minor [is] prohibited. (d) Sales to Minor. Sale of an alcoholic beverage to a minor by the Tribe or an Enterprise of the Tribe is prohibited. (e) Consumption of Alcohol by a Minor. Consumption of an alcoholic beverage by a minor is prohibited. (f) Possession of Alcohol by a Minor. Possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor is prohibited unless such minor is in possession of the alcoholic beverage while in the course and scope of his employment and he is any employee of the Tribe or an Enterprise of the Tribe. (g) Purchase of Alcohol for a Minor; Furnishing Alcohol to a Minor. A person commits a violation of this Ordinance if he knowingly purchases an alcoholic beverage for or knowingly gives or makes available an alcoholic beverage to a minor. (h) Misrepresentation of Age by a Minor. A minor is in violation of this Ordinance if he falsely states that he or she is 21 years of age or older or presents any document that indicates he/she is 21 years of age or older to a person engaged in selling or serving alcoholic beverages. (i) Employment of Minors. The Tribe or an Enterprise of the Tribe shall not employ any person under 18 years of age to sell, prepare, serve, or otherwise handle liquor, or to assist in doing so. The Tribe or an Enterprise of the Tribe may, however, employ a person under 18 years of age to work in any capacity other than the actual selling, preparing, serving or handling of liquor.
