FR940527-1-00095 FR940527-1-00014 To avoid recognizing nominal hospitals, while allowing adequate flexibility for legitimate networking and sharing of services, we are proposing additional criteria in 42 CFR part 412, subpart B for determining whether an entity qualifies for exclusion from the prospective payment systems as a separate long-term care hospital. These criteria would be applied to entities seeking exclusion from the prospective payment systems as a long-term care hospital. The revised criteria would apply to entities seeking exclusion as a long-term care hospital for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1994, including reapprovals of long-term care exclusions for entities that are currently excluded. We propose that in addition to meeting any of the classification requirements set forth in §412.23, for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1994, to be excluded from the prospective payment systems, a hospital located in the same building or in one or more entire buildings located on the same campus as another hospital and seeking long-term care exclusion must meet the following requirements: • Separate governing body. The hospital has a governing body that is separate from the governing body of the hospital from which it obtains space. The hospital's governing body is not under the control of the hospital that provides space, or of any third entity that controls both hospitals. • Separate chief medical officer. The hospital has a single chief medical officer who reports directly to the governing body and who is responsible for all medical staff activities of the hospital. The chief medical officer of the hospital is not employed by or under contract with either the hospital that provides space or any third entity that controls both hospitals. • Separate medical staff. The hospital has a medical staff that is separate from the medical staff of the hospital from which it obtains space. The hospital's medical staff is directly accountable to the governing body for the quality of medical care provided in the hospital, and adopts and enforces bylaws governing medical staff activities, including criteria and procedures for recommending to the governing body the privileges to be granted to individual practitioners. • Chief executive officer. The hospital has a single chief executive officer through whom all administrative authority flows, and who exercises control and surveillance over all administrative activities of the hospital. The chief executive officer is not employed by, or under contract with, either the hospital that provides space or any third entity that controls both hospitals. • Performance of basic hospital functions. The hospital performs the basic hospital functions specified in §§482.21 through 482.27, 482.30, and 482.42 through the use of employees or under contracts or other agreements with entities other than the hospital from which it obtains space, or a third entity that controls both hospitals. Food and dietetic services and housekeeping, maintenance, and other services necessary to maintain a clean and safe physical environment could be obtained under contracts or other agreements with the hospital that provides space, or with a third entity that controls both hospitals. For purposes of these proposals, we would consider ``control'' to exist if an individual or organization has the power, directly or indirectly, significantly to influence or direct the actions or policies of an organization or institution. This definition of ``control'' is now codified in the regulations at §413.17(b)(3), concerning allowable Medicare costs, and we would apply the same criteria to determine whether hospitals and hospital units should be excluded from the prospective payment systems. Thus, most hospital managers and administrators are familiar with this definition. We welcome comments on this and other issues concerning the proposed exclusion criteria. Finally, to ensure that hospitals that are excluded from the prospective payment systems are not confused with the types of facilities that can participate separately in Medicare as distinct-part psychiatric hospitals or skilled nursing facilities, we propose to delete all references in the current prospective payment systems regulations to excluded units as ``distinct part'' facilities.
