FR940607-0-00086 FR940607-0-00018 Notification by ZIP Codes: §291.410 Comment: Several commenters objected to the exclusive use of ZIP codes in §291.410 for identifying areas of interest by homeless providers for leasing properties, and notifying the providers of available properties since many communities share the same ZIP codes, but not the same housing patterns. HUD's response: Property listings must be based upon some generally recognized geographic designation that is part of HUD's existing data base. The Department currently tracks its property acquisitions by ZIP code. Moreover, the Department is not aware of a better method for tracking and identifying properties. Finally, the Department has not experienced any difficulties using this approach in the past, nor has it had any complaints regarding this method from program participants. Fair Housing Requirements Comment: Several commenters objected to the absence of fair housing requirements in the rule. These commenters recommended that HUD require that the homeless providers submit a fair housing action plan and an affirmative marketing plan. One commenter suggested that the Department require that homeless providers submit a certification of compliance with fair housing laws. HUD's response: Since the Department cannot control which properties or what geographic areas are represented in its inventory, a requirement that participating agencies submit a fair housing action plan and an affirmative marketing plan is not appropriate. However, the Department requires that all of its programs be administered in a non-discriminatory manner, and §291.435 expressly makes applicants subject to the Fair Housing Act, as well as other nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements. The Department agrees that applicants should submit a certification of compliance with applicable fair housing laws. Accordingly, this final rule amends §291.410(c) to require that applicants submit a certification of compliance with fair housing laws, as well as other nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements, as part of the preapproval process. Miscellaneous Comments Comment: Several commenters recommended that HUD change the rule to require that HUD notify local municipalities of all property disposition properties. HUD's response: On request, HUD does notify local officials of all properties which become available for purchase within their jurisdiction. Comment: Several commenters suggested that HUD give local municipalities an opportunity to purchase homes on a more competitive basis. A few commenters recommended that HUD offer substantial discounts for bulk purchases. HUD's response: The Department believes that the current pricing structure is appropriate. HUD offers to public agencies and nonprofits wishing to purchase a HUD-owned property the following discounts: a 10 percent discount off the list price on single purchases, a 15 percent discount off the list price on the purchase of five or more properties, and a 30 percent discount off the list price for properties located in certain designated ``revitalization areas.'' Comment: Several commenters suggested that HUD change the leasing program to place a greater emphasis on supportive services, and require that providers set up a reserve account for participants to assist the participants in moving toward independence. HUD's response: The Department agrees that it is important to place a greater emphasis on the availability of appropriate supportive services in order to maximize the long term benefits of the Homeless Initiative program; however, requiring that homeless providers establish reserve accounts to help move tenants towards independence seems overly burdensome to homeless providers participating in the program at this time. Comment: Section 291.400(f) currently provides that, to the extent practical and possible, HUD will avoid excessive concentration in a single neighborhood of properties leased or sold under this program. Although the Department did not propose to change this provision in the proposed rule, a number of commenters recommended that the Department define ``excessive concentration'' in the final rule. HUD's response: The Department previously addressed this issue in the final rule published September 16, 1991, where we stated that ``HUD believes that the need to avoid excessive concentration in a single neighborhood is important to the goal of integrating former homeless persons into the community. However, rigid standards *␣*␣* would be counterproductive, and do not recognize the diversity of communities and needs. The need for flexibility outweighs the need to establish strict standards to ease delivery of supportive services.'' Based upon past experience in this program, the Department continues to believe that a rigid definition would be counterproductive. Accordingly, the rule is unchanged on this issue. However, if in the future, this proves to be a problem, the Department will revisit the issue at that time.
