FR940920-2-00090 FR940920-2-00042 Bureau of Land Management [AZ&hyph;020&hyph;00&hyph;4333&hyph;04; AZA&hyph;25486, 25487, 25489, 25490] Notice of Availability of Draft Wilderness Management Plan and Environmental Assessment; Notice of Public Comment Period; Notice of Public Meetings AGENCY: Lower Gila Resource Area, Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: The Draft Maricopa Complex Wilderness Management Plan and Environmental Assessment is available for public review and comment. Two open public meetings will be held to facilitate and record public comment. Written comments will also be accepted through November 2, 1994. SUMMARY: (1) Scope of Proposed Action and Alternatives: The draft plan covers the management of four Wilderness Areas: the Sierra Estrella, the North Maricopa Mountains, South Maricopa Mountains and the Table Top for a period of ten years. The environmental assessment document describes the impacts of the proposed action and three alternatives. (2) Geographic Areas Involved: Four separate wilderness areas, totaling 173,000 acres in the Lower Sonoran Desert of Southwestern Arizona, southern Maricopa and western Pinal Counties, within a 45 mile radius of Gila Bend, Arizona and 12 to 45 miles south of the metropolitan Phoenix. Other towns in the vicinity are Maricopa, Stanfield, Casa Grande, Avondale and Buckeye, Arizona. (3) Summary of Proposed Actions: Seventy nine miles of former vehicle ways reclaimed; 16 miles converted to pedestrian and/or equestrian trails. Four access routes shortened. Seventeen vehicle barriers constructed. Four new trails and seven trailheads established and two existing trails and trailheads improved and maintained. Signs, enlarged parking areas, and minimal camping facilities provided at some trailheads. Two vehicle safety shoulders created along Interstate 8. Trail and human encounter standards adopted, maps and other information provided. Commercial recreation outfitters and guides permitted. Six wildlife water catchments and associated fencing modified, and along with two others, maintained. One new pump installed in a wildlife water well. Transplants of desert bighorn sheep and aircraft telemetry following allowed. Installation of new wildlife catchments to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Animal damage control allowed. Five earthen livestock water tanks abandoned. Thirteen livestock control fences maintained. Coordination with multi-jurisdictional law enforcement and search and rescue agencies and organizations improved. Five thousand seven hundred and sixty acres of State of Arizona surface and subsurface inholdings acquired plus some access easements. New grazing standards established. All wildfire suppressed but related activities restricted. Reduction in low-level civilian aircraft flights encouraged. Twenty nine instances of motorized/mechanized use allowed annually over 9 years dropping to 18 per year thereafter, to: maintain 8 livestock fences, modify 6 wildlife catchments, maintain and haul water to these and two other catchments, respond to life-threatening emergencies, rescue sick livestock, pursue felons or major game violators, and census or track wildlife. Response actions if monitoring standards are exceeded are identified. (4) Proposed Restrictions: No campfires, charcoal fires, wood gathering or wood cutting, and other surface disturbances. Pets prohibited on one trail; horses on another. No camping within 200 feet or sight of the established trails, five day camping limit of stay at trailheads. Some pack stock activity restrictions. (5) Summary of Alternatives: A visitor use and wildlife enhancement alternative with additional hiking and/or riding trails and wildlife developments; a naturalness enhancement alternative without maintained trails, with most developments removed, and 10 instances of low level aircraft use occurring yearly for wildlife census; and a no action alternative maintaining the status quo. (6) Kind and Extent of Public Involvement Provided: Two open public meetings will be held to record comments on the draft proposals. These will be held in Gila Bend and Phoenix, Arizona at the following times and locations: Wednesday, September 28, 1994, 6 p.m.&hyph;9 p.m., Gila Bend Community Center, 202 Euclid Ave., Gila Bend, Arizona. Monday, October 3, 1994, 6 p.m.&hyph;9 p.m., Phoenix District Office, Bureau of Land Management, 2015 West Deer Valley Road, Phoenix, Arizona. Written comments on the draft plan and environmental assessment will be accepted through November 2, 1994. Comments should be sent to the address identified below. Comments received at that address, which are postmarked on or before November 2, 1994, will be considered in the development of the final plan. ADDRESSES: Copies of the draft plan and environmental assessment are available by contacting the Bureau of Land Management, Phoenix District, Lower Gila Resource Area, 2015 W. Deer Valley Road, Phoenix, Arizona, 85027. Written comments regarding these documents should be mailed to this address. Address your written request to the attention of John Jamrog. Requests for the document may also be made by phoning the Phoenix District Office at (602) 780&hyph;8090. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John Jamrog, Bureau of Land Management, Phoenix District, Lower Gila Resource Area, Telephone 602&hyph;780&hyph;8090. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: These four areas were added to the Wilderness Preservation System by Public Law 101&hyph;628, of November 28, 1990, known as the Arizona Desert Wilderness Act of 1990. The management and use of these areas is directed by this law, the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 and the Wilderness Act of 1964. All four areas share similar natural characteristics and generally are subject to the same type and amounts of uses. Dated: September 14, 1994. William T. Childress, Acting District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23201 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;32&hyph;M
