FR940712-1-00019 FR940712-1-00006 Federal Highway Administration 23 CFR Part 637 [FHWA Docket No. 94&hyph;13] RIN 2125&hyph;AD35 Quality Assurance Procedures for Construction AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM); request for comments. SUMMARY: The FHWA is requesting comments on proposed revisions to its regulation which establishes general requirements for quality assurance procedures for construction on Federal-aid highway projects. The proposed revisions will clarify existing policy and procedures and provide additional guidance on the use of contractor- supplied test results in acceptance plans and qualifications of laboratories and testing personnel. DATES: Comments must be received on or before September 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written, signed comments to FHWA Docket No. 94&hyph;13, Room 4232, HCC&hyph;10, Office of the Chief Counsel, Federal Highway Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. All comments received will be available for examination at the above address from 8:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., e.t., Monday through Friday except legal Federal holidays. Those desiring notification of receipt of comments must include a self-addressed, stamped postcard. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Michael Rafalowski, Office of Engineering, HNG&hyph;23, 202&hyph;366&hyph;1571; or Mr. Wilbert Baccus, Office of the Chief Counsel, HCC&hyph;32, 202&hyph;366&hyph;0780; Federal Highway Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Office hours are 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., e.t., Monday through Friday, except legal Federal holidays. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The current regulations on sampling and testing of materials and construction appear in 23 CFR Part 637 (1993), Construction Inspection and Approval. These regulations were last revised in January of 1987. The regulations were written around the traditional approach of the State performing all the sampling and testing. The regulations do not address the use of contractor testing. As a result, a number of questions arose in those States and Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) Federal Lands Highway offices which were using contractor testing in their quality control/quality assurance (QC/QA) programs. Since the existing regulations do not recognize the use of contractor testing results in the acceptance program, which is the process of accepting materials and construction, an internal committee was established in 1992 to study the ramifications of using contractor-performed sampling and testing results. The committee released the results of its study in a report, ``Limits of Use of Contractor Performed Sampling and Testing,'' dated July 1, 1993. (A copy of the report is available in the docket for inspection and copying.) One of the report's recommendations indicates that contractor sampling and testing can be used in acceptance programs provided that adequate checks and balances are in place to protect the public investment. The revisions that are proposed in this NPRM would implement the committee's recommendations. The NPRM, if promulgated, would replace the existing acceptance and independent assurance sampling and testing programs with a comprehensive system of checks and balances. Acceptance of materials and construction would not be based solely on any one set of data and would specifically require the State to monitor and inspect the contractors' quality control program. The State's verification sampling and testing would be used to ensure the quality of the product. In addition, the system would provide for using results from the contractors' quality control sampling and testing program in the acceptance program if those results are validated by the State's verification sampling and testing system. The verification sampling and testing would be performed on independent samples obtained by the State to verify the contractors' quality control data. If the results from the contractors' quality control program and the State's verification sampling and testing program do not agree a dispute resolution system will be used to determine payment to the contractor. The requirement for an independent assurance (IA) program would remain in place. The IA program would use witnessing, split samples, proficiency samples and equipment calibration as an independent check of the field sampling and testing procedures and equipment to assure the testing is being performed properly by both the State and the contractor personnel. The major changes in the regulation would be as follows: 1. The use of contractor testing results in the overall acceptance program would be allowed, provided certain checks and balances are in place. 2. The traditional type of acceptance program with the State performing all of the testing would be allowed. 3. The IA program could be performed either on a system basis or on a project by project basis. In a system approach, all equipment and testing personnel would be assessed on a time frequency, regardless of the specific project on which the testing occurs. The system approach would allow the State to assess testing equipment and testing personnel regardless of project location. This approach would ensure that the testing on small projects is assessed and would also ensure that all testing personnel are reviewed.
