FR940830-1-00110 FR940830-1-00015 Defining the Statewide Limit Section 13922(b) of the Leland Act directs each State agency to establish a statewide limit on reimbursable dependent care expenses. The statewide limit may be any amount the State agency chooses provided it is equal to or higher than the amount of the dependent care deduction under 7 CFR 273.9(d)(4), that is, at least $200 per month for dependents under age 2 and $175 per month for all other dependents. The statewide limit may be a single amount of at least $200 per month or it may be two different amounts (one for dependents under age 2 and another for dependents age 2 and over). Additionally, the State agency may establish different statewide limits for dependents with special needs and for full-time and part-time care. The statewide limit would be used only when it is lower than both the local market rate and the actual cost of care. If the local market rate is lower than either the statewide limit or the actual cost, the statewide limit would not affect how much the State agency must pay_it is obligated to pay the local market rate. Likewise, if the actual cost of dependent care is lower than either the statewide limit or the local market rate, the State would pay for actual expenditures. The statewide limit would apply equally to four categories of care (center care, group family care, family day care and in-home care) in all areas of the State. Unless the State agency chooses to establish a different statewide limit for children with special needs or physically or mentally disabled adults, the same limit would apply to these categories of dependents. The Department is proposing that State agencies, in revising their current E&T reimbursement procedures to include a statewide limit, adopt the limit(s) already established and in use by State IV&hyph;A agencies pursuant to section 402(g) of the Social Security Act (49 Stat. 620 (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.)) and specify the limit(s) in their State E&T Plans. Defining the Local Market Rate Section 13922 of the Leland Act also directs State agencies to determine local market rates using procedures consistent with section 402(g) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 602(g). Section 402(g) programs set local market rates at the 75th percentile of the cost of child care based on a survey of actual charges in a local area. This process is described in 45 CFR 255.4(a) (2) and (3), in accordance with 42 U.S.C. 602(g)(3)(B)(i). Under section 402(g), local market rates are determined for the same four categories of care that apply to the statewide limit, i.e., center care, group family care, family day care and in-home care. Local market rates must also vary according to the age or special needs of the child. For example, rates must reflect care for infants, toddlers, preschool, and school children. Finally, local market rates must also differentiate between full-time and part-time care, and reflect considerations for reductions in the cost of care for additional children from the same family. The Department is proposing that State agencies, in revising their current E&T reimbursement procedures, adopt the local market rates for child care already established and in use by State IV&hyph;A agencies. This would alleviate the need for the State agencies to conduct separate surveys and determinations as described above. State agencies would be required to specify local market rates in their E&T State Plans. However, a description of the methodology used to establish the local market rates would not be required. Food Stamp E&T reimbursements may be used to pay the cost of care for a broader range of dependents than allowed under section 402(g) programs. Section 402(g) programs provide child care for AFDC-eligible dependents who are: Under age 13; physically or mentally incapable of caring for themselves; or under court supervision, to the extent that such child care is necessary to permit AFDC-eligible family members to work or attend educational or training programs. AFDC child care is generally limited to dependents under age 18, due to AFDC eligibility criteria. In accordance with 7 CFR 273.7(d)(1)(ii), dependent care reimbursements must be provided under the E&T program for dependents who are: Age 13 or younger; physically and/or mentally incapable of caring for themselves; or under court supervision, regardless of the age of the dependent. Therefore, State agencies would be required to establish separate local market rates that address the cost of care for dependents over age 18 (or no longer AFDC-eligible) who are physically and/or mentally incapable of caring for themselves or under court supervision, as this type of care is not addressed under section 402(g). State agencies would not be required to follow the procedures under section 402(g) for determining local market rates for this type of care. The separate local market rates established by the State agency would be included in the E&T State Plan. Fifty percent Federal funding will be available to State agencies for the actual cost of dependent care up to the local market rate or the statewide limit established by the State agency. State agencies would not pay an amount lower than the lowest of the actual cost of care, the statewide limit, or the local market rate. The Department is proposing that two paragraphs be added to 7 CFR 273.7(c)(4) of the current regulations. They would require that State agencies include the dependent care statewide limit(s) and the local market rates to be used in determining dependent care reimbursement amounts in their State E&T Plans.
