FR940127-2-00138 FR940127-2-00080 supplementary information: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Fund is an open-end management investment company registered under the Act. The Fund is a series company currently composed of seven series: The Alger Money Market Portfolio, the Alger Income and Growth Portfolio, the Alger Small Capitalization Portfolio, the Alger Growth Portfolio, the Alger Balanced Portfolio, the Alger MidCap Growth Portfolio, and the Alger Leveraged AllCap Portfolio (collectively, the ``Portfolios''). The Distributor is the distributor for the Fund. 2. In 1986, the Commission issued an order to the Fund to permit the Fund to impose a CDSC on certain redemptions of shares of the Portfolios and waive the CDSC in certain instances (the ``Prior Order''). 1 In 1987, the Prior Order was amended to include an additional waiver category (together with the Prior Order, the ``Prior Orders''). 2 The present application seeks to expand the circumstances under which the Fund may waive the CDSC. The order sought by this application will, if issued, supersede the Prior Orders. 1 Investment Company Act Release No. 15288 (Sept. 5, 1986) (notice) and 15404 (Nov. 7, 1986) (order). 2 Investment Company Act Release No. 16122 (Nov. 12, 1987) (notice) and 16170 (Dec. 10, 1987) (order). 3. No CDSC is imposed upon the redemption of shares of a Portfolio to the extent that the net asset value of the shares redeemed does not exceed (a) the current net asset value of shares purchased more than six years prior to the redemption, plus (b) the current net asset value of shares purchased through reinvestment of dividends or capital gains distributions, plus (c) increases in the net asset value of the shares above purchase payments made with respect to a Portfolio during the preceding six years. The amount of the CDSC depends on the number of years that the shareholder has held the shares from which an amount is being redeemed. The Fund assesses no CDSC on exchanges of shares among Portfolios. 4. In accordance with the terms of the Prior Orders, the Fund waives the CDSC on the following redemptions: (a) Any partial or total redemption of shares of a shareholder who dies or becomes disabled, so long as the redemption is requested within one year of death or initial determination of disability; (b) any partial or complete redemption in connection with certain distributions from Individual Retirement Accounts (``IRAs'') or other qualified retirement plans; (c) redemptions effected pursuant to the Fund's automatic cash withdrawal plan of amounts up to 2% of the value of a shareholder's shares in a Portfolio at the time the withdrawal plan commences; (d) redemptions effected by (i) employees of Alger Associates, Inc. and its subsidiaries, (ii) IRAs, Keogh plans and employee benefit plans for those employees, and trusts of which those individuals are beneficiaries, as long as orders for the Fund's shares on behalf of those individuals and trusts are placed by the employees; (e) redemptions effected by (i) accounts managed by investment advisory subsidiaries of Alger Associates, Inc. that are registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, (ii) employees, participants and beneficiaries of those accounts, (iii) IRAs, Keogh plans and employee benefit plans for those employees, participants and beneficiaries and (iv) spouses and minor children of those employees, participants and beneficiaries as long as orders for the Fund's shares are placed by the employees, participants and beneficiaries; (f) redemptions effected by directors or trustees or any investment company for which Alger Associates, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries serves as investment adviser or distributor; (g) redemptions effected by an investment company registered under the Act in connection with the combination of the investment company with the Fund by merger, acquisition of assets or by any other transaction; (h) redemptions effected pursuant to the Fund's right to liquidate involuntarily a shareholder's account in any Portfolio with a current value of less than $250; and (i) redemptions of shares of the Portfolios held through defined contribution plans with respect to which Fred Alger Management, Inc. or an affiliate thereof provides certain non-fiduciary services. 5. The Fund also offers a one-time only reinvestment privilege under which a shareholder who redeems shares subject to the CDSC and reinvests the proceeds of the redemption within 30 days after the redemption will receive a credit against the amount of the CDSC paid. The percentage of the CDSC credited to the shareholder is the same as the percentage of the redemption proceeds that are reinvested. The Distributor will pay any credit from its own assets. 6. In the present application, applicants also propose to waive the CDSC on redemptions effected by registered investment advisers, banks and trust companies and other financial institutions exercising discretionary authority with respect to the money invested in Fund shares and on redemptions effected by registered investment advisers for their own account. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. The requested exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. Applicants believe that the additional waiver is appropriate because shares of a Portfolio with respect to which the CDSC would be waived are purchased with little or no selling effort or expense. In addition, the waiver will encourage sales of the Fund's shares which will be beneficial to all the Fund's shareholders. 2. Waiving the CDSC is consistent with the policies underlying section 22(d) of the Act, which prohibits an investment company registered under the Act from selling its redeemable securities other than at a current public offering price described in the company's prospectus. The waiver will not result in the occurrence of any of the abuses to which section 22(d) is directed and will not harm the Fund or its shareholders or unfairly discriminate among shareholders or purchasers. Applicants' Condition Applicants will comply with the provisions of proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (November 2, 1988), as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted or amended. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1711 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;11&hyph;M
