FR940826-2-00020 FR940826-2-00015 On June 3, 1988, the Hearing Officer rendered a decision that was subsequently adopted as final agency action by the SLA on June 17, 1988. The decision of the Hearing Officer upheld the SLA's extension of Mr. Shepherd's certification for one year beyond the anticipated expiration due to the medical circumstances of his relatives. The Hearing Officer indicated that the SLA rules do not allow for a vendor to decline such an extension. The vendor may decline a particular type of certification; however, once certified to operate a particular type of facility, an extension of that certification is solely within the purview of the SLA. Also, the Hearing Officer ruled that the termination of both Mr. Sadikoff's and Mr. Gardner's certification was upheld. The evidence provided at the hearing clearly showed that neither vendor made any real effort during a two-year period following their current certification to attend a training session for recertification nor was a valid reason given for not complying with the SLA requirement. The complainants expressed dissatisfaction with the final agency action and filed a request for a Federal arbitration panel to be convened. An arbitration hearing was held on February 12, 1990. Arbitration Panel Decision The central issue addressed by the arbitration panel was whether the State licensing agency can require retraining of licensed vendors at a specific rehabilitation center within the State in order to retain vendor certification to operate facilities. The panel in a majority opinion dismissed Mr. Gardner's complaint as moot because the parties agreed that he subsequently attended and completed the required four-day training course in Smyrna, thus complying with the SLA's requirement. Also, the arbitration panel concurred with the SLA's position of allowing complainant Sadikoff to continue to operate his current facility but declaring him ineligible for promotion, transfer, or demotion due to his refusal to take the required training. Complainant Sadikoff indicated his inability to find a person he could trust to manage his facility as the major factor in not completing the required training at Smyrna. The panel found this position to be unreasonable. The panel further ruled that the SLA acted properly in requiring Mr. Shepherd to attend upward mobility training and, further, acted properly and within its scope of authority in granting the extension of time for Mr. Shepherd to attend a training session. The panel member designated by the com- plainants dissented. That panel member interpreted the Act, 20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;4, and the regulations in 34 CFR 395.11 as requiring the SLA to provide training to licensed blind vendors and to make accommodations for those blind vendors who are unable to attend a regularly scheduled training session. The views and opinions expressed by the panel do not necessarily represent the views and opinions of the U.S. Department of Education. Dated: August 23, 1994. Judith E. Heumann, Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21136 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4001&hyph;01&hyph;P
