FR941125-1-00033 FR941125-1-00008 4.2␣Measurement Location. The primary concern in locating a COMS is determining a location of well-mixed stack gas. Two factors contribute to complete mixing of emission gases: turbulence and sufficient mixing time. The criteria listed below define conditions under which well-mixed emissions can be expected. Select a light beam path that passes through the centroidal area of the stack or duct. Additional requirements or modifications must be met for the following locations: 4.2.1␣If the location is in a straight vertical section of stack or duct and is less than 4 equivalent diameters downstream from a bend, use a light beam path that is in the plane defined by the upstream bend (see figure 1&hyph;1). 4.2.2␣If the location is in a straight vertical section of stack or duct and is less than 4 equivalent stack or duct diameters upstream from a bend, use a light beam path that is in the plane defined by the bend (see figure 1&hyph;2). 4.2.3␣If the location is in a straight vertical section of stack or duct and is less than 4 equivalent stack or duct diameters downstream and is also less than 1 diameter upstream from a bend, use a light beam path in the plane defined by the upstream bend (see figure 1&hyph;3). 4.2.4␣If the location is in a horizontal section of stack or duct and is at least 4 equivalent stack or duct diameters downstream from a vertical bend, use a light beam path in the horizontal plane that is between 1/3 and 1/2 the distance up the vertical axis from the bottom of the duct (see figure 1&hyph;4). 4.2.5␣If the location is in a horizontal section of duct and is less than 4 diameters downstream from a vertical bend, use a light beam path in the horizontal plane that is between 1/2 and 2/3 the distance up the vertical axis from the bottom of the duct for upward flow in the vertical section, and is between 1/3 and 1/2 the distance up the vertical axis from the bottom of the duct for downward flow (figure 1&hyph;5). 4.3␣Alternative Locations and Light Beam Paths. Locations and light beam paths, other than those cited above, may be selected by demonstrating, to the Administrator or delegated agent, that the average opacity measured at the alternative location or path is equivalent to the opacity as measured at a location meeting the criteria of section 4.1 or 4.2. The opacity at the alternative location is considered equivalent if the average opacity value measured at the alternative location is within # 10 percent of the average opacity value measured at the location meeting the installation criteria in section 4.2, and the difference between any two average opacity values is less than 2 percent opacity (absolute). To conduct this demonstration, simultaneously measure the opacities at the two locations or paths for a minimum period of time (e.g., 180-minutes) covering the range of normal operating conditions and compare the results. The opacities of the two locations or paths may be measured at different times, but must represent the same process operating conditions. Alternative procedures for determining acceptable locations may be used if approved by the Administrator. 4.4␣Slotted Tube. For COMS that uses a slotted tube, the slotted tube must be of sufficient size and orientation so as not to interfere with the free flow of effluent through the entire optical volume of the COMS photodetector. The manufacturer must also present information in the certificate of conformance that the slotted tube minimizes light reflections. As a minimum, this demonstration shall consist of laboratory operation of the COMS both with, and without the slotted tube in position. The slotted portion must meet the monitoring pathlength requirements of 2.14.3. 5. Design Specifications 5.1␣Design Specifications. The COMS shall comply with the following design specifications: 5.1.1␣Peak and Mean Spectral Responses. The peak and mean spectral responses must occur between 500 nm and 600 nm. The response at any wavelength below 400 nm or above 700 nm shall be less than 10 percent of the peak spectral response. 5.1.2␣Angle of View. The total AOV shall be no greater than 4 degrees. 5.1.3␣Angle of Projection. The total AOP shall be no greater than 4 degrees.
