FR940207-2-00148 FR940207-2-00072 [Release No. 34&hyph;33548; File Nos. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;08 and SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;07] Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Depository Trust Company et al.; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Relating to a Netting Contract and Limited Cross-Guaranty Agreement January 31, 1994. On July 8, 1993, and June 2, 1993, The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') and the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC''), respectively, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') proposed rule changes (File Nos. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;93&hyph;08 and SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;07) under Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 to establish a Netting Contract and Limited Cross-Guaranty Agreement between DTC and NSCC (``DTC/NSCC Agreement'') 2 Notice of the proposal was published in the Federal Register on November 10, 1993. 3 No comment letters were received. For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposed rule changes. 1 15 U.S.C. 78(b)(1) (1988). 2 NSCC's Rules refer to the agreement as the Clearing Agency Cross-Guaranty Agreement. 3 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33145 (November 3, 1993), 58 FR 59766. I. Description A. Netting Many participants of DTC are also members of NSCC (``common members''), and NSCC itself is a DTC participant. For many years, DTC and NSCC have provided for a consenting common member's credit balance in DTC's Next-Day Funds Settlement (``NDFS'') system or a credit balance at NSCC to be applied to its debit balance at the other clearing agency. In practice, a common member's daily settlement credit at one of the clearing agencies serves to reduce or eliminate any daily settlement debit of that common member at the other organization. 4 4 This procedure is commonly referred to as cross-endorsement because originally the crediting clearing agency's check or draft payable to the common member was endorsed to the debiting clearing agency. Over 90% of common members have consented to this procedure. Under the procedure, which is now automated, computer programs determine which consenting members have a credit balance at one clearing agency and a debit balance at the other. The programs then aggregate for each clearing agency the applicable portions of all the credit balances of common members with debit balances at the other clearing agency. These aggregate amounts are then paid by each clearing agency to the other with corresponding payment entries being reflected in each common member's DTC and NSCC settlement statements. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (``FDICIA'') validates netting contracts that provide for the netting of payment obligations and payment entitlements between and among clearing organizations and their members. 5 Under FDICIA, a payment under a netting contract is not subject to disaffirmance by the receiver or trustee in a subsequent insolvency proceeding. The netting provisions of FDICIA were designed to reduce systemic risk to the financial markets. 5 12 U.S.C. 4401&hyph;4407 (1991). The purpose of the netting provision of the DTC/NSCC Agreement is to establish a netting contract that meets the standards for FDICIA protection. The netting provision provides that on each common business day that any common member has a credit balance at one clearing agency and a debit balance at the other, the two balances will be netted, and the following payments will be made: (1) Each common member with a net debit amount will pay that amount to the clearing agency with the net debit amount; (2) a clearing agency with a net credit amount with respect to a common member shall pay that amount to the common member; and (3) for each common member with a credit balance that equals its debit balance, the clearing agency with the credit balance shall pay that amount to the clearing agency with the debit balance. The balances covered under the netting provision that will be available to NSCC will be only those in DTC's NDFS system. DTC will have the right, however, to use a NDFS credit balance to offset an open debit balance in DTC's Same-Day Funds Settlement (``SDFS'') system before applying the remainder, if any, to a debit balance at NSCC. B. Limited Guaranty The DTC/NSCC Agreement also contains a provision limiting the guaranty from each clearing agency to the other clearing agency that will be invoked when a common member fails. Any resources remaining after a failed common member's obligations to the guaranteeing clearing agency have been satisfied, including at DTC that common member's SDFS obligations, will be made available to the other clearing agency. The guaranty is not absolute but rather is limited to the extent of the resources relative to the failed member remaining at the guaranteeing clearing agency. The principal resources will be settlement net credit balances, including in certain cases a common member's SDFS net credit balance at DTC, and the failed member's deposits to the clearing agencies' clearing funds.
