FR941220-1-00028 FR941220-1-00009 In the Fall of 1991, as EPA was nearing publication of regulations for the 24 Phase V contaminants, it became apparent that the Agency had not reached a consensus on how to proceed with the sulfate regulation in light of concerns raised by the commenters. Given the high cost of the rule, the relatively low risk, and the need to explore alternative regulatory approaches targeted at the transient consumer, EPA decided to seek a deferral of a final regulatory decision on sulfate. The Agency needed more time to resolve issues that included: (1) Whether additional research is needed on how long it takes infants to acclimate to water with high sulfate content, (2) whether new regulatory approaches were needed for regulating a contaminant whose health effect is confined largely to transient populations, and (3) whether the Agency should revise its definition of BAT for small systems (i.e., what should be considered affordable for the small, transient non-community water systems). For the above reasons, the regulation on sulfate was deferred. A new schedule has been established in connection with litigation brought over the schedule for regulating sulfate. This schedule requires EPA to finalize its regulatory action for sulfate by May 1996. The secondary maximum contaminant level (SMCL) for sulfate is 250 mg/L and is based on aesthetic effects (i.e., taste and odor). EPA is not proposing changes in the SMCL for sulfate, but is requesting public comment on the correlation between sulfate concentrations, palatability, and consumption of high-sulfate water by the public. C. Sulfate General Information Sulfate is the divalent anion (SO 4 ^2 ). It exists in a variety of inorganic compounds and salts formed with metal cations. Sulfate salts with lower molecular weight alkali metals such as sodium, potassium, and magnesium are very water soluble and are often found in natural waters. Salts of higher molecular weight metals such as barium, iron or lead have very low water solubility. Sulfate is found in soil sediments and rocks, and occurs in the environment as a result of both natural processes and human activities. Specific data on the total production of all sulfates are not available, but production is expected to be thousands of tons per year; the use of sodium sulfate alone in 1987 was reported to be 792 tons. Sulfate is used for a variety of commercial purposes, including pickle liquor (sulfuric acid) for steel and metal industries, and as a reagent in manufacturing of products such as copper sulfate (a fungicide/algicide). Sulfate may enter surface and ground water as a result of discharge or disposal of sulfate-containing wastes. In addition, sulfur oxides produced during the combustion of fossil fuels are transformed to sulfuric acid in the atmosphere. Through precipitation (i.e., acid rain), sulfuric acid can enter surface waters, lowering the pH and raising sulfate levels. III. Explanation of Today's Action A. Establishment of MCLG for Sulfate The MCLG for sulfate is reproposed today at a level of 500 mg/L. In this notice, EPA is responding to the public comments submitted in reference to the MCLG options contained in the July 1990 proposal. EPA's complete responses to the public comments on the previously proposed MCLGs appear in the Comment/Response Document that is included in the docket for this rulemaking. MCLGs are set at concentration levels at which no known or anticipated adverse health effects occur, allowing for an adequate margin of safety. The process for establishing an MCLG for a contaminant has been described in many documents, including the final Phase V rule issued in July 1992 (57 FR 31781&hyph;31783).
