FR941102-1-00068 FR941102-1-00018 A witness for NCI testified in support of the CMPC multiple component pricing proposal with one primary modification. The NCI proposal would calculate a ``residual fluid price'', instead of an other solids price. This proposal is discussed further under Issue 3b below in this decision. Kraft testified and submitted a brief in support of the NCI proposal for multiple component pricing. A witness for the Trade Association of Proprietary Plants (TAPP) and Farmers Union Milk Marketing Cooperative (FUMMC) testified in support of the TAPP proposal, a variation of the CMPC proposal that would price both butterfat and protein on a differential basis, rather than on a per pound basis. The five north central Federal milk orders included in this proceeding should be amended to include multiple component pricing. On the basis of the record of this proceeding, multiple component pricing would entail pricing milk on the basis of the pounds of butterfat, protein and other nonfat solids contained in the milk, with a somatic cell adjustment to the hundredweight price paid to producers. The record indicates that a large percentage of the producers pooled under these orders are already eligible for or receive some form of multiple component pricing and that many of these component pricing plans use protein as a pricing component. The record also shows that the diverse component pricing programs that currently exist promote disorderly and inefficient marketing conditions in the procurement of milk supplies by competing handlers. The different programs establish non-uniform bases of payments to producers. The adoption of multiple component pricing will allow the Orders to recognize the additional value of milk with a higher-than-average solids content. In the five orders included in this proceeding, the vast majority of the milk pooled is utilized in manufactured products. The total solids in the milk used for manufacturing are the primary determinants of product yield. In addition, it is the solids in fluid milk that give it its nutritional value and taste. In both types of products, the current pricing system used in the five orders does not properly recognize the value of nonfat milk solids, nor encourage producers to increase the quantity of nonfat milk solids in the milk they produce. As a result of the shift in value in recent years from the butterfat portion of milk to the skim portion, most of the value of milk is determined on a volume basis without any consideration of the value of the skim components. Adoption of the multiple component pricing plan recommended in this decision will enable the market to reflect the value of the skim components in milk to producers. In addition to butterfat, protein is clearly the most appropriate component of milk on which payment should be based. Most of the milk pooled under these five orders is used for manufacturing, and 86% of the milk used in manufacturing is used to produce cheese. Because protein is a main determinant of cheese yield, and it is cheese that determines the profitability for most of the dairy industry in the 5-market area, the milk pricing system should recognize the value of the protein component of milk as it is used in the manufacture of cheese. Record evidence clearly shows that protein has a higher demand than other components of milk because of its functional, nutritional and economic value in the marketplace. The functional characteristics of protein allow it to form the matrix in the production of cheese and yogurt. Protein is also important to the air formation in the manufacture of certain products and provides some required nutrients in the human diet. Milk containing a higher percentage of protein will result in greater yields of most manufactured products than milk with a lower protein test. Additionally, handlers receiving milk that results in greater volumes of finished products such as cheese and cottage cheese than an equivalent volume of milk testing lower in protein should be required to pay more for the higher- testing milk. At the same time, the dairy farmer producing milk that yields greater amounts of finished products deserves to be paid more for it than a dairy farmer producing the same volume of milk that results in less product yield. Thus, sending an economic signal to dairy farmers will encourage them to maximize the production of those components which have the greatest demand in the marketplace. According to analysis of the record, proponents are correct that attribution of all of the skim value of the M-W price to protein would result in an overstatement of the value of protein used in cheese and most other uses. In order to maintain fairly uniform prices between orders for milk used in manufactured products, it is necessary to assign the residual value of the M-W price minus the butterfat and protein values to either other nonfat solids or a fluid carrier price. The discussion of this residual component may be found in Issue 3b below.
