FR940303-0-00044 FR940303-0-00011 (ii) Other tenants_ (A) General rule. If none of the rules of paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (3), and (4)(i) of this section apply to any rent-restricted units in a building, the appropriate utility allowance for the units is the applicable PHA utility allowance. However, if a local utility company estimate is obtained for any unit in the building in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, that estimate becomes the appropriate utility allowance for all rent-restricted units of similar size and construction in the building. This local utility company estimate procedure is not available for and does not apply to units to which the rules of paragraphs (b) (1), (2), (3), or (4)(i) of this section apply. (B) Utility company estimate. Any interested party (including a low-income tenant, a building owner, or an Agency) may obtain a local utility company estimate for a unit. The estimate is obtained when the interested party receives, in writing, information from a local utility company providing the estimated cost of that utility for a unit of similar size and construction for the geographic area in which the building containing the unit is located. The local utility company estimate may be obtained by an interested party at any time during the building's extended use period (see section 42(h)(6)(D)) or, if the building does not have an extended use period, during the building's compliance period (see section 42(i)(1)). Unless the parties agree otherwise, costs incurred in obtaining the estimate are borne by the initiating party. The interested party that obtains the local utility company estimate (the initiating party) must retain the original of the utility company estimate and must furnish a copy of the local utility company estimate to the owner of the building (where the initiating party is not the owner), and the Agency that allocated credit to the building (where the initiating party is not the Agency). The owner of the building must make available copies of the utility company estimate to the tenants in the building. (c) Changes in applicable utility allowance. If at any time during the building's extended use period (or, if the building does not have an extended use period, the building's compliance period), the applicable utility allowance for a unit changes, the new utility allowance must be used to compute gross rents of rent-restricted units due 90 days after the change. For example, if rent must be lowered because a local utility company estimate is obtained that shows a higher utility cost than the otherwise applicable PHA utility allowance, the lower rent must be in effect for rent due more than 90 days after the date of the local utility company estimate. ยง1.42&hyph;11 Provision of services. (a) General rule. The furnishing to tenants of services other than housing (whether or not the services are significant) does not prevent the units occupied by the tenants from qualifying as residential rental property eligible for credit under section 42. However, any charges to low-income tenants for services that are not optional generally must be included in gross rent for purposes of section 42(g). (b) Services that are optional_ (1) General rule. A service is optional if payment for the service is not required as a condition of occupancy. For example, for a qualified low-income building with a common dining facility, the cost of meals is not included in gross rent for purposes of section 42(g)(2)(A) if payment for the meals in the facility is not required as a condition of occupancy and a practical alternative exists for tenants to obtain meals other than from the dining facility. (2) Continual or frequent services. If continual or frequent nursing, medical, or psychiatric services are provided, it is presumed that the services are not optional and the building is ineligible for the credit, as is the case with a hospital, nursing home, sanitarium, lifecare facility, or intermediate care facility for the mentally and physically handicapped. See also ยง1.42&hyph;9(b). (3) Required services_ (i) General rule. The cost of services that are required as a condition of occupancy must be included in gross rent even if federal or state law requires that the services be offered to tenants by building owners.
