FR940921-0-00055 FR940921-0-00016 In the case of vehicles over 14,000 pounds GVW, CARB allows the use of eight mode steady-state testing, using the same pre-conversion, post-conversion comparison as for vehicles under 14,000 pounds GVW. Again, the Agency believes that it is possible with this approach to certify an aftermarket conversion which exceeds the original configuration's emissions standards. Also, the Agency does not believe that steady-state testing is appropriate under any circumstances. It is well-understood that emission control systems can be designed for low emissions when tested using steady-state test procedures, but provide little emissions control under real-world, transient conditions. 19 It is for this reason that EPA adopted the heavy-duty transient test cycle in place of the thirteen mode steady state test for all heavy-duty engine certification, effective in the mid-1980s. Thus, EPA does not believe that it would be appropriate to adopt the CARB test procedures for these vehicles. It should be noted that CARB does allow for alternative test cycles for vehicles over 14,000 pounds GVW, subject to advance approval from the Executive Officer. It is the Agency's belief that, given the transient test is the test cycle which these vehicles would have originally been certified on, it is likely that CARB would approve its use for conversion certification, thus eliminating the need for two separate certification procedures for vehicles over 14,000 pounds GVW. 19 45 FR 4136, January 21, 1980. 3. On-Board Diagnostics Summary of the proposal: The Agency recently adopted requirements, effective for the 1994 model year and thereafter, which require on-board diagnostics (OBD) systems on new light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. 20 The purpose of the OBD system is, in part, to monitor the performance of a vehicle's emission control systems and signal to the vehicle operator if a system is malfunctioning. The Agency did not propose any specific requirements regarding how aftermarket conversions would interact with new vehicle OBD systems, but required that converted vehicles remain in compliance with all applicable Clean Air Act Title II emission requirements. 20 58 FR 9468, February 19, 1993. Summary of the comments: The Agency only received a few comments on the issue of aftermarket conversions and OBD. These comments tended not to be specific, but rather asked the Agency to clarify what the requirements were for an aftermarket conversion on an OBD-equipped vehicle. A few commenters suggested that EPA require new vehicle manufacturers to provide some means of shutting off the OBD system during alternative fuel operation in order to prevent the system from storing faulty trouble codes. EPA response to comments: As explained in the preamble to the proposed rule, EPA believes that a tampering exemption should be conditioned upon certification demonstrating that the converted vehicle has the ability to comply with the applicable emission standards and will have demonstrated adequate durability. As was mentioned above, shortly after publication of the proposal for this rule, the Agency adopted requirements, effective for the 1994 model year, which require OBD systems on new light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. While the aftermarket conversions proposal did not explicitly make clear that compliance with the OBD requirements (as well as certain other title II requirements) must be demonstrated to obtain a certification, the Agency believes this is implicit in the discussion of the justification for the exemption. The Agency explained in the proposal that ``Congress intended to prohibit tampering that would result in emission noncompliance,'' and that ``[t]he language of the tampering provisions emphasizes the compliance of the vehicle with the title II regulations.'' EPA's justification for the exemption for conversions from tampering restrictions was based on the incongruity of prohibiting conversions that result in a vehicle meeting emission standards applicable to vehicles of the fuel type to which the vehicles have been converted. The OBD requirements, even if not ``emissions standards'' in the traditional sense, clearly have an underlying emissions control purpose. And the tampering prohibitions of section 203(a)(3) of the Act explicitly apply to the disabling of any device ``installed on or in a motor vehicle or motor vehicle engine in compliance with regulations under this title.␣.␣.'' Disabling an OBD system is clearly prohibited as tampering. It is therefore not at all clear that EPA would have authority to provide an exemption from the tampering prohibition for a conversion that do not meet the same OBD requirements as the vehicle would have had to meet had it been originally manufactured to operate on fuel type to which it has been converted.
