FR940325-1-00088 FR940325-1-00008 ยง1784.6 Membership and functions of multiple resource advisory councils, rangeland resource teams, and technical review teams. 12. Section 1784.6&hyph;1 is revised to read as follows: ยง1784.6&hyph;1 Multiple resource advisory councils. (a) One multiple resource advisory council shall be established for each Bureau of Land Management administrative district except when the relevant Bureau of Land Management State Director determines one or more of the following conditions exist: (1) There is insufficient interest in participation to ensure that membership can be fairly balanced in terms of the points of view represented and the functions to be performed; (2) The location of the public lands with respect to the population of users and other interested parties precludes effective participation; or (3) The configuration and character of the public lands and resources, and the juxtaposition of these lands and resources to affected communities, are such that a separate multiple resource advisory council for each Bureau of Land Management district in which the lands are situated is not the most effective means for obtaining consensual advice for the management of ecosystems and resources present, in which case a multiple resource advisory council may be established to correspond with ecoregion boundaries. The Governor of the affected States or existing multiple resource advisory councils may petition the Secretary to establish a multiple resource advisory council for a specified Bureau of Land Management resource area. (b) A multiple resource advisory council advises the Bureau of Land Management official to whom it reports regarding the preparation, amendment and implementation of land use plans for public lands and resources within its area. Except for the purposes of long-range planning and the establishment of resource management priorities, a multiple resource advisory council shall not provide advice on the allocation and expenditure of funds. A multiple resource advisory council shall not provide advice regarding personnel actions. (c) The Secretary or designee shall appoint 15 members to serve on each multiple resource advisory council. The Secretary or designee shall appoint at least one elected State, county or local government official to each council. An individual may not serve concurrently on more than one multiple resource advisory council. (1) 5 members of each council shall be appointed from nominees who: (i) Hold Federal grazing permits or leases within the area for which the council is organized; (ii) Represent interests associated with transportation or rights-of-way; (iii) Represent developed outdoor recreation, off-highway vehicle users, or commercial recreation activities; (iv) Represent timber harvest; or (v) Represent energy and mineral development. (2) 5 members of each council shall be appointed from nominees representing: (i) Nationally or regionally recognized environmental organizations; (ii) Dispersed recreational activities; (iii) Archeological and historical interests; or
