FR941110-2-00161 FR941110-2-00107 Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines stated herein and in the Solicitation Package. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the Agency contracts office, as well as the Agency's Area Office and the USIA post overseas, where appropriate. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Office of the General Counsel or by other Agency elements. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the USIA Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the USIA grants officer. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the criteria stated below. These criteria are not rank ordered and all carry equal weight in the proposal evaluation: 1. Quality of the program idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, precision, and relevance to Agency's mission and the program idea as described above. 2. Program planning: Detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive undertakings and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview and guidelines described above. Proposals should also clearly demonstrate how students will be selected on the basis of merit and the qualifications needed for a successful program. 3. Ability to achieve program objectives: Objectives should be reasonable, feasible, and flexible. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan. 4. Multiplier effect/impact: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages. 5. Support of diversity: Proposals should demonstrate the recipient's commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity throughout the program. This can be accomplished through documentation (such as a written statement or account) summarizing past and/or ongoing activities and efforts that further the principle of diversity within both the organization and the program activities. 6. Institutional capacity: Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goals. 7. Institution's record/ability: Proposals should demonstrate an institutional record of successful exchange programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts. The Agency will consider the past performance of prior recipients and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. 8. Follow-on activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-on activity (without USIA support) which ensures that USIA supported programs are not isolated events. 9. Project evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the success of the program, both as the activities unfold and at its conclusion. USIA recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire or other technique, plus a description of a methodology to use to link outcomes to original project objectives. Grantee organizations/institutions will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly reports, whichever is less frequent. 10. Cost-effectiveness: The overhead and administrative components of the proposal, including salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. 11. Cost-sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct funding contributions. 12. Value to U.S.-partner country relations: Proposed projects should receive positive assessments by USIA's geographic area desk and overseas officers of program need, potential impact, and significance in the partner country(ies). Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. The needs of the program may require the award to be reduced, revised, or increased. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about March 24, 1995. Awards made will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: November 1, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27502 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
