FR940325-2-00020 FR940325-2-00004 Petitioner argues that bagging costs associated with home market flux sales should not be included in the calculation of the difmer adjustment because they represent packing costs related to shipment of the merchandise to the home market customer, rather than variable COM. Petitioner contends that such an inclusion is contrary to Department policy which states that the difmer adjustment is limited only to costs directly attributable to differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise and that in this case all physical differences in the CA flux occur before the bagging/packing stage. Petitioner further claims that, contrary to respondent's assertion, the bagging/packing at issue is not consumer packing which serves an advertising, promotional and educational function at the point of sale to the retail end-user. Rather, using bags is another way of handling and shipping flux in bulk quantities. To buttress its argument, petitioner cites Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Pads for Woodwind Instrument Keys from Italy (58 FR 42295, August 9, 1993) (Pads from Italy), Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Industrial Phosphoric Acid from Israel (52 FR 25440, July 7, 1987) (Phosphoric Acid from Israel); and Preliminary Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Gray Portland Cement and Clinker from Venezuela (56 FR 56390, November 4, 1991) (Gray Portland Cement and Clinker from Venezuela). Petitioner claims that both respondent's CA flux marketing expert in France and petitioner's CA flux marketing expert in the United States agree that when a customer does not have a dedicated bulk storage silo system, the CA flux must be shipped to that customer in bags. Petitioner also contends that respondent's claims that the design of its bags adds value to the customer are not relevant to the determination of whether the bagging costs can be deducted as a packing expense. Petitioner further argues that respondent's cite to the suspension agreement concerning Gray Portland Cement and Clinker from Venezuela where the Department treated bagging costs as part of COM for purposes of calculating an FMV at or over which a Venezuelan cement producer/exporter would have to sell in the United States is not relevant because calculation of a difmer adjustment was not at issue in that investigation. Petitioner points out that in the Venezuelan cement investigation the Department made fair value comparisons of bulk cement sold to the United States with cement sold in Venezuela in 50 to 100 pound sacks, but did not make a difmer adjustment for packing/bagging. Instead, it adjusted for home market bagging costs by deducting them from FMV and adding the U.S. packing costs to FMV pursuant to its normal practice. In addition, petitioner notes that the normal packing adjustment in this case would include all fixed costs as well as variable costs of bagging/packing and thus would not distort fair value comparisons as would the inclusion of only variable bagging/packing costs in the difmer adjustment, as respondent suggests. According to petitioner, any claimed price distortions attributable to SG&A and profit associated with bagging/packing will be minimal because Lafarge subcontracts these services ( i.e. , the fees it pays to subcontractors would cover fixed costs such as G&A expenses, and any selling costs would be included in normal circumstance-of-sale adjustments). Petitioner concludes that, even if packing costs are included in the difmer adjustment, the Department should still use the home market sales data submitted by Lafarge after the preliminary determination rather than CV for fair value comparisons because the U.S. and home market flux products sold during the POI are comparable and the 20 percent difmer guideline is not an inflexible rule. DOC Position We agree with petitioner in part. At verification, respondent explained that flux is placed in special bags pursuant to customer orders because home market customers do not have the appropriate facilities for handling and measuring flux for use in their steel production process. Bagged flux is not sold from inventory. Flux can be sold in bulk form without the specialty bags, and is sold as such to the United States and the majority of third country markets. The fact that customers (in the home market or otherwise) have the choice to buy the flux without the special bagging strongly suggests that the bagging is not an integral part of the product covered by the scope of the investigation and, therefore, should not be considered part of variable COM and included in the difmer adjustment. This is in contrast to the situation in Washington Red Raspberry Commission v. United States, where the subject merchandise [raspberries] would be unrecognizable and completely unusable without the containers in which it was sold. Characterizing the bagging costs as variable COM as suggested by respondent is not justifiable in this case. Respondent has not been able to explain to our satisfaction how bagging costs contribute to differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise, as directed by 19 CFR 353.57. (See also the Department's July 29, 1992 Policy Bulletin (No. 92.2), which states that any difmer adjustment must be tied to such differences.) The 1986 less than fair value determinations cited by respondent are inapposite. Stainless Steel Cooking Ware from Korea reflected our prior practice regarding the inclusion of difference in consumer packing in making difmer adjustments, which was changed in the 1992 Policy Bulletin cited above. Likewise, in Porcelain-on-Steel Cookware from Taiwan, we merely said that consumer packaging was not a cost incidental to shipment. We did not say that it constituted an integral physical part of the merchandise under investigation. As noted above, in difmer analysis, we focus only on the differences in physical characteristics of the merchandise. The merchandise in this instance is CA flux. Bagging does not change the physical characteristics of flux and, therefore, it was not included in the difmer calculation. In the FMV Calculations performed pursuant to the Suspension Agreement in Venezuelan cement, we were not examining the differences in the physical characteristics per se of the subject merchandise. Therefore, respondent's reliance on Venezuelan cement is inapposite.
