FR940524-2-00095 FR940524-2-00053 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20307; No. 812&hyph;8940] Banner Life Insurance Company, et al. May 17, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for an order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: Banner Life Insurance Company (``Banner Life''), Banner Life Variable Annuity Account B (``Account B''), and Banner Financial Services Group, Inc. (``Financial'') (collectively, ``Applicants''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the 1940 Act granting exemptions from the provisions of sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction from the assets of Account B of a mortality and expense risk charge in connection with the offer and sale of certain flexible premium variable annuity contracts (``Contracts''). FILING DATE: The application was filed on April 15, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing request should be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on June 13, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o Banner Life Insurance Company, 1701 Research Boulevard, Rockville, Maryland 20850. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Yvonne Hunold, Senior Counsel, or Wendell M. Faria, Deputy Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Banner Life (formerly, Government Employees Life Insurance Company) is a stock life insurance company and, since December 1, 1983, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Legal & General America, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Legal & General International Limited, England. The ultimate controlling entity is Legal & General Group Plc., a United Kingdom company. Banner Life is principally engaged in offering life insurance and is licensed in the District of Columbia and all states except Maine and New York. 2. Account B is a separate investment account established by Banner Life and registered with the Commission under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. Account B will have a number of subaccounts, each of which will invest solely in a specific corresponding portfolio of the Scudder Variable Life Investment Fund (``Scudder Fund''). The Scudder Fund is a registered, diversified, open-end management investment company with a number of series, or portfolios. 3. The Contracts are individual flexible premium variable annuity policies that may be purchased on a non-tax qualified basis or purchased and used in connection with retirement plans or individual retirement accounts that qualify for favorable federal income tax treatment. A registration statement on Form N&hyph;4 to register the Contracts under the Securities Act of 1933 (``1933 Act'') has been filed with the Commission. 4. Banner Financial will serve as the distributor and principal underwriter of the Contracts. Banner Financial is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as a broker-dealer and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. 5. Premium payments may be allocated to one or more subaccounts of Account B (``Subaccounts'') and be credited with the investment experience of the selected Subaccount(s). Prior to the Maturity Date, a Contract Owner may surrender all or a portion of the Account Value, or transfer Account Value between Subaccounts. The Contracts will provide for a series of Annuity Payments and Annuity Payment Plans. The Contracts also will provide for the payment of a death benefit, which is equal to the greatest of: (a) Account Value for the Valuation Period during which the Death Benefit election is effective or is deemed to be effective; (b) total premiums made, less the sum of all partial withdrawals and loan values; or (c) the Account Value on the seventh year anniversary immediately preceding the date the death benefit election is effective or is deemed to become effective, adjusted for any subsequent premiums and partial withdrawals and charges and loan values made between such seventh year anniversary and the date the election is effective or is deemed to become effective. 6. Various fees and expenses are deducted under the Contracts. An annual maintenance charge of $25 will be deducted from the Policy Value prior to the Maturity Date. This charge will be deducted on a pro-rata basis if the Contract is surrendered during a Policy Year. The maintenance charge is to compensate Banner Life for the administrative services and is guaranteed not to increase. Banner Life does not anticipate any profit from this charge. Additionally, a daily Administrative Expense Charge equal to an effective annual rate of .10% of the net assets of the variable account will be deducted. There currently is no charge for transfers, but Banner Life reserves the right to impose a fee for more than twelve transfers in more than one year. Shares of the various Scudder Fund portfolios will be sold to Account B at net asset value. Scudder Fund pays its investment adviser a fee for managing its investments and business affairs. Each portfolio is also responsible for all of its expenses. 7. Banner Life will deduct the aggregate premium taxes paid on behalf of a particular Contract upon annuitization or surrender. No charges currently are made for federal, state or local taxes, other than premium taxes. Banner Life may, however, deduct charges for such taxes from Account B in the future. 8. No sales charges are deducted from premium payments under the Contracts. A contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') in the amount of up to 7% of total Premiums paid is imposed on certain full or partial withdrawals to cover expenses relating to the sales of the Contracts. No CDSC is assessed: (a) Upon withdrawal of up to 15% of Account Value if it is the first withdrawal in the current Policy Year; (b) if the Account Value is applied to an Annuity Payment Plan with payments over at least a five year period; and (c) to premiums paid more than seven years ago as well as the 15% of premiums within the prior seven years. In no event will the aggregate contingent deferred sales charge exceed 8.5% of aggregate premiums paid. Banner Life does not anticipate that the CDSC will generate sufficient revenues to pay the cost of distributing the Contracts. If this charge is insufficient to cover the expenses, the deficiency will be met from Banner Life's general account assets, which may include amounts derived from the charge for mortality and expenses risks.
