FR940406-2-00075 FR940406-2-00046 B. Core Capacity Program Work Plan For each of the four areas of program activity, the Core Capacity Work Plan will be evaluated in terms of the following items (80 points): 1. Objectives. The extent to which work plan objectives are measurable, feasible, appropriate, and specific, and are identified for all four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, and Coordinate). (25 points) 2. Methods. The feasibility, appropriateness, and specificity of the proposed methods for achieving the stated objectives and are related to the four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, Coordinate). (25 points) 3. Evaluation Plan. The feasibility and appropriateness of the proposed plan for evaluating progress toward attainment of the stated objectives and are related to the four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, Coordinate). (25 points) 4. ``Milestones to Completion'' Chart. The completeness of the chart describing the timeline and milestones leading to attainment of the stated objectives for each of the four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, Coordinate). (5 points) C. Core Capacity Program Budget The extent to which this budget is adequately justified, reasonable, and consistent with this program purpose and objectives. (Not Weighted) Applications for Enhanced Program support will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: A. Background and Need for the Enhanced Program The extent to which the need is demonstrated, including adequate documentation of the barriers to diabetes care and education and the degree of experience the applicant has in each of the four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, and Coordinate). (20 points) B. Enhanced Program Work Plan For each of the four areas of program activity, the Enhanced Program Work Plan will be evaluated in terms of the following items (80 points): 1. Objectives. The extent to which work plan objectives are measurable, feasible, appropriate, and specific, and are identified for all four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, and Coordinate). (25 points) 2. Methods. The feasibility, appropriateness, and specificity of the proposed methods for achieving the stated objectives and are related to the four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, Coordinate). (25 points) 3. Evaluation Plan. The feasibility and appropriateness of the proposed plan for evaluating progress toward attainment of the stated objectives and are related to the four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, Coordinate). (25 points) 4. ``Milestones to Completion'' Chart. The completeness of the chart describing the timeline and milestones leading to attainment of the stated objectives for each of the four areas of program activity (Define, Develop, Implement, Coordinate). (5 points) C. Enhanced Program Budget The extent to which this budget is adequately justified, reasonable, and consistent with this program purpose and objectives. (Not Weighted) Funding Priority Priority will be given to applications directed to those providers and systems which serve population groups disproportionately impacted by diabetes and its complications. These populations include certain racial and ethnic minorities (African Americans, Hispanic Americans, American Indians, and Asian-Pacific Islanders), the elderly, and the economically disadvantaged. Public comments are not being solicited regarding the funding priority because time does not permit solicitation and review prior to the funding date. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. The applicant should contact its State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert it to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should forward them to Elizabeth M. Taylor, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., room 305, Mailstop E&hyph;16, Atlanta, GA 30305, no later than 60 days after the application deadline. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' State process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.988. Other Requirements Paperwork Reduction Act Projects that involve the collection of information from 10 or more individuals and funded by the cooperative agreement will be subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act. Application Submission and Deadline The program announcement and application kit were sent to all eligible applicants in February 1994. Where To Obtain Additional Information Business management technical assistance including information on application procedure and copies of application forms may be obtained from Bernice A. Moore, Grants Management Specialist, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., room 305, Mailstop E&hyph;16, Atlanta, GA 30305, telephone (404) 842&hyph;6802. Programmatic technical assistance may be obtained from Stephen DePaul, Program Services Branch, Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 4770 Buford Highway, NE., Mailstop K&hyph;10, Atlanta, GA 30341, telephone (404) 488&hyph;5046. Please refer to Announcement Number 424 when requesting information and submitting an application. Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00474&hyph;0) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) referenced in the INTRODUCTION through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9325, telephone (202) 783&hyph;3238. Dated: March 31, 1994. Robert L. Foster, Acting Associate Director for Management and Operations, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8174 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;P
