FR940414-0-00006 FR940414-0-00001 Response: REA agrees and has added language to that effect. One commenter suggested that a new section (2)(vi) be added restricting decompiling or reverse assembly. Response: Although REA has not added a new section, the suggested language has been added to section (2)(iii). Four commenters replied on section (2)(vii)(A). Their comments are summarized below: (i) Three would void the warranty if the Licensee made any changes. (ii) Three wanted section (2)(vii)(A) removed. (iii) One suggested extensively revising the language. (iv) One suggested refusing to allow Licensee to make any changes to the Licensed Software to restore service. Response: (i) REA feels the Borrower must be able to attempt to preserve or restore service to their subscribers without incurring a penalty if the Licensor is unable to preserve or restore service in a timely manner. (ii), (iii) Section (2)(vii)(A) has not been removed but the language has been extensively revised to clarify REA's intention and protect the Licensor. (iv) As stated previously, REA feels the Borrower must be able to attempt to preserve or restore service to their subscribers. However, this section has been revised to indicate that any changes made by Licensee can only be made if the Licensor is unable to preserve or restore service in a timely manner. One commenter wanted to know who determines that the Licensor is unwilling or unable to furnish support for the Licensed Software under section (2)(vii)(C). Response: The exception set forth in section (2)(vii)(c) applies only if section (2)(xi) is enforced. Section (2)(vii)(c) has been revised to indicate the above. One commenter feels that all rights to any changes made under section (2)(vii) should remain the property of the Licensor. Response: As indicated previously, section (2)(vii)(A) has been revised for clarification and any changes made under section (2)(vii)(C) are only allowed if section (2)(xi) is enforced. REA believes any changes should become the property of the Licensee because the changes are made only in the instance where the Licensor is unwilling or unable to support the Licensed Software. Comments were received on section (2)(ix) as follows: (i) Five commenters stated that some software problems cannot be corrected in thirty days and suggested that additional time be allowed in these cases. (ii) Two commenters suggested a one (1) year warranty period. (iii) One commenter felt that the Software warranty should begin at the Completion of Installation. (iv) It was also felt that the Software should function according to the Specification and not to the technical material provided to explain the System and that the Licensor's sole obligation should be to repair the Software and correct any physical damage caused by the Software failure. (v) One commenter wanted the phrase ``free from errors and incompleteness'' added to the first sentence of section (2)(ix) to reflect the requirement in 7 CFR 1753.38(c)(1)(v) and a definition of those terms added to the Agreement. (vi) It was also suggested that a one (1) year warranty period be added for special equipment. Response: (i) Section (2)(ix) already allows for an extension of time if the software problem cannot be corrected in thirty (30) days. This language has been further clarified. (ii) REA requires a five (5) year warranty period because software is information based and defects in seldom used programs would not be detected until the program is used. REA believes that over a 5 year period even seldom used programs would be used and any defects corrected.
