FR940811-2-00101 FR940811-2-00066 2.1␣Standard Antitrust Analysis Applies to Intellectual Property The Department applies the same general antitrust principles to conduct involving intellectual property that it applies to conduct involving any other form of tangible or intangible property. That is not to say that intellectual property is in all respects the same as any other form of property. Intellectual property has important characteristics that distinguish it from many other forms of property. These characteristics can be taken into account by standard antitrust analysis, however, and do not require the application of fundamentally different principles. Intellectual property law bestows on the owners of intellectual property certain rights to exclude others. These rights help the owners to profit from the use of their property. An intellectual property owner's rights to exclude are similar to the rights enjoyed by owners of other forms of private property. As with other forms of private property, certain acquisitions of intellectual property, and certain types of agreements with respect to such property, may have anticompetitive effects against which the antitrust laws can and do protect. Intellectual property is thus neither particularly free from scrutiny under the antitrust laws, nor particularly suspect under them. 2.2␣Intellectual Property and Market Power Market power is the ability profitably to maintain prices above, or output below, competitive levels for a significant period of time. 7 The Department will not presume that a patent, copyright, or trade secret necessarily confers market power upon its owner. Although the intellectual property right confers the power to exclude with respect to the specific product, process, or work in question, there will often be sufficient actual or potential close substitutes for such product, process, or work to prevent the exercise of market power. 8 If a patent or other form of intellectual property does confer market power, that market power does not by itself offend the antitrust laws. As with any other tangible or intangible asset that enables its owner to obtain significant supracompetitive profits, market power (or even a monopoly) that is solely ``a consequence of a superior product, business acumen, or historical accident'' does not violate the antitrust laws. 9 Nor does such market power impose on the intellectual property owner an obligation to license that technology to others. See, e.g., SCM Corp. v. Xerox Copy. , 645 F.2d 1195 (2d Cir. 1981), cert. denied , 455 U.S. 1016 (1982). As in other antitrust contexts, however, market power could be illegally acquired or maintained, or, even if lawfully acquired and maintained, would be relevant to the ability of an intellectual property owner to harm competition through unreasonable conduct in connection with such property. 7 Market power can be exercised in other economic dimensions, such as quality, service and innovation. It is assumed in this definition that all competitive dimensions are held constant except the ones in which power is being exercised; it would not, of course, be indicative of market power that a seller is able to charge higher prices for a higher-quality product. The definition in text is stated in terms of a seller with market power; a buyer could also exercise market power ( e.g. , by maintaining the price below the competitive level, thereby depressing output). 8 The Department notes that the law is unclear on this issue. Compare Jefferson Parish Hospital District No. 2 v. Hyde, 466 U.S. 2, 16 (1984) (expressing the view in dictum that if a product is protected by a patent, ``it is fair to presume that the inability to buy the product elsewhere gives the seller market power'') with id . at 37 n.7 (O'Connor, J., concurring) (``[A] patent holder has no market power in any relevant sense if there are close substitutes for the patented product.''). Compare also Abbott Laboratories v. Brennan , 952 F.2d 1346, 1354&hyph;55 (Fed. Cir. 1991) (no presumption of market power from intellectual property right) with Digidyne Corp. v. Data General Corp. , 734 F.2d 1336, 1341&hyph;42 (9th Cir. 1984) (requisite economic power is presumed from copyright), cert. denied , 473 U.S. 908 (1985). 9 United States v. Grinnell Corp ., 384 U.S. 563, 571 (1966); see also United States v. Aluminum Co. of America , 148 F.2d 416, 430 (2d Cir. 1945) (Sherman Act is not violated by the attainment of market power solely through ``superior skill, foresight and industry''). 2.3␣Procompetitive Benefits of Licensing Intellectual property typically is one component among many in a production process and derives value from its combination with complementary factors. Complementary components of production include manufacturing and distribution facilities, workforces, and other items of intellectual property. The owner of intellectual property has to arrange for its combination with other necessary inputs to realize its commercial value. Often, the owner finds it most efficient to contract with others for these inputs, to sell rights to the intellectual property, or to enter into a joint venture arrangement for its development, rather than supplying these complementary inputs itself. Licensing, cross-licensing, or otherwise transferring intellectual property (hereinafter ``licensing'') can facilitate its integration with complementary factors of production. This integration can lead to more efficient exploitation of the intellectual property, benefiting consumers through the reduction of costs and the introduction of new products. Such arrangements increase the value of intellectual property to consumers and to the developers of the technology. By potentially increasing the expected returns from intellectual property, licensing also can increase the incentive for its creation and thus promote greater investment in research and development. Sometimes the use of one item of intellectual property requires access to another. An item of intellectual property ``blocks'' another when the second cannot be practiced without using the first. For example, an improvement on a patented machine can be blocked by the patent on the machine. Licensing promotes the coordinated development of technologies that are in a blocking relationship. Field-of-use, territorial, and other limitations on intellectual property licenses may serve procompetitive ends by allowing the licensor to exploit its property as efficiently and effectively as possible. These various forms of exclusivity can be used to give a licensee an incentive to invest in the commercialization and distribution of products embodying the licensed intellectual property and to develop additional applications for the licensed property. The restrictions may do so, for example, by protecting the licensee against free-riding on the licensee's investments by other licensees or by the licensor. They may also promote the licensor's incentive to license, by protecting the licensor from competition in the licensor's own technology in a market niche that it prefers to keep to itself. These benefits of licensing restrictions apply to patent, copyright, and trade secret licenses.
