FR941005-1-00023 FR941005-1-00004 Commenters are also requested to respond to the following specific question regarding this option: 26. Identify other advantages or disadvantages of this option for defining the assessment base. D. Expanded Base: Foreign Deposits Under this option, the assessment base would equal, in general terms, total adjusted domestic deposits plus foreign deposits. Despite the fact that obligations payable only outside the United States and certain other limited areas (including ``foreign deposits'') are not covered by federal deposit insurance, they have sometimes been protected in the past by federal failure-resolution policies. Since virtually all foreign deposits are held by large banks and since large-bank failures historically have been handled in a way that protected most depositors, it has been argued that these deposits should be assessed. Those who support this argument believe that assessing foreign deposits would help to equalize a perceived inequality in treatment between large and small depository institutions. However, recent changes in the failure-resolution process have eroded this argument. Under FDICIA, protection of uninsured deposits, including foreign deposits, is permitted only in cases where a least-cost determination warrants such protection or where the systemic-risk exception is triggered. In cases falling within the systemic-risk exception (which are expected to be quite rare), FDICIA requires special assessments on the members of the affected insurance fund to cover the costs of protecting any uninsured deposits. (The statute requires the special assessment without reference to the fund's resources; thus, whether or not foreign deposits are included in the assessment base is totally irrelevant to the applicability of the special assessment, which is apparently intended to be imposed on all members of the affected fund.) Another possible argument for assessing foreign deposits is to offset any losses resulting from a foreign government's seizure of failed U.S. institutions' assets located within the jurisdiction of that foreign government. While the possible seizure of assets by a host country is a risk that should not be overlooked, neither should it be exaggerated. In the event of such a failure, it is not clear who would control the liquidation of foreign-branch assets. Increased costs associated with assessing foreign deposits could reduce the ability of U.S. depository institutions to compete in foreign and international markets and could adversely affect their ability to promote exports from the United States. There is reason to believe that assessment of foreign deposits would cause many depository institutions to convert their foreign offices to subsidiary depository institutions, thus perhaps substantially reducing the amount of foreign deposits subject to assessment. Moreover, many would argue that if foreign deposits are assessed, they should also be insured. At present, federal statute explicitly precludes the insurance coverage of foreign deposits. A change in this situation would require Congressional action and would raise a variety of issues, including the reaction of foreign governments to U.S. depository institutions offering insured deposits in competition with that country's domestic depository institutions. Commenters are requested to provide an evaluation of this option for defining the assessment base, in terms of the criteria discussed in section III of this Notice: 27. Fairness 28. Measurability 29. Relation to Risk 30. Non-Avoidability 31. Recordkeeping Burden
