FR940429-0-00114 FR940429-0-00012 Section 667.7␣Notice to SPRE of Federal Actions; and §667.8 Notice to Nationally Recognized Accrediting Agency of SPRE Actions Comments: A number of commenters believed that the Secretary should shorten the time period proposed in the NPRM for notifying SPREs of Federal actions. Several of these commenters suggested shortening the time period to 5 days, while others suggested notification within 48 hours in cases where the Secretary intended to terminate an institution's participation in a title IV, HEA program. A few commenters suggested that the Secretary notify the SPRE in writing of the applicable action. Several commenters suggested that the Secretary make clear that an action includes a limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding. A number of commenters urged the Secretary to (1) provide to accrediting agencies the same information provided to SPREs, and (2) require States to provide to accrediting agencies information regarding SPRE reviews of referred institutions. Discussion: The Secretary proposed 10 days in the NPRM because in some instances the Secretary may need to confirm information before providing it to a SPRE. The Secretary agrees that accrediting agencies should also be notified by the Secretary and by SPREs. Accordingly, the Secretary (1) intends to notify SPREs and accrediting agencies of Federal actions as soon as possible and provide this notification orally in writing, and (2) will require States to notify accrediting agencies of SPRE actions. The Secretary further agrees to include as Federal actions those identified by the commenters. Changes: Section 667.7 is revised to describe an action taken by the Secretary against an institution as one that includes a limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding. A new §667.8 is added to require SPREs to notify appropriate accrediting agencies of SPRE reviews of referred institutions and SPRE findings and planned and actual corrective actions. This section is also revised to provide that the Secretary notifies the appropriate nationally recognized accrediting agency of actions taken by the Secretary or another Federal agency against an institution. Section 667.9␣Institutions With Locations in More Than One State Comments: Many commenters objected to the proposed requirement that an institution's branch campuses or additional locations be subject to the standards of the State in which those branch campuses or additional locations are located. These commenters believed strongly that an institution's branch campuses and additional locations be subject only to the standards of the State in which the main campus of that institution is located. The commenters argued that it is unreasonable and burdensome to require an institution's branch campuses and locations to comply with different State standards.
