FR940228-1-00104 FR940228-1-00010 The refund policy proposed to be adopted as appendix A is derived from the guidelines developed by the National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO). Currently, under the FFEL program regulations, an institution must follow the guidelines developed by NACUBO and restated in appendix A to the FFEL program regulations (or refund policy standards set by another association of institutions of postsecondary education and approved by the Secretary) if neither an institution's State nor its accrediting agency have refund standards. While the NACUBO standards identify policy standards that institutions should have for the refund of student charges, the Secretary's proposed appendix A establishes policy standards that institutions must have for the refund of student charges. The Secretary has always considered these standards as mandatory for purposes of the FFEL program regulations and is, therefore, making that interpretation clear in these proposed regulations. Further, the Secretary's proposed appendix A to this part would mandate the percentage of tuition charges that must be returned to a student who withdraws from an institution at various intervals during the refund period. In the development of the actual refund calculation for this policy, the Secretary adapted a proportionate calculation that is similar to refund policies used by proprietary institutions. The Secretary believes that this refund schedule provides a fairer allocation of resources between the institution and the Title IV, HEA programs than exists under the shorter refund periods often found at traditional colleges and universities. This proposed refund policy is not normally as generous to the student as the pro rata refund policy prescribed by the statute, because the affected students would not be first time students and, therefore, would not be entitled to the full protection of the pro rata refund policy. Under the standards in appendix A, a student who submits written notice of withdrawal up to one week before the first day of class would receive a refund of 100 percent of tuition charges. The refund would be reduced to at least 90 percent if the student submits written notice of withdrawal between the end of the 100 percent period and the first 10 percent of the period for which the student was charged. A student would receive at least a 50 percent refund if he or she withdraws between the first 10 percent and the first 25 percent of the period for which the student was charged. Finally, a student would receive at least a 25 percent refund if he or she withdraws between the first 25 percent and the first 50 percent of the period for which the student was charged. As a part of the refund policy in proposed appendix A, the Secretary would allow an institution to subtract from the refund to a student any charges for equipment (including books and supplies) if there is a separate charge for the equipment and the student actually obtains the equipment but the student fails to return the equipment within 20 days after his or her withdrawal. This provision is discussed further in the explanation on pro rata refunds. An institution must determine whether a student withdrew prior to the 60 percent point in time in the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged when determining whether the pro rata refund calculation is applicable to a student. The Secretary proposes to define ``the 60 percent point in time in the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged'' based upon whether the educational program in which the student is enrolled is measured in credit hours or clock hours. In the case of an educational program that is measured in credit hours, this point would be the point in calendar time when 60 percent of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged has elapsed. In the case of an educational program that is measured in clock hours, this point would be the point in time when the student completes 60 percent of the clock hours scheduled for the period of enrollment for which the student is charged. For instance, if the student's period of enrollment in an educational program that is measured in credit hours is scheduled to last 5 months (20 weeks), the 60 percent point of the period is at 12 weeks. However, in the case of a program measured in clock hours, the Secretary believes that it is more accurate to use the number of completed clock hours to determine the percentage of enrollment. For instance, if the student is scheduled to complete 900 clock hours, the 60 percent point of the period of enrollment occurs when the student has completed 540 clock hours. The Secretary wishes to emphasize that the definition of the determination of the 60 percent point in time in the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged is different from the determination of ``the portion of the period of period of enrollment for which the student has been charged that remains'' that is used to calculate the refund after the institution has determined that the pro rata refund calculation is to be used. The proposed definition of the latter term will be discussed later. In determining the largest refund to a student, the Secretary proposes to require an institution to determine the largest refund for each student. An institution would not be permitted to determine which refund is generally the most generous and use that refund calculation for all students. The Secretary believes that current computer technology enables an institution to automate this determination through the use of computer software.
