FR941205-2-00041 FR941205-2-00030 safeguards: Safeguards for automated records have been established in accordance with the HHS Information Resources Management Manual, Part 6, Automated Information Systems Security Program Handbook. This includes maintaining the magnetic tapes and discs within an enclosure attended by security guards. Anyone entering or leaving this enclosure must have a special badge issued only to authorized personnel. For computerized records electronically transmitted between Central Office and field office locations (including organizations administering SSA programs under contractual agreements, safeguards include a lock/unlock password system, exclusive use of leased telephone lines, a terminal-oriented transaction matrix, and an audit trail. All microfilm and paper files are accessible only by authorized personnel who have a need for the information in the performance of their official duties. Expansion and improvement of SSA's telecommunications systems has resulted in the acquisition of terminals equipped with physical key locks. The terminals also are fitted with adapters to permit the future installation of data encryption devices and devices to permit the identification of terminal users. retention and disposal: All paper forms and cards are retained until they are filmed or are entered on tape and their accuracy is verified. Then they are destroyed by shredding. All tapes, discs, and microfilm files are updated periodically. The out-of-date magnetic tapes and discs are erased. The out-of-date microfilm is shredded. SSA retains correspondence for 1 year when it concerns documents returned to an individual, denials of confidential information, release of confidential information to an authorized third party and undeliverable material, for 4 years when it concerns information and evidence pertaining to coverage, wage, and self-employment determinations or when the statute of limitations is involved, and permanently when it affects future claims development, especially coverage, wage, and self-employment determinations. Correspondence is destroyed, when appropriate, by shredding. system manager(s) and address: Director, Office of Pre-Claims Requirements, Office of Systems Requirements, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard; Baltimore, MD 21235. notification procedure: An individual can determine if this system contains a record pertaining to him/her by providing his/her name, signature and SSN or, if the SSN is not known, name, signature, date and place of birth, mother's maiden name and father's name to the address shown under system manager and by referring to this system. (Furnishing the SSN is voluntary, but it will make searching for an individuals's record easier and prevent delay.) An individual requesting notification of records in person need not furnish any special documents of identity. Documents he/she would normally carry on his/her person would be sufficient (e.g., credit cards, driver's license, or voter registration card). An individual requesting notification via mail or telephone must furnish a minimum of his/her name, date of birth, and address in order to establish identity, plus any additional information specified in this section. These procedures are in accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR part 5b. record access procedures: Same as notification procedures. Also, requesters should reasonably specify the record contents they are seeking. These procedures are in accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR part 5b. contesting record procedures: Same as notification procedures. Also, requesters should reasonably identify the record, specify the information they are contesting and state the corrective action sought and the reasons for the correction with supporting justification. These procedures are in accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR part 5b. Record source categories: SSN applicants, employers and self-employed individuals; DOJ (including the Immigration and Naturalization Service); the Department of Treasury (Internal Revenue Service); the United Mine Workers of America Combined Benefit Fund; an existing system of records maintained by SSA, the Master Beneficiary Record (09&hyph;60&hyph;0090); correspondence, replies to correspondence, and earnings modifications resulting from SSA internal processes. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29739 Filed 12&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;M
