FR940228-1-00100 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary proposes to remove the option to require an institution with a Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rate that exceeds 20 percent for any fiscal year to submit to the Secretary and guaranty agencies the specific information described in current ยง668.15(b)(2)(ii) concerning pass rates, job placement rates, and completion rates. These changes are consistent with earlier statutory and regulatory revisions to current ยง668.15 and because the Secretary rarely asks institutions to submit this information. The Secretary would reserve the right to request any information the Secretary deems necessary to make a preliminary determination as to the appropriate action to be taken by the Secretary regarding the institution. Default Management Plan The Secretary proposes to clarify requirements for implementation of default management plans for institutions with Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rates greater than 20 percent for any fiscal year. The Secretary has required implementation of a default management plan for institutions with cohort default rates greater than 20 percent since the implementation of the default reduction initiative in final regulations published June 5, 1989 (54 FR 24114). In the preamble to the June 5, 1989, final regulations, the Secretary stated that, in accordance with current ยง668.15(e), an institution with a default rate over 20 percent could be required to implement a default management plan. The proposed provision specifies that, for an institution with a Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rates greater than 20 percent or less than or equal to 40 percent for any fiscal year, the institution would have to submit a default management plan that implements the measures described in appendix D to this part. An institution could only implement a default management plan that deviates from the measures in appendix D if the institution submits a justification for the deviation that is approved by the Secretary. An institution with a Federal Stafford loan and Federal SLS cohort default rate that exceeds 40 percent for any fiscal year, and, therefore, is subject to a limitation, suspension, or termination action under subpart G, would have to implement all of the default reduction measures described in appendix D to this part no later than 60 days after the institution receives the Secretary's notification of the institutions cohort default rate. The institution would not be required to submit any written plans to the Secretary or a guaranty agency unless specifically requested to do so by the Secretary or guaranty agency. End of Participation Section 435(a)(2) of the HEA provides that an institution's participation in the FFEL programs ends if the Secretary determines that the institution's cohort default rate for each of the three most recent fiscal years for which the Secretary has determined the institution's rate is equal to or greater than the applicable threshold rates. Section 435(a)(2)(B) of the HEA sets the threshold rate for fiscal year 1994 and all subsequent fiscal years at 25 percent. Consistent with current regulations, institutions may appeal such loss of participation by demonstrating that mitigating circumstances as found in current ยง668.15 are present. Currently, an institution may not participate in the FFEL programs beginning eight calendar days after the date the Secretary notifies the institution that its cohort default rate exceeds the specified thresholds. The Secretary proposes to change this provision to require that an institution may not participate in the FFEL program beginning with the date that the institution receives notification from the Secretary that its cohort default rate exceeds the specified thresholds. The Secretary does not believe it is appropriate to continue to allow an institution that has lost its participation due to a high default rate to have the benefit of further Title IV, HEA program funds unless it successfully appeals. The Secretary proposes to make corresponding changes throughout this section.
