FR941202-0-00015 FR941202-0-00001 Response. The Commission agrees that it could be useful for a training program to be monitored by an independent oversight group. In addition, the Commission encourages voluntary oversight by an independent group such as a professional association. However, given the oversight roles of the preceptor and the Radiation Safety Committee, the Commission does not see a need to incorporate such a requirement. (5) Comment. If an authorized nuclear pharmacist decides not to seek recertification as a Board Certified Nuclear Pharmacist, would the individual lose the authorized nuclear pharmacist status? Response. See response to comment (3) of §32.72(b). (6) Comment. It appears that the NRC desires to make ``authorized nuclear pharmacist'' status available only to those pharmacists who are engaged in active clinical practice settings. This status should be also available to qualified nuclear pharmacists working in facilities other than clinical practice settings, such as in the research laboratories or academic settings. Response. An authorized nuclear pharmacist who meets the training requirements as specified in §35.980 should be competent to independently operate a nuclear pharmacy regardless of the setting. When there is a need for an authorized nuclear pharmacist outside the clinical setting, qualified individuals in research laboratories or academic settings may also be designated as authorized nuclear pharmacists. (7) Comment. Authorized nuclear pharmacist status should be available to those individuals who have practiced radiopharmacy for a long time but who are not licensed pharmacists. Response. The Commission believes that an individual should not practice pharmacy unless this individual is licensed as a pharmacist by a State. Thus, an authorized nuclear pharmacist must be a licensed pharmacist as required by §§35.980 and 35.981. However, an experienced individual (e.g., a nuclear chemist) may continue to work in a nuclear pharmacy under the supervision of an authorized nuclear pharmacist or a physician authorized user. (8) Comment. The Florida State Board of Pharmacy issues nuclear pharmacists a separate license based on a review of the individual's qualification by its Nuclear Pharmacy Committee. Additionally, it requires a mandatory 12-hours per annum of continuing education in a specific range of topic areas pertinent to nuclear pharmacy practice. With this type of licensing review process already in place, how would the NRC consider applying this towards its ``limited grandfathering'' process for granting ``authorized nuclear pharmacist'' status to Florida nuclear pharmacists? Would the Commission consider this established Florida process for pharmacists as carrying sufficient weight which might serve as a third alternative to its proposed language in 10 CFR 35.980? Response. Section 35.980 specifies that a pharmacist could be qualified as an authorized nuclear pharmacist in two ways: (i) Through BPS certification; or (ii) through a structured educational program and a preceptor's statement. Because qualification as an authorized nuclear pharmacist depends primarily on training and experience, if Florida licensed nuclear pharmacists currently meet either (i) or (ii), they could qualify as authorized nuclear pharmacists. If they do not meet either (i) or (ii), they would need either more training or experience, or a preceptor's statement to qualify. Therefore, there is no benefit to adding a third alternative to 10 CFR 35.980. For ``grandfathering'' an experienced nuclear pharmacist, a new section (§35.981) has been added to the final rule. This section specifies that an experienced pharmacist will be given authorized nuclear pharmacist status if the individual: (i) Is a licensed pharmacist, (ii) Is currently working in a nuclear pharmacy, and (iii) Has completed a structured educational program as specified in §35.980(b)(1). A Florida licensed nuclear pharmacist who is currently working in a nuclear pharmacy could satisfy the first two criteria. However, the comment letter did not provide any information regarding whether this individual meets the third criterion. Therefore, such a nuclear pharmacist could qualify as an authorized nuclear pharmacist if that individual has completed a structured educational program that equals or exceeds the requirements of §35.980(b)(1). Section 35.981␣Training for Experienced Nuclear Pharmacists Comment. This section was not included in the proposed rule, but has been added to the final rule in response to numerous comments. The comments suggested that the NRC should provide a mechanism for ``grandfathering'' qualified nuclear pharmacists who are currently working in hospital-based nuclear pharmacies, similar to the mechanism proposed for ``grandfathering'' qualified individuals who are currently working in commercial nuclear pharmacies.
