FR940413-2-00121 FR940413-2-00060 Part III_Statement of Work The primary focus of this grant will be to develop model materials, including interactive videos and slides, in carpentry aimed at facilitating the transition from school to a registered apprenticeship program appropriate for use by all high school juniors and seniors not planning to attend college. For purposes of this solicitation, a ``registered apprenticeship program'' is defined as one registered by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training in the Department of Labor or by a State apprenticeship agency recognized and approved as the appropriate body for State registration and approval of local apprenticeship programs and agreements for Federal purposes. A. Deliverables The principal deliverable for this grant shall be a comprehensive curriculum for an instructional program in carpentry. The deliverable shall include: 1. Phased sets of interactive video materials that will provide a substantial introduction to carpentry; 2. Accompanying materials to include supplemental workbooks and testing materials to enable the student to progress on a self-paced basis and to evaluate his or her own progress in the course; and 3. Certification testing materials including hands-on projects to enable an instructor to determine whether the student has gained enough knowledge to receive credit for that portion of the curriculum. While not mandatory, favorable consideration will be given to those proposals which include an additional certification process that also provides a student entry into a registered apprenticeship program after successfully completing the secondary school curriculum. In demonstrating various tasks associated with carpentry, the materials should take into account recent technical advances in the development of tools and materials and appropriate safety and health standards and procedures that are in consonance with the use of those tools and materials. Within budgetary and other relevant constrains, the materials developed should be state of the art, taking full advantage of modern audio-visual instructional technology. Part IV_Evaluation Criteria Prospective offerors are advised that the selection of the grantee for the award is to be made after careful evaluation of proposals by an evaluation panel within DOL. Each panelist will evaluate the proposals based on the following factors: A. Technical Approach (40 Points) The proposal shall describe in detail the curriculum to be established which is aimed at facilitating the transition from school to a registered apprenticeship program. In addition, if the proposal contains a certification process which provides that a student who successfully completes the secondary school curriculum will be afforded entry into a registered apprenticeship program, the process should be fully explained. B. Coordination and Linkages (20 Points) The proposal should enumerate established or proposed linkages with existing registered apprenticeship programs and with regional and national associations representing secondary education. C. Organizational Capacity (20 Points) The proposal must provide a background description of how the particular entity which will have responsibility for this project is organized and the types and quality of services it provides. Background in general areas related to training and apprenticeship such as labor-management relations or in specific areas such as in-depth experience in apprenticeable crafts should be enumerated. Specific examples of projects similar to the one proposed for support that offeror has administered should be included. D. Experience (20 Points) The proposal must identify proposed staff and provide a discussion of staff experience in the areas of apprenticeship programs and their capacity to develop model training materials, including interactive videos and slides. It should also enumerate the facilities needed to conduct the project. These resources should be adequate to the work described in the application. The staff would have the required skills and demonstrated ability to produce the expected outcomes. The staffing pattern must clearly link responsibilities to project tasks. Applicants are advised that discussions may be necessary in order to clarify any inconsistencies in their applications. The panel results are advisory in nature and not binding on the Grant Officer. The final decision on the award will be based on what is most advantageous to the Federal Government as determined by the ETA Grant Officer.
