FR940303-2-00201 FR940303-2-00097 Application Requirements Proposals must be submitted by the deadline and must conform to the eligibility requirements and academic fields identified in this announcement. The proposal package must include three originals, containing tabs A&hyph;U (see ``Application Checklist'' in the guidelines packet), and 10 copies containing tabs A&hyph;D, as well as all required documentation. Proposals must also include the following documentation: 1. A narrative, not to exceed 20 double-spaced pages, including descriptions of institutions and participating academic departments or schools; a detailed description of the proposed linkage program, including names and qualifications of designated project directors; a statement of need for the proposed program; a detailed description of proposed activities, including who will travel, when, and where (a timetable is recommended); anticipated benefits to participating institutions; and a plan for institutional evaluation of the project. 2. Documentation of institutional support for the proposed linkage, including signed letters of endorsement from the president, chancellor, or director of the U.S. and foreign institutions, making specific reference to the NIS Linkage Program and committing the institutions to maintaining exchange participants on salary and benefits during the exchange. A general letter of support or an agreement between the participating institutions without reference to the NISLP and maintenance of salaries and benefits will not fulfill this requirement. A sample letter of endorsement and commitment is included in the application packet. 3. Academic resumes of participating faculty/staff from all involved institutions. Resumes must clearly indicate: Relevant overseas experience and language skills; relevant travel, publications, and research activities. Note: All pages in excess of the two-page limit will be discarded. Review Process The NIS Linkage Program review process will be comprised of technical, academic, and Agency reviews. Proposals will be deemed technically eligible only if they adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. Technically eligible proposals will be forwarded to ad hoc panels of area and subject specialists who will weigh their academic merit, potential for fostering curriculum reform and development, and feasibility. Proposals recommended for funding by the ad hoc academic panels will be reviewed for relevance to Agency goals and the objectives of the Foreign Operations Appropriations Bill of 1994 by the Office of Academic Programs, the Office of Eastern Europe and the NIS, USIS offices and the budget and contracts offices. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's contracting officer. Review Criteria Academic Review Criteria Proposals are reviewed by independent academic peer panels with geographic and disciplinary expertise which make recommendations to the Agency based on the following criteria: 1. Academic merit of the proposal, as reflected by: A clear statement of program goals; a detailed project description; and a statement on how the proposed project will be implemented and evaluated. 2. Probable impact of the proposed linkage in achieving the goal of reforming educational administration and curricula at the foreign partner institution. 3. If the proposal involves an established, active linkage, evidence that the partners will engage in new, innovative activities. 4. Evidence that theme(s) of proposed project fit(s) field(s) stated in this announcement. 5. Feasibility of the program plan as it relates to the stated goals and selected topics and activities. 6. Quality of scholarly and professional credentials/experience of participants in relation to the goals of the proposed exchange plan, including language proficiency.
