FR940803-1-00075 FR940803-1-00015 Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC 62 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Proposed Rule to List the Arkansas River Basin Population of the Arkansas River Shiner as Endangered AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes to list the Arkansas River basin population of the Arkansas River shiner ( Notropis girardi ) as an endangered species under the authority of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended. The Arkansas River shiner is a small fish found in the Canadian (South Canadian) River in New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas; and the Cimarron River in Kansas and Oklahoma. A non-native, introduced population occurs in the Pecos River in New Mexico; however, protection for this population is not under consideration. The Arkansas River basin population is threatened by habitat destruction and modification from stream dewatering or depletion due to diversion of surface water and excessive groundwater pumping, water quality degradation, and construction of impoundments. Incidental capture of the Arkansas River shiner during pursuit of commercial bait fish species, and competition with the introduced Red River shiner ( Notropis bairdi ) may also contribute to reduced population sizes. This proposal, if made final, will implement Federal protection provided by the Act for Notropis girardi . Critical habitat is prudent but not currently determinable. DATES: Comments from all interested parties must be received by October 3, 1994. Public hearing requests must be received by September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to: Field Supervisor, Ecological Services Field Office, 222 South Houston, Suite A, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74127. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ken Collins at the above address (918/581&hyph;7458).
