FR940125-0-00002 FR940125-0-00001 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Chapter I Regulatory Flexibility Act Plan for Periodic Review of the Commission's Rules and Regulations AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Plan for Periodic Review of Rules and Regulations. SUMMARY: This action establishes a plan for the review of FCC regulations pursuant to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980. The Appendix specifies the Commission's rules that will be reviewed during calendar year 1994. Any revision to this plan will be published in the Federal Register . DATES: Comments must be submitted within 60 days from January 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be submitted to: Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street NW., Washington, DC 20554. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Terry Johnson, Office of Managing Director (202) 632&hyph;0923. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the published plan, specific regulations which may require amendment or rescission will be published and provision will be made for comments by interested parties. 1. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 610, the Commission hereby publishes this plan for the review of all rules issued by the agency in calendar year 1984 which have, or will have, a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The purpose of the review will be to determine whether such rules should be continued without change, or should be amended or rescinded, consistent with the stated objectives of applicable statutes, to minimize any significant economic impact of such rules upon a substantial number of small entities. 2. The accompanying Appendix lists the FCC regulations to be reviewed during calendar year 1994. In succeeding years, lists will be published for the review of regulations promulgated ten years preceding the year of review. 3. In reviewing each rule under this plan to minimize significant economic impact on small entities consistent with the stated objectives of applicable statutes, the FCC will consider the following factors: (1) The continued need for the rule; (2) The nature of complaints or comments received concerning the rule from the public; (3) The complexity of the rule; (4) The extent to which the rule overlaps, duplicates or conflicts with other Federal rules, and, to the extent feasible, with State and local governmental rules; and (5) The length of time since the rule has been evaluated or the degree to which technology, economic conditions, or other factors have changed in the area affected by the rule. 4. Appropriate information has been provided for each rule including a brief description of the rule and the need for and legal basis of the rule. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the public is invited to comment on the rules chosen for review within 60 days from January 25, 1994. All relevant and timely comments will be considered by the Commission before final action is taken in this proceeding. To file formally in this proceeding, participants must file an original and four copies of all comments. If participants wish each Commissioner to have a personal copy of their comments, an original plus nine copies must be filed. Comments should be sent to the Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. Comments will be available for public inspection during regular business hours in the FCC Reference Center (Room 239) of the Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street NW., Washington, DC 20554. 5. It is ordered that, the Secretary shall send a copy of this notice to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Pub. L. No. 96&hyph;354, Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq . (1981). Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
