FR940712-2-00088 FR940712-2-00060 The Board has adopted the proposed rule change pursuant to section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act which provides that the Board's rules shall: Be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities, and, in general to protect investors and the public interest. *␣*␣* In addition, Section 15B(b)(2)(I) authorizes the Board to adopt rules which provide for the operation and administration of the Board. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Board does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, since it would apply equally to all brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change constitutes a stated policy, practice, or interpretation with respect to the meaning, administration, or enforcement of an existing rule of the Board and therefore has become effective pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder. At any time within 60 days of the filing of such proposed rule change, the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the MSRB. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;3 and should be submitted by August 2, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16751 Filed 7&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
