FR941007-1-00072 FR941007-1-00009 Transition The December proposal would have established a transition period from July 1, 1994, to April 1, 1996. Institutions subject to data collection and reporting requirements would have been required to begin collecting home mortgage, small business, and consumer loan data on July 1, 1994. The data would have been reported to the agencies no later than January 31, 1995, and annually thereafter. Evaluations under the proposed standards would have begun April 1, 1995. However, any institution could have elected to be evaluated under the existing twelve assessment factors rather than the proposed standards until July 1, 1995, and any institution showing cause could have requested evaluation under the existing standards up to April 1, 1996. The agencies would have accepted strategic plans for approval at any time after the publication of the final rule. The December proposal, in addition, would have insulated some institutions from supervisory sanctions until they had been subject to at least two examinations under the proposed standards. Specifically, the agencies would not have disapproved corporate applications or taken any enforcement action against an institution whose initial CRA rating under the proposed standards dropped by more than one level, if the agencies determined that the drop in ratings occurred despite a good faith effort to achieve at least a satisfactory level of performance. Many of the commenters criticized the transition period in the December proposal for being too short. Those commenters were particularly critical of the proposal to begin collection of data on July 1, 1994. Several commenters suggested that the proposed data collection be delayed as much as 12 months after the publication of a final rule. Some also criticized the proposal to begin conducting examinations in 1995 using a partial year's data from the second half of 1994. Other commenters criticized the proposal to insulate certain institutions from supervisory actions until they had gained more experience with the proposed standards. Those commenters were generally concerned that the proposal would have protected institutions whose performance ratings would have suffered as a result of more objective, performance-based assessments.
