FR940128-0-00053 FR940128-0-00022 Table 2._ Final 1994 Seasonal Apportionment of the Amount of Pacific Cod Allocated to Vessels Using Hook-and-Line or Pot Gear 1Season 1Percentage of Pacific cod 1Amount of Pacific cod (mt) Jan. 01&hyph;Apr. 30 90 64,291 May 01&hyph;Aug. 31 10 7,143 Sep. 01&hyph;Dec. 31 Remainder Remainder Response to Comments Five letters of comments were received within the comment period that ended December 6, 1993. Four of the letters were supportive of Amendment 24 and one letter opposed it. A summary of comments and NMFS's response follow. Comment 1. The rule implementing Amendment 24 should include a prohibition against using both trawl and fixed gear onboard a vessel to fish for groundfish during a year to prevent vessels that use one gear type from gaining access to another gear type's Pacific cod allocation. Response. Limitations on the use of trawl or fixed gear to fish for Pacific cod or other groundfish species are beyond the scope of Amendment 24 as adopted by the Council and approved by the Secretary. Prohibitions against using more than one gear type to fish for Pacific cod during a year would require a separate amendment to the FMP and cannot be implemented at this time. Comment 2. The proposed 1994 seasonal apportionment of the amount of Pacific cod allocated to vessels using hook-and-line or pot gear is supported. Response. NMFS is implementing the seasonal apportionment of the amount of Pacific cod TAC that is allocated to vessels using hook-and-line or pot gear as proposed. Comment 3. The regulations implementing Amendment 24 provide an equitable way to manage the Pacific cod fishery to reduce waste, periods of high bycatch, and gear conflicts. Allocation of Pacific cod among gear types is an important management measure during the period the Council is developing a comprehensive plan to manage the groundfish fisheries. The implementation of the amendment should proceed without delay. Response. NMFS concurs. Amendment 24 has been approved and implementing regulations are issued under the schedule set forth under section 305(a) of the Magnuson Act. Comment 4. Preferential allocation of Pacific cod or other groundfish species to the newly emergent longline freezer fleet in the BSAI is opposed. The Bering Sea cod fishery was developed by the trawl fleet and criteria historically applied by the Council in resource allocation issues would favor the BSAI trawl fleet in any cod allocation dispute with longline vessels. Although the trawl industry generally believes that a 60&hyph;40 split of the Pacific cod TAC between trawl and fixed gear would more closely reflect current utilization levels, the fixed gear allocation implemented under Amendment 24 will provide benefits from the stabilization of the trawl and fixed gear fisheries for Pacific cod. Such stabilization will allow for better and more efficient planning and will enable the trawl and fixed gear fleets to assure their respective markets of a dependable and predictable supply of product. Response. NMFS recognizes that the development of Amendment 24 and alternatives for allocating Pacific cod TAC among different gear groups was a contentious issue that required significant input and effort by the industry to help resolve problems addressed by the Council. NMFS concurs that the fixed allocation of the Pacific cod TAC among gear groups will provide stability to the Pacific cod fisheries during the period the Council is developing a long-term comprehensive plan for the management of the Alaska groundfish resources. Comment 5. The annual apportionment of the halibut bycatch limit established for BSAI fisheries and seasons should support the annual seasonal apportionment of Pacific cod. Response. Regulations implementing Amendment 24 do not govern how Pacific halibut bycatch limits are apportioned among fisheries, although gear specific allocations of Pacific cod will be considered when apportioning prohibited species bycatch limits among fisheries and seasons during the annual specification process (ยง675.21(b)(3)). As required by regulations at ยง675.21(b)(3), NMFS will review the seasonal apportionment of the amount of Pacific halibut bycatch mortality specified for the Pacific cod fisheries when the agency makes a final determination on the 1994 groundfish specifications.
