FR940317-2-00097 FR940317-2-00062 II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth is Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The purpose of the proposed rule change is to require approved persons or integrated member organizations to establish functional separation as appropriate to their operations and further establish, maintain and enforce written procedures reasonably designed to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information. The proposed rule further requires that a copy of such procedures be provided to the Exchange for review and approval, and sets forth specific guidelines for member firms to follow in adopting, maintaining and enforcing Chinese Wall procedures. 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade and to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;93&hyph;36 and should be submitted by April 7, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6245 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
