FR941026-2-00066 FR941026-2-00036 Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters_Primary Covered Transactions By signing and submitting this proposal, the applicant, defined as the primary participant in accordance with 45 CFR Part 76, certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that it and its principals: (a) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from covered transactions by any Federal Department or agency; (b) have not within a 3-year period preceding this proposal been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, State, or local) transaction or contract under a public transaction; violation of Federal or State antitrust statutes or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, or receiving stolen property. (c) are not presently indicated or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity (Federal, State or local) with commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (1)(b) of this certification; and (d) have not within a 3-year period preceding this application/proposal had one or more public transactions (Federal, State or local) terminated for cause or default. The inability of a person to provide the certification required above will not necessarily result in denial of participation in this covered transaction. If necessary, the prospective participate shall submit an explanation of why it cannot provide the certification. The certification or explanation will be considered in connection with the Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) determination whether to enter into this transaction. However, failure of the prospective primary participant to furnish a certification or an explanation shall disqualify such person from participation in this transaction. The prospective primary participant agrees that by submitting this proposal, it will include the clause entitled ``Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility, and Voluntary Exclusion_Lower Tier Covered Transactions'' provided below without modification in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions. Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion_Lower Tier Covered Transactions (To Be Supplied to Lower Tier Participants) By signing and submitting this lower tier proposal, the prospective lower tier participant, as defined in 45 CFR Part 76, certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that it and its principals: (a) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, declared ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from participation in this transaction by any federal department or agency. (b) where the prospective lower tier participant is unable to certify to any of the above, such prospective participant shall attach an explanation to this proposal. The prospective lower tier participant further agrees by submitting this proposal that it will include this clause entitled ``Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility, and Voluntary Exclusion_Lower Tier Covered Transactions'' without modification in all lower tier covered transactions and in all solicitations for lower tier covered transactions. Certification Regarding Lobbying Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements The undersigned certifies, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that: (1) No Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid, by or on behalf of the undersigned, to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with the awarding of any Federal contract, the making of any Federal grant, the making of any Federal loan, the entering into of any cooperative agreement, and the extension, continuation, renewal, amendment, or modification of any Federal contract, grant, loan, or cooperative agreement. (2) If any funds other than Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this Federal contract, grant, loan or cooperative agreement, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL, ``Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,'' in accordance with its instructions. (3) The undersigned shall require that the language of this certification be included in the award documents for all subawards at all tiers (including subcontracts, subgrants, and contracts under grants, loans, and cooperative agreements) and that all subrecipients shall certify and disclose accordingly. This certification is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when this transaction was made or entered into. Submission of this certification is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required certification shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure. State for Loan Guarantee and Loan Insurance The undersigned states, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, that: If any funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress in connection with this commitment providing for the United States to insure or guarantee a loan, the undersigned shall complete and submit Standard Form-LLL ``Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,'' in accordance with its instructions. Submission of this statement is a prerequisite for making or entering into this transaction imposed by section 1352, title 31, U.S. Code. Any person who fails to file the required statement shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000 and not more than $100,000 for each such failure. Signature Title Organization Date BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN26OC94.005 [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26530 Filed 10&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;C
