FR941205-1-00067 FR941205-1-00014 Part VI(B) Part VI(B) requires generally that the filing party sign the Monitoring Report and certify that the information in the Report and all attachments and appendices are, to the best of the filing party's knowledge, true, correct and complete. The filing party is also required to indicate his or her relationship with the parties to the agreement. Federal Maritime Commission Monitoring Report For Class B Agreements Between or Among Ocean Common Carriers Agreement Number (Assigned by FMC) Part I Agreement Name: Part II Other Agreements Indicate any change occurring during the calendar quarter to the list of other agreements set forth in Part II of the Information Form. Part III Market Share Information Provide the market shares of all liner operators within the entire geographic scope of the agreement and within each sub-trade during the calendar quarter. The information should be provided in the format below: Market Share Report for Calendar Quarter [indicate either entire agreement scope, or sub-trade name] 1␣ 1TEUs 1Percent Agreement Market Share: Line A X,XXX XX Line B X,XXX XX Line C X,XXX XX n,s Total Agreement Market Share X,XXX XX Non-Agreement market share: Line X X,XXX XX Line Y X,XXX XX Line Z X,XXX XX n,s Total Non-Agreement Market Share X,XXX XX Total Market X,XXX 100 Part IV Cargo and Revenue Results Agreement-Wide For each agreement member line, provide total cargo carryings (measured in TEUs) during the calendar quarter within the entire geographic area covered by the agreement, total revenues within the geographic area during the calendar quarter, and average revenue per TEU. The information should be provided in the format below: Calendar Quarter 1Carrier 1Total TEUs 1Total revenues 1Avg. revenue per TEU A l$ l$ B l$ l$ C l$ l$ Part V Port Service For each port within the entire geographic scope of the agreement, indicate any change in the nature or type of service effected during the calendar quarter, including base port designation and frequency of vessel calls. Part VI (A) Identification of Person(s) to Contact Regarding the Monitoring Report (1) Name (2) Title (3) Firm Name and Business (4) Business Telephone Number (5) Cable Address (B) Certification This Monitoring Report, together with any and all appendices and attachments thereto, was prepared and assembled in accordance with instructions issued by the Federal Maritime Commission. The information is, to the best of my knowledge, true, correct, and complete.Q Name (please print or type) Title Relationship with parties to agreement Signature Date 27. A new section 572.705 is added, as follows: §572.705 Monitoring report for Class C agreements. This section sets forth the Monitoring Report form for Class C agreements, with accompanying instructions that are intended to facilitate the completion of the Report. The explanation and instructions should be read in conjunction with the Shipping Act of 1984 and this part 572. Monitoring Report for Class C Agreements Instructions A complete response must be supplied to the Report. Where the filing party is unable to supply a complete response, that party shall provide either estimated data (with an explanation of why precise data are not available) or a detailed statement of reasons for noncompliance and the efforts made to obtain the required information. All sources must be identified.
