FR940527-2-00060 FR940527-2-00055 [File No. 932 3053] Amoco Chemical Company, et al.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis to Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would prohibit, among other things, two Delaware corporations from misrepresenting the extent to which any polystyrene cup, plate, and other food service product of packaging material is capable of being recycled or the extent to which recycling collection programs are available, and from representing that such products offer any environmental benefit unless they possess competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the claim. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Timothy Hughes, FTC/Chicago Regional Office, 55 East Monroe St., suite 1437, Chicago, IL. 60603. (312) 353&hyph;8156. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with ยง4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist In the Matter of: Amoco Chemical Company, and corporation, and Amoco Foam Products Company, a corporation. The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of proposed respondents Amoco Chemical Company, a corporation, and Amoco Foam Products Company, a corporation, and it now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the acts and practices being investigated, It is Hereby Agreed by and between Amoco Chemical Company and Amoco Foam Products Company, by their duly authorized officers, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondents Amoco Chemical Company and Amoco Foam Products Company are corporations organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Delaware. Amoco Chemical Company dominates and controls the acts and practices of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Amoco Foam Products Company. The proposed respondent Amoco Chemical Company has its principal offices or place of business at 200 East Randolph Drive, Chicago, Illinois 60680. The proposed respondent Amoco Foam Products Company has its principal offices of place of business at 400 Northridge Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30350. 2. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law;
