FR940630-2-00141 FR940630-2-00109 [Release No. 34&hyph;34254] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Initial Quotations of Initial Public Offerings June 24, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on June 15, 1994 the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to implement a change to its existing practice and procedures regarding quotations and the commencement of trading in Nasdaq securities newly listed after an initial public offering (``IPO'') that permit a five minute quotation-only time period prior to the commencement of trading in the IPO. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to change the current policies and practices by which initial quoting and trading of new issues are conducted in The Nasdaq Stock Market. Under the proposed change, when an IPO is first authorized for inclusion in the Nasdaq Stock Market, the system will display the time of day when quoting in the issue may begin and a time of day when trading in that issue may begin. Specifically, when a new security is released for trading, the window for quotations has been set to allow market makers a period of five minutes to enter and adjust their quotations prior to the commencement of trading. This quotation period should assist the market makers in determining the appropriate opening price. Currently, when an IPO is authorized for trading on Nasdaq, market makers are permitted to immediately and simultaneously enter quotations and trade on the subject security. The proposed quotation-only period for IPOs is similar to the display of quotations that occurs prior to the opening of the Nasdaq Stock market. As with the pre-opening quotation period that occurs daily in the Nasdaq Stock Market, the proposed quotation-only period should provide market makers with the opportunity to adjust their quotations and to present a better quotation when the market opens for trading. Because it may be difficult at times to accurately gauge interest in an IPO, quotes and trades in the IPO may be subject to excessive volatility. This ``IPO Quote Window'' should permit a more orderly market to develop prior to its release for actual trading. The NASD believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of Section 15A(b)(6) of the Act, which requires, among other things, that the rules of the Association remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and Section 15A(b)(11), which provides that the rules of the Association relating to quotations should be designed to produce fair and informative quotations, to prevent fictitious or misleading quotations, and to promote orderly procedures for collecting, distributing, and publishing quotations. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD does not believe that the proposed rule change will result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, as amended. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19B&hyph;4 thereunder because the proposal constitutes a change to its stated practices regarding the administration and operation of existing quotation rules. At any time within 60 days of the filing rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by July 21, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 1 1 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15933 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
