FR941007-1-00165 FR941007-1-00009 (i) Provide information concerning outstanding small business, small farm, or consumer loans throughout the year to account for seasonal variations in lending for use in the evaluation of the savings association under the lending test described in ยง563e.22 of this part; and (ii) Provide any other information concerning its lending performance, including additional loan distribution data. (c) Data on affiliate lending. A savings association that wishes to have the OTS consider lending by its affiliates for purposes of the lending test shall be prepared to identify the particular home mortgage loans reported under HMDA which it wishes the OTS to consider, and shall collect or report, pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the requisite data concerning the small business, small farm, or consumer loans made by its affiliates that it wishes OTS to consider. (d) Data on consortia and third-party lending. A savings association that wishes to have the OTS consider community development lending through consortia in which the savings association participates or through third parties in which the savings association has invested shall report, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the requisite data concerning the community development loans made through consortia and third parties that it wishes the OTS to consider. ยง563e.43 Public file and disclosure by savings associations. (a) Public availability. Each savings association shall maintain a file that is readily available for public inspection containing the information required by this section. (b) Current information. Each savings association shall include in its public file the following information: (1) All signed, written comments received from the public for the current year and each of the prior two calendar years that specifically relate to the savings association's performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its community or communities, and any response to the comments by the savings association; (2) A copy of the public section of the savings association's most recent CRA Performance Evaluation prepared by the OTS. The savings association shall place this copy in the public file within 30 business days after its receipt from the OTS;
