FR941110-0-00137 FR941110-0-00016 A number of commenters wanted us to specifically set forth in regulations exactly which sanctions should be imposed for each type of possible deficiency or group of deficiencies. One State expressed concern about the potentially large number of separate follow-up visits required to verify corrections of the deficiencies under each remedy. ``For example,'' it said_ If separate civil monetary penalties are imposed for several deficiencies, or groups of deficiencies, it would be expected that deficiencies would be corrected on different dates and that the facility would insist on immediate followup on each deficiency or group of deficiencies in order to immediately end the daily monetary penalty. Additionally, a follow-up would be required at 90 days after the survey to determine if denial of payments would be required under [the proposed] 488.212(a)(3), and another followup would be required at six months to determine if termination is required under [the proposed] 488.212(a)(4). Finally, one commenter wanted us to insert the words, ``Subject to the provisions of this subpart,'' at the beginning of the paragraph, and another wanted us to define interrelated deficiencies as deficiencies caused by or resulting from the same action or occurrence. Response: Sections 4203 and 4213 of OBRA '87 and subsequent related legislation were enacted partially because of the Congress' recognition that the Secretary and the States needed more flexibility in enforcing regulations pertaining to Medicare SNFs and Medicaid NFs, and, therefore, more choices of enforcement actions. The selection of a particular remedy is based on the nature of noncompliance and the remedy (or remedies) that either HCFA or the Medicaid agency believes is most likely to achieve correction of the deficiencies. We believe that this approach best fulfills the Congressional mandate to ``promote compliance with the requirements of participation and assure high quality care for nursing facility residents'' (H.R. Rep. No. 391, 100th Cong., 1st Sess. 472 (1987)). In some instances, the most effective remedy may be two or more remedies. Furthermore, section 1919(h)(1) (A) and (B) of the Act clearly states that this is the case. The first reads in part, ``*␣*␣* the State *␣*␣* may provide *␣*␣* for one or more of the other remedies,'' and the second, ``*␣*␣* the State may provide for one or more of the remedies.'' Consequently, we are revising §488.402(c) to clearly state that more than one remedy may be considered appropriate for noncompliance for each deficiency. However, it may also be appropriate for one remedy to be imposed for multiple deficiencies that constitute noncompliance, and the revised regulation reflects this policy as well. In any case, the choice of one or multiple remedies for each deficiency constituting noncompliance is part of the decision making process. The actual imposition of a remedy or remedies is imposed on a facility for noncompliance as a whole, with participation requirements. We are deleting the limitation in the proposed paragraph (c) that, for a single remedy for all deficiencies to be imposed, the deficiencies must be interrelated and subject to correction by the same remedy. This change offers more flexibility to the State survey agencies and to HCFA, and is in keeping with the statute. Further, setting forth specific sanctions to be applied for each deficiency constituting noncompliance or a group of deficiencies constituting noncompliance would defeat the whole purpose of providing maximum flexibility to both the Secretary and to the States. We are adopting certain minimum sanctions that will be imposed according to how serious the noncompliance is, but beyond that, there is enough flexibility to tailor the remedy or remedies to the specific case at hand.
