FR941117-0-00028 FR941117-0-00007 The following statements are provided for information of the public. Regulatory Impact Statement Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993, Regulatory Planning and Review, requires us to prepare an analysis for any rule that meets one of the E.O. 12866 criteria for a significant regulatory action; that is, that may_ Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal, governments, or communities; Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; Materially alter the budgetary impact of grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in E.O. 12866. In addition, we prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. chapter 6), if the rule is expected to have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. For the reasons outlined below, we do not believe this rule is economically significant nor do we believe that it will have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. In addition, this rule is not inconsistent with the actions of any other agency. This rule makes minor changes to conform existing regulations to the current statute and to refer to a recently issued NIH policy. While these grants benefit those segments of the public afflicted by heart, blood vessel, lung, and blood diseases, and community-based and population-based programs carried out in cooperation with other Federal agencies, with public health agencies of State or local governments, with nonprofit private entities that are community-based health agencies, or with other appropriate public or non-profit private entities, these grants do not have a significant economic or policy impact on a broad cross-section of the public. Furthermore, this rule would only affect those few institutions interested in obtaining financial assistance to carry out authorized prevention and control projects, subject to the normal accountability requirements for grant funds. No entity is obligated to apply for grant support. For these same reasons, we certify this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, and that a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance numbered programs affected by this rule are: 93.837_Heart and Vascular Diseases Research 93.838_Lung Diseases Research 93.839_Blood Diseases and Resources Research List of Subjects in 42 CFR Part 52e Grant programs_Health; Health; Medical research. Dated: October 28, 1994. Philip R. Lee, Assistant Secretary for Health. Approved: November 8, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary.
