FR940525-1-00007 FR940525-1-00004 III. Related Issues As a result of these proposed regulation changes, the timing of provider reminder letters, PS&R Summary Reports and the submission of HCRIS data would also be affected. We plan to revise the Intermediary Manual and the PRM as necessary to reflect these changes. A. Reminder Letters Because we are proposing to lengthen the amount of time a provider has to file its cost report, we also would change the deadline for the intermediaries to send reminder letters to providers to notify them that cost reports are due. The revised deadline would be by the end of the fourth month after the close of the cost reporting period. The reminder letter may be sent at the same time an intermediary sends the PS&R Summary Report to the providers, but an intermediary may not send the reminder letter before sending the PS&R Summary Report. The reminder letter will inform the provider that if the cost report is not received by the end of the fifth month after the close of the cost reporting period, the provider's interim payments will be suspended in their entirety the following day, rather than just reduced (as the Intermediary Manual now provides). Under ยง405.371(d), if a provider does not furnish necessary information that is needed to determine the amounts due the provider under the Medicare program, interim payments may be suspended immediately. In addition, under ยง405.376(e) interest will be assessed immediately in the case of a cost report that is not filed on time. However, given the extended filing deadline, we believe that providers should have little difficulty in filing timely. B. PS&R Summary Report In conjunction with the change in the cost report due dates, we also intend to revise our Manual instructions to extend the time that HCFA allows the intermediaries to furnish the PS&R Summary Report to providers. Intermediaries would be required to furnish the PS&R Summary Report by the last day of the fourth month following the end of the provider's cost reporting period, instead of 60 days following the end of the provider's cost reporting period, as is currently the practice. For cost reporting periods ending on a day other than the last day of a month, intermediaries would be required to furnish the PS&R Summary Report by the 120th day following the end of a provider's cost reporting period. As noted above, an intermediary must send the PS&R Summary Report to a provider before or at the same time as it sends the reminder letter. (The reminder letter cannot be sent before the PS&R Summary Report.) This change would ensure that a provider still would have at least 30 days after receipt of the PS&R Summary Report to complete and submit the cost report to the intermediary. If the provider receives the PS&R Summary Report later than the last day of the fourth month (or the 120th day, if applicable) following the end of its cost reporting period, the provider would have 30 days from receipt to file its cost report. C. HCRIS Data Presently, the intermediary must submit HCRIS data to HCFA within either 180 days of the end of the hospital cost reporting period or 60 days of receipt of the cost report from the provider, whichever is later. The current 180-day deadline is based on the following: (1) 90 days for a provider to file its cost report, (2) 30 days for an extension of time to file (available to providers with good cause), and (3) an additional 60 days for the intermediary to submit HCRIS data to HCFA. In conjunction with the proposed extension of the deadline for filing a cost report, we would revise the Intermediary Manual to instruct intermediaries to submit HCRIS data to HCFA within 210 days of the last day of the hospital cost reporting period. The new deadline is based on the following: (1) 150 days for filing a cost report and (2) 60 days for submission of HCRIS data to HCFA. The 30-day extension of time to file a cost report would be eliminated. As explained above, extensions would be granted only under extraordinary circumstances, and therefore an additional 30 days for a filing extension normally would not be necessary. In addition, we plan to revise our Manual instructions to specify that if the intermediary is late in sending the PS&R Summary Report to the providers, the amount of time for the intermediary to submit the HCRIS data would be reduced by the same number of days the PS&R Summary Report was late. For example, if the intermediary sends the PS&R Summary Report to the provider 10 days late, the provider would still have 30 days from receipt of the PS&R Summary Report to file its cost report. However, the time remaining for the intermediary to submit the HCRIS data would be reduced by a corresponding 10 days (that is, from 60 to 50 days following receipt of the cost report.) In such cases, the intermediary still would have a total of 210 days from the end of the hospital cost reporting period to submit HCRIS data to HCFA. As explained above, the overall effect of the extension of the time frame for providers to file cost reports would be that HCFA would not have access to updated HCRIS data until 210 days after the end of a given cost reporting period. This change would not delay significantly the availability of the analytical files (which are updated quarterly) in HCRIS, and it should improve the accuracy of initial cost report data. Although it would delay the availability in the analytical files of cost report data for the most recent cost reporting period, it would not affect availability of a complete set of cost report data. Under the current requirements for intermediaries to transmit cost report data extracts, a complete set of cost report data for any Federal fiscal year is not available until 180 days after the latest cost reporting period in the Federal fiscal year. For example, if a provider's cost reporting period begins on September 1, 1993 and ends on August 31, 1994, its cost report extract now would be due to HCFA by February 27, 1995 (180 days after the end of the cost reporting period). The data would be available for use in the next quarterly update of the analytical files, which would take place on March 31, 1995. In this case, under the proposed provisions, we would extend the due date for HCRIS submissions from 180 days after the hospital cost reporting period ends to within 210 days of the last day of the hospital's cost reporting period. Thus, in the above example, the cost report extract of a provider with a cost reporting period ending August 31, 1994, would be due to HCFA by March 29, 1995. The data from this provider's file still would be available for use in the March 31, 1995 update of the analytical files.
