FR941219-0-00035 FR941219-0-00014 Section 9 of the Act and Service regulations prohibit the taking of delta smelt without express authorization from the Service. Under Service regulations, ``take'' may include significant habitat modification or degradation that actually kills or injures protected species. In addition, Federal agencies must consult with the Service to ensure that their actions are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of the listed species. An action could jeopardize the existence of a listed species if it destroys or modifies its habitat. This is so regardless of whether that habitat has been designated as critical habitat. Therefore, the direct economic and other impacts resulting from designation of critical habitat are relatively small because the Act provides substantial protection to habitat through listing of the species itself. In general, designation of critical habitat supplements the protection afforded a listed species. The RIA concluded that economic costs attributable to the designation of critical habitat for the delta smelt would be relatively small. In the revised proposed rule, the Service determined that economic costs would be attributable to five actions (i.e., sand and gravel extraction, diking wetlands, levee maintenance and bank protection activities, operation of the Montezuma Slough Control Structure, and bridge and marine construction). In the final RIA prepared by EPA (EPA 1994), the economic costs attributable to designation were from the same five actions. Economic Impacts Attributable Directly to Critical Habitat Designation A synopsis of the economic impacts associated with the five activities identified by the Service includes: Sand and Gravel Operations _Four aggregate operators in the delta may be affected by the designation of critical habitat. Two of the aggregate operations in the Delta are located in San Joaquin County, which has a total of eleven aggregate sites. The estimated value of aggregate production for San Joaquin County in 1986 was $13 million. The four aggregate operations in the Delta that could be affected by the regulation produced a small percentage of California's aggregate in 1992, which had a total value of $473 million. The economic impacts on the aggregate production industry resulting from the designation of critical habitat likely will be minor, given the relatively small amount of sand and gravel production occurring in the Delta. In many cases, minor changes to the timing of extraction to avoid sensitive biological periods will minimize the economic effects on mining activities. Mitigation in the form of habitat replacement might be required for operations that may result in the destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. Costs to restore 1 acre of wetlands range between $10,000 to $50,000. Mitigation costs could be reduced if low-cost lands were acquired, and levees were breached to flood areas. For some tracts of land, the costs associated with restoring wetlands may exceed the value derived from the agricultural activity, in which case the cost attributable to critical habitat would be the loss in agricultural income. Diking and Dredging for Agricultural Operations _Though designation of critical habitat for the delta smelt may require implementation of best management practices and a 3:1 ratio of permanently destroyed habitat in proposed project areas, the economic impacts of restricting diking and dredging operations are expected to be minimal. For example, the regulatory costs (i.e., with critical habitat designated) associated with converting the Little Holland Tract in the Delta to agricultural uses with critical habitat designated would be the cost to replace 440 acres of habitat at a 3:1 ratio (EPA 1994). The expense of replacing habitat would likely exceed the economic returns from agricultural production on this tract, which was historically planted for corn. Foregone income from future agricultural production on the 1,300 arable acre tract would amount to $65,000 per year. Levee Maintenance _Between 1981&hyph;1991, local agencies maintained 536.6 miles of levee in the Delta, spending an average of $1.24 million per mile (EPA 1994). Approximately 41% of the costs were financed through State subventions. The costs of levee maintenance are not expected to increase significantly due to this critical habitat designation because Federal regulatory agencies currently have timing and construction restrictions that generally avoid adverse effects to the delta smelt. Montezuma Slough Control Structure Operations _The economic impacts associated with the operation of the Montezuma Slough Control Structure could not be estimated by the time this final rule was published. In response to a biological opinion issued by the USFWS to DWR and the Bureau on the Structure's operation, an investigation of the effects of the Structure on delta smelt is being conducted, and will be completed in the near future. The Structure's operations may be modified once the study is completed. The gates at this structure are currently operated from November to March in accordance with current State salinity standards to maintain low-salinity water in Suisun Marsh, but remain open the remainder of the year. Bridge and Marina Construction _The use of best management practices, time restrictions, and other construction restrictions similar to those for levee maintenance and sand and gravel operations should preclude any substantial impact from designation of delta smelt critical habitat on bridge and marina construction. Water Costs Attributed to EPA's Salinity Standards
