FR941107-0-00011 FR941107-0-00005 Pursuant to §928.120, the committee currently consists of 13 members. Each member has an alternate. Six members are growers, six are handlers, and one is a public member. The six handler members and alternates are nominated from the production area at large. Grower membership on the committee is apportioned among three districts. District 1 (the Island of Hawaii) is represented by four members and alternates, and District 2 (the Islands of Kauai, Niihau, Maui, Molakai, Lanai, Kahoolawe; and Kalawao county), and District 3 (the Island of Oahu) by one member and alternate each. Any grower organization is limited to two members on the committee. Any handler organization is limited to one member on the committee. Section 928.20 also allows the number of grower and handler members and alternate members on the committee and the composition of the committee between growers and handlers to be changed as provided in §928.31(o). Paragraph (o) of §928.31 also authorizes the committee, with the approval of the Secretary, to redefine the districts into which the production area is divided, reapportion membership on the committee. Any such changes are required to reflect, insofar as practicable, structural changes within the industry and shifts in papaya production within the production area. This final rule changes the composition of the committee by increasing grower representation on the committee from six grower members to nine and reducing handler representation from six members to three. This change was recommended by the committee on April 22, 1994, by a vote of 7 in favor, 3 opposed, and 2 abstentions. The papaya industry has historically demonstrated a policy of maintaining equitable representation among handlers and growers. In 1989, committee membership was changed by allocating three grower member positions from District 1 to handlers in the State of Hawaii. This resulted in an increase from three to six handler members and a decrease in grower members from District 1 from seven to four. The committee indicated that the number of growers in the industry has increased from 325 to 400 since 1989, while the number of handlers has remained constant. The committee contends that these factors support their recommendation to change committee membership. This action is intended to provide increased grower representation on the committee consistent with the increased number of growers. This rule will not impose any additional costs on growers or handlers. Members supporting this change stated that the marketing order is designed to primarily benefit growers and for that reason growers should have a majority on the committee. Members supporting the recommendation also stated that this change will increase growers' influence in matters concerning amendments to the marketing order, and market research and development and promotion activities. The majority of that increase occurred in District 1. Members opposed to the change in the current committee membership stated that the marketing order should benefit the entire industry, and believe the current composition of the committee provides a good balance for the industry. The committee indicated that the increase in the number of growers producing papayas in District 1, justified increasing from four to seven the number of growers representing District 1 on the committee. Committee members supporting this change contend that the vast majority of growers and the highest level of papaya production are located in District 1. District 1 is expected to produce 55.6 million pounds during the 1993&hyph;94 season. Over the last four years District 1 has had an average annual production of 54.1 million pounds of papayas. For the same period District 2 has an average production of 760,000 pounds, and District 3 has an average production of 1,020,000 pounds of papayas. The proposed rule concerning this action was published in the September 2, 1994, Federal Register [59 FR 45630], with a 30-day comment period ending October 3, 1994. No comments were received. Based on the available information, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. After consideration of all relevant matter presented, including the information and recommendations submitted by the committee and other available information, it is hereby found that this rule, as hereinafter set forth, will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 928 Marketing agreements, Papayas, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR Part 928 is amended as follows: PART 928_PAPAYAS GROWN IN HAWAII 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR Part 928 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. 2. Section 928.120 is revised to read as follows: §928.120 Committee reapportionment The Papaya Administrative Committee shall consist of 13 members and alternate members. Nine of the members shall represent growers, and three shall represent handlers. Seven grower members and their alternates shall represent District 1, one grower member and alternate shall represent District 2, and one grower member and alternate shall represent District 3. No grower organization shall have more than two members on the committee. The three handler members shall be nominated from the production area at large. No handler organization is permitted to have more than one handler member on the committee. One voting public member and alternate shall also be included on the committee. The eligibility requirements and nomination procedures for the public member and alternate are specified in §928.122. Dated: November 1, 1994. Eric M. Forman, Deputy Director; Fruit and Vegetable Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27519 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
