FR940902-0-00110 FR940902-0-00010 (2) The individual determination of participants' needs-based payments and the amount of such payments shall be based upon the results of the continuing objective assessment and determined in accordance with a locally developed policy. The provisions and amount of such payments shall be recorded in the ISS. (c) Incentive and bonus payments. Participants in programs funded under title II may receive incentive and bonus payments based on their attendance and performance in accordance with a locally developed policy. The policy shall be described in the job training plan approved by the Governor and shall include a specification of the requirements for the receipt of such payments and the level of payments. (d) Work-based training payments. Individuals participating in work experience, in entry employment experience programs, in limited internships for youth in the private sector, or in other work-based training activities under title II of the Act may receive work-based training payments which may be wages. (e) Summer participants may receive training payments for participation in activities under title II&hyph;B. (f) Training payments for combined activities. For title II programs, participants in one of the activities described in paragraph (d) of this section for which work-based training payments are payable for more than 50 percent of the participant's time, including classroom training, may also receive training payments for hours of participation in classroom training. §627.310 Supportive services. (a)(1) The SDA or SSG shall develop a policy on supportive services in accordance with the definition at section 4(24) of the Act. This policy shall be included in the job training plan approved by the Governor (section 4(24)). Supportive services may be provided to participants through in-kind or cash assistance, or by arrangement with another human service agency when necessary to enable an individual who is eligible for training under a JTPA assisted program, but who cannot afford to pay for such services, to participate in such JTPA-assisted program. (2) In the event that an SDA or SSG adopts a policy of providing a fixed reimbursement for a particular supportive service to all participants, it shall, as part of its policy, state the rationale for its choice and the fixed amounts it has adopted. (b) Limited supportive services may be provided to applicants in order to permit them to complete the application process. (c) Necessary supportive services shall be recorded in a participant's ISS under title II or should be recorded in a participant's individual readjustment plan under title III. When supportive services are provided in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, information on any supportive service provided may be maintained for future inclusion in an ISS. (d) The SDA or SSG shall ensure, to the extent possible, that similarly situated participants receive similar supportive services. (e) For title II participants, necessary supportive services (with the exception of financial assistance) may be provided for up to one year following termination as post-termination or followup services (sections 4(24), 204(b)(2)(J), and 204(c)(4)). For title III participants, the provisions at section 314(c)(15) of the Act shall apply. (f) An SDA or SSG may set fixed levels of benefit for any supportive service. (g)(1) For purposes of title II, financial assistance is defined as a general supportive service payment for the purpose of retaining participants in training. (2) Financial assistance payments may be considered to be necessary for participation in training for title II participants, i.e., a separate, individual determination of need is not necessary. (h) Needs-related payments. The requirements pertaining to needs-related payments provided for under section 315(b) under title III of the Act, are described in part 631 of this chapter. §627.315 Benefits and working conditions. (a) In the development and conduct of programs funded under the Act, SDA's and SSG's shall ensure that participants are not assigned to work for employers which do not comply with applicable labor laws, including wage and hour, occupational health and safety, and child labor laws (29 CFR part 570). (b) To the extent that a State workers' compensation law is applicable, workers' compensation benefits in accordance with such law shall be available with respect to injuries suffered by participants. Where a State's workers' compensation law is not applicable, recipients and subrecipients shall secure insurance coverage for injuries suffered by such participants in all JTPA work-related activities. Income maintenance coverage (e.g., contributions for unemployment compensation), is not required for participants (section 143(a)(3)). (c) Where a participant is engaged in activities not covered under the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, the participant shall not be required or permitted to work, be trained, or receive services in buildings or surroundings or under working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous, or dangerous to the participant's health or safety. A participant employed or trained for inherently dangerous occupations, e.g., fire or police jobs, shall be assigned to work in accordance with reasonable safety practices (section 143(a)(2)). Subpart D_Administrative Standards §627.400 Scope and purpose. This subpart establishes the administrative and financial standards and requirements that apply to funds received under the Act. §627.405 Grant agreement and funding. (a)(1) Pursuant to §627.200 of this part and the Governor/Secretary agreement, each program year there will be executed a grant agreement signed by the Governor or the Governor's designated representative and the Secretary or the Secretary's designated representative (Grant Officer). (2) The grant agreement described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be the basis for Federal obligation of funds for the program year for programs authorized by titles I, II, and III, including any title III discretionary projects awarded to the State, and such other funds as the Secretary may award under the grant. (b) Funding. The Secretary shall allot funds to the States in accordance with sections 162, 202, 252, 262, and 302 of the Act. The Secretary shall obligate such allotments through Notices of Obligation.
