FR940705-2-00116 FR940705-2-00081 •The proprietary account of an unaffiliated member/member organization_to be designated F. •An Individual customer account_to be designated H. •Other agency customer account_to be designated B. In addition, three identifiers would be added to identify ``short exempt'' trades of competing dealers. A competing dealer is defined as a registered specialist on another stock exchange or a marker-maker bidding and offering over-the-counter in a NYSE traded security. The identifiers, as proposed, are: L_to designate a ``short exempt'' transaction for the account of a competing dealer that is a member or member organization trading for its own account X_to designate a ``short exempt'' transaction where one member is acting as agent for another member's competing dealer account Z_to designate a ``short exempt'' transaction for the account of a non-member competing dealer. The Exchange is proposing the addition of older type identifiers to enhance its ability to identify violations of SEC Rule 10a&hyph;1 2 and Exchange Rule 440B, which prohibit short selling under specified circumstances. The rules require orders to sell to be marked as ``long,'' or ``short,'' or ``exempt.'' 3 2 SEC Rule 10a&hyph;1 states, in part, that no person shall, for his own account or for the account of any other person, effect a short sale of any security registered on, or admitted to unlisted trading privileges on, a national securities exchange, if trades in such security are reported pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan as defined in Rule 11Aa3&hyph;1, and information as to such trades is made available in accordance with such plan on a real-time basis to vendors of market transaction information, (A) below the price at which the last sale thereof, regular way, was reported pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan; or (B) at such price unless such price is above the next preceding different price at which a sale of such security, regular way, was reported pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan. See 17 CFR 240.10a&hyph;1 (1993). 3 SEC Rule 10a&hyph;1 requires only that orders be marked ``long'' or ``short.'' NYSE Rule 440B.20 provides, in effect, that orders relying on an exception to Rule 10a&hyph;1 should be marked ``short exempt.'' SEC Rule 10a&hyph;1(e) 4 provides exemptions for certain orders to the prohibitions against short selling. These are limited to types of trades that are believed to be beneficial to the market or that carry little risk of the kind of manipulative or destabilizing trading that Rule 10a&hyph;1 was designed to address. By requiring identification of ``short exempt'' orders in the Exchange's post trade audit trail process, the Exchange will enhance its ability to examine whether trades effected pursuant to such orders were in compliance with the exceptions set forth in SEC Rule 10a&hyph;1(e). 4 17 CFR 240.10a&hyph;1(e) (1993). Member firms would be given a reasonable period of time (approximately six months) to make their own system enhancements so that they may be in compliance with the new trade type identification requirements. The Exchange is also proposing to amend its definition of competing dealer and to change the term ``competing dealer'' to ``competing market-maker'' in order to correspond more closely with the definition of market-maker included in the Act. 5 5 The term ``competing market-maker'' is proposed to be defined as any person acting as a market-maker, as defined in Section 3(a)(38) of the Act, in a NYSE traded security. A person acting solely in the capacity of a block positioner would not be considered to be a competing market-maker. (b) Statutory Basis The basis under the Act for this proposed rule change is the requirement under Section 6(b)(5) that an Exchange have rules that are designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. The Exchange believes the addition of the identifiers for ``short exempt'' trades will add to the protection of investors by enhancing the Exchange's surveillance capabilities with respect to ``short'' sales. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has neither solicited nor received written comments on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) by order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;16 and should be submitted by July 26, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16188 Filed 7&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
