FR940527-1-00039 FR940527-1-00014 •After finalizing the classification of secondary diagnoses, we evaluated which collapsed DRGs should be split on the basis of the presence of a major CC, other CCs, or both. We developed criteria for this evaluation that allow a DRG to split only if the volume and difference in resource use is significantly different from the remainder of the cases in the DRG and there is a significant reduction in variance. The collapsed DRGs can be split into three variations: _DRG With CC or Major CC _DRG Without CC _DRG With Major CC _DRG Without Major CC _DRG With Major CC _DRG With CC _DRG Without CC There are 120 DRGs that do not split at all. This final step resulted in the creation of 652 DRGs compared to the 491 DRGs we currently use. The paper we have prepared includes a listing of the revised DRGs as well as the relative weights that would have been assigned to the DRGs using the FY 1992 MedPAR data and a list of every diagnosis code in effect in FY 1993 with its current and proposed CC assignment (non-CC, CC, or major CC). In order to begin consultation with the hospital industry and other interested organizations before formally proposing our revised system, we will be distributing the paper to many hospital-related associations and organizations for their comment. In addition, requests for the DRG severity refinement paper may be made to the following address: Division of Hospital Payment Policy, 1&hyph;H&hyph;1 East Low Rise, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207, Attn: Nancy Edwards; or by calling (410) 966&hyph;4532. Comments are due to HCFA by September 30, 1994. Similar to our usual practice for proposed DRG changes to the prospective payment system, we are making available to the public an FY 1992 Expanded Modified MedPAR File for Severity that contains the discharge records we used to calculate the severity DRG relative weights. Requests for this file can be made by following the instructions set forth in section VIII.B of this preamble (Requests for Data from the Public). Also available are Severity versions of the HCFA Medicare Case-Mix Index File, Table 5 DRG, and the AOR/BOR File. Our plan is to incorporate comments and suggestions we receive and to consider proposing the complete revised DRG system as part of the FY 1996 prospective payment system proposed rule, which will be published in the spring of 1995. However, as the final rule published on September 1, 1992 (57 FR 39761) indicates, we would not propose to make significant changes to the DRG classification system unless we are able either to improve our ability to predict coding changes by validating in advance the impact that potential DRG changes may have on coding behavior, or to make methodological changes to prevent building the inflationary effects of the coding changes into future program payments. Besides the mandate of section 1886(d)(4)(C)(iii) of the Act, which provides that aggregate payments may not be affected by DRG reclassification and recalibration changes, we do not believe it is prudent policy to make changes for which we cannot predict the effect on the case-mix index and, thus, payments. Our goal is to refine our methodology so that we can fulfill, in the most appropriate manner, both the statutory requirement to make appropriate DRG classification changes and to recalibrate DRG relative weights (as mandated by section 1886(d)(4)(C) of the Act) as well as to make DRG changes in a budget neutral manner. One approach to this problem would be to maintain the average case weight at 1.0 after recalibration, thereby eliminating the process of normalization. In other words, after recalibration, we would not scale the new relative weights upward to carry forward the cumulative effects of past case-mix increases. We would, instead, make an adjustment or include in the annual update factor a specific allowance for any real case-mix change that occurred during the previous year. This is a relatively simple and straightforward system for preventing the effects of year-to-year increase in the case-mix index from accumulating in the DRG weights. In addition to the severity changes, we also intend to improve the classification and relative weights of the DRGs that apply to newborns, children, and maternity patients. The Medicare population does not include many of these individuals. The original DRG classification system was developed from analysis of claims data representative of the total inpatient population. When we calculated the original Medicare weights for the DRGs to which newborn, children and maternity patients are classified, we used non-MedPAR discharge records from Maryland and Michigan hospitals because there were either no MedPAR cases or too few cases assigned to these DRGs to provide a reasonably precise estimate of the average cost of care. (See the September 1, 1983 prospective payment final rule with comment period (48 FR 39768).) Since that time, because of the lack of MedPAR data, these low-volume DRGs have not been analyzed and refined, and the relative weights assigned to them may no longer be entirely reflective of the resources needed to treat the patients. We again intend to rely on data bases outside the MedPAR file to supplement our data. C. Recalibration of DRG Weights We are proposing to use the same basic methodology for the FY 1995 recalibration as we did for FY 1994. (See the September 1, 1993 final rule (58 FR 46290).) That is, we would recalibrate the weights based on charge data for Medicare discharges. However, we would use the most current charge information available, the FY 1993 MedPAR file, rather than the FY 1992 MedPAR file. The MedPAR file is based on fully-coded diagnostic and surgical procedure data for all Medicare inpatient hospital bills.
