FR940613-0-00007 FR940613-0-00002 (B) If any crack is found that extends downward from the fastener hole, and if that crack is outside the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, accomplish the requirements of paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this AD. (C) If any crack is found that is within the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, accomplish the preventative modification in accordance with Condition 1, Option II of the service bulletin. After accomplishment of the preventative modification, no further action is required by this AD. (4) Except for airplanes on which the preventative modification (Condition 1, Option II) or the permanent repair (Condition 2, Phase II) has been accomplished, prior to the accumulation of 6,500 total landings, or within 5 years after the effective date of this AD, whichever occurs later: Perform an eddy current bolt hole inspection to detect cracks in the fastener holes in accordance with the service bulletin. (i) If no crack is found, or if any crack is found that is within the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, prior to further flight, accomplish the preventative modification in accordance with Condition 1, Option II of the service bulletin. After accomplishment of the preventative modification, no further action is required by this AD. (ii) If any crack is found that exceeds the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, prior to further flight, accomplish a permanent repair in accordance with Condition 2, Phase II of the service bulletin. After accomplishment of the permanent repair, no further action is required by this AD. (b) For Model DC&hyph;10&hyph;30, &hyph;30F, &hyph;40, and &hyph;40F series airplanes and Model KC&hyph;10A (military) airplanes: Accomplish paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this AD in accordance with McDonnell Douglas DC&hyph;10 Service Bulletin 57&hyph;114, Revision 1, dated July 26, 1993. (1) Prior to the accumulation of 6,500 total landings, or within 1,500 landings after the effective date of this AD, whichever occurs later: Perform an eddy current surface inspection or an eddy current bolt hole inspection to detect cracks on stringer number 41 on the left- and right-hand wings in accordance with the service bulletin. (2) If no crack is found, repeat the inspection thereafter at intervals not to exceed 3,200 landings. (3) If any crack is found, prior to further flight, accomplish paragraph (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), or (b)(3)(iii) of this AD, as applicable. (i) If any crack is found that extends upward from the fastener hole, and if that crack is outside the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, accomplish a temporary repair in accordance with Condition 2, Phase I of the service bulletin, or a permanent repair in accordance with Condition 2, Phase II of the service bulletin. If the temporary repair is accomplished, prior to the accumulation of 5,000 landings after accomplishing that temporary repair, accomplish the permanent repair in accordance with Condition 2, Phase II of the service bulletin. After accomplishment of the permanent repair, no further action is required by this AD. (ii) If any crack is found that extends downward from the fastener hole, and if that crack is outside the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, accomplish the permanent repair in accordance with Condition 2, Phase II of the service bulletin. After such repair, no further action is required by this AD. (iii) If any crack is found in a fastener hole, and if that crack is within the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, accomplish the preventative modification in accordance with Condition 1, Option II of the service bulletin. If the crack was detected using techniques other than the eddy current bolt hole inspection described in the service bulletin, prior to accomplishing the preventative modification, perform an eddy current bolt hole inspection to detect cracks, in accordance with the service bulletin, and accomplish paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A), (b)(3)(iii)(B), or (b)(3)(iii)(C) of this AD, as applicable. (A) If any crack is found that extends upward from the fastener hole, and if that crack is outside the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, accomplish the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this AD. (B) If any crack is found that extends downward from the fastener hole, and if that crack is outside the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, accomplish the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this AD. (C) If any crack is found that is within the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, accomplish the preventative modification in accordance with Condition 1, Option II of the service bulletin. After accomplishment of the preventative modification, no further action is required by this AD. (4) Except for airplanes on which the preventative modification (Condition 1, Option II) or the permanent repair (Condition 2, Phase II) has been accomplished, prior to the accumulation of 6,500 total landings, or within 5 years after the effective date of this AD, whichever occurs later: Perform an eddy current bolt hole inspection to detect cracks in the fastener holes in accordance with the service bulletin. (i) If no crack is found, or if any crack is found that is within the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, prior to further flight, accomplish the preventative modification in accordance with Condition 1, Option II of the service bulletin. After accomplishment of the preventative modification, no further action is required by this AD. (ii) If any crack is found that exceeds the limits specified in Condition 2 of the service bulletin, prior to further flight, accomplish a permanent repair in accordance with Condition 2, Phase II of the service bulletin. After accomplishment of the permanent repair, no further action is required by this AD. (c) An alternative method of compliance or adjustment of the compliance time that provides an acceptable level of safety may be used if approved by the Manager, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office (ACO), FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate. Operators shall submit their requests through an appropriate FAA Principal Maintenance Inspector, who may add comments and then send it to the Manager, Los Angeles ACO. Note: Information concerning the existence of approved alternative methods of compliance with this AD, if any, may be obtained from the Los Angeles ACO. (d) Special flight permits may be issued in accordance with Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) ยง21.197 and ยง21.199 to operate the airplane to a location where the requirements of this AD can be accomplished. (e) The inspections, repairs, and modification shall be done in accordance with McDonnell Douglas DC&hyph;10 Service Bulletin 57&hyph;114, Revision 1, dated July 26, 1993. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from McDonnell Douglas Corporation, P.O. Box 1771, Long Beach, California 90801&hyph;1771, Attention: Business Unit Manager, Technical Administrative Support, Dept. L51, M.C. 2&hyph;98. Copies may be inspected at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. (f) This amendment becomes effective on July 13, 1994. Issued in Renton, Washington, on May 31, 1994. Darrell M. Pederson, Acting Manager, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13627 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;U
