FR941121-0-00034 FR941121-0-00001 (b) Statement Disclosures (b)(1) Annual Percentage Yield Earned 1. Ledger and collected balances. Credit unions that accrue interest using the collected balance method may use either the ledger or collected balance methods to determine the balance used to determine the annual percentage yield earned. Ledger balance means the record of the balance in a member's account, as per the credit union's records. (The ledger balance may reflect additions and deposits for which the credit union has not yet received final payment). Collected balance means the record of balance in a member's account reflecting collected funds, that is, cash or checks deposited in the credit union which have been presented for payment and for which payment has actually been received. (See Regulation CC, 12 CFR 229.14). (b)(2) Amount of Dividends or Interest 1. Definition of earned. The term ``earned'' is defined to include dividends and interest either ``accrued'' or ``paid and credited.'' Credit unions may use either the ``ledger'' or the ``collected'' balance for either option. (See commentary to ยง707.2(t).) 2. Accrued interest. Credit unions must state the amount of interest that accrued during the statement period, even if it was not credited. 3. Terminology. In disclosing dividends earned for the period, credit unions must use the term ``dividends'' or terminology such as: ``Dividends paid,'' to describe dividends that have been credited; ``Dividends accrued,'' to indicate that dividends are not yet credited. 4. Closed accounts. If a member closes an account between crediting periods and forfeits accrued dividends, the credit union may not show any figures for ``dividends earned'' or annual percentage yield earned for the period (other than zero, at the credit union's option). 5. Extraordinary dividends. Extraordinary dividends are not a component of the annual percentage yield earned or the dividend rate, but are an addition to the member's account. The dollar amount of the extraordinary dividends paid, denoted as a separate, identified figure, must be disclosed on the periodic statement on which the extraordinary dividends are earned. A credit union may also disclose information regarding the calculation of the extraordinary dividends, and additional annual percentage yield earned and dividend rate figures taking into account the extraordinary dividend, so long as such information is accurate and not misleading. (b)(3) Fees Imposed 1. General. Periodic statements must state fees disclosed under ยง707.4(b) that were debited to the account during the statement period, even if assessed for an earlier period. 2. Itemizing fees by type. In itemizing fees imposed more than once in the period, credit unions may group fees if they are the same type. But, the description must make clear that the dollar figure represents more than a single fee, for example, ``total fees for checks written this period.'' Examples of fees that may not be grouped together are: i. Monthly maintenance with excess activity fees. ii. ``Transfer'' fees, if different dollar amounts are imposed_such as $.50 for share deposits and $1.00 for withdrawals. iii. Fees for electronic fund transfers with fees for other services, such as balance inquiry or maintenance fees. 3. Identifying fees. Statement details must enable the member to identify the specific fee. For example:
