FR940830-2-00045 FR940830-2-00022 Office of Public and Consumer Affairs; Public Participation Policy and Secretarial Guidance AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of Publication of Public Participation Policy and Guidance. SUMMARY: Today's notice publishes the Department's Public Participation Policy and Secretarial Guidance which the Secretary approved and issued to all DOE employees on July 29, 1994. This policy formally expresses the Department's fundamental philosophy, core values, and goals for public participation and is a key component, in the Department's efforts to operate under a new culture of openness and accountability to the public it serves. This policy is applicable to all elements and activities within the Department. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Elizabeth A. Nolan, director, Consumer and Public Liaison, PA&hyph;2, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20585 or telephone (202) 586&hyph;5373. Michael G. Gauldin, Director, Public and Consumer Affairs. Public Participation Policy Public Participation Public participation is open, ongoing, two-way communication, both formal and informal, between the Department of Energy and its stakeholders. This steady, interactive communication enables each party to learn about and better understand the views and positions of the other. The Department recognizes the many benefits to be derived from public participation, for both stakeholders and DOE. Public participation provides a means for the Department to gather the most diverse collection of opinions, perspectives, and values from the broadest spectrum of the public, enabling the Department to make better, more informed decisions. Public participation benefits stakeholders by creating an opportunity to provide input and influence decisions. Policy Public participation is a fundamental component in program operations, planning activities, and decision-making within the Department. The public is entitled to play a role in Departmental decision-making. Purpose This policy is intended to ensure that public participation is an integral and effective part of Departmental activities and that decisions are made with the benefit of important public perspectives. This policy provides a mechanism for bringing a broad range of diverse stakeholder viewpoints and values early into the Department's decision-making process. This early involvement enables the Department to make more informed decisions, improve quality through collaborative efforts, and build mutual understanding and trust between the Department and the public it serves. Scope This policy is designed to function as a general framework within which all Department programs shall operate. While it applies to all levels of DOE, its intent is development and implementation of effective public participation programs at each site. In conjunction with its stakeholders and field manager, each site shall develop and implement a public participation program that promotes openness and two-way communication and is tailored to meet specific program, site, and stakeholder needs. This policy is not intended to affect legal requirements imposed by law, regulation, or contractual agreement; neither does it modify any legal rights available to the public under current law. Definitions Under this policy, the Department actively seeks, considers, and incorporates or otherwise responds in a timely manner to the views of its stakeholders thereby providing them an opportunity to influence decisions. Stakeholders are defined as those individuals and groups in the public and private sectors who are interested in and/or affected by the Department's activities and decisions. Public participation is defined as open, ongoing two-way communication, both formal and informal, within the DOE Complex and between the Department and its stakeholders. This communication will vary widely in nature and scope and may include, but is not limited to, informal conversations, scheduled meetings and workshops, legally required hearings, and Federal-State-local-Tribal agreements. Goals The goals of the Department's Public Participation Policy are: I. The Department actively seeks and considers public input, and incorporates or otherwise responds to the views of its stakeholders in making its decisions. II. The public is informed in a timely manner about and empowered to participate in the Department's decision-making processes, which are open, understandable, and consistently followed. Access points for public input are clearly defined from the earliest stages of a decision process and provide adequate time for stakeholders to participate. III. Credible, effective public participation processes are consistently incorporated into the Department's program operations, planning activities, and decision-making processes, at headquarters and in the field. Every employee within the DOE Complex shares responsibility to promote, practice, and improve public participation. Core Values Though program-specific public participation activities may vary throughout the DOE Complex, each program will be characterized by the following core values: Accessibility: Known avenues to Department leaders who are available, approachable, and open to the public. Accountability: Responsibility to the public for its decisions and a willingness to provide explanations for the rationales behind its decisions. Accuracy: Commitment to the truth. Communication: Open, two-way exchange of information, knowledge, and perspectives between the Department and its stakeholders. Consistency: Stakeholder interactions marked by regularity and continuity. Fairness: Objectivity and freedom from favor toward any side. Honesty: Commitment to fairness, trustworthiness, and straightforwardness. Innovation: Introduction of new ideas, methods, and approaches. Openness: Ready accessibility and a willingness to listen to, consider, and respond to stakeholders. Peer review: Reexamination of key issues and decisions by internal and external peers.
