FR941007-1-00112 FR941007-1-00009 (a) Ratings in general. Subject to paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, the Board shall assign to a bank a rating of ``outstanding,'' ``satisfactory,'' ``needs to improve,'' or ``substantial noncompliance'' based on the bank's performance under the lending, investment and service tests, the community development test, the small bank assessment standards, or an approved strategic plan, as applicable. (b) Lending, investment, and service tests. The Board shall assign a rating for a bank assessed under the lending, investment, and service tests in accordance with the procedures provided in Appendix A of this part and the following principles: (1) A bank's rating on the lending test shall be weighed so as to count for at least 50 percent of its assigned rating; (2) A bank that receives an ``outstanding'' rating on the lending test shall receive an assigned rating of at least ``satisfactory''; (3) A bank that receives an ``outstanding'' rating on the lending test and an ``outstanding'' rating on either the service test or the investment test shall receive an assigned rating of ``outstanding''; (4) A bank that receives an ``outstanding'' rating on both the service test and the investment test and a rating of at least ``high satisfactory'' on the lending test shall receive an assigned rating of ``outstanding''; and (5) No bank may receive an assigned rating of ``satisfactory'' unless it receives a rating of at least ``low satisfactory'' on the lending test. (c) Effect of evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices. Evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices shall adversely affect the Board's evaluation of a bank's performance. In determining the effect on the bank's assigned rating, the Board shall consider the nature and extent of the evidence, the policies and procedures that the bank has in place to prevent discriminatory or other illegal credit practices, any corrective action that the bank has taken or has committed to take, particularly voluntary corrective action resulting from self-assessment, and other relevant information, such as the bank's past fair lending performance. (d) Effect of successive ``needs to improve'' ratings. A bank that would otherwise receive an assigned rating of ``needs to improve'' shall receive an assigned rating of ``substantial noncompliance'' if the bank received no better than a ``needs to improve'' rating on each of its two previous examinations. ยง228.29 Effect of ratings on applications. (a) CRA performance. Among other factors, the Board shall take into account the record of performance under the CRA of each applicant bank, and, for applications under section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act, of each subsidiary bank of an applicant bank holding company, and of each proposed subsidiary bank, in considering any application: (1) By a state member bank for the establishment of a domestic branch or other facility that would be authorized to take deposits; (2) For merger, consolidation, acquisition of assets, or assumption of liabilities if the acquiring, assuming, or resulting bank is to be a state member bank; (3) To become a bank holding company; and (4) By a bank holding company to acquire ownership or control of shares or assets of a bank, or to merge or consolidate with any other bank holding company. (b) Interested parties. In considering CRA performance in an application described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Board shall take into account any views expressed by interested parties which are submitted in accordance with the Board's Rules of Procedure set forth in part 262 of this chapter. (c) Denial or conditional approval of application. A bank's record of performance may be the basis for denying or conditioning approval of an application described in paragraph (a) of this section. (d) Definition of bank. For purposes of this section, the term ``bank'' has the meaning given to this term in 12 U.S.C. 1841(c). Subpart C_Records, Reporting and Disclosure Requirements ยง228.41 Service area delineation. (a) In general. Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each bank may delineate its service area(s) using any method it chooses provided that the service area(s): (1) Do(es) not reflect illegal discrimination;
