FR940426-0-00093 FR940426-0-00020 Reflecting a decrease in the local CPI survey, AAFs that are less than 1.00 are being published for the St. Louis, MO-IL MSA. However, section 8(c)(2)(C) of the 1937 Act prohibits the reduction of contract rents for newly constructed and substantially rehabilitated projects (including projects assisted under section 8 as in effect prior to November 30, 1983), unless the project has been refinanced in a manner that reduces the periodic payments of the owner. Therefore, contract rents for units in such projects will not be reduced as a result of the reduction in the factors. Section 8 Certificate Program AAFs for Manufactured Home Spaces The AAFs in this publication identified as ``Highest Cost Utility Excluded'' are to be used for updating manufactured home space contract rents. The applicable AAF is determined by reference to the geographic listings contained in Schedule C, as described in the preceding section. Retroactivity Retroactivity is permitted to avoid any detriment to owners because of HUD's delay in the annual publication, as required by 24 CFR 888.202, of the factors. For units assisted under the Section 8 Certificate, Moderate Rehabilitation (both regular and SRO), Project-based Assistance Certificates, and the FmHA programs, the factors are not applied retroactively; the annual adjustments, as of any anniversary date, are determined using the AAFs most recently published in the Federal Register (see 24 CFR 882.108(a)(1)(i) and 884.109(b)(2)). Owners of Section 8 units (other than units assisted under the Section 8 Certificate, Moderate Rehabilitation, regular and SRO, Project-based Assistance Certificates, and FmHA programs) who have HAP Contracts with anniversary dates falling on November 8, 1993 through April 26, 1994 may request that the AAFs be applied retroactively to the anniversary date of their HAP Contracts. RDD Factors Last year's AAFs, published on January 13, 1993, were the first to use the RDD regional surveys for calculating AAFs. The RDD survey method is based on a sampling procedure that uses computers to select a statistically random sample of rental housing, dial and keep track of the telephone calls and process the responses. The RDD surveys are conducted for the metropolitan parts (exclusive of CPI areas) and nonmetropolitan parts of the 10 HUD Regions, a total of 20 surveys. The results of those 20 surveys replaced the previous AAFs which were based on CPI data for the four Census Regions that comprise the United States. The increased number of rent change factors covering the much smaller and more homogeneous HUD Regions represents a significant improvement over the previous system. AAF Formula This year, HUD has modified the procedure for calculating the AAFs. Data from the National American Housing Survey (AHS) were used in past years to adjust the AAFs to account for rent change differences by rent range, e.g. the AHS showed that units in the higher rent ranges had smaller percentage rent increases than low rent units. This adjustment worked well when rental inflation rates were high, however, as rates have declined, it is no longer significant. Further, continuation of the adjustment would result in the use of data that do not have sufficient precision to capture the small differentials that are occurring among the various rent ranges. Therefore, HUD now is providing only two AAFs for each area_one for units including and one for units excluding the highest cost utility_replacing the tables of AAFs by rent ranges that appeared in previous publications. The formula for calculating the AAFs for each area is as follows: For Areas with CPI Surveys (1) Changes in the shelter rent and utilities components were calculated based on the most recent CPI annual average change data; (2) The shelter rent factor was calculated by eliminating the effect of heating costs that are included in the rent of some of the units included in the CPI surveys; and (3) The gross rent factors were calculated by weighing the rent and utility components with the 1990 Census corresponding components. For Areas Using the HUD Regional RDD Surveys (1) The change in gross rent was calculated using the most recent RDD survey median gross rent for the respective metropolitan or nonmetropolitan parts of the HUD Region; and (2) The change in shelter rent was calculated by subtracting median value of utilities costs from the median gross rent. The median cost of utilities was determined from the units in the RDD sample reporting that all utilities were paid by the tenant. HUD Field Reorganization Effective in April, 1994, HUD is beginning implementation of a reorganization which will eliminate the Regional Office function. In the future the areas formerly designated Regions will be referred to as follows: Region I (Boston) will now be New England; Region II (New York) will now be New York, New Jersey; Region III (Philadelphia) will now be Mid-Atlantic;
