FR941202-2-00182 FR941202-2-00098 The assessor should review the laboratory's SOP for sample receipt to assure that all appropriate elements (e.g., proper sample containers, preservatives, chain of custody, sample storage, sample rejection policy, etc.) are included. Any omissions should be brought to the attention of the laboratory management and appropriate laboratory staff person. Absence of a written sample receipt SOP should be considered a serious deficiency. The assessor should inspect the sample storage areas to insure that the facilities are adequate and secured. Cold storage facilities should be checked for maintenance of proper temperatures, proper monitoring devices (thermometers, etc.) and appropriate documentation. Sample receipt personnel should be interviewed to determine their adherence to the SOP. Sample receipt documentation and chain-of-custody records should be reviewed to determine if documentation is adequate. Failure to follow SOPs may be considered a serious deficiency, depending on the degree of deviation. Failure to keep sample receipt and chain-of-custody documentation should be considered a serious deficiency. 3.6.4.5␣Equipment Assessment The assessor should determine if the laboratory has all equipment and instrumentation necessary to perform the analyses for which certification is requested. This determination should be performed by visual inspection of the laboratory. The assessor should determine if the equipment is in reasonable working condition. An actual demonstration of equipment performance is not necessary in all circumstances, but should be required if the assessor has doubts about the condition of certain pieces of equipment. The absence of a required piece of equipment or instrument for a particular test should be considered a serious deficiency. The assessor should determine if the laboratory has written records of equipment repairs, maintenance, testing and calibration. 3.6.4.6␣Calibration Standards Assessment The assessor shall ascertain whether the laboratory has the necessary stock calibration standards and should spot check calibration standards to see if they are within expiration dates. The assessor should determine if stock standards are properly stored, e.g., volatile organic standards are stored in sealed vials in a freezer. The assessor should examine the laboratory's records for stock standards and the preparation of working standards to determine if the records are complete. 3.6.4.7␣Methodology Assessment The assessor should determine whether the laboratory has standard operating procedures for all test methods used by the laboratory. The standard operating procedures should be reviewed to determine if they adequately address all aspects of the analytical and biological procedures, e.g., sample preparation, calibration standard preparation, instrument calibration, etc. The analysts should be interviewed to verify that they have access to and are following the standard operating procedures for all methods. The lack of analytical and biological standard operating procedures or significant deviations from the standard operating procedures should be considered as serious deficiencies. While the ideal on-site assessment would consist, in part, of observing each individual perform his/her assigned work, time considerations will not permit this approach in a laboratory which conducts a wide variety of analytical or biological procedures. Consequently, the on-site assessor will need to rely more heavily on interviews with laboratory personnel, observations, and review of records to determine proficiency with, and knowledge of, the analytical or biological methodology. The assessor's experience and training will play a key role in this process. The assessor should be familiar with the performance of a test, so that the appropriate technical questions may be asked of the laboratory's analysts. The assessor should pose questions to the laboratory's staff in such a way as to not lead the individual into the correct response. The individual's responses should be cross-checked with the laboratory's documentation. During interviews with the individuals, it may be unclear as to how the analytical and biological procedures are being performed. If this occurs, then the assessor should ask the individual to demonstrate the procedure. 3.6.4.8␣Data Audit The assessor should perform a data audit on an appropriate number of sample sets which contain all the tests for which the laboratory is seeking accreditation. It may be necessary to audit multiple sample sets in order to cover all tests. The assessor should verify that the required sample receipt documentation and chain-of-custody records are on file and that they contain all necessary information. The assessor should obtain final data reports for the sample set being audited. The assessor should verify that the final reports contain the following information: _Sample receipt date; _Sample analysis date; _Sample identification; _Method used for analysis; _Quantitation units, e.g., mg/L, mg/Kg, μg/m 3 , etc.;
