FR941007-2-00033 FR941007-2-00014 Alternative alignments of the FIRP/NSPF Pipeline Corridor were considered. The Proposed Pipeline Project achieves the best balance of feasibility and environmental sensitivity, especially relative to avoiding coastal sage scrub and vernal pools. Overall, the Proposed FIRP/NSPF Project was found to be the only alternative which substantially minimize environmental degradation and met the basic purpose, need, and objectives of the project. Therefore, it is considered to be the environmentally preferred alternative. WMLOD The Proposed WMLOD Project involves the disposal of approximately 6 million cubic yards of overburden associated with approved, ongoing excavation at the West Miramar Landfill. The Proposed Project identifies mounding overburden on three areas (the North, West, and East Mounding Areas) and transporting the overburden from the excavation area to the mounding areas via an enclosed electric conveyor belt system mounted on steel trusses. A No Action Alternative was considered and rejected due to potential impacts associated with substantially reducing or eliminating capacity of the West Miramar Landfill. An alternative of trucking the overburden offsite was considered and rejected in favor of the Proposed Project based on comparatively greater air quality impacts, traffic impacts, and costs. Alternatives for transporting the overburden onsite via scrapers on off-road routes or haul trucks on paved roads were considered. They were rejected in favor of the Proposed Project based on greater impacts to biological resources and greater air quality impacts. Except as discussed below, the proposed WMLOD project is considered to be the environmentally preferred alternative. FIRP/NSPF and WMLOD Phasing Modification Since the release of the Final EIS, a modification to the proposed phasing of the FIRP/NSPF and WMLOD projects has occurred. The modification is a result of consultations between the City, the Department of the Navy, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the California Department of Fish and Game relative to potential direct and indirect impacts to biological resources. The City, the Department of the Navy, and the resources agencies recognize vernal pools as being a significant biological resource and agree that impacts to such resources should be avoided when practicable and mitigated/compensated when impacts are unavoidable. The Final EIS and the USFWS Biological Opinion for the project dated 29 September 1994 establish mitigation measures which address both direct and indirect impacts to vernal pools. Such requirements include acquiring offsite vernal pools to compensate for the loss of onsite vernal pools and set forth mitigation ratios based on the specific nature of the impacted vernal pool (i.e., mitigation ratio of 2:1 for impacts to vernal pools on native soil, a 2:1 ratio for impacts to vernal pools containing San Diego fairy shrimp, a 1:1 ratio for impacts to vernal pools located on landfill material and having two or more vernal pool indicator species, and a ratio of 0:1 for vernal pools on landfill material having less than two indicator species). The removal of onsite vernal pools can only occur to the extent that the necessary offsite mitigation has been secured. The phasing modification enhances the feasibility and timeliness of implementing these mitigation requirements for specific Phase 1 projects. For the FIRP/NSPF project, the phasing modification will result in the deferral of vernal pool impacts associated with FIRP/NSPF overburden disposal. The modification would limit the placement of FIRP/NSPF overburden to only the northeast portion of the West Mounding Area where there are no vernal pools. The modifications would also delete the East Mound Area from use in Phase I implementation. In conjunction with the reduce ``footprint'' of the FIRP/NSPF mound, the segment of the Southern Access Road which follows the base of the mound would be realigned to avoid most of the existing vernal pools. These refinements to the grading program and the associated reduction in vernal pool impacts enable the City to meet vernal pool mitigation requirements for FIRP/NSPF. Postponement of WMLOD mounding at the West Mound location will delay the direct impacts to vernal pools and enable the City to more fully address the vernal pool mitigation requirements currently set forth in the USFWS Biological Opinion for the project. The ultimate implementation of the vernal pool mitigation requirements for the WMLOD West Mound may be affected by additional regulatory consideration related to the removal of vernal pools as part of landfill maintenance; however, any variation from the current Biological Opinion requirements for the WMLOD West Mound would likely involve a new Section 7 consultation pursuant to the Endangered Species Act.
