FR941007-2-00049 FR941007-2-00027 Industry Showcase Demonstration Project Team Obligations Each proposing project team will themselves provide all the funding to support necessary design, equipment specification, purchase, and installation for the efficient electric motor systems to be demonstrated, along with all the measurement equipment and instrumentation to validate and substantiate all claims of performance and benefits achieved. (A limited amount of supplementary measurement equipment and instrumentation may be provided by DOE). Teams will provide DOE with sufficient data to substantiate and document the energy and environmental performance of the project and the economic benefit/cost of the result. Additionally, teams will provide appropriate information to DOE to allow for DOE contractors to document a comprehensive case study and to perform an independent performance validation. For activities within the Showcase Demonstration, DOE will respect all proprietary interests to which selected demonstration hosts are entitled. These activities will be addressed in the previously referenced Agreement between DOE and the project team. Showcase Demonstration Team's Intellectual Property Rights The Agreements to be signed by DOE and each MOTOR CHALLENGE Showcase Demonstration project team does not envision a commitment by the Participants to perform research and development. DOE's intellectual property policies will not apply to Participant's inventions because the work performed by the Participants in developing the demonstration projects for the MOTOR CHALLENGE Showcase Demonstrations are not wholly or partially funded by DOE. Therefore, rights to intellectual property developed by Participants and demonstrated at the MOTOR CHALLENGE Showcase Demonstrations will not vest in the United States Government. Language to this effect will be incorporated into any resulting Agreement. Industry Sector Demonstrations of Interest DOE will only consider proposals within the following industrial sectors and standard industrial classifications (SICs): (1) All manufacturing sectors within SICs 20 through 39; (2) Agricultural production, crops and livestock (SICs 01 and 02); (3) Mining operations_metals, coal, and nonmetallic minerals (SICs 10, 12, and 14); (4) Oil and gas extraction and exploration (SIC 13); (5) Gas production and distribution (SIC 492); (6) Water supply (SIC 494); (7) Sewage systems (SIC 4952); (8) Irrigation systems (SIC 4971); Preliminary-Proposal Submission Format Preliminary-proposals are envisioned to be short (about 10 to 20 pages) narratives that set out the principal features of the intended efficient motor system application. Only limited engineering effort is anticipated to be expended for these preliminary-proposals. The preliminary-proposal should include the following sections at a minimum: Section 1_Project Abstract A brief abstract of the project should include: (a) Project title (b) Brief narrative describing the project (1 or 2 sentences); (c) Proposing industrial end-user company; (d) Management point of contact of end-user company (name, title, address, phone, fax); (e) Supporting team member companies and organizations; (f) Facility name and location where the demonstration is proposed.
