FR940617-0-00163 FR940617-0-00026 (2) Each test engine must be configured to be representative of actual in-use operation. The Administrator may specify the adjustment of any adjustable parameter. All test results must be reported to the Administrator. (b) Confirmatory testing. The Administrator may conduct confirmatory testing or other testing on any test engine. The manufacturer must deliver test engines as directed by the Administrator. When the Administrator conducts confirmatory testing or other testing, those test results are used to determine compliance with emission standards. (c) Use of carryover test data. In lieu of testing to certify an engine family for a given model year, the manufacturer may submit, with the Administrator's approval, emission test data used to certify that engine family in previous years. This ``carryover'' data is only allowable if the submitted test data show that the test engine would comply with the emission standard(s) for the model year for which certification is being sought. (d) Test fuels. EPA may use the fuel specified in either Table 4 or Table 5 of appendix A to subpart D of this part in confirmatory testing or other testing on any test engine. Emission test results based on use of Table 5 fuel will be used to confirm compliance with HC, CO, NO X , PM, and smoke standards. Emission test results based on Table 4 fuel will be used to confirm compliance with HC, CO, NO X , and smoke standards; when a manufacturer uses the fuel specified in Table 4 of appendix A to subpart D of this part for its certification testing, EPA has the option to use the PM emission result, corrected using the PM correction factor specified in §89.425&hyph;96, to confirm compliance with the PM standard. §89.120&hyph;96 Compliance with emission standards. (a) If all test engines representing an engine family have emissions less than or equal to each emission standard, that family complies with the emission standards. (b) If any test engine representing an engine family has emissions greater than each emission standard, that family will be deemed not in compliance with the emission standard(s). (c) If aftertreatment is employed by an engine family, then a deterioration factor must be determined and applied. (d) For engine families included in the averaging, banking, and trading program, the families' emission limits (FELs) are used in lieu of the applicable federal emission standard. §89.121&hyph;96 Certificate of conformity effective dates. The certificate of conformity is valid from the date of issuance by EPA until 31 December of the model year or calendar year for which it is issued. §89.122&hyph;96 Certification. (a) If, after a review of the manufacturer's application, request for certificate, information obtained from any inspection, and such other information as the Administrator may require, the Administrator determines that the application is complete and that the engine family meets the requirements of this part and the Clean Air Act, the Administrator shall issue a certificate of conformity. (b) If, after a review of the information described in paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator determines that the requirements of this part and the Clean Air Act have not been met, the Administrator will deny certification. The Administrator must give a written explanation when certification is denied. The manufacturer may request a hearing on a denial. §89.123&hyph;96 Amending the application and certificate of conformity. (a) The manufacturer of nonroad compression-ignition engines must notify the Administrator when changes to information required to be described in the application for certification are to be made to a product line covered by a certificate of conformity. This notification must include a request to amend the application or the existing certificate of conformity. Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the manufacturer shall not make said changes or produce said engines prior to receiving approval from EPA. (b) A manufacturer's request to amend the application or the existing certificate of conformity shall include the following information: (1) A full description of the change to be made in production or of the engine to be added; (2) Engineering evaluations or data showing that engines as modified or added will comply with all applicable emission standards; and (3) A determination whether the manufacturer's original test fleet selection is still appropriate, and if the original test fleet selection is determined not to be appropriate, proposed test fleet selection(s) representing the engines changed or added which would have been required if the engines had been included in the original application for certification. (c) The Administrator may require the manufacturer to perform tests on the engine representing the engine to be added or changed. (d) Decision by Administrator. (1) Based on the description of the proposed amendment and data derived from such testing as the Administrator may require or conduct, the Administrator will determine whether the proposed change or addition would still be covered by the certificate of conformity then in effect.
