FR940628-1-00018 FR940628-1-00001 Recognized slaughtering establishment. Any slaughtering facility operating under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) or a State meat inspection act. Render. Reduce, convert, or melt down by heating to a temperature of at least 230 ○F. so that oil is removed. State. Each of the States of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, or any other territory or possession of the United States. State animal health official. The State official responsible for livestock- and poultry-disease control and eradication programs. State representative. An individual employed in animal health work and authorized by a State or political subdivision of a State to perform the tasks required by this subpart. State veterinarian. A veterinarian employed and authorized by a State or political subdivision of a State to perform the tasks required by this subpart. Veterinarian in charge. A Federal veterinarian employed by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and authorized by the Administrator to supervise and manage the animal health work of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in a specified area of the United States. §82.2 Criteria for determining birds or poultry to be infected with, exposed to, or free from END. (a) The determination that birds or poultry are infected with END must be made by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian. 1 They will base that determination on one or more of the following factors: clinical evidence (signs, post-mortem lesions, and history of the occurrence of END); diagnostic tests; 2 or epidemiological evidence (evaluation of clinical evidence and the degree of risk posed by the potential spread of END based on population and exposure factors, including evaluation of whether the birds and poultry have had the opportunity to be in contact with birds or poultry infected with END or with excrement from birds or poultry infected with END, or if the birds and poultry have shared feed or water with birds or poultry infected with END). 1 The location of Federal veterinarians and State veterinarians may be obtained by writing to the Administrator, c/o Emergency Programs Staff, Veterinary Services, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, or by referring to the local telephone book. 2 A copy of the protocols for END diagnostic tests may be obtained by writing to the Administrator, c/o Emergency Programs Staff, Veterinary Services, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, United States Department of Agriculture, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20872. The protocols are also found in ``Recommended Uniform Diagnostic Procedures,'' published by the Committee of the American Association of Veterinary Laboratory Diagnosticians. (b) The determination that birds or poultry are exposed to END must be made by either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian. They will base that determination on an evaluation of all related circumstances, including: the proximity of the birds or poultry to birds or poultry infected with END, to excrement from birds or poultry infected with END, and to other material touched by birds or poultry infected with END; the number of birds or poultry infected with END to which the birds or poultry were exposed; the species involved; the virulence of the END to which the birds or poultry were exposed; and the length of time the birds or poultry were in contact with birds or poultry infected with END, and to material touched by birds or poultry infected with END. Birds or poultry determined to be exposed to END will continue to be treated as exposed unless they are subsequently determined to be infected with END or until either a Federal veterinarian or a State veterinarian finds them to be free of END based on one or more of the factors listed in paragraph (a) of this section. §82.3 Quarantined areas. (a) Any area where birds or poultry infected with END are located will be designated as a quarantined area. A quarantined area is any geographical area, which may be a premises or all or part of a State, deemed by epidemiological evaluation to be sufficient to contain all birds or poultry known to be infected with or exposed to END. Less than an entire State will be designated as a quarantined area only if the State enforces restrictions on intrastate movements from the quarantined area that are at least as stringent as this subpart. (b) Any area designated as a quarantined area because of END will remain designated as a quarantined area until all of the requirements of §82.14 have been met. (c) The following areas are quarantined because of END: (Currently, no areas are quarantined because of END.) §82.4 General provisions. (a) Prohibitions. The following articles may not be moved interstate from a quarantined area: (1) Dead birds and dead poultry, including any parts of the birds or poultry, that are infected with END; (2) Litter used by or manure generated by birds or poultry infected with END; (3) Any eggs from birds or poultry infected with END; (4) Hatching eggs from birds or poultry exposed to END; and
