FR941206-1-00096 FR941206-1-00008 A source may demonstrate compliance either by showing that the VOC content is less than the VOHAP limit (options 1&hyph;4) or by the use of option 5 (discussed below) which would measure the actual VOHAP content. If the shipyard is subject to regulatory limits on the VOC content of its coatings, the primary compliance method for this rule would be to certify the VOC content of each container of coating, as applied. (That information would then be used to determine compliance with the applicable VOHAP limit using any of the options 1&hyph;4.) Certification of VOC content is done by: (1) using Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; (2) using forms similar to those included in the certification procedure published in EPA&hyph;450/3&hyph;84&hyph;019 (revised 6/86), ``Procedures for Certifying Quantity of Volatile Organic Compounds Emitted by Paint, Ink, and Other Coatings''; or (3) an alternative method approved by the Administrator. Option 5 may be used for demonstrating compliance when a shipyard is not subject to VOC limits. Affected sources would be allowed to use the following methods to demonstrate compliance to avoid testing every container of coating; however, any analysis of an individual container of coating using the Agency's Method 24 would take precedence to determine or to verify a violation. Paragraphs (i) through (iii) are summaries of options 1, 2, and 3. (i) Shipyards can demonstrate compliance of the as-supplied VOC content as certified by the manufacturer. If the as-supplied coating is used without adding thinning solvent, shipyards can certify that the as-applied VOC content of the batch of coating is identical to the as-supplied VOC content, if it were certified by the manufacturer. If the certified VOC content is less than the VOHAP limit, compliance is demonstrated. (``As applied'' means after any thinning by the user or just prior to application to the substrate. ``As supplied'' means as supplied by the coating manufacturer.) (ii) Shipyards can demonstrate compliance if the actual volume of thinner used is less than the maximum allowable volume of thinner on a coating-by-coating basis. (iii) Shipyards can demonstrate compliance by comparing the actual volume of thinner used to the maximum allowable volume on a ``group'' basis. A group of coatings would be defined as those which use the same thinner. (See section VII.E. for more explanation.) Compliance with options 1 through 4 is based on the VOC content of each container of coating, as applied. If the as-applied VOC content is less than or equal to the VOHAP limit, then compliance would be demonstrated (See part III.E. for how ``exempt'' compounds which are HAP are considered in compliance determinations and other details). Shipyards can also demonstrate compliance by measuring the actual VOHAP content of a coating. If the as-applied VOHAP content is less than or equal to the alternate VOHAP limit, then compliance would be demonstrated. (See II.E., Option 5, for how alternate VOHAP limits are determined). (Concurrently with this rule, the Agency is preparing requirements for sample preparation and the performance specifications required of an acceptable analytical procedure.)
