FR940328-2-00079 FR940328-2-00050 The Commission historically has been concerned that book orders may get bypassed when stock is stopped, especially in a minimum fractional change market. 13 Based on the Amex's experience to date, the Commission believes that additional data is necessary before the Commission can determine whether there are sufficient grounds to conclude that this long-standing concern has been alleviated. Thus to ensure that Rule 109, as amended, will not potentially harm public customers with limit orders on the specialist's book, the Amex should provide detailed facts supporting its arguments about the impact of its pilot procedures. The Commission therefore requests that the Amex conduct another review of this issue. At a minimum, the Amex should determine how often limit orders against which stock is stopped in a minimum fractional change market are executed by the close of the day's trading. 14 Further, the Amex should conduct, on a date to be selected by the Commission, another one-day review of all book orders in the ten stocks receiving the greatest number of stops, and should submit to the Commission both raw trade data for, 15 and a description of the final disposition of, 16 each such order. 13 See, e.g., SEC, Report of the Special Study of the Securities Markets of the Securities and Exchange Commission, H.R. Doc. No. 95, 88th Cong., 1st Sess. Pt. 2 (1963). 14 Specifically, the Amex would first calculate the total number of shares of limit orders against which stock is stopped in minimum fractional change markets. The Amex would then determine how many of those shares actually are executed by the close of the day's trading. As noted above, see supra note 12, electronic display book technology is necessary to determine the final disposition of limit orders. The Amex expects the electronic book to be implemented Floor-wide by mid-1994. Telephone conversation between Claudia Crowley, Special Counsel, Legal & Regulatory Policy Division, Amex, and Beth Stekler, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, on March 11, 1994. As the phase-in of the electronic book continues, the Amex should provide the Commission with complete information for all stocks in which it has the capability to monitor the final disposition of limit orders, even if it has not yet completed Floor-wide implementation of the electronic book. 15 In this regard, the Commission requests that the Amex submit the documentation the Amex is relying upon to support its conclusions about the final disposition of these limit book orders. See infra , note 16. 16 See supra , note 14. In terms of market depth, the Amex's January monitoring report suggests that stock tends to be stopped in minimum fractional change markets where there is a significant disparity (in both absolute and relative terms) between the number of shares bid for and the number of shares offered. 17 That report also suggests that, given the depth of the opposite side of the market, orders affected by the Rule 109 pilot tend to be relatively small. 18 The Amex repeatedly has stated, both to the Commission 19 and to its members, 20 that specialists can only stop stock in a minimum fractional change market when (1) an imbalance exists on the opposite side of the market and (2) such imbalance is of sufficient size to suggest the likelihood of price improvement. 21 17 There is a direct relationship between such a quote size imbalance and the likelihood of price improvement. A large imbalance on one side of the market suggests that subsequent transactions will take place on the other side. In those circumstances, it could be appropriate to grant a stop, since the delay might allow the specialist to execute the order at a better price for the customer. 18 A relatively large order might begin to counteract the pressure the imbalance on the opposite side of the market is putting on the stock's price. Accordingly, it might not be as appropriate to stop such an order. 19 See letter from Claire P. McGrath, Senior Counsel, Legal & Regulatory Policy Division, Amex, to Mary Revell, Branch Chief, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, dated January 6, 1992 (Amendment No. 1 to File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;91&hyph;05). Amendment No. 1 formally incorporated the requirement that the indicia of market depth discussed below must, without exception, be satisfied before a specialist is permitted to stop stock in a minimum fractional change market. 20 See Amex Information Circular Nos. 92&hyph;74 (April 24, 1992) and 93&hyph;333 (April 7, 1993). 21 For further discussion of the relationship between quote size imbalance and the likelihood of price improvement, see supra note 17.
