FR940912-1-00063 FR940912-1-00015 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 227 [I.D. 081694D] Listing Endangered and Threatened Species and Designating Critical Habitat: Initiation of Status Reviews for Pink Salmon, Chum Salmon, Sockeye Salmon, Chinook Salmon, and Sea-Run Cutthroat Trout Populations in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and California AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice of finding; initiation of status reviews; request for comments. SUMMARY: NMFS has received three petitions to list several populations of salmon comprising four biological species of Pacific salmon ( Oncorhynchus spp.) from Puget Sound and the Olympic Peninsula, WA, and to designate critical habitat under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA). In accordance with section 4 of the ESA, NMFS finds that the petitions present substantial scientific information indicating that listings may be warranted. Therefore, NMFS is initiating a status review on these stocks to determine if listing is warranted. Moreover, NMFS is initiating comprehensive status reviews for populations of Pacific salmon and anadromous trout not presently undergoing status reviews in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and California. Comprehensive, coastwide status reviews are already underway for coho salmon ( O. kisutch ) and steelhead ( O. mykiss ). Species for which comprehensive, coastwide status reviews will be initiated are: Pink salmon ( O. gorbuscha ), chum salmon ( O. keta ), sockeye salmon ( O. nerka ), chinook salmon ( O. tshawytscha ), and sea-run cutthroat trout ( O. clarki clarki ). To ensure that these status reviews are complete, NMFS is soliciting information and data regarding the petitioned stocks as well as the five species in Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and California. DATES: Comments and information must be received by November 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the petitions are available from, and comments should be submitted to, Environmental and Technical Services Division, NMFS, 911 NE 11th Avenue, Room 620, Portland, OR 97232. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Garth Griffin, NMFS, Northwest Region, (503) 230&hyph;5430; Jim Lecky, NMFS, Southwest Region, (310) 980&hyph;4015; or Marta Nammack, NMFS, Office of Protected Resources, (301) 713&hyph;2322. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4 of the ESA allows interested persons to petition the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) to add a species to or remove a species from the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and to designate critical habitat. Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the ESA requires that to the maximum extent practicable, within 90 days after receiving such a petition, the Secretary makes a finding whether the petition presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted. Petitions Received On March 14, 1994, the Secretary received a petition from the Professional Resource Organization_Salmon (PRO-Salmon petition) to list nine populations of salmon comprising four biological species from Puget Sound and the Olympic Peninsula, WA, and to designate critical habitat under the ESA. The nine populations are identified as indigenous, naturally spawning populations of (1) Hood Canal summer chum salmon, (2) Elwha River pink salmon, (3) Lower Dungeness River pink salmon, (4) North Fork Nooksack River spring chinook salmon, (5) South Fork Nooksack River spring chinook salmon, (6) Dungeness River spring chinook salmon, (7) Baker River sockeye salmon, (8) Discovery Bay chum salmon, and (9) White River spring chinook salmon. Subsequently, the Secretary received two additional petitions to list populations of chum salmon in Mud Bay/Eld Inlet and in Hood Canal, WA, from the Save Allison Springs Citizens' Committee (April 4, 1994) and Trout Unlimited (May 23, 1994), respectively. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA, makes a finding that the petition presents substantial scientific information indicating that the petitioned action may be warranted based on the criteria specified in 50 CFR 424.14(b)(2), and based on evidence presented in the petition that the petitioned populations may qualify as ``species'' under the ESA in accordance with NMFS' ``Policy on Applying the Definition of Species under the Endangered Species Act to Pacific Salmon'' (56 FR 58612, November 20, 1991). Under section 4(b)(3)(A) of the ESA, this finding requires that a review of the status of the petitioned stocks be conducted to determine if the action is warranted.
