FR940505-1-00033 FR940505-1-00012 EPA's current challenge to minimize federal intrusion is through the proposal and promulgation of these federal plans_ plans which EPA hopes to see replaced by state and local regulations. Consequently, EPA will withdraw or rescind any federal measure it proposes or promulgates as soon as it can approve acceptable SIP measures submitted by the state which provide for commensurate emissions reductions. In fact, EPA hopes these FIPs will become obsolete as a regulatory matter. The remaining value of these FIPs would then be the partnerships and solutions which both minimize federal intrusion and enable the state and local agencies to achieve the clean air goals as the law envisions. To put this another way, while EPA's goal is to minimize federal intrusion into state and local decision making and implementation authority, only prompt action by California officials_within the timetables of the CAAA and the court ordered deadlines_can significantly diminish the FIPs' impact on the state. EPA intends to assist the state and local agencies in their efforts to adopt and submit ozone SIPs with the requisite emissions reductions and ozone attainment demonstrations. As pointed out earlier in this discussion, successful state and local action will allow EPA to withdraw the regulatory pieces of the federal plan or reduce the scope and stringency of its imposed or impending measures. 4. Minimize Adverse Socio-Economic Impacts EPA has attempted to fashion these proposed FIPs to meet the attainment obligations while trying hard to avoid unnecessarily severe social and economic impacts, both through the choice of the particular regulations and by the timing of their implementation. Despite these mitigatory approaches, federal regulation sufficient to achieve the NAAQS in these heavily polluted areas has the potential for significant social and economic disruption. This is the inevitable result of the extraordinary emission reductions required, the advanced level of control that already exists, and the constraints on EPA's authority and practical ability to enact and implement many of the most appropriate control approaches for these areas. 5 Current control strategies in these areas, especially in the South Coast, already employ state of the art technology and regulatory design for many pollution sources. To achieve attainment in these areas, in effect, we must do even better. To mitigate the severe impact of further near-term emission reduction requirements, EPA has attempted to identify control options which provide emission sources with flexibility and incentives for technological development, product reformulation and pollution prevention. We will look to the public comments on the proposals to further identify such strategies. 5 The proposals in this rulemaking are designed to achieve the substantial emission reductions required in these three areas and are not necessarily appropriate for areas with lesser problems. We want to emphasize here again that state and local agencies are in a far better position to tailor plans for the areas that minimize adverse impacts of the attainment obligations. Through proximity they have a better understanding of their emission sources and their local communities. They can also achieve significant mobile source reductions from transportation and land use measures that are beyond EPA's resources and authority to implement directly. For example, there is a growing body of evidence supporting the use of market-based programs, sometimes incorporating fees, to encourage emissions reductions and transitions to cleaner technologies and processes. Such policies can be effectively designed and implemented at the local level where a specific understanding of local conditions and economies can be integrated into a flexible program and, regarding fee-based programs, where revenues can be redistributed within the community. A well designed program can effectively minimize the disruptive impacts of major emissions reductions. Conversely, federal measures for local implementation must be general enough to provide for enforcement from a distance, and have severe legal restraints relative to local revenue issues. The federal Miscellaneous Receipts Act, for example, requires revenues from any such federal fee-based programs to be deposited in the U.S. Treasury, thereby preventing their redistribution within the local community. In short then, locally designed and implemented plans become the best means of minimizing socio-economic impacts. 5. Ensure Fairness with Respect to Impacts on the Population as a Whole and on Individual Air Pollution Sources The extent of the air quality problems in these three areas, as well as principles of equity, demand that emission reductions must come from every source of pollution_from cars to refineries to hand-held spray paint. Fairness is an elusive goal_what seems fair to one may not seem fair to another_but there are a few facts to bear in mind as we formulate a plan for clean air: (1) Some emission sources have been required to reduce more than others in the past; (2) Some emissions can be reduced more cheaply than others; (3) Some individuals and sources of emissions can more easily afford to comply with air pollution regulations than others. Myriad sources comprise the pieces of the air quality problem, and each of these sources must be part of the solution. What part of the solution each will contribute, and how to fashion those contributions into a plan is where the challenge lies. EPA has and will continue to consider the issue of fairness as it develops these FIP strategies. We encourage the regulated community and the public to make sure that the clean air strategies which ultimately get implemented are fair by: (1) Constructively participating in the FIP public involvement processes; and (2) supporting the development of appropriate SIP measures to displace as much of each of the FIPs as possible. 6. Ensure That the Federal Government Does its Part to Contribute to the Solution
