FR941110-2-00031 FR941110-2-00009 •Post-1983 standards and variances were projected backward to yield costs for the 1979/83 PORs. •``Actual'' and ``reconstructed'' costs for a limited sample of bearings differed substantially, calling into question the reliability of Koyo's methodology. •Koyo failed to provide information on transfers of production equipment from related parties, although Koyo is a major manufacturer of bearing-production equipment. •Koyo failed to provide part-number-specific data regarding material usage and prices during the PORs. •The responses contain no detailed information on calculation of research and development expenses. Timken asserts that the Department should reject Koyo's COP data unless it can establish that the newly-submitted data are consistent with previously-verified information on the record. If the Department determines to accept the data as submitted, Timken argues that the Department should make the following modifications: •Timken states that, under the Department's precedent in AFBs III and Minivans from Japan (57 FR 21933, May 26, 1992), interest income must be related to production of the subject merchandise to be allowed as an offset to interest expense. Since Koyo was unable to report separately long- and short-term interest income for the 1979/83 periods, and instead used net interest expense based on its experience during the 1983/86 PORs, Timken urges the Department to use the interest expense contained in Koyo's consolidated financial statements. •Timken maintains that the Department should ensure that all adjustments to CV are consistent with the price-based adjustments Koyo reported. If it is not possible to adjust the reported expenses in this manner, the Department should decline to make any adjustment to CV for selling expenses. •Timken claims that the Department misconstrued Koyo's reporting of direct and indirect selling expenses, G&A expenses, and interest expenses as a fixed amount per unit rather than as a percentage of the cost of manufacturing (COM). Timken urges the Department to revise its calculations accordingly. Koyo reiterates its contention that the Department's initiation of a below-cost investigation in these reviews was improper (see Comment 30). In response to Timken's arguments Koyo makes the following points: •Timken's assertion that Koyo's costs for the 1979/85 periods are merely an extrapolation of Koyo's 1985/86 costs is incorrect. Koyo submits that the costs for all the periods covered by these reviews can be reconciled to total cost of goods sold as reported in the annual financial statements. •Contrary to Timken's conclusion that essential records were destroyed, Koyo states that it did retain a complete historical record of total standard costs, or COM, by bearing model and year. •Koyo argues that it is normal for a firm to change its cost accounting procedures in the ordinary course of business over a ten-year period. •Koyo maintains that nothing in its submission suggests that the ratio of interest expenses for the later period was applied to the earlier period, as Timken implies. •Koyo did not project post-1983 standards and variances backwards, but applied standard costs and variances for each review year to obtain the actual costs for that year. •Contrary to Timken's assertion that Koyo failed to provide information on transfers of production equipment from related parties, Koyo maintains that it fully disclosed all consolidated subsidiaries and subcontractors. Koyo maintains that differences in how it accounted for various expenses in different years do not, in themselves, suggest that Koyo's system is inaccurate or unreliable. Therefore, Koyo concludes that the Department should continue to use these data if it decides to pursue the below-cost investigation. Moreover, Koyo contends that Timken fails to produce new evidence of any deficiencies in Koyo's cost data, relying only on references to Koyo's cost submissions in the 1974/79 reviews. Koyo argues that references to those reviews are irrelevant, and Koyo is under no burden to draw comparisons between its current submissions and submissions in previous reviews. Koyo adds that the Department has had Timken's comments for over two and a half years and has not seen fit to request additional or clarifying data from Koyo. For the Department to decide that these data are inadequate would be grossly unfair and prejudicial to Koyo's interests. Department's Position : We disagree with Timken's assertion that Koyo's cost response should be rejected in its entirety. Timken does not explain why or how Koyo's cost accounting systems are irreconcilable. Moreover, there is no evidence on the record that Koyo extrapolated data from the 1985/86 review period and applied a deflator for previous years included in these reviews. Koyo stated in its responses to our COP questionnaires that all cost data for these reviews can be traced to its financial statements. While we did not verify these specific cost data from the October 1989 and April 1990 submissions, we did verify a significant portion of Koyo's data from these review periods and found the reported information in the vast majority of cases to be accurate. We agree with Koyo that Timken is incorrect in its assertion that Koyo used net interest expense for the 1979/83 PORs extrapolated from its experience in the 1983/86 PORs. In its 1990 supplemental response Koyo explained that it does not separate long- and short-term interest expense in the normal course of business. However, Koyo stated that it was able to separate these expenses for the periods 1983/1986. For the periods 1979/83 Koyo estimated the short-term element based on the ratio of short-term to long-term liabilities actually paid rather than accrued each year. Koyo deducted short-term interest income to derive a net interest expense ratio which was then applied to each model's basic cost. Therefore, Timken is incorrect in its contention that 1979/83 net interest expenses were based on Koyo's experience in the 1983/86 review periods. We agree, however, with Timken's contention that not all of the expenses reported by Koyo as direct expenses should be deducted from CV. For these final results we have not used the direct selling expense variable as submitted in the CV database because this variable represented commissions, which we disregarded (see our response to Comment 23), and rebate expenses, which we did not treat as a direct adjustment to Koyo's home-market unit prices (see our response to Comment 11) in these final results. We have used the weighted-average home-market credit expense of all sales reported in each POR as the only direct deduction from CV. We believe that the cost information submitted by Koyo provides the necessary data to conduct a cost test for each of these periods of review. Therefore, for these final results of review, we have continued to use Koyo's cost data as submitted, with certain changes explained in this notice which we deemed appropriate (see Comments 33, 38, 41, and 46).
