FR940418-2-00134 FR940418-2-00074 C. Regulatory Confusion The Phlx argues that because the Series 42 covers a product traded almost exclusively on the nations options exchanges, those exchanges should have substantial input in determining the qualifications of representatives who market exchange-traded options. 30 The Phlx states that it is unclear whether the Series 42 is sufficient to qualify a representative to trade certain products, such as non-equity options and whether the examination will be updated to encompass new exchange-traded products. 31 30 Id. 31 Id. The Phlx argues that regulatory confusion is also created because it does not appear likely that any exchange will recognize the validity of the Series 42. 32 The Phlx believes that regulatory concern is raised by Phlx products, such as foreign currency options being marketed to customers by representatives who have not passed the Series 7, which is one of the Exchange's qualification requirements. 33 32 Id. See also, CBOE June 24 Letter, supra note 7. 33 See Phlx Letter, supra note 6. Further, the Phlx and CBOE believe that the Series 42 raises concerns for their member firms because the Phlx and CBOE believe that they will have to notify their members that they may incur liability by accepting orders from broker-dealers whose representatives are not Series 7 qualified if the exchanges determine that successful completion of the Series 42 (and Series 62) is inadequate for entry into their markets. 34 34 See Phlx Letter, supra note 6; and CBOE June 24 Letter, supra note 7. The CBOE believes that regulatory concern is raised by the Series 42 because individuals registered with organizations which are members solely of the NASD may have the ability to recommend listed options trading on an exchange without any assurance that such individuals have the requisite knowledge to do so. 35 35 See CBOE June 24 Letter, supra note 7. D. Limited Access to Options Markets The CBOE argues that the introduction of the Series 62 represented the first time since options were integrated into the Series 7 exam that individuals have been permitted to qualify to trade the underlying securities without being qualified to trade the derivative product. 36 As a result, the CBOE believes the Series 62 permits individuals to deal with the public concerning products with option-like characteristics ( e.g., index warrants) without being qualified to deal in options. 37 While these concerns apply to the Series 62, the CBOE believes the NASD should be required to amend that exam to test for options products rather than introducing the Series 42 as a separate exam. 38 36 Id. 37 Id. 38 Id. Similarly, the NYSE and the Phlx argue that the implementation of the Series 42 could result in limiting investor access to the options markets by erecting artificial barriers that could impede or deny access by customers to closely interrelated products because their representatives had not been qualified to trade those products. 39 39 See Phlx Letter, supra note 6; and NYSE August 16 Letter, supra note 5. E. NASD Response to Commentators The NASD does not agree that the usefulness of the Series 42 is limited. 40 The NASD believes that the Series 42 would raise qualification standards in the options regulatory area and provide a modular alternative route for NASD-only members to achieve a general securities representative status. 41 Additionally, the NASD believes that the Series 42 would improve qualification standards by replacing the Put and Call Questionnaire, which is given ``in-house'' by the member firms, as a method of testing the qualifications of representatives to trade equity options who have not previously been options qualified. 42 The NASD believes the Series 42 would, accordingly, raise qualification standards by eliminating the use of this questionnaire which is administered by the firms and not by the NASD under test conditions, 43 and provide the NASD with a means of maintaining a permanent record of its registered representatives who have taken the exam and are options qualified. 44 40 See NASD September 27 Letter, supra note 8. 41 Id. 42 According to the NASD, the Put & Call Questionnaire was developed at the inception of the options markets in 1973 to qualify existing representatives to trade equity options. Id. With the development of additional options products, a registered representative who wants to trade a full range of options products and who has only passed the Series 62, would currently have to either (i) complete the Series 7 exam, or (ii) complete the Put & Call Questionnaire as well as the Series 5 (interest rate options) and the Series 15 (foreign currency options). See the April 11 Conversation, supra note 16. 43 See NASD September 27 Letter, supra note 8. 44 Currently, records as to the qualifications of representatives to trade various options products are maintained by the member firms, not by the NASD. See the April 11 Conversation, supra note 16. The NASD further argues that implementation of the Series 42 will not result in investor confusion. The NASD states that there is no evidence that the introduction of the Series 62 has caused investor confusion. 45 The NASD further states that it has not received any inquiries from the investing public which suggest confusion over broker registration regarding the limited registration categories and that the routine examination of their member firms by its surveillance staff shows no particular problems in supervising or controlling marketing staffs with limited registrations, even within general securities firms. 46 The NASD believes that the investing public is more concerned with the fact that a representative is registered and properly qualified with the NASD or a national securities exchange than with the specific examination taken by the representative. 47 45 See NASD September 27 Letter, supra note 8. 46 Id. 47 Id.
