FR940617-0-00031 FR940617-0-00005 Central Office Equipment Contract (Including Installation) Notice and Instructions to Bidders; Central Office Equipment Project (Including Installation) 1. Sealed Proposals for the engineering, furnishing, delivery, and installation of central office equipment, materials and software for the (hereinafter called the ``Owner'') which is to be part of the system known as to be financed pursuant to a loan contract between the Owner and the United States of America (hereinafter called the ``Government'') by the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration (hereinafter called the ``Administrator'') will be received by the Owner on or before XXXXXX o'clock, XXXX .M., at at which time and place the Proposals will be publicly opened and read. The Rural Telephone Bank may also be a party to the loan contract. 2. The Bid Documents (composed of plans, specifications and drawings), together with all necessary forms and other documents for Bidders, may be obtained from the Owner or from the Engineer, at the latter's office at The Specifications may be examined at the office of the Owner or at the office of the Engineer. A copy of the loan contract between the Owner and the Government may be examined at the office of the Owner. Each set of Bid Documents will have a serial number, assigned by the Engineer, and the number of each set with the name of the Bidder will be recorded by the Engineer. Bids will be accepted only from original Bidders, or from some other qualified Bidder to whom such a set has been transferred by the original Bidder with the approval of the Engineer prior to the pre-bid technical session. 3. A pre-bid technical session will be held with each Bidder during the week of XXXXX , 19 XXX at for the purpose of receiving the Bidder's Technical Proposal, discussing details of the Project(s), and considering suggestions from Bidders. The Owner shall attach to this Notice a list of the information required in the Bidder's Technical Proposal. Each Bidder will be given a specific time period for the pre-bid technical session. At the pre-bid technical session, the Bidder shall fully describe to the Owner any exceptions to the Specifications the Bidder may request. In addition, the Bidder shall identify all features and capabilities that are not fully developed or do not have a verifiable satisfactory field performance record. If the Owner decides to incorporate any changes into the Specifications, the Owner shall furnish all prospective Bidders a copy of the Specifications containing such revisions (the ``Revised Specifications'') and all Bids shall be made on the basis of the Revised Specifications. At this session, the Bidder shall identify all documentation and materials that it claims constitute agreed excluded documentation under section (2)(xi) of the Software License. The Bidder shall claim as agreed excluded documentation only those items it may be unable to provide to the Borrower as required by said section (2)(xi). The Engineer shall immediately provide a list of all items so identified to [appropriate REA office]. The Engineer shall inform the Bidder at least XXXX days before the scheduled bid opening whether either the Engineer or [REA] will reject the Bid because of items so identified. Licensor agrees that certain Licensed Software cannot be excluded from the requirements of said section (2)(xi), including but not limited to software that would significantly impair the operation of the System, would significantly impair the ability of the Owner to generate revenue, or would pose a risk to REA loan security. If allowed, the agreed excluded documentation shall be individually identified in an attachment to the Bid. No bid shall be accepted from a Bidder who fails to attend the pre-bid technical session or fails to demonstrate to the Owner that its equipment meets the requirements of the Plans and Specifications.
