FR940802-1-00002 FR940802-1-00001 CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION 16 CFR Part 1500 Baby Walkers; Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking; Request for Comments and Information AGENCY: Consumer Product Safety Commission. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: Based on currently available information, the Commission has reason to believe that unreasonable risks of injury and death may be associated with baby walkers. The Commission knows of 11 deaths involving baby walkers since January 1989. One of these deaths involved a failure of the walker's seat. In the others, the walker may have provided the child with the mobility to access the hazard. In 1993, there were approximately 25,000 baby walker-related injuries treated in hospital emergency rooms in the United States. The rate of walker-related injuries has increased significantly over the period 1984&hyph;1993. Almost all of the injuries during that period involved children under 15 months of age. About 79 percent of the incidents involved children who fell down stairs or between levels in a baby walker. Other injuries occurred when a walker tipped over or from burns when a child in a walker contacted a hot oven, heater, or radiator or when a child upset a container of hot liquid that the child was able to reach because he or she was supported by a walker. This advance notice of proposed rulemaking (``ANPR'') initiates a rulemaking proceeding under the authority of the Federal Hazardous Substances Act (``FHSA''). One result of the proceeding could be the promulgation of a rule mandating performance or design requirements or additional labeling for baby walkers. Such requirements might, for example, result in walkers that are less mobile, that will not pass through standard door openings at the head of stairs, or that will be immobilized if part of the walker crosses the edge of a step. If there is no feasible performance or design requirement that will adequately reduce the risks associated with baby walkers, the Commission can consider other alternatives. The Commission solicits written comments from interested persons concerning the risks of injury and death associated with baby walkers, the regulatory alternatives discussed in this notice, other possible means to address these risks, and the economic impacts of the various regulatory alternatives. The Commission also invites interested persons to submit an existing standard, or a statement of intent to modify or develop a voluntary standard, to address the risks of injury described in this notice. DATES: Written comments and submissions in response to this notice must be received by the Commission by October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed, preferably in five (5) copies, to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207&hyph;0001, or delivered to the Office of the Secretary, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Room 502, 4330 East-West Highway, Bethesda, Maryland 20814; telephone (301) 504&hyph;0800. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Barbara Jacobson, Directorate for Health Sciences, Consumer Product Safety Commission, Washington, D.C. 20207; telephone (301) 504&hyph;0477, ext. 1206. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background For the reasons discussed in this notice, the U. S. Consumer Product Safety Commission (``CPSC'' or ``Commission'') is beginning a rulemaking proceeding to address risks associated with baby walkers. 1 A baby walker is a device that supports a child so that the child can use its feet to move around before or while learning to walk. A baby walker generally consists of a fabric seat with leg openings mounted to a rigid plastic deck. The deck is attached to a base that usually has wheels to make it mobile. Walkers generally can be folded for storage, and may have a feeding tray, adjustable seat height, and a bouncing mechanism. Activity toys may be attached to the trays, and some walkers have wheel lock mechanisms. 1 The Commission voted 2&hyph;1 to begin this proceeding. Chairman Ann Brown and Commissioner Jacqueline Jones-Smith voted to publish this notice; Commissioner Mary Sheila Gall voted against. Statements by the Commissioners concerning this vote can be obtained from the Office of the Secretary. The Commission has long recognized that hazards are associated with baby walkers. The Commission's regulations establish mandatory requirements for ``baby walkers,'' ``baby bouncers,'' and ``bouncer-walkers.'' These products are banned under 16 CFR 1500.18(a)(6) unless they meet the criteria described in 16 CFR 1500.86 (a)(4). These criteria specify that baby walkers must be designed to prevent injury from any scissoring, shearing, or pinching when the frame or other components rotate or move relative to one another; cover coil springs that have spaces greater than 0.125 inches when fully extended; guard any holes, slots, or cracks greater than 0.125 inches in diameter or width; and prevent accidental collapse. The product also must be labeled with the name and address of the manufacturer, packer, distributor, or seller and with a code mark indicating the model number of the walker. In 1986, a voluntary standard (ASTM F977) was published which contains performance requirements addressing some of the baby walker hazards addressed by the CPSC mandatory standard. In addition, the voluntary standard included six warnings that address the risk of falls down stairs and other hazards. In 1989, the ASTM voluntary standard was changed to require a permanent stairs-warning label in a place that will be seen by the consumer when placing a child in a walker. This new label states, ``WARNING: Avoid serious injury. NEVER use near stairs.''
