FR941206-1-00138 FR941206-1-00015 There are sophisticated criminal elements who actively seek information on what seemingly are minor security points, with a view to accumulating a larger picture of the entire security program. Therefore, it is imperative that the entire security program be protected. Similarly, it is critical to protect the information contained in Security Directives and Information Circulars. These documents contain detailed information on threats that the FAA has identified, and the measures to counter those threats. The unauthorized release of that information could compromise those countermeasures. In addition, particular information regarding FAA approved security devices, such as metal detectors, should also be protected to the extent possible. Current Protection of Security Information Currently, the FAA, airport operators, air carriers, indirect air carriers, and foreign air carriers are required to restrict the availability of information contained in security programs to those with a need to know, and to refer requests for such information to the FAA. These requirements are in §§107.3(e), 108.7(c) (4) and (5), 109.3(c), and foreign air carrier security programs. In addition, §108.18(c)(1) specifically requires air carriers to restrict the availability of Security Directives and Information Circulars, and the information contained therein, to persons with a need to know. However, individuals who work for or perform activities in support of the air carriers are not required to protect the information, except for Security Directives and Information Circulars. Part 191 allows the FAA to withhold certain requested information, such as a request under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) (5 U.S.C. 552) or in litigation. Part 191 currently applies only to the FAA. Section 191.3 identifies specific information, such as security programs and hijacker profiles, that the FAA withholds. Section 191.5 provides generally that the FAA prohibits disclosure of information when release would constitute an unwarranted invasion of privacy, reveal trade secrets or privileged or confidential information, or be detrimental to the safety of persons traveling in air transportation or in intrastate air transportation. However, it does not cover all of the potential sources of sensitive security information that should be covered. Civil aviation security information protected under the Federal Aviation Regulations is different from National Security Information governed by Executive Order 12356 and related orders, statutes, and rules. The Executive Order provides for classifying information as Top Secret, Secret, and Confidential, and covers a wide range of information affecting the national security. All persons with access to such information must have an appropriate security clearance, and there may be a criminal penalty for misuse of the information. While there is some ``classified'' civil aviation security information, these proposed rules are not directed to the handling of all classified information. The FAA proposes to improve the protection of sensitive security information by amending parts 107, 108, 129 and 191 as described more fully below. Part By Part Discussion of the Proposed Rule The FAA currently is reformulating the authority citations of all parts in accordance with the recodification enacted in Public Law 103&hyph;272 on July 5, 1994. This process is not complete. Accordingly, the authority citations in this proposed rule are those in the current rules. Part 191 Part 191 sets forth the rules that allow the FAA to withhold information from public disclosure. The FAA proposes to amend and reorganize part 191 as follows: §191.1 . The FAA proposes to expand part 191 to apply not only to the FAA, but also to air carriers, airport operators, indirect air carriers, foreign air carriers, and individuals. As discussed below, parts 107, 108, 109, and 129 still would contain some requirements regarding the protection of information, but part 191 would be the primary rule for withholding information from unauthorized public disclosure.
