FR940404-2-00149 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation of the Sixth Intergovernmental Meeting on the Action Plan for the Caribbean Environment Program (CEP) and Third Meeting of the Contracting Parties to the Cartagena Convention, United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), Kingston, Jamaica, November 16&hyph;18, 1992 Representative Robert C. Blumberg, Office of Oceans Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Advisers Rohena Betancourt, Secretary of Environmental Affairs, Government of the Territory of Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto, Rico Kevin C. Chu, Office of Oceans Affairs, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Pedro Gelabert, Office of International Activities, Environmental Protection Agency Timothy J. Kasten, Office of Water, Environmental Protection Agency Sean D. Murphy, Attorney-Adviser for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Office of the Legal Adviser, Department of State Arthur Patterson, Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Interests, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Private Sector Adviser Lavern Ragster, University of the Virgin Island, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands United States Delegation to the 29th Meeting of the Pan American Institute of Geography and History (PAIGH), Organization of American States (OAS), Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, November 16&hyph;20, 1992 Representative Clarence W. Minkel, President, PAIGH, Chairman, United States National Section, PAIGH, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee Alternate Representatives Peter F. Bermel, Vice Chairman, United States National Section, PAIGH, United States Geological Survey, Department of the Interior Margarita Riva-Geoghegan, United States Alternate Representative to the Organization of American States, Department of State Richard D. Sanchez, Executive Secretary, United States National Section, PAIGH, United States Geological Survey, Department of the Interior Advisers Alvaro F. Espinosa, United States Geological Survey, Denver, Colorado Paul L. Peeler, Jr., Defense Mapping Agency, Department of Defense Private Sector Advisers Ernst C. Griffin, San Diego State University, San Diego, California John F. Schwaller, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida United States Delegation to the Ad Hoc Working Group on Trade Efficiency, First Session, Trade and Development Board, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Geneva, November 16&hyph;20, 1992 Representatives Elizabeth W. Shelton, Deputy Director, Office of International Economic Policy, Bureau of International Organization Affairs, Department of State Alternate Representative Ray vanRaalte, Acting Deputy Assistant Administrator, Bureau of Private Enterprise, United States Agency for International Development Advisers Vicki Hodziewich, Customs Attache, United States Mission to the European Community, Brussels Robert Konrath, Economic Officer, United States Mission, Geneva G. Clay Nettles, Economic Counselor, United States Mission, Geneva Private Sector Advisers Lynne Gallagher, Director of Regulatory Affairs, Spring, Inc., Reston, Virginia Ronald Poole, Executive Assistant to the Mayor of Columbus, Columbus, Ohio Jeffrey Ritter, Attorney, Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease, Columbus, Ohio United States Delegation to the Maritime Transport Committee, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), Paris, November 23&hyph;24, 1992 Representative Geoffrey Ogden, Director, Office of Maritime and Land Transport, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Alternate Representative Ralph Edwards, Office of International Affairs, Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers Philip J. Loree, Chairman, Federation of American Controlled Shipping, New York, New York Peter D. Prowitt, American President Lines, Limited, Washington, DC
