FR941110-0-00307 FR941110-0-00018 Two taxa are located on Federal land in a national wildlife refuge on three Northwestern Hawaiian Islands: Mariscus pennatiformis ssp. bryanii grows only on the island of Laysan and Sesbania tomentosa grows on Necker and Nihoa. The national wildlife refuge is under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. On the island of Hawaii, two species ( Adenophorus periens and Sesbania tomentosa ) are located in Hawaii Volcanoes National Park. Three populations of Plantago princeps var. laxiflora are located in Haleakala National Park on Maui. The two national parks on Maui and Hawaii are under the jurisdiction of the National Park Service. Federal laws protect all plants on the national wildlife refuges, national parks, and national historic sites from damage or removal. Five of the species in this rule occur on land owned or leased by the U.S. Department of Defense. Populations of Bonamia menziesii and Flueggea neowawraea are located in the mountains of the Lualualei Naval Reservation. No military activities currently affect those populations. On the island of Oahu, Flueggea neowawraea is known to grow on lands owned by the U.S. Army in Schofield Barracks Military Reservation. One population of Hibiscus brackenridgei ssp. mokuleianus may possibly occur at Schofield Barracks as well. Three of the species are located on State-owned land currently leased to the U.S. military: On Oahu, Bonamia menziesii and Flueggea neowawraea are located within Makua Military Reservation and Spermolepis hawaiiensis is located in Diamond Head Reservation, leased by the Department of Defense. Portions of Makua Military Reservation are used by the Army and other branches of the military for ordnance training. The two species are not located inside the impact areas or adjacent buffer zones and, thus, are not directly affected by military activities. The Army has constructed firebreaks on the Makua Military Reservation to minimize damage from unintentional fires that occasionally result from the use of ordnance (Herve Messier, U.S. Army, Ft. Shafter, pers. comm., 1990). Plants of Spermolepis hawaiiensis are restricted to the outer slope of Diamond Head and are not in an area affected by military activities. One species, Vigna o-wahuensis, grows on the previously federally owned island of Kahoolawe where the Federal government is involved with ordnance disposal. Although periodic detonation of ordnance is required on the island, the populations of this species found there are at sites too remote to sustain impacts from such detonation (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). There are no other known Federal activities that occur within the presently known habitat of these 12 plant species.
