FR941027-2-00102 FR941027-2-00061 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34860; International Series Release No. 733; File No. S7&hyph;8&hyph;90] Order Approving Proposed Amendment to the Options Price Reporting Authority's National Market System Plan for the Purpose of Establishing a Fee To Be Paid by Persons Other Than Vendors Who Provide a Data Control Service to OPRA Subscribers October 19, 1994. On June 27, 1994, the Options Price Reporting Authority (``OPRA'') 1 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') pursuant to Section 11Aa3&hyph;2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 2 a proposed amendment to its National Market System Plan for the purpose of establishing a Data Control Service Agreement and a Control Service Fee for persons other than vendors who provide a data control service to OPRA subscribers and exempting subscribers who receive the feed from OPRA's Subscriber Indirect Access Fee. On August 30, 1994, OPRA filed with the Commission a letter amendment revising the amendment to clarify that OPRA vendors who provide data control services to their data feed customers are not considered to be Control Service Providers required to enter into a Data Control Service Agreement or pay a Control Service Fee. 3 The proposed amendment was published for comment in the Federal Register . 4 One comment letter was received. For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposed amendment. 1 OPRA is a National Market System Plan approved by the Commission pursuant to Section 11A of the Act and Rule 11Aa3&hyph;2. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 17638 (Mar. 18, 1981). The plan provides for the collection and dissemination of last sale and quotation information on options that are traded on the five member exchanges. The five exchanges which agreed to the OPRA Plan are the Philadelphia Stock Exchange (``PHLX''), the Chicago Board Options Exchange (``CBOE''), the American Stock Exchange (``AMEX''), the Pacific Stock Exchange (``PSE''), and the New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE''). 2 15 U.S.C. 78k&hyph;1. 3 See letter from Michael L. Meyer, Schiff Hardin & Waite, Attorney for OPRA, to Scott C. Kursman, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (August 30, 1994). 4 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34625 (September 1, 1994), 59 FR 46679 (September 9, 1994). I. Background Recent developments in computer and communications technology have led an increasing number of OPRA subscribers to receive options information by means of high speed, data feed transmissions from vendors. Historically, OPRA vendors have provided a controlled and formatted transmission of options information to most subscribers, but have also provided an uncontrolled, bulk, data feed transmission to an increasing number of subscribers. As a result of the trend toward data feed transmission, a new type of service provider_the data control service provider_has appeared. Such a provider controls the access and entitlement of subscribers' devices in respect of market information received in the form of a data feed transmission. Unlike vendors, data control service providers are not currently subject to a contract with OPRA nor are they required to contribute toward OPRA's overall administrative costs, despite the fact that, like vendors, they are in the business of redistributing options information. II. Description The proposed amendment establishes a Control Service Fee to be paid by persons other than vendors who provide a data control service to OPRA subscribers. The monthly fee of $2,800 is the same as that currently paid by vendors under their agreement with OPRA. The control service fee is intended to cover OPRA's additional administrative costs and to allocate a portion of OPRA's overall costs to those persons who utilize options market information for commercial purposes. The proposed amendment also establishes a Data Control Service Agreement that will serve as a contract between a Control Service Provider and OPRA. This agreement imposes requirements on Control Service Providers intended to assure the reliability and integrity of the services they provide. It will require Control Service Providers to provide OPRA with a complete description of the systems and procedures to be utilized by them in controlling subscribers' access to options information, as well as a current list of subscribers and their entitlements. The amendment also provides that OPRA's Subscriber Indirect Access Fee, which is payable by subscribers who receive uncontrolled data feed transmissions of options information from vendors, will not apply to subscribers whose receipt of a data feed transmission is under the control of a Control Service Provider. Finally, the Indirect (Vendor Pass-Through) Circuit Connection Rider to OPRA's Subscriber Agreement would be amended to relieve controlled data feed subscribers of the obligation to report device counts to OPRA. Since vendors and Control Service Providers are or will be required to provide this information to OPRA, there is no need to obtain it from the subscribers. III. Summary of Comments As noted above, the Commission received one comment letter. 5 Reuters, a vendor that distributes OPRA information, assumed that the purpose of the amendment was to replace the indirect access fee (paid by subscribers who receive an uncontrolled data feed of information from vendors) with a charge to vendors who control the data delivered to a subscriber. As the letter amendment (cited on page 2 of this order) makes clear, only data control service providers who are not vendors will be required to enter into a Data Control Service Agreement and pay the Control Service Fee. No new or additional fees are to be imposed on vendors under this amendment. 5 Letter from Andrew McLean, Reuters, to Secretary, Commission (September 9, 1994).
