FR941006-0-00010 FR941006-0-00004 Assumptions Under Full Funding As explained in the preamble to the proposed rule, full funding is not intended to replace or discourage efficient and effective program management. Accordingly, mandatory cost containment efforts recently undertaken must continue, and additional voluntary cost containment efforts are encouraged. Funds will continue to be allocated based on a national average food package cost as an incentive for State agencies to manage their food package costs more efficiently to serve more eligibles. Finally the commitment to WIC full funding can only be met if States continue to utilize risk-related eligibility criteria that are based on sound medical, nutritional and preventive health research. Income eligibility alone is not a sufficient condition for program eligibility. Funding Formula Objectives The funding process should assure each State agency a grant that allows it an equal opportunity to serve its fair share of eligible persons seeking WIC service by providing a food package suited to the participant's unique nutritional deficiencies, not to exceed the maximum food benefit allowed under regulations. This rule establishes a funding formula to meet this overall goal. The following is a discussion of each provision, as proposed, comments received on the proposal, and an explanation of the provisions set forth in this final rule. 1. Section 246.16(c)(1) Allocation Formula_Use of participation data in the formula. The Department proposed to revise Section 246.16(c)(1) to eliminate the use of priority participation data or data reflecting State-funded participation for imputing the figures needed for the targeting components of the formula described in Section 246.16 (c)(3)(ii) and (c)(1)(ii)(A). All commenters on this provision supported it as proposed. Therefore, the provision remains unchanged from the proposed rule. 2. Section 246.16(c)(3)(i) Allocation of stability funds. Currently, in allocating funds to State agencies, first priority is given to maintaining each State's operating level as ``stability funding''. The stability component of a State agency's allocation is initially based on the amount of food funds received by each State agency in the prior fiscal year, adjusted to restore 50 percent of any grant funds voluntarily returned in the prior year. This base level is then adjusted to account for a portion of the inflation estimated for the upcoming fiscal year (except that Indian State agencies receive a full inflation adjustment).
