FR940404-1-00010 FR940404-1-00002 (4) Identifying numbers on the railroad car, truck or other transportation vehicle transporting product to the receiver, (5) The name and address of the importer, (6) The place and date of entry, (7) The quantity imported, (8) The name and address of the intended receiver (eg. processor, feeder, charity, or other exempt receiver), (9) Intended use of the exempt commodity, (10) The U.S. Customs Service entry number and harmonized tariff code number, and (11) Such other information as may be necessary to ensure compliance with this regulation. For purposes of this regulation, a lot would be considered to be imported when it is released by the Customs Service for entry into commercial markets or other channels. Lots that are exempt from maturity requirements of the import regulations would not be subject to the inspection and certification requirements in such regulations. An imported lot intended for normal commercial channels, or any portion of such a lot, that fails established maturity requirements, could be disposed of in exempt outlets, as specified in the pertinent avocado import requirements. The third copy of the form would accompany the exempt lot to its intended destination. The receiver would certify that the lot has been received and it will be utilized in an exempt outlet. After the certification is signed by the receiver, the form would be returned to MOAB by the receiver, within 15 days of receipt of the lot. The information collection requirements contained in this proposed rule have been previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. chapter 35), and have been assigned OMB number 0581&hyph;0167. In accordance with section 8e of the Act, the USTR has concurred with the issuance of this proposed rule. Based on the above, the Administrator of the AMS has determined that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. This proposed rule reflects the Department's appraisal of the need to reinstate the suspended avocado import maturity requirements and make the specified changes in the avocado import maturity requirements, as hereinafter set forth, in accordance with section 8e of the Act. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 944 Avocados, Food grades and standards, Grapefruit, Grapes, Imports, Kiwifruit, Limes, Olives, Oranges. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR part 944 is proposed to be amended as follows:
