FR940928-1-00038 FR940928-1-00011 (h) Display. (1) An individual permit issued pursuant to this section must be available when the permitted activity is being conducted, including the landing of species taken as a result of that activity. (2) A vessel permit for wild live rock issued pursuant to this section must be carried on board the vessel and such vessel must be identified as required by §638.6. (3) An aquacultured live rock permit issued pursuant to this section, or a copy, must be carried on board a vessel depositing or possessing material on an aquacultured live rock site or harvesting or possessing live rock from an aquacultured live rock site, and such vessel must be identified as provided for in §638.6. (4) The operator of a vessel or an individual must present the permit for inspection upon the request of an authorized officer. (i) Sanctions and denials. A permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked, suspended, or modified, and a permit application may be denied, in accordance with the procedures governing enforcement-related permit sanctions and denials found at subpart D of 15 CFR part 904. (j) Alteration. A permit that is altered, erased, or mutilated is invalid. (k) Replacement. A replacement permit may be issued. An application for a replacement permit will not be considered a new application. A fee, the amount of which is stated with the application form, must accompany each request for a replacement. §638.5 Recordkeeping and reporting. (a) An individual with a Federal prohibited coral or wild live rock permit for a scientific, educational, or restoration purpose must submit a report of harvest to the Regional Director. Specific reporting requirements will be provided with the permit. (b) An individual with a Federal allowable octocoral permit must submit a report of harvest to the Science and Research Director. Specific reporting requirements will be provided with the permit. (c) A person with an aquacultured live rock permit must report to the Regional Director each deposition of material on a site. Such reports must be postmarked not later than 7 days after deposition and must contain the following information: (1) Permit number of site and date of deposit. (2) Geological origin of material deposited. (3) Amount of material deposited. (4) Source of material deposited, that is, where obtained, if removed from another habitat, or from whom purchased. (d) The owner of a vessel that takes wild live rock, and a person who takes aquacultured live rock that is landed in Florida, must submit Florida trip tickets as required by Florida statutes and regulations. (e) A person who takes aquacultured live rock that is landed other than in Florida must submit a report of harvest to the Regional Director. Specific reporting requirements will be provided with the permit. (f) Additional data will be collected by authorized statistical reporting agents, as designees of the Science and Research Director, and by authorized officers. An owner or operator of a fishing vessel, an individual or person with a coral permit issued pursuant to §638.4, and a dealer or processor are required upon request to make prohibited coral, fish or other marine organisms taken with an allowable chemical, allowable octocoral, or live rock available for inspection by the Science and Research Director or an authorized officer. §638.6 Vessel identification. (a) Official number. A vessel with a Federal permit for wild live rock or operating under an aquacultured live rock permit, issued pursuant §638.4, must display its official number_ (1) On the port and starboard sides of the deckhouse or hull, and on an appropriate weather deck, so as to be clearly visible from an enforcement vessel or aircraft; (2) In block arabic numerals in contrasting color to the background;
