FR940720-0-00079 FR940720-0-00006 Considering that the goal of the baseline is to most accurately reflect actual 1990 gasoline composition, the rule will be modified to more correctly allocate parameter data. Provision will be made for the use of actual RVP data to define summer and winter gasoline. When such Method 1, per batch actual data is not available, summer and winter months will be redefined to better approximate the seasonal gasoline fuel parameter and emission values. This modification to the reformulated gasoline regulation will satisfy several comments received since publication in the Federal Register . EPA will redefine summer and winter months, for use when Method 1 actual batch data is not available, as follows. A summer month will be redefined as any month during which more than 50 percent (by volume) of the gasoline produced by a refiner met the federal summer gasoline volatility requirements. Winter shall remain defined as any month which could not be considered a summer month. This will correct situations in which small quantities of summer volatility gasoline are produced early in the year. Originally, data from a month in which even small quantities of summer volatility fuel was produced was considered a summer month. With this modification, such months in which the majority of fuel was winter volatility would be correctly allocated as a winter data month. Further, for any month for which both winter and summer gasoline were produced, if actual RVP (Method 1) data are available, that data will be accurately divided between the summer and winter calculations, as appropriate. If such per batch data is not available, all data for that month would be considered either summer or winter, based on the production volumes. When actual per batch data is used, for minimum data requirement purposes, a month is considered equivalent to 4 weeks of seasonal data. Therefore, 12 weeks of data sampling on summer volatility fuel satisfies the minimum three months of data collection required. If a refiner, such as the California refiners, still cannot provide three months of winter data, they may petition for less than minimum data, under the provisions outlined in ยง80.91(d)(1)(C). VI. Baseline Determination Adjustments A. Work-In-Progress (WIP) Adjustment The final reformulated gasoline rule provided criteria for allowing work-in-progress baseline adjustments (section 80.91(e)(5)). Work-in-progress (WIP) refers to one or more major capital changes or commitment(s) made by a refiner prior to or in 1990. A WIP adjustment allows a refiner to modify its baseline volume and fuel parameter values (which affect emissions) to account for the WIP. In order to obtain a WIP modification, a refiner must petition EPA and EPA must approve the petition. As indicated in the preamble to the final rule, EPA believes that the criteria for a WIP adjustment should be fairly stringent, as the adjustment was intended only for those for whom a significant investment had already been made in order to comply with another government mandate. Additionally, a broad program of adjustments could indicate that EPA exceeded its equitable discretion under Alabama Power , as discussed in the Regulatory Impact Analysis (RIA) accompanying the final rule. In the final rule, EPA required that a refiner meet each of three criteria in order to qualify for a WIP baseline adjustment. A fourth criterion was also required to minimize environmental harm due to WIP adjustments, via simple model parameter caps and emissions caps for both the simple and complex models. Since promulgation of the final rule, EPA has re-evaluated this fourth criterion of the WIP provisions. EPA intended to allow WIP adjustments to relieve severe hardship where the adjustment did not allow emissions to increase significantly relative to the Clean Air Act baseline. The methods EPA chose to constrain WIP adjustments had inconsistent impacts depending on simple model or complex model use. The modification proposed in this Direct Final Rulemaking would ensure that the fuel parameter constraints on WIP adjustments under the simple model would be more consistent with the emissions performance constraints under the complex model. Specifically, WIP adjustments will be permitted to exceed the simple model parameter caps, but only to the extent the baseline still complies with the complex model emission caps. Without this change, a WIP adjustment would be more constrained in 1995 than would be the case in 1998, possibly requiring a refiner to make processing changes in 1995 that would not be necessary in 1998. While the emissions and parameter caps were set to minimize environmental harm due to the WIP (realizing that a WIP adjustment will actually increase baseline emissions relative to 1990) EPA believes this modification will increase compliance flexibility while maintaining the environmental goals of the program.
