FR940428-2-00020 FR940428-2-00015 Morgantown Energy Technology Center, Research Opportunity Announcement, Applied Research and Development AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Morgantown Energy Technology Center. ACTION: Notice of a Research Opportunity Announcement (ROA). SUMMARY: The objective of this program is to support the U.S. Department of Energy's (DOE's) Office of Technology Development's applied research efforts for the development of technologies having potential applications in the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management (EM) program. This is the second ROA to be issued in support of that program. Technologies which: Do not duplicate existing work; complement or enhance existing or planned work; and best serve the needs of the EM program are desired. A proposed technology may be a device, process, material or method that improves DOE's capabilities in the following areas: in situ remediation of contaminated sites; characterization, sensors and monitoring; low-level mixed waste processing; efficient separations technology for radioactive wastes; robotics; materials disposition technologies; improved engineered barriers for waste storage and disposal; and improved waste forms. For the purpose of this program, ``applied research'' is the systematic application of knowledge toward the production of useful devices, materials or methods, including design, development, and improvement of prototypes and processes to meet specific requirements. Proposals for basic research are not desired under this ROA. It is not the purpose of this solicitation to support, and no proposal will be selected to conduct, support service activities, conference or training activities, or for work who's primary purpose is the demonstration of existing technologies. DATES: Proposals may be submitted at any time after the issuance date of this ROA up to and including one year after the issue date. The issue date is the date on which this notice appears in the Federal Register . Proposals must state an acceptance period of at least 180 days. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 1. Additional information concerning DOE's requirement is available as an information package. The package will be made available on a 3.5 ’ ’ disc in Wordperfect TM , version 5.2. The information package includes a more complete description of the research areas identified in the areas of research section and guidelines for preparing various section of the proposal as well as other information and forms. The information package will be updated periodically. 2. Requests for the information package and other information concerning the ROA can be obtained by telephoning (304) 291&hyph;4634. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Identification number, authority for issuance, and title: a. DE&hyph;RO21&hyph;94MC31305. b. The use of broad agency announcements is authorized by the Competition in Contracting Act of 1984 (CICA) (41 U.S.C. 259(b)(2)) and the Federal Acquisition Regulation at part 6.102(d)(2) as supplemented by the Department of Energy Acquisition Regulation. c. Title of Research Opportunity Announcement: Applied Research and Development of Technologies For Environmental Restoration and Waste Management II. d. Areas of Research in Which Contracts May be Awarded: 1. In situ remediation. There is a need for innovative and improved in situ remediation methods for the cleanup of contaminated soils and groundwater. In situ treatment refers to treatment of contaminated material with minimal, or no, excavation, as well as any enhancement of contaminant removal from the subsurface. In situ remediation includes on-site treatment of groundwater and soils. In situ containment refers to technologies which retard or eliminate contaminant migration to the surrounding environment. The EM program has focused on three areas in which to develop in situ remediation technologies. They are: (1) In situ containment, (2) in situ biological treatment and (3) physical/chemical in situ treatment.
