FR940516-1-00067 FR940516-1-00005 i. BLR source category. For basic liquid resin production, tests would be required to determine the flow rate and HAP concentration of emissions from process vents and, where applicable, storage tank vents that are combined with process vents. Data from three 1-hour tests would be used to calculate an average HAP emission rate in pounds per hour. Initial performance tests for uncontrolled streams or streams controlled by devices other than flares and certain boilers and process heaters would consist of measuring HAP concentration using the EPA Method 18 or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Method 25A may be used only if a single HAP compound greater than 50 percent of the total organic HAP in the vent stream and that HAP compound is used for calibration. Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is specified for measuring vent stream flowrate. To determine the production-based emission rate for process vents, the owner or operator would calculate an hourly rate of production based on production data for the previous year and the actual operating hours during the same annual period. For each vent, the hourly emission rate, determined from the average of three 1-hour tests, would be divided by the hourly production rate (calculated as described above) to determine the production-based emission rate for the vent. The sum of production-based emission rates from all process vents (and storage tank vents if manifolded with process vents) constitutes the first term in the equation used to determine compliance. Because emissions are divided by the annual production of the previous year, testing must take place under operating conditions that represent the production rate for the previous year. Emissions from storage tanks not manifolded with process vents would be calculated according to the methodology described in 40 CFR 63.150(f)(3). The annual emissions would be divided by the annual production from the previous year to determine the production-based emission rate from storage tanks. Emissions from wastewater would be calculated according to the methodology described in 40 CFR 63.150(f)(5). Monthly emissions calculated using this methodology would be divided by a monthly production rate, which would be calculated by dividing the annual production rate for the previous year by 12. Testing is required by 40 CFR 163.150(f)(5) to determine wastewater stream parameters such as the flow rate and HAP concentration. Because emissions would be divided by a production rate calculated using production data for the previous year, test conditions must reflect typical production for the previous year. ii. WSR source category. If a process uses a condenser to recover HAP, emissions would be calculated for the purpose of determining compliance using equations developed for batch operations, in lieu of compliance tests. Testing would be required to determine the emission rate from uncontrolled vents and vents controlled by devices other than condensers. Testing requirements are the same as for the BLR source category, except that testing would take place over the batch cycle, rather than hourly. Likewise, the production-based emission rates used in the equation to determine compliance would be calculated based on emissions and production data obtained on a per-batch basis, not per-hour as is the case for the BLR source category. As with the BLR source category, storage tank emission calculations would follow the methodology described in 40 CFR 63.150(f)(3). The methodology of 40 CFR 63.150(f)(5) would be used to determine emissions from wastewater. b. Equipment leaks emission point. To determine compliance with the standard for equipment leaks, BLR and WSR facilities would have to demonstrate that an LDAR program meeting the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart H (40 CFR 63.160&hyph;63.183) is in place. This includes performance of the test methods and procedures used to verify the adequacy of monitoring equipment outlined in 40 CFR 63.180. 2. New Sources a. BLR source category. Although the proposed standards for new BLR sources are essentially equipment standards, control efficiencies are required for the equipment specified in the standards. Therefore, in addition to installing the equipment required by the standards, new BLR facilities would be required to perform the appropriate EPA test methods to demonstrate that the common water scrubber required to control emissions from process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater is achieving 99 percent control. The testing methodology described in 40 CFR 163.150(f)(5) would be required to demonstrate that wastewater treatment systems are achieving 99 percent control. b. WSR source category. The equipment standards for new WSR facilities do not specify any control efficiencies that must be achieved. Therefore, facilities would only be required to demonstrate operation of a water-cooled condenser at an outlet temperature of 25 ○C, that no methanol is being produced during the manufacturing process, and that no hydrochloric acid is being used to produce WSR. G. Monitoring Requirements Monitoring is required by the proposed standards to determine whether a BLR or wet strength resin process is in compliance. This monitoring is done either by: (1) Continuously measuring outlet mass flowrate and concentration, or by (2) continuously measuring a site-specific operating parameter, the value of which is established by the owner or operator during the initial compliance test. The operating parameter value is defined as the minimum or maximum value established for a control device or process parameter that, if achieved by itself or in combination with one or more other operating parameter values, determines that an owner or operator is complying with the applicable emission limitation or standards. A summary of the monitoring requirements of the proposed standards is provided in Table 2.
