FR940720-2-00086 FR940720-2-00068 Connecticut Yankee Atomic Power Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;213, Haddam Neck Plant, Middlesex County, Connecticut Date of amendment request: June 16, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment will remove a footnote applicable for Cycle 18 only regarding the surveillance of the automatic bus transfer (ABT) system and add surveillance requirement 4.8.3.1.2, to test the ABT once per refueling. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The proposed changes do not involve an SHC [significant hazards consideration] because the changes would not: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes to delete a note from the limiting condition for operation for the MCC&hyph;5 ABT scheme and to add the surveillance requirement has no impact on the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. By removing the requirement to test the scheme on-line, the probability of failure to mitigate an accident while the Haddam Neck Plant is operational is incrementally decreased. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. The proposed changes remove the requirements to disable the subject ABT feature for testing, leaving the scheme undisturbed throughout normal plant operation, and therefore does not create the possibility of a new accident or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. 3. Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes require that the MCC&hyph;5 ABT feature be tested during a plant shutdown rather than during normal operation. This will place the ABT scheme in a test environment that has no significant reduction in a margin of safety. The plant configuration that is required to perform this test (refueling) would clearly place the Haddam Neck Plant in a state that would be able to accept all possible ABT scheme test outcomes, normal and abnormal. Therefore, these proposed changes do not result in any reduction in the margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Russell Library, 123 Broad Street, Middletown, Connecticut 06457. Attorney for licensee: Gerald Garfield, Esquire, Day, Berry & Howard, Counselors at Law, City Place, Hartford, Connecticut 06103&hyph;3499. NRC Project Director: John F. Stolz. Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Docket No. 50&hyph;247, Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit No. 2, Westchester County, New York Date of amendment request: October 29, 1993, as supplemented on March 28, 1994. Description of amendment request: This amendment is an additional followup to the amendment request of May 29, 1992, published in the Federal Register (57 FR 30242) on July 8, 1992, which changed the Technical Specifications Section 1.0, Definitions, to accommodate a 24-month fuel cycle and which proposed the extension of the test intervals for specific surveillance tests. This amendment proposes extending the surveillance intervals to 24 months for the following additional surveillance tests: (1) Volume Control Tank Level Transmitter (2) Containment High Range Area Radiation Monitors, R&hyph;25 and R&hyph;26 (3) Safety Injection System Electrical Loading (4) Safety Injection (SI) System (5) Reactor Coolant System Sub-Cooling Margin Monitor The changes requested by the licensee are in accordance with Generic Letter 91&hyph;04, ``Changes in Technical Specification Surveillance Intervals to Accommodate a 24-Month Fuel Cycle.'' The October 29, 1993, submittal included surveillance tests for the Auxiliary Feedwater System which duplicated a previous request which was subsequently approved. The March 28, 1994, submittal withdrew the duplicated request. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazard consideration, which is presented below: (1) Volume Control Tank Transmitter: The proposed change does not involve a significant hazard consideration since: 1. A significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated will not occur. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the volume control tank level instrumentation be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). A statistical analysis of channel uncertainty for a 30 month operating cycle has been performed. Based upon this analysis it has been concluded that sufficient margin exists between the existing Technical Specification limits and the licensing basis Safety Analysis limits to accommodate the channel statistical error resulting from a 30 month operating cycle. The existing margin between the Technical Specification limit and the Safety Analysis limit provides assurance that plant protective actions will occur as required. It is therefore concluded that changing the surveillance interval from 18 months (+25%) to 24 months (+25%) will not result in a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated has not been created. The proposed change is operating cycle length from a maximum of 22.5 months to 30 months resulting from an increased surveillance interval will not result in a channel statistical allowance which exceeds the current margin between the existing Technical Specification limits and the Safety Analysis limits. Plant equipment, which will be set at (or more conservatively than) Technical Specification limits, will therefore provide protective functions to assure that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. This will prevent the possibility of any new or different kind of accident from that previously evaluated from occurring. 3. A significant reduction in a margin of safety is not involved. The change in surveillance interval from a maximum of 22.5 months to 30 months resulting from an increased operating cycle will not result in a channel statistical allowance which exceeds the margin which exists between the current Technical Specification limit and the licensing basis Safety Analysis limit. This margin, which is equivalent to the existing margin, is necessary to assure that protective safety functions will occur so that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. (2) Containment High Range Area Radiation Monitors, R&hyph;25 and R&hyph;26: The proposed change does not involve a significant hazard consideration since: 1. There is no significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. It is proposed that the calibration frequency for the high-range Containment Radiation Monitors (R&hyph;25 and R&hyph;26) be revised from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). These two monitors are redundant to each other and are used for post accident monitoring purposes. They serve no function during normal plant operation. Furthermore, they serve no purpose in preventing accident initiation or mitigation. They are used for Emergency Planning purposes to indicate a release of radioactivity to containment. Review of past test results indicates that the devices have proven reliable during past surveillances and there was no indication that they would not remain operable for an extended operating cycle. In addition, the devices are essentially redundant to each other. Each device would respond to a release of radioactivity to Containment. In consideration that the monitors are redundant, and in view of the past test history of the monitors, there would be no significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident due to an extended operating cycle.
