FR940630-2-00117 FR940630-2-00093 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 72&hyph;1004] Vectra Technologies, Inc.; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC or the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption to VECTRA Technologies, Inc. (VECTRA) (formerly Pacific Nuclear Fuel Services, Inc.) located in San Jose, California, to fabricate (but not use) a NUHOMS transfer cask. The transfer cask is a component of the Standardized NUHOMS System that is intended to be used by Toledo Edison Company to store spent fuel at its Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station (DBNPS) (Docket No. 50&hyph;346, License No. NPF&hyph;3) located near Oak Harbor, Ohio. The exemption request does not include the principal storage components of the Standardized NUHOMS System (i.e., horizontal storage module and dry shielded canister). The Standardized NUHOMS System is currently the subject of an NRC rulemaking which proposes to add the cask to the list of NRC-approved storage casks (59 FR 28496, June 2, 1994). A draft NRC Safety Evaluation Report (SER), issued May 4, 1994, provides a detailed description and technical evaluation of the Standardized NUHOMS System, including he transfer cask that is the subject of VECTRA'S exemption request. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The requested exemption, proposed by VECTRA letter dated March 4, 1994, concerns the requirements of 10 CFR 72.234(c), which states that ``Fabrication of casks under the Certificate of Compliance must not start prior to receipt of the Certificate of Compliance for the cask model.'' Specifically, VECTRA proposes to fabricate one NUHOMS transfer cask prior to the Commission's issuance of a Certificate of Compliance for the Standardized NUHOMS System of which the transfer cask is a part. Therefore, the proposed action by NRC would grant VECTRA an exemption from 10 CFR 72.234(c) for the limited purpose of fabricating one transfer cask prior to VECTRA's receipt of a final Certificate of Compliance for the Standardized NUHOMS System. The Need for the Proposed Action VECTRA'S request for exemption indicates that the proposed exemption is needed to have necessary equipment available in time for use by DBNPS in mid-1995, and thus enable DBNPS to maintain complete full-core off-load capability in its spent fuel pool following the refueling outage scheduled for early 1996. VECTRA's request indicates that in order to meet this schedule, VECTRA must begin fabrication of a transfer cask promptly. However, the NRC administrative process for approval of the Certificate of Compliance, which includes completion of the pending rulemaking on the Standardized NUHOMS System, may not be completed before December 1994. Procurement, fabrication, and construction activities for the transfer cask by VECTRA under the proposed exemption would be entirely at VECTRA's own risk. In this regard, VECTRA's exemption request states that changes to procedures or specifications that result from the remaining NRC certification activities can be accommodated into the components to be fabricated under the proposed exemption. Favorable NRC action on the exemption request shall not be construed as an NRC commitment to favorably consider VECTRA'S application for a certificate, or to approve VECTRA's proposed design for the Standardized NUHOMS System. VECTRA would bear the risk of any activities conducted under the proposed exemption, in light of NRC's future action on VECTRA's application and proposed design. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The Commission has evaluated the environmental impacts of the proposed action, which is limited to fabrication only and would not authorize any action with respect to use of the transfer cask for spent fuel. As noted, the NRC reviewed the NUHOMS system Final Safety Analysis Report (SAR), and on May 4, 1994, issued a Draft SER, and on April 28, 1994, issued a Draft Certificate of Compliance for use of the Standardized NUHOMS System under a general license. As a result of this SAR review, VECTRA has an NRC-approved quality assurance program under which this component of the NUHOMS system can be fabricated. VECTRA has developed procurement and fabrication specifications under this approved QA program, which will be used to control procurement and fabrication activities related to construction of the transfer cask. In addition, VECTRA's previous fabrication for NUHOMS systems, performed under NRC-approved QA programs, include those for Carolina Power & Light Company's H.B. Robinson, Duke Power Company's Oconee, and Baltimore Gas and Electric Company's Calvert Cliffs independent spent fuel storage installations. Environmental impact from the limited transfer cask fabrication activities would be similar to the assembly of metal components at a large machine shop. The environmental assessments for the Proposed Rule (54 FR 19379) and Final Rule (55 FR 29181), ``Storage of Spent Fuel in NRC-approved Storage Casks at Power Reactor Sites,'' considered the environmental impact associated with the construction and use of such certified casks and concluded that these activities would have no significant impact on the environment. A finding of no significant environmental impact was also reached in the draft environmental assessment for the pending NRC rulemaking on the Standardized NUHOMS System including the transfer cask. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that the proposed exemption for VECTRA to fabricate (but not use) one transfer cask will have no significant radiological or nonradiological environmental impacts. Alternative to the Proposed Action The alternative to the proposed exemption would be to deny the requested exemption. Based on the information provided in VECTRA's request, this would result potentially in the loss of lead time for procurement and fabrication necessary for the availability of the transfer cask needed by Toledo Edison Company, and could thereby cause disruptions in planned activities for a series of plant outages beginning in 1996. Agencies and Persons Consulted The Commission's staff reviewed VECTRA's request and did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action would not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. For further details with respect to this action, the request for exemption dated March 4, 1994, and other documents are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and the Local Public Document at the William Carlson Library, Government Documents Collection, University of Toledo, 2801 West Bancroft Avenue, Toledo, Ohio 43606. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 24th day of June, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. E. William Branch, Deputy Director, Division of Industrial and Medical Nuclear Safety, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15935 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
