FR941206-0-00067 FR941206-0-00011 (2) Selection of MACT/GACT regulatory approach for area sources. (3) Request for flexibility in meeting the aeration room vent standard. (4) Stringency of MACT for sterilization chamber vents. (5) Compliance schedule. (6) Alternative monitoring and compliance demonstration requirements. (7) Revisions to monitoring requirements for acid-water scrubbers, catalytic oxidizers, and aeration room vents. (8) Addition of compliance provisions and monitoring requirements for thermal oxidizers. (9) Revision of requirements to calibrate the temperature monitors used for catalytic oxidizers and thermal oxidizers. (10) Applicability of the rule to research and laboratory facilities, hospital facilities, and sources emitting less than 907 kg/yr (1 ton/yr) of ethylene oxide. (11) Incorporation of the final General Provisions to part 63 into these standards. (12) Revisions to reporting requirements. (13) Importance of residual risk to the selection of a regulatory approach. (14) Revisions to definitions and wording of the regulation. C. Significant Changes Several changes have been made since the proposal of these standards. The majority of the changes have been made to clarify portions of the rule that were unclear to the commenters. Other changes include adding additional flexibility to sources by allowing alternative monitoring approaches to meet the standards. A summary of the major changes is presented below. (1) A controlled MACT floor for chamber exhaust vents at operations using 9,070 kg/yr (10 tons/yr) or more of EO was determined based on data submitted by commenters (see Docket Entry IV&hyph;B&hyph;02). Existing and new sources using 9,070 kg/yr (10 tons/yr) or more of EO are now required to control the emissions from the chamber exhaust vent. Owners or operators of new and existing chamber exhaust vents at sources using 9,070 kg/yr (10 tons/yr) or more of EO must parametrically monitor the control device used in achieving the emissions reduction requirements of the standards. As noted above, the Agency has required control of emissions from the chamber exhaust vent at major sources because data were received from commenters indicating that the emissions from this vent are routed to a control device used to control emissions from other vent types (i.e., manifolded to either the aeration room vent or sterilization chamber vent). The Agency also received data showing minimal nationwide annualized cost impacts of approximately $240,000 associated with manifolding these emissions (see Docket Entry IV&hyph;B&hyph;03). The Agency therefore believes that the requirements to control this vent at the MACT floor are not burdensome for major sources and do not represent a significant change in the Agency's regulatory approach. (2) The format of the standard for aeration room vents at sources using 9,070 kg/yr (10 tons/yr) or more of EO was revised to provide owners or operators flexibility to either meet a maximum emission limit of 1 ppmv ethylene oxide or achieve a 99 percent reduction in ethylene oxide emissions, whichever is less stringent. (3) The compliance date for all sources has been changed from 2 to 3 years. This extension has been provided to allow sources additional time to achieve compliance with these standards. New sources with startup after the 3 year compliance date will be required to comply upon startup of the source. (4) Owners or operators of all chamber exhaust vents at sources using 907 kg/yr (1 ton/yr) or more but less than 9,070 kg/yr (10 tons/yr) of EO were provided additional flexibility to show compliance by either measuring the ethylene oxide concentration in the chamber prior to activation of the chamber exhaust vent (as proposed) or parametrically monitoring the performance of a control device used to reduce emissions from this vent. (5) The monitoring requirements for aeration room vents at sources using 9,070 kg/yr (10 tons/yr) or more of EO were revised to provide sources additional flexibility to monitor either the ethylene oxide outlet concentration or parameters of control device performance. For sources choosing to measure the EO outlet concentration, measurements of ethylene oxide concentration that are below the detection limit of 0.5 ppmv for ethylene oxide are accepted as a demonstration of compliance with the aeration room vent standards. (6) The Agency reduced the frequency of monitoring of the ethylene glycol concentration in the scrubber liquor for sources complying with emission reduction standards using an acid-water scrubber. Owners or operators are now only required to monitor the ethylene glycol concentration weekly. The Agency also provided sources using this control technology flexibility to alternatively monitor the level of the scrubber liquor in the liquor tank on a weekly basis. (7) Several commenters suggested that maintenance of catalytic oxidizers within a temperature range was not appropriate. In the final rule, a baseline temperature is established as a minimum oxidation temperature. (8) Based on information from commenters, compliance provisions and monitoring requirements have been included in the final rule for thermal oxidizers. These requirements include the establishment of a baseline temperature and continuous monitoring of this temperature.
