FR940607-2-00014 FR940607-2-00011 International Trade Administration, Commerce. Export Trade Certificate of Review ACTION: Notice of Issuance of an Export Trade Certificate of Review, Application No. 94&hyph;00002. SUMMARY: The Department of Commerce has issued an Export Trade Certificate of Review to Frederick Pogorzelski doing business as the Russian Business Center (``RBC''). This notice summarizes the conduct for which certification has been granted. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs, International Trade Administration, (202) 482&hyph;5131. This is not a toll-free number. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Title III of the Export Trading Company Act of 1982 (15 U.S.C. 4001&hyph;21) authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to issue Export Trade Certificates of Review. The regulations implementing Title III are found at 15 CFR part 325 (1993). The Office of Export Trading Company Affairs (``OETCA'') is issuing this notice pursuant to 15 CFR 325.6(b), which requires the Department of Commerce to publish a summary of a Certificate in the Federal Register . Under Section 305(a) of the Act and 15 CFR 325.11(a), any person aggrieved by the Secretary's determination may, within 30 days of the date of this notice, bring an action in any appropriate district court of the United States to set aside the determination on the ground that the determination is erroneous. Description of Certified Conduct Export Trade 1. Products All Products. 2. Services All Services. 3. Export Trade Facilitation Services (as They Relate to the Export of Products and Services) Export Trade Facilitation Services including professional services in the areas of government relations, foreign trade and business protocol, marketing, marketing research, negotiations, joint ventures, shipping, export management, advertising, documentation, insurance and financing, trade show exhibitions, organizational development, management strategies and transfer of technology. Export Markets The Export Markets include all parts of the world except the United States (the fifty states of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands). Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation 1. To engage in Export Trade in the Export Markets, as an Export Intermediary, RBC may: a. Provide and/or arrange for the provisions of Export Trade Facilitation Services; b. Engage in promotional and marketing activities; c. Enter into exclusive export sales agreements with Suppliers for the export of Products and/or Services for sale in the Export Markets; such agreements may prohibit Suppliers from exporting independently of RBC; d. Enter into exclusive agreements with distributors in the Export Markets; e. Establish the price of Products and/or Services for sale in the Export Markets; f. Allocate export orders among its Suppliers; and g. Enter into contracts for shipping. 2. RBC and individual Suppliers may regularly exchange information on a one-on-one basis regarding inventories and near-term production schedules in order that the availability of supplies for export can be determined and effectively coordinated by RBC with its distributors in the Export Markets. 3. RBC may require any Supplier wishing to terminate its export sales agreement to give RBC six months written notice. RBC may require a former Supplier not to sell through foreign distributors with whom RBC deals for a period of two years following termination. Definitions 1. ``Export Intermediary'' means a person who acts as a distributor, sales representative, sales or marketing agent, or broker, or who performs similar functions, including providing or arranging for the provision of Export Trade Facilitation Services. 2. ``Supplier'' means a person who produces, provides, or sells a Product and/or Service. A copy of the certificate will be kept in the International Trade Administration's Freedom of Information Records Inspection Facility, room 4102, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, D.C. 20230. Dated: June 1, 1994. W. Dawn Busby, Director, Office of Export Trading, Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13805 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DR&hyph;P
