FR940429-1-00009 FR940429-1-00004 14 CFR Part 91 [Docket No. 27717; Notice No. 94&hyph;16] RIN 2120&hyph;AF35 Notification to ATC of Deviations From ATC Clearances and Instructions in Response to Traffic Alert and Collision Avoidance System Resolution Advisories AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This action proposes to codify a previously announced policy extended to pilots during the initial testing of TCAS, during the Limited Implementation Plan (LIP) for TCAS, and during the actual implementation of TCAS under the TCAS Transition Plan (TTP) that permitted pilots to deviate from an air traffic control (ATC) clearance or instruction in non-emergency situations in response to a traffic alert and collision avoidance system (TCAS) resolution advisory (RA). The language contained in current regulations suggests that deviation from an ATC clearance is only authorized in an emergency situation. This proposal would add the TCAS RA as a reason to deviate from a clearance. This proposal would require that whenever a pilot deviates from an ATC clearance or instruction, ATC would be advised as soon as practicable. This proposal is intended to clarify and define pilot reporting requirements in the event a pilot deviates from an air traffic control clearance or instruction in response to a TCAS resolution advisory. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this notice should be mailed, in triplicate, to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;200), Docket No. 27717, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591. Comments delivered must be marked Docket No. 27717. Comments may be examined in room 915G weekdays between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m., except on Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mrs. Ellen Crum, Air Traffic Rules Branch, ATP&hyph;230, Airspace Rules and Aeronautical Information Division, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone (202) 267&hyph;8783. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments relating to the environmental, energy, federalism, or economic impact that might result from adopting the proposals in this notice are also invited. Substantive comments should be accompanied by cost estimates. Comments should identify the regulatory docket or notice number and should be submitted in triplicate to the Rules Docket address specified above. All comments received on or before the closing date for comments specified will be considered by the Administrator before taking action on this proposed rulemaking. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments received will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must include a pre-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comment to Docket No. 27717.'' The postcard will be date stamped and mailed to the commenter. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;430, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3484. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM.
