FR941102-1-00088 FR941102-1-00018 The pounds of protein and other solids in Class II and Class III will be determined by multiplying the percent protein or percent other solids in the skim milk of the total producer milk received by the handler times the pounds of skim milk allocated to Class II and Class III. Handler's obligations to the producer settlement fund will be determined by subtracting from the handler's value of milk the following: (a) The total pounds of each handler's producer milk times the producer price differential adjusted for location, (b) the total pounds of protein contained in the producer milk times the protein price, (c) the total pounds of other solids contained in the producer milk times the other solids price, and (d) the value of other source milk at the producer price differential with any applicable location adjustment at the plant from which the milk was shipped deducted from the handler's value of milk. The amendments to order language accompanying this recommended decision are based on the current language of the five orders. There are two national amendatory proceedings in process (the M-W replacement and Class II pricing) that may result in changes to some of the provisions that will also be changed by this proceeding. No attempt has been made in drafting the order language amendments accompanying this decision to accommodate any of the changes that may result from the other two proceedings. Any adjustments needed will be made on the basis of the order language in effect at the time a final decision is issued. Rulings on Proposed Findings and Conclusions Briefs and proposed findings and conclusions were filed on behalf of certain interested parties. These briefs, proposed findings and conclusions, and the evidence in the record were considered in making the findings and conclusions set forth above. To the extent that the suggested findings and conclusions filed by interested parties are inconsistent with the findings and conclusions set forth herein, the requests to make such findings or reach such conclusions are denied for the reasons previously stated in this decision. General Findings The findings and determinations hereinafter set forth supplement those that were made when the aforementioned orders were first issued and when they were amended. The previous findings and determinations are hereby ratified and confirmed, except where they may conflict with those set forth herein. (a) The tentative marketing agreements and the orders, as hereby proposed to be amended, and all of the terms and conditions thereof, will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act; (b) The parity prices of milk as determined pursuant to section 2 of the Act are not reasonable in view of the price of feeds, available supplies of feeds, and other economic conditions which affect market supply and demand for milk in the marketing areas, and the minimum prices specified in the tentative marketing agreements and the orders, as hereby proposed to be amended, are such prices as will reflect the aforesaid factors, insure a sufficient quantity of pure and wholesome milk, and be in the public interest; and (c) The tentative marketing agreements and the orders, as hereby proposed to be amended, will regulate the handling of milk in the same manner as, and will be applicable only to persons in the respective classes of industrial and commercial activity specified in, marketing agreements upon which a hearing has been held. Recommended Marketing Agreements and Order Amending the Orders The recommended marketing agreements are not included in this decision because the regulatory provisions thereof would be the same as those contained in the orders, as hereby proposed to be amended. The following order amending the orders, as amended, regulating the handling of milk in the aforementioned marketing areas is recommended as the detailed and appropriate means by which the foregoing conclusions may be carried out. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Parts 1030, 1065, 1068, 1076 and 1079 Milk marketing orders.
