FR941130-0-00018 FR941130-0-00002 13. Other Comments Two law firms suggested that the FDIC's review time on conversion notices be reduced from 60 days to 45 days because of the potential that financial information might become ``stale'' under rules issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the converting institution would have to go through the expense of producing updated financial statements. Since the issuance of the Interim Final Rule in February 1994 the FDIC has considered numerous proposed conversions. Its experience to date indicates, generally, that the time periods of ยง303.15 do not conflict with the conversion-review time periods of other applicable state and federal regulators. The FDIC will continue to process notices of proposed mutual-to-stock conversions as expeditiously as possible, but will retain the current 60-day time periods in ยง303.15. As discussed below, the final rule also includes an alternative time limit of up to 20 days after the last applicable state or other federal regulator has acted on the proposed transaction. V. Explanation of the Final Rule 1. Overview The final rule adopts, with certain modifications, the provisions of the Interim Final Rule and the Proposed Rule. Thus, it imposes certain substantive and procedural requirements upon State Savings Banks that propose to undergo mutual-to-stock conversions. The Board has decided that it is necessary to issue the final rule to safeguard against potential safety-and-soundness problems, breaches of fiduciary duty and other violations of law in mutual-to-stock conversions of State Savings Banks. As part of the issuance of the final rule, the Board is withdrawing the Proposed Policy Statement. That issuance served as a vehicle for the FDIC to obtain public comment on issues involved in mutual-to-stock conversions and the appropriate role for the FDIC in the process. The final rule will apply to all notices of proposed conversions (and mutual holding company reorganizations) filed with the FDIC on and after January 1, 1995. Until that time, the FDIC intends to continue to use the case-by-case methodology explained in the Interim Rule in reviewing notices of proposed conversions of State Savings Banks. Under the final rule the FDIC intends to continue to use a case-by-case approach in reviewing aspects of proposed conversions that are outside the scope of the specific requirements in the final rule. As part of that review the FDIC will consider the applicable state laws and regulations and relevant OTS regulations. The overall determinant in the FDIC's consideration of proposed conversions of State Savings Banks will be whether the proposal raises concerns about safety and soundness, breaches of fiduciary duty and violations of law. 2. Notice Requirements As required by the Interim Final Rule, the final rule requires State Savings Banks that propose to convert to stock ownership to file with the FDIC a notice of intent to convert to stock form consisting of a description of the proposed conversion accompanied by a copy of all documents and application materials filed with the applicable state and federal regulators. The notice may be in letter form and must be provided to the FDIC (along with copies of the application materials) at the same time the application materials are filed with the institution's primary state regulator. State Savings Banks are prohibited from converting to stock form without complying with the substantive and procedural requirements of the final rule. The FDIC will continue to review all conversion materials regarding State Savings Banks with a special interest in: the use of the proceeds from the sale of stock, as prescribed in the business plan; the adequacy of the disclosure materials; the participation of depositors in approving the transaction; the form of the proxy statement required for the vote of the depositors/members on the conversion; any increased compensation and other remuneration (including stock grants, stock option rights and other similar benefits) to be obtained by officers and directors/trustees of the bank in connection with the conversion; the adequacy and independence of the appraisal of the value of the mutual savings bank for purposes of determining the price of the shares of stock to be sold; the process by which the bank's directors/trustees approved the appraisal, the pricing of the stock and the compensation arrangements for insiders; the nature and apportionment of stock subscription rights; and the bank's plans to fulfill its commitment to serving the convenience and needs of its community.
