FR940323-0-00039 FR940323-0-00020 Parts 2515&hyph;2517_K&hyph;12 Learn and Serve Programs (1) Training investment . Several commenters recommended that the Corporation require 5&hyph;10% of a program's Learn and Serve grant to be spent on training. The Corporation agrees that adequate training_for both staff and participants_is a critical component of any high-quality program. In general, States and Indian tribes that receive K&hyph;12 school-based grants must spend a total of between 10% and 15% of those funds on training and capacity building. Moreover, in order to receive a grant, a program will have to demonstrate the existence of an appropriate training program. Because the training and capacity-building needs of the various other entities eligible to apply for school and community-based Learn and Serve America grants vary widely, the Corporation is not setting regulatory guidelines on what percentage of those grants must be spent on training and capacity building. However, the Corporation reserves the right to set such guidelines in the applications. (2) Partnerships . Several commenters suggested that the definition of ``partnership'' be revised to require that the written agreement specify the partnership's goals and activities, as well as the responsibilities of each partner. The Corporation has made this change. Change: §2510.20 has been revised. (3) Coordination . Some commenters suggested that the meaning of coordination should be clarified so that nonprofits and grant-making entities are required to communicate with State Commissions, but not to receive their approval to go ahead with the program. Coordination is not a program requirement for K&hyph;12 programs. Rather, programs must describe in their applications the extent to which they have coordinated with State Commissions. The regulations have been revised to indicate that while coordination should include meeting and consulting with State Commissions, it does not imply that those State Commissions have the power to approve or disapprove a program. Change: §§2516.410(a)(1) and 2517.400(a)(3) have been revised. (4) Preselection of community-based programs . One commenter objected to the regulatory requirements for pre-selection of programs (§2517.400). Some commenters noted that the competitive process is likely to be circumvented if the Corporation requires preselection because of the tightness of the timeline. The regulations have been revised to not require preselection. Under the final regulations, State Commissions and grantmaking entities applying for Learn and Serve America community-based service-learning grants are not required to preselect their proposed subgrantees. However, State Commissions and grantmaking entities are expected to describe in detail the types of models that would be funded through grants to local partnerships. Change: §2517.400 has been revised. (5) Components of School-based application . Several commenters recommended that the regulations be revised to more specifically identify the application requirements and selection criteria. For example, one commenter suggested that the application described in §2516.400(a) include descriptions of the following items: The relationship between the program goals and strategic plans of the State Plan and SEA Plan; the relationship of the SEA Plan and the strategic goals of the SEA's systemic education reform efforts; the relationship of the SEA Plan and the program development plan of the State Commission's K&hyph;12 Community-based program; and the relationship of the SEA plan and specific systemic reform and school improvement efforts in the State or among targeted LEAs. The same commenter suggested that under §2516.410(c) applicants be required to ensure that a mechanism is provided by which school and community needs will guide the integration of service-learning into existing curriculum in order to meet those needs. Another commenter recommended a number of additions to §2516.500. Many of these recommendations are in fact incorporated into the applications; however, in order to maintain flexibility in the application and selection process, the Corporation has elected not to include them in the regulations. (6) Educational award eligibility . One commenter recommended including a provision for the K&hyph;12 Learn and Serve programs analogous to the higher education provision in §2519.310 which states that, in general, participants are not eligible to receive educational awards. This recommendation has been adopted. Change: a §2516.320 has been added to the regulations. (7) Monitoring and evaluation . Several commenters suggested additions to and requested clarification of the monitoring and evaluation §§2516.800&hyph;850. In response, the Corporation has made three changes: First, because monitoring activities go beyond those included in the proposed sections on ``monitoring and Evaluation,'' the word monitoring has been removed from Subparts E and H. The Corporation now refers to monitoring functions that fall within the purview of evaluation as internal evaluation. Second, the Corporation has added the requirement for programs, States and grantmaking entities to cooperate fully with all Corporation evaluation activities. Third, the Corporation has added the requirement for the Corporation to ``study the extent to which national service models enable participants to afford post-secondary education with fewer student loans'' when evaluating the overall success of AmeriCorps. Change: §§2516.800&hyph;850 have been revised. Part 2519_Higher Education Learn and Serve Programs (1) Application review. One commenter suggested that the review process in §2519.500 be more specific and include peer review, rankings and reviewer comments, and that there be a written protocol for the CEO to cover situations where a highly ranked application is not funded. These are good ideas, and many of them may in fact be included in the review process. Specifically, in fiscal year 1994 programs will definitely be subject to peer review. However, since the Corporation may want to improve the review process from year to year, these provisions are not incorporated into the regulations.
