FR941007-0-00063 FR941007-0-00016 H. Elimination of Supplemental Coordinated Care Grants Program During fiscal years 1992 and 1993, supplemental grants were awarded to States for intensive, innovative approaches to making information, counseling, and/or assistance related to coordinated care benefits available to Medicare beneficiaries. The purpose of the grants was to encourage States with existing coordinated care programs to be more active in this area. We believe that States have now had adequate opportunity and funding to establish supplemental coordinated care materials and/or activities and that separate funding is no longer warranted. States should make provision in a grant awarded under ยง403.502 for any previous and/or current initiatives in ICA activities related to coordinated care. We may, however, make funds available from time to time to fund special ICA-related activities. III. Collection of Information Requirements Section 403.510 of this document contains information collection and recordkeeping requirements that were approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) on January 2, 1994. The approval number is 0938&hyph;0641 and the expiration date is January 31, 1997. IV. Response to Comments Because of the large number of items of correspondence we normally receive on documents published for comment, we are not able to acknowledge or respond to them individually. Nevertheless, we will consider all comments that we received by the date and time specified in the ``Dates'' section of this preamble, and if we proceed with a subsequent document, we will respond to the comments in the preamble to that document. V. Waiver of Prior Notice with Comment Period and of Delayed Effective Date We ordinarily publish a general notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register and invite public comment on the proposed rule. That rule would have included a reference to the legal authority under which it is proposed, and the terms and substance of the proposed rule or a description of the subjects and issues involved. This procedure can be waived, however, when an agency finds good cause that a notice and comment procedure is impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest, and incorporates a statement of the finding and its reasons in the rule issued. Further, we generally provide for final rules to be effective no sooner than 30 days after the date of publication unless we find good cause to waive the delay. In the case of this rule, its principal effect is to continue the funding of an existing program rather than to implement a new program. The affected entities, that is, the States, are already familiar with the program and will receive separate, individual notice. Further, it is desirable that regulations that will govern the administration of FY 1994 grants be issued as soon as possible. Therefore, we find that it would be against the public interest to delay the publication of this rule pending completion of a prior public comment period. For the above reasons, we also find that it would be against the public interest to delay the effective date of this rule. VI. Regulatory Impact Statement Consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612), we prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis unless the Secretary certifies that a rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. States and individuals are not included in the definition of small entities. In addition, section 1102(b) of the Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis if a rule may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. This analysis must conform to the provisions of section 604 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we define a small rural hospital as a hospital that is located outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area and has fewer than 50 beds. This rule simply establishes the terms and conditions of funding for grants. It has no independent or consequential effect on the economy. The activities conducted under the grant may improve competition by informing consumers of health insurance alternatives. We are not preparing analyses for either the RFA or section 1102(b) of the Act because we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this interim final rule with comment period will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities or a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. In accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 12866, this regulation was not reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget.
