FR940712-2-00084 FR940712-2-00059 I. Position and Exercise Limits, Margin Requirements, and Trading Halts Because the Index is classified as an ``industry index'' under CBOE rules, 16 Exchange rules that are applicable to the trading of options on narrow-based indexes will apply to the trading of REIT Index options and LEAPS. Specifically, Exchange rules governing margin requirements, 17 position and exercise limits, 18 and trading halt procedures 19 that are applicable to the trading of narrow-based index options will apply to options traded on the Index. For purposes of determining whether a given position in reduced-value Index LEAPS complies with applicable position and exercise limits, positions in reduced-value Index LEAPS will be aggregated with positions in the full-value Index options. 20 For these purposes, ten reduced-value contracts will equal one full-value contract. 16 See CBOE Rule 24.1(i). 17 Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.11, the margin requirements for the Index options will be: (1) for short options positions, 100 percent of the current market value of the options contract plus 20 percent of the underlying aggregate Index value, less any out-of-the-money amount, with a minimum requirement of the options premium plus 10 percent of the underlying aggregate Index value; and (2) for LEAPS positions, 100 percent of the options premium paid. 18 Pursuant to CBOE Rules 24.4A and 24.5, respectively, the position and exercise limits for the Index options will be 10,500 contracts, unless the Exchange determines, pursuant to Rules 24.4A and 24.5, that a lower limit is warranted. 19 Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.7, the trading on the CBOE of Index options may be halted or suspended whenever trading in underlying securities whose weighted value represents more than 20 percent of the Index value is halted or suspended. 20 See CBOE Rule 24.4A(c). J. Surveillance Surveillance procedures currently used to monitor trading in each of the Exchange's other index options also will be used to monitor trading in regular Index options and in full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS. These procedures include complete access to trading activity in the underlying securities. Further, the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, dated July 14, 1983, as amended on January 29, 1990, will be applicable to the trading of options on the Index. 21 21 The Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') was formed on July 14, 1983, among other things, to coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, dated July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, dated January 29, 1990. The members of the ISG are: the Amex, the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; the CBOE; the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; the NYSE; the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Because of potential opportunities for trading abuses involving stock index futures, stock options, and the underlying stock, and the need for greater sharing of surveillance information for these potential intermarket trading abuses, the major stock index futures exchanges ( e.g., the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade) joined the ISG as affiliate members in 1990. III. Commission Findings and Conclusions The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 22 Specifically, the Commission finds that the trading of REIT Index options, including full-value and reduced-value REIT Index LEAPS, will serve to promote the public interest and help to remove impediments to a free and open securities market by providing investors with a means of hedging exposure to market risk associated with REIT securities. 23 22 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 23 Pursuant to Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, the Commission must predicate approval of any new option proposal upon a finding that the introduction of such new derivative instrument is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult for a derivative instrument that served no hedging or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants likely would be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns. In this regard, the trading of listed index options and full-value index LEAPS on the REIT Index will provide investors with a hedging vehicle that should reflect the overall movement of REIT securities in the U.S. securities markets. The Commission also believes that these Index options will provide investors with a means by which to make investment decisions in the REIT sector of the U.S. securities markets, allowing them to establish positions or increase existing positions in such markets in a cost-effective manner. Moreover, the Commission believes that the reduced-value Index LEAPS, which will be traded on an index computed at one-tenth the value of the REIT index, will serve the needs of retail investors by providing them with the opportunity to use a long-term option to hedge their portfolios from long-term market moves at a reduced cost.
