FR940207-1-00023 FR940207-1-00002 5. Renewal of a time account. The following applies to a change in a term that becomes effective if a rollover time account is subsequently renewed: •If the change is initiated by the institution, the disclosure requirements of this paragraph. (Paragraph 5(a) applies if the change becomes effective prior to the maturity of the existing time account.) •If initiated by the consumer, the account-opening disclosure requirements of §230.4(b). (If the notice required by this paragraph has been provided, institutions may give new account disclosures or disclosures that reflect the new term.) For example, if a consumer who receives a prematurity notice on a one-year time account requests a rollover to a six-month account, the institution must provide either account-opening disclosures that reflect the new maturity date or, if all other terms previously disclosed in the prematurity notice remain the same, only the new maturity date. (b)(1) Maturities of Longer Than One Year 1. Highlighting changed terms. Institutions need not highlight terms that have changed since the last account disclosures were provided. (c) Notice for Time Accounts One Month or Less That Renew Automatically 1. Providing disclosures within a reasonable time. Generally, 10 calendar days after an account renews is a reasonable time for providing disclosures. For time accounts shorter than 10 days, disclosures should be given prior to the next-scheduled renewal date. (d) Notice Before Maturity for Time Accounts Longer Than One Year That Do Not Renew Automatically 1. Subsequent account. When funds are transferred following maturity of a nonrollover time account, institutions need not provide account disclosures unless a new account is established. Section 230.6_Periodic Statement Disclosures (a) General Rule 1. General. Institutions are not required to provide periodic statements. If they provide periodic statements, disclosures need only be furnished to the extent applicable. For example, if no interest is earned for a statement period, institutions need not disclose ``$0'' interest earned and ``0%'' annual percentage yield earned. 2. Regulation E interim statements. When an institution provides regular quarterly statements, and in addition provides a monthly interim statement to comply with Regulation E, the interim statement need not comply with this section unless it states interest or rate information. (See 12 CFR 205.9.) 3. Combined statements. Institutions may provide certain information about an account (such as an MMDA) on the periodic statement for another account (such as a NOW account) without triggering the disclosures required by this section, as long as: •The information is limited to the account number, the type of account, or balance information, and •The institution also provides consumers a periodic statement that complies with this section for the account (the MMDA, in the example). 4. Other information. Institutions may include additional information on or with a periodic statement, such as: •Interest rates and periodic rates corresponding to the interest rate applied to balances during the statement period •The dollar amount of interest earned year-to-date •Bonuses paid (or any de minimis consideration of $10 or less) •Fees for other products, such as safe deposit boxes (a)(1) Annual Percentage Yield Earned 1. Ledger and collected balances. Institutions that accrue interest using the collected balance method may use either the ledger or the collected balance in determining the annual percentage yield earned. (a)(2) Amount of Interest 1. Accrued interest. Institutions must state the amount of interest that accrued during the statement period, even if it was not credited. For interest not credited, institutions may disclose when funds will become available for the consumer's use. 2. Terminology. In disclosing interest earned for the period, institutions must use the term ``interest'' or terminology such as:
