FR940902-0-00125 FR940902-0-00010 §627.475 Oversight and monitoring. (a) The Secretary may monitor all recipients and subrecipients of financial assistance pursuant to section 163 of the Act. (b) The Governor is responsible for oversight of all SDA and SSG activities and State-supported programs. The Governor shall develop and make available for review a State monitoring plan. The plan shall specify the mechanism which: (1) Ensures that established policies to achieve program quality and outcomes meet the objectives of the Act and regulations promulgated thereunder; (2) Enables the Governor to determine if SDA's and SSG's have demonstrated substantial compliance with the requirements for oversight; (3) Determines whether the Job Training Plan shall be disapproved consistent with the criteria contained in section 105(b)(1) of the Act; (4) Regularly examines expenditures against the cost categories and cost limitations specified in the Act and these regulations; (5) Ensures that all areas of SDA and SSG operations are monitored onsite regularly, but not less than once annually; and (6) Provides for corrective action to be imposed if conditions in paragraphs (b)(1)&hyph;(4) of this section are not met. (c) The Governor shall issue instructions to SDA's and title III SSG's on the development of a substate monitoring plan. The instructions for development of the monitoring plan, at a minimum, shall address the monitoring scope and frequency, and the Secretary's emphasis and direction. The substate monitoring plan shall be part of the job training plan. (d) The Governor shall establish general standards for PIC oversight responsibilities. The required PIC standards shall be included in the Governor's Coordination and Special Services Plan (GCSSP). (e)(1) The PIC, pursuant to standards established by the Governor, shall establish specific policies for monitoring and oversight of SDA performance which shall be described in the job training plan. (2) The PIC shall exercise independent oversight over activities under the job training plan which shall not be circumscribed by agreements with the appropriate chief elected official(s) of the SDA. (f) The PIC and chief elected official(s) may conduct such oversight as they, individually or jointly, deem necessary or delegate oversight responsibilities to an appropriate entity pursuant to their mutual agreement. §627.477 Governor's determination of substantial violation. (a) Except as provided at paragraph (d) of this section, if, as a result of financial and compliance audits or otherwise, the Governor determines that there is a substantial violation of a specific provision of this Act or the regulations under this Act, and corrective action has not been taken, the Governor shall (1) Issue a notice of intent to revoke approval of all or part of the plan affected; or (2) Impose a reorganization plan, which may include (i) Restructuring the private industry council involved; (ii) Prohibiting the use of designated service providers; (iii) Selecting an alternative entity to administer the program for the service delivery area involved; (iv) Merging the service delivery area into 1 or more other existing service delivery areas; or (v) Other such changes as the Secretary or Governor determines necessary to secure compliance (section 164(b)(1)). (b)(1) The actions taken by the Governor pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be appealed to the Secretary as provided at §628.426 of this chapter (section 164(b)(2)(A)). (2) The actions taken by the Governor pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be appealed to the Secretary, as provided at §627.471 of this part (section 164(b)(2)(B)). (c) Allegations that the Governor failed to promptly take the actions required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be handled under §627.607 of this part (section 164(b)(3)). (d) This section does not apply to remedial actions for SDA failures to meet performance standards, which are provided for at §627.470 of this part, and do not apply to remedial actions for the failure to comply with procurement standards, which are provided for at §627.703 of this part. §627.480 Audits. (a) Non-Federal Audits. _(1) Governments. Each recipient and governmental subrecipient is responsible for complying with the Single Audit Act of 1984 (31 U.S.C. 7501&hyph;7) and 29 CFR part 96, the Department of Labor regulations which implement Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;128, ``Audits of State and Local Governments''.
