FR940919-0-00114 FR940919-0-00016 Through the methodology outlined above, the Agency analyzed the cost implications of waste management alternatives involving waste minimization in today's rule. The analysis shows that there is a potential savings of $25 million per year quantifiable in comparing current management practices to waste minimization activities which could be implemented. The Agency presents the cost impact of today's rule as a range from $0 to $25 million per year, representing the cost savings possible through waste minimization activities. In performing the waste minimization analysis, the Agency focused on specific process for two industries for which data were available. This approach allowed the analysis to be detailed in nature, providing a close examination of facility compliance alternatives. However, in doing so, the Agency believes it has underestimated the potential savings due to waste minimization. In addition, the Agency has not attempted to address any further source reduction, waste minimization, or innovative technology development which may result from today's rule. d. Economic Impact Results For the 14 companies with non-commercial, or captive, landfills that receive the company's waste (from the TC Survey), only one company would have a ratio of incremental compliance cost to cost of operations greater than one-half percent; all other facilities would experience even lower economic impacts resulting from today's rule. Since no costs are associated with the treatment standards for coke by-products, no economic impacts are expected. Based on a ratio analysis of incremental cost to total sales, none of the chlorinated toluene generating facilities is expected to experience significant impacts as a result of the final rule. e. Benefit Estimate Results The benefit estimates for today's rule include both reduction in risk to human health, as well as incremental cost savings. Cost savings are estimated for the Universal Treatment Standards (UTS), cost savings resulting from changes to the hazardous waste recycling exemptions. Human health benefits are estimated for cancer and non-cancer risks. However, there are some benefits which the Agency has not attempted to quantify which are potentially attributable to today's rule. For example, the Agency has not attempted to quantify any potential non-use value benefits from protection of resources through treatment of hazardous wastes. Furthermore, the risk analysis performed by the Agency for today's rule does not account for many other potential benefits from today's rule. Ecological risk reduction from treatment of wastes under today's rule has not been quantified. Nor do the Agency's air and groundwater benefit estimates account for karst terrain, complex flow situations, or other factors which could contribute to underestimates of benefits. These unquantified benefits are discussed at greater length in the regulatory impact background document for today's rule. i. Universal Treatment Standards Analysis The Agency's analysis of the cost impacts realized due to the Universal Treatment Standards requiring/allowing a change in treatment technology from that required under the existing standards produced a cost savings of approximately $100,000 per year. The only wastes for which the Agency found that the UTS standards required/allowed a change in treatment were the cyanide wastes. The Agency received a number of favorable comments on the adoption of the UTS standards. These commenters stated that the UTS would allow them to save much more in operation costs than the Agency has quantified in the above analysis. One commenter stated that they would save approximately $366,000 annually and 1736 hours per year in manhour savings associated with the UTS for F024. And another commenter stated that they would save approximately $740,000 per year as a result of the UTS. A more thorough description of these cost savings is shown in the Regulatory Impact Analysis background document developed for today's rule, which has been placed in the Agency's docket. ii. Hazardous Waste Recycling Exemption The analysis performed by the Agency for the cost impacts associated with the recycling exemption for K069 produced a savings of approximately $2 million per year. A detailed description of the cost savings for K069 is shown in the Regulatory Impact Analysis background document developed for today's rule, which has been placed in the Agency's docket. iii. Results_Groundwater Pathway This section presents results for the baseline and post-regulatory risk analyses. For each case, results for individual cancer and non-cancer risk are presented for both high end (i.e. the 90th percentile of the distribution) and central tendency (i.e. 50th percentile of the distribution) risk estimates. The section concludes with population risk estimates for cancer risks. The results, presented in full in the RIA background document which is included in the docket for today's rule, show that the central tendency cancer risk estimate is expected to be zero. The high-end individual cancer risk is 4 × 10 ^7 . For the post-regulatory scenario, EPA assumed that all constituents would be treated to universal standards. For the post-regulatory case, the central tendency risk estimate is zero, and the high-end risk estimate is 3 × 10 ^6 . Using the distribution of individual risks, the Agency calculated baseline and post-regulatory cancer population risks. Based on these assumptions, EPA estimates the baseline population cancer risk to be 0.24 cases per year in the central tendency. The post-regulatory population cancer risk is about 0.02 cases per year in the central tendency. In other words, the regulatory option reduces 0.22 cases per year in the central tendency. For the non-cancer risks, the analysis shows that the 99th percentile baseline exposure level is less than the reference dose, using central tendency assumptions. The population risk estimates show 2000 people, in the central tendency scenario, who are exposed to non-cancer risk above the threshold. There are a number of limitations to the groundwater pathway analysis. The timeframe to which these benefits are attributable begins 30 years following promulgation of the rule. The analysis does not account for any existing regulations which would mitigate risks from groundwater (e.g., Clean Water Act). In addition, one of the wastestreams which contributes a large proportion of the groundwater population risk is made up primarily of PCBs, which are not expected to migrate any appreciable distance in groundwater. The DAF used in the analysis was calculated based on drinking wells being within one mile of the facility, and was not adjusted to accord with the population estimates used in the analysis which are based on a two-mile distance. The DAF distribution is not constituent-specific and accounts only for homogeneous flow situations. iv. Results_Air Pathway
