FR940630-1-00002 FR940630-1-00001 NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION 12 CFR Part 708 Mergers of Federally-Insured Credit Unions: Voluntary Termination or Conversion of Insured Status AGENCY: National Credit Union Administration (NCUA). ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The proposed rule would amend part 708 to clarify that the rules and regulations on mergers, voluntary termination and insurance conversion apply not only to federally-insured credit unions converting to non federally-insured credit unions, but to federally-insured credit unions converting to any institution that is not NCUSIF insured. DATES: Comments must be postmarked or posted on the NCUA electronic bulletin board by August 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Becky Baker, Secretary to the Board, National Credit Union Administration, 1775 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314&hyph;3428. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mary F. Rupp, Staff Attorney, Office of General Counsel, at the above address or telephone: (703) 518&hyph;6553. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background Section 205(b)(1) of the Federal Credit Union Act, 12 U.S.C. 1785(b)(1) provides that a federally-insured credit union seeking to merge or consolidate with a ``noninsured credit union or institution'' must obtain the prior written consent of the NCUA Board. The term ``insured credit union'' means one that is insured by the NCUA Board through the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund (NCUSIF); ``noninsured credit union'' means one that is not so insured. (See Section 101(7) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1752(7)). The Board has determined that the term ``institution'' as used in Section 205(b)(1)(A) of the Act applies to any financial institution that is not insured through the NCUSIF, such as banks and savings and loans as well as institutions that carry no federal insurance. Section 205(c) of the Act sets forth the six criteria the Board will consider in granting or withholding approval under subsection (b). In addition, part 708 of the NCUA Rules and Regulations sets forth procedures and requirements of mergers and termination/conversion of insurance. Part 708 addresses situations where an insured credit union either voluntarily terminates federal insurance or merges with a credit union that is not federally insured. It does not specifically address the situation where an insured credit union merges with a non credit union institution. The effect on credit union members_that is, the loss of membership in a federally insured credit union_is the same no matter what type of financial institution the credit union merges into. This amendment clarifies part 708 to apply to all merger and termination/conversion situations where the continuing institution is not insured by NCUSIF. The amendment is also needed to provide NCUA with clear authority to prevent abuses in connection with conversions of insured status. In a limited number of past cases, credit unions attempting to convert to private insurance or FDIC insurance have argued that NCUA has no jurisdiction over these actions. This has called into question NCUA's authority to require membership votes, to monitor the fairness of those votes, and to ensure the transaction is handled in the best interests of the members and the NCUSIF. In one case, a credit union incurred substantial legal and other expenses attempting to convert to an FDIC insured bank. The credit union was unsuccessful and was ultimately liquidated for insolvency due in part to the expenses associated with the conversion efforts. The Board is aware of a limited number of more recent instances where federally insured credit unions have been solicited for conversion to other institution charters by law firms and consultants. The supposed benefits that have been cited in these solicitations have had nothing to do with the good of the credit union membership, but rather have been motivated by the significant fee income the outside parties expect to generate and the prospect of financial gain to management, through compensation of directors, increased management salary potential, stock options and other means. The Board hereby serves notice that these solicitations should stop, and that any expense of credit union funds pursuing such a transaction that is motivated by other than the members' interests will be addressed through the use of all available administrative powers. Further, while this regulatory action addresses mergers and consolidations, the Board cautions anyone who would consider using, as a substitute, a voluntary liquidation with the payout to members being in the form of deposits and/or stock in another institution. Voluntary liquidation requires a direct payout, to the members of all shares and equity, and the NCUA Board, working with state regulators where appropriate, will stop any liquidation transaction that does not include direct payment as a clear element of the liquidation plan.
