FR940725-1-00030 FR940725-1-00008 Although data has been inconclusive, Arctic grayling interactions, including competition and predation, with nonnative trout species are thought to be factors contributing to the decline of Arctic grayling (Vincent 1962, Kaya 1990, 1992). D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms Most of the Big Hole River is managed to produce abundant, large, nonnative trout (Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks 1989). Other than catch and release regulations, grayling are a management priority only in the one reach in which they are concentrated. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence Vincent (1962) suggested that a gradual climatic change could have been a factor in the decline of Arctic grayling populations. Since the latter part of the 1980's, drought conditions have been prevalent throughout the upper Missouri River drainage. During this same period, densities of Arctic grayling and other fishes in the Big Hole River have declined (Oswald 1990; Byorth 1991; C. Hunter, Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and Parks, in litt. , 1992). Drought exacerbates the impacts of others factors affecting Arctic grayling. Decreased fish population densities appear to be a natural response to low water flows which restrict the amount of fish habitat that is available, particularly during critical spawning and rearing periods (C. Hunter, in litt. , 1992). Finding The Act requires the Service to make determinations regarding listing solely on the basis of the best scientific and commercial data available after conducting a review of the status of the species and after taking into account those efforts being made by States and others to protect the species. Additionally, the Act allows the Service to list distinct population segments of vertebrate fish and wildlife as threatened or endangered. The fluvial form of the Arctic grayling in the upper Missouri River drainage is geographically isolated from other fluvial grayling populations and is behaviorally distinct from adfluvial grayling. For these reasons, the Service believes the fluvial form of the Arctic grayling in the upper Missouri River drainage is a distinct population segment. As discussed above, the fluvial Arctic grayling faces threats primarily from a reduction in historical range, decrease in available habitat as a result of dewatering within streams, potential competition or predation by nonnative fish, and habitat degradation. The Service finds that listing of the fluvial population of the Arctic grayling is warranted but precluded by work on other species having a higher priority for listing. Section 4(b) of the Act states that petitioned actions may be found to be warranted but precluded by other listing actions when it is found that the Service is making expeditious progress in revising the lists. Expeditious progress in listing endangered and threatened species is being made and is reported annually in the Federal Register . Furthermore, on September 21, 1983, (48 FR 43098), the Service published a system for prioritizing species for listing. This system considers 3 factors in assigning species numerical listing priorities on a scale of 1 to 12 (with number 1 as the highest priority). The three factors are magnitude of threat, immediacy of threat, and taxonomic distinctiveness. Earlier the service had assigned a listing priority of 3 to the fluvial Arctic grayling because the Service considered the magnitude of threat to be high, the immediacy of threat to be imminent, and the taxonomic distinctiveness to be a vertebrate population. The Service is now changing the magnitude of threat to moderate, primarily as a result of the cooperative efforts that have been initiated among private organizations and individuals, universities, and State and Federal Agencies to restore the fluvial Arctic grayling population in the upper Missouri River drainage (C. Hunter, in litt. , 1993). Changing the magnitude of threat to moderate results in a change of the listing priority from 3 to 9. The cooperative efforts include, but are not limited to, the efforts discussed below. The Service is a member of the Workgroup (Workgroup) and a party to a Memorandum of Understanding entered into in 1991 with Federal, State, and private entities whose purpose is to conserve and restore fluvial Arctic grayling. The Workgroup is near completion of a final restoration plan for the fluvial Arctic grayling of the upper Missouri River.
