FR940930-2-00040 FR940930-2-00029 02 [OPPTS&hyph;42052P; FRL&hyph;4756&hyph;5] Notice of Opportunity to Initiate Negotiations for TSCA Section 4 Enforceable Consent Agreements; Solicitation of Testing Proposals for ATSDR Chemicals AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice invites manufacturers and processors of certain chemical substances who wish to participate in testing negotiations for various chemicals to develop and submit testing program proposals to EPA. The chemicals are hazardous substances identified for data needs by the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR), National Toxicological Program (NTP) and EPA pursuant to section 104(i)(5) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA or Superfund)(42 U.S.C. 9601&hyph;9675). These 12 chemical substances are vinyl chloride, benzene, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, hydrogen cyanide, sodium cyanide, toluene, methylene chloride, chloroethane, mercury, chromium, and beryllium. These substances and associated data needs appear in Table 1 below. The specific forms of the metals mercury, chromium, and beryllium to be tested are yet to be determined; EPA will solicit testing proposals for the specific forms of these metals at a later date. Testing proposals should cover all identified data needs of a substance (or multiple substances) in order to be considered for Enforceable Consent Agreement (ECA) negotiation. If, after receiving testing proposals, EPA elects to pursue negotiations for one or more ECAs applicable to specific chemicals, EPA will solicit requests to be designated an interested party at that point. EPA has authority to require testing for these 12 chemical substances under section 4 of the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA)(15 U.S.C. 2601&hyph;2692) and if an ECA-based approach does not prove viable, EPA would proceed with rulemaking to require the needed testing. DATES: Written testing proposals must be received by November 29, 1994. EPA may extend the deadline for receipt of testing proposals upon a showing of good faith efforts to develop testing proposals by the initial deadline. ADDRESSEES: Submit three copies of written testing proposals to TSCA Docket Receipts (7407), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. NE B607, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Submissions should bear the document control number (OPPTS&hyph;42052P; FRL&hyph;4756&hyph;5). The public record supporting this action, including comments, is available for public inspection at the above address from 12 noon to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : Susan B. Hazen, Director, Environmental Assistance Division (7408), Rm. E&hyph;543B, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 554&hyph;1404, TDD (202) 554&hyph;0551. For specific information regarding this action or related activities, contact Brian P. Riedel, Project Manager, Chemical Testing and Information Branch (7405), Rm. NE&hyph;1606, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 260&hyph;0321. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background A. Solicitation for Testing Proposals EPA's procedures for requiring the testing of chemical substances under section 4 of TSCA include the adoption of ECAs and the promulgation of test rules. On numerous occasions, chemical companies have approached EPA to negotiate ECAs for testing chemicals which are likely to become the subject of proposed test rules. EPA will follow the procedures outlined in unit II of this notice to develop ECAs. B. Chemical Data Needs The data needs which are the subject of this notice were determined in accordance with the requirements of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) of 1986 which amended and extended CERCLA. Section 104(i) of CERCLA requires ATSDR and EPA to prepare and revise a list of hazardous substances which are most commonly found at facilities on the CERCLA National Priorities List (NPL) and which ATSDR and EPA, in their sole discretion, determine are posing the most significant potential threat to human health. The lists of these 275 hazardous substances were published in the Federal Register on April 17, 1987 (52 FR 12866); October 20, 1988 (53 FR 41280); October 26, 1989 (54 FR 43615); October 17, 1990 (55 FR 42067); October 17, 1991 (55 FR 52166); October 28, 1992 (57 FR 48801); and October 18, 1993 (58 FR 53739). Section 104(i) of CERCLA also directs ATSDR to prepare toxicological profiles of each listed hazardous substance. Section 104(i)(3) outlines the content of these profiles. Each profile is required to include an examination, summary and interpretation of available toxicological information and epidemiologic evaluations in order to ascertain the levels of significant human exposure for the substance and the associated health effects. The profiles must also include a determination of whether adequate information on the health effects of each substance is available or in the process of development. ATSDR has prepared 110 toxicological profiles covering 195 substances. (One toxicological profile may cover several related substances). Under CERCLA, section 104(i)(5), when adequate information is not available on the health effects of each substance, ATSDR, in cooperation with the National Toxicology Program (NTP), is required to assure the initiation of a research program designed to determine such health effects (and techniques for developing methods to determine such health effects). As the first step in developing its health effects research program, ATSDR identified data needs for each substance in the toxicological profiles. These data needs were reviewed by scientists from ATSDR, NTP, EPA and the Centers for Disease Control, peer reviewed by an external review panel, and made available for public comment. Prior to final publication of the toxicological profiles, ATSDR considered all public comments it received regarding identification of data needs for the substances. The next step in the development of the health effects research program (or the substance-specific research program) involved the creation of the ``Decision Guide for Identifying Substance-Specific Data Needs Related to Toxicological Profiles'' (Decision Guide), published in the Federal Register on September 11, 1989 (54 FR 37618). Applying the principles discussed in the Decision Guide, ATSDR published the ``Identification of Priority Data Needs for 38 Priority Hazardous Substances'' in the Federal Register on October 17, 1991 (56 FR 52178). As required by CERCLA, section 104(i)(5), ATSDR considered recommendations from the Interagency Testing Committee (ITC), and, with EPA, coordinated development of these priority data needs with NTP and with programs of toxicological testing established under TSCA and the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA)(7 U.S.C. 136). The purpose of such coordination is to avoid duplication of effort and to assure that the listed hazardous substances are tested thoroughly at the earliest practicable date. ATSDR also considered public comments on identification of the priority data needs. On November 16, 1992, ATSDR published the ``Announcement of Final Priority Data Needs for 38 Priority Hazardous Substances'' in the Federal Register (57 FR 54150). Copies of the FR actions cited above are available in the docket established for this action (OPPTS&hyph;42052P; FRL&hyph;4756&hyph;5). CERCLA, section 104(i)(5)(C) provides that TSCA authorities may be used to carry out the health effects research program. CERCLA, section 104(i)(5)(D) declares that: [i]t is the sense of the Congress that the costs of [conducting health effects research programs] be borne by the manufacturers and processors of the hazardous substances in question, as required in programs of toxicological testing under the Toxic Substances Control Act. In October 1992, ATSDR requested that EPA test 38 substances using authorities under TSCA and FIFRA. EPA coordinated extensively with other Federal agencies (including the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Mine Safety and Health Administration, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission) and among its own programs (including Office of Air and Radiation, Office of Water, Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, and Office of Research and Development) to evaluate ATSDR's request for testing. In addition, EPA, ATSDR, and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences (NIEHS) met as members of the Tri-Agency Superfund Applied Research Committee (TASARC) to discuss ATSDR's data needs and EPA's response. Copies of the minutes of the TASARC meetings are available in the docket established for this action. In response to ATSDR's initial request to test 38 substances, EPA deleted substances from the initial list and deleted and added associated data needs based on various factors including, but not limited to, the appropriateness of using TSCA authority to require testing of certain substances and the needs of other Federal Agencies and EPA programs for certain test data. Relevant correspondence between EPA and ATSDR regarding these selections is available in the docket established for this action. In a letter dated November 9, 1993, EPA informed ATSDR that EPA would pursue testing of ATSDR substances under section 4 of TSCA. The ATSDR list of 38 substances was modified to contain the 12 substances shown in Table 1 below with a summary description of data needs. These substances will be added to the next edition of the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics' Master Testing List scheduled for release in FY '95. Further description of the data needs are available in the docket established for this action. Note that TASARC has set up a workgroup to identify the specific forms of the metals mercury, chromium and beryllium to be tested. This workgroup will consider the needs of other Federal Agencies and EPA programs. In addition, EPA will solicit testing proposals for the specific forms of these metals at a later date. Note also that EPA has not yet developed testing guidelines for certain endpoints indicated in Table 1 below. EPA particularly encourages submission of testing guidelines for these endpoints which may be used as part of a testing proposal. EPA realizes that under certain circumstances, as outlined below, route-to-route extrapolation based on valid pharmacokinetic (PK) data can offer a useful and less expensive alternative to retesting by another route of exposure to chemical substances that have already been tested by one route. Therefore, EPA will consider entering into ECAs for PK testing under protocols proposed by prospective test sponsors. EPA will consider route-to-route extrapolation of toxicity data from routes other than those proposed in Table 1 below when it is scientifically reasonable to empirically derive the risk. Derivation of the risk is only reasonable when portal-of-entry effects and first-pass effects can be ruled out or adequately characterized. Regardless of the toxic endpoint considered, EPA's ability to perform quantitative route-to-route extrapolation is critically dependent on the amount and type of data available. The minimum information needed includes both the nature of the toxic effects and a description of the relationship between exposure and the toxic effect. The preferred method for performing route-to-route extrapolation involves the development of a physiologically-based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model that describes the disposition (deposition, absorption, distribution, metabolism, and elimination) of the chemical for the routes of interest. PBPK models must be used in conjunction with toxicity and mechanistic studies in order to relate the effective dose associated with an effect for the test species and conditions to other scenerios. The primary purpose of this ASTDR/EPA health effects testing program is to meet the substance-specific information needs of the public and the scientific community, and, consistent with the guidelines discussed in the Decision Guide, this testing program will supply toxicity and exposure information which will assist in the development of Superfund health assessments by ASTDR. In addition, because of the involvement by other Federal Agencies and EPA offices in reviewing the testing needs identified for these chemicals, this testing program will supply test data which will also meet the needs of other Federal Agencies and EPA programs. Table 1._ Data Needs and Testing Guidelines 1Chemical and CAS No. 1Proposed Testing 1Guideline (40 CFR) Vinyl chloride (75&hyph;01&hyph;4) Reproductive inhalation R l␣ Developmental inhalation D l␣ Neurotoxicity inhalation N Benzene (71&hyph;43&hyph;2) Subchronic oral 798.2650 l␣ Subchronic inhalation 798.2450 l␣ Neurotoxicity inhalation N l␣ l␣␣Functional observational battery ␣ l␣ l␣␣Motor activity ␣ l␣ l␣␣Neuropathology l␣ Reproductive inhalation R Trichloroethylene (79&hyph;01&hyph;6) Acute oral 798.1175 l␣ Subchronic oral 798.2650 l␣ Immunotoxicity oral I Tetrachloroethylene (127&hyph;18&hyph;4) Acute inhalation A l␣ Reproductive inhalation R l␣ Neurotoxicity subchronic inhalation N l␣ l␣␣Functional observational battery ␣ l␣ l␣␣Motor activity ␣ l␣ l␣␣Neuropathology ␣ l␣ Developmental inhalation D l␣ Immunotoxicity inhalation I Hydrogen cyanide (74&hyph;90&hyph;8) Acute inhalation A l␣ Subchronic inhalation 798.2450 l␣ Developmental inhalation D l␣ Neurotoxicity subchronic inhalation N l␣ l␣␣Functional observational battery ␣ l␣ l␣␣Motor activity ␣ l␣ l␣␣Neuropathology ␣ Sodium cyanide (143&hyph;33&hyph;9) Developmental oral D Toluene (108&hyph;88&hyph;3) Comparative pharmacokinetic PK l␣ Immunotoxicity oral I Methylene chloride (75&hyph;09&hyph;2) Subchronic oral 798.2650 l␣ Developmental oral D l␣ Neurotoxicity subchronic oral N l␣ l␣␣Functional observational battery ␣ l␣ l␣␣Motor activity ␣ l␣ l␣␣Neuropathology ␣ l␣ Immunotoxicity oral I Chloroethane* (Ethyl chloride) (75&hyph;00&hyph;3) Comparative pharmacokinetic PK Mercury**(TBD) Chromium**(TBD) Beryllium**(TBD) Notes: *Note that a soon-to-be-published proposed test rule on hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) will cover chloroethane. **A workgroup set up by TASARC is in the process of identifying the specific forms of these metals. TBD -- The Chemical Abstract Service Registry Number(s) for the chemical(s) to be tested is yet to be determined. R -- Proposed revised EPA guidelines for reproductive toxicity testing are under development and are anticipated to be finalized in the near future. Copies of the latest draft to date are available in the docket established for this action. D -- Proposed revised EPA guidelines for developmental toxicity testing are under development and are anticipated to be finalized in the near future. Copies of the latest draft to date are available in the docket established for this action. N -- EPA intends for parties subject to neurotoxicity testing requirements under this rule to follow the 1991 Neurotoxicology Testing Guidelines which are available in the docket established for this action. I -- A workgroup established by the Tri-Agency Superfund Applied Research Committee (TASARC) is developing immunotoxicity testing guidelines. A -- Revised EPA guidelines for acute inhalation testing are under development and will soon be published with a proposed test rule on HAPs. Copies of the latest draft to date are available in the docket established for this action. PK -- EPA has developed testing guidelines which may be used for conducting comparative pharmokinetic testing. These final guidelines are awaiting publication and are available in the docket established for this action. II. Procedures for Development of ECAs EPA will follow the procedures outlined below to develop ECAs for the chemical substances listed in Table 1 above. 1. Submission of testing proposals for ECA negotiations. Following publication of this Notice, manufacturers and processors have 60 days to develop testing proposals for the chemical substances listed in Table 1 above that they wish EPA to consider as candidates for ECA negotiations. EPA may extend the deadline for receipt of testing proposals upon a showing of good faith efforts to develop testing proposals by the initial deadline. The testing proposals should describe the testing to be performed in detail (test guideline or protocol, including route of administration, species, etc.) and explain in detail where there are deviations from tests proposed by EPA in Table 1 above. The Agency suggests as a model the testing proposal submitted on N- methylpyrrolidone (NMP) by the NMP Producers Group on September 11, 1992 found in the docket established for this action. In order for a testing proposal to be eligible for consideration, the proposal should cover all identified data needs of a substance (or multiple substances). 2. Agency selection of most likely candidates for the ECA program. EPA will review the submissions and select the most promising submissions as candidates for negotiation. Submissions which fully address EPA's concerns will have a higher chance of success than those which do not fully address all data needs issues. 3. Formal solicitation of ``interested parties'' in the Federal Register . If EPA selects a proposal as a candidate for negotiations, such negotiations will be conducted pursuant to procedures described in 40 CFR 790.28. Accordingly, EPA will publish a notice in the Federal Register soliciting persons interested in participating in or monitoring negotiations for the development of an ECA, to so notify the Agency in writing. Those individuals and groups who respond to EPA's notice by the deadline established in the notice will have the status of ``interested parties'' and will be afforded opportunities to participate in the negotiation process. Designation as an ``interested party'' will not incur any obligations. Submitters of testing proposals will be considered interested parties with regard to the subject(s) of their proposals and need not respond to the solicitation notice. 4. Negotiation of testing program and development of an ECA. Negotiations will be conducted in meetings open to the public. Notification of meetings will be given only to persons identified as interested parties. The first negotiation meeting will establish the period for negotiation. If agreement is not reached within this prescribed time limit and EPA chooses not to extend the negotiation period, negotiations will be terminated and testing will be required under a rule. 5. Approval of the ECA by interested parties and EPA and publication of a notice in the Federal Register. After EPA and interested parties have agreed in principle on the terms of the ECA, the ECA text will be sent for approval to interested parties who are actual participants in the negotiation. Subsequent to approval of the ECA, EPA will publish a notice in the Federal Register summarizing the testing program and announcing that in lieu of a test rule, the Agency has issued a testing Consent Order that incorporates the ECA. III. Public Record EPA has established a record for this action (docket control number OPPTS&hyph;42052P; FRL&hyph;4756&hyph;5). The record includes basic information considered by EPA in developing this action. EPA will supplement the record with additional information as it is received. A public version of this record is available in the TSCA Nonconfidential Information Center (NCIC) from 12 noon to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except legal holidays. The NCIC is located in Rm. NE&hyph;B607, Mail Code 7407, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC, 20460. Written requests for copies of documents contained in this record may be sent to the above address or faxed to (202) 260&hyph;9555. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2603. Dated: September 21, 1994. Charles M. Auer, Director, Chemical Control Division, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24250 Filed 9-29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560-50-P
