FR941102-0-00050 FR941102-0-00008 The second comment letter stated that further study indicated that designating Spain's debt obligations as ``exempted securities'' would be positive for Spain's debt management and policies. However, the letter reasserted the first concern relating to the assigned rating for Spain's debt obligations. 22 22 Letter from Antonio Garcia Rebollar, dated November 24, 1993, supra note 6. For the reasons discussed below, and in light of the comment letters received, the Commission has determined that Rule 3a12&hyph;8 should be amended to include the debt obligations of Spain. The Commission believes that the debt obligations of Spain should be subject to the same regulatory treatment under the Rule as those of the fourteen designated countries for purposes of trading futures contracts on such debt obligations by U.S. persons. Like the debt obligations of the fourteen designated countries, 23 the long-term debt obligations of Spain are rated in one of the two highest rating categories by at least two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. 24 For purposes of the Rule, the Commission is aware of no material differences between the debt obligations of Spain and those of the fourteen designated countries. Although the commenter believed the assigned rating for Spain's debt obligations should be in the highest rating category, that issue is not relevant to the Commission's determination to amend the Rule. 23 In amending the Rule to exempt the debt securities of other countries, the Commission has noted that the long-term sovereign debt of such countries was rated in one of the two highest rating categories by at least two nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30166 (January 6, 1992), 57 FR 1375 (amending the Rule to exempt the debt securities of the Republics of Ireland and Italy). 24 Spain's long-term sovereign debt is rated Aa2 by Moody's and AA by S&P. Additionally, the Commission believes that there are no valid legal or policy reasons for denying U.S. investors the ability to trade futures on debt obligations of Spain. Moreover, the availability to U.S. investors of these hedging vehicles will allow such investors to take advantage of the growing globalization of the securities markets. IV. Regulatory Flexibility Act Consideration Former Chairman Breeden certified in connection with the Release proposing the amendment to the Rule 25 that this amendment, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Commission received no comments on this certification. 25 See supra note 5.
