FR940513-1-00102 FR940513-1-00021 It is the Department's view that Child Labor Reg. 5 is no longer necessary. The procedures set out in this regulation are not substantively different from the APA requirements which control DOL rulemaking, including promulgation of HOs. While the optional steps identified in the regulation are matters which the Department may choose to undertake in the promulgation of particular HOs, these steps_involving study, drafting, examination, and review of options and standards_are integral parts of the Department's deliberative, policy-making process and, thus, they need not and should not be set out in detail in regulations. Further, it is the Department's view that the regulation potentially creates confusion in that the Child Labor Reg. 5 procedures may be viewed incorrectly as mandatory steps for promulgation of HOs. The proposed repeal of Child Labor Reg. 5 will eliminate the possibility of confusion. The Department is also proposing a technical modification in the regulations that is considered necessary and appropriate in connection with the Work Experience and Career Exploration Program (WECEP) to facilitate applications for certification under this program. Section 570.35a of the regulations provides for the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds in a State-approved, school-supervised Work Experience and Career Exploration Program (WECEP). 4 A condition for approval of such programs is that they provide sufficient safeguards to ensure that the employment will not interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their health and well-being. Enrollees in approved WECEPs may be employed for up to 23 hours in school weeks, 3 hours on school days, and during school hours, in occupations other than: 4 Twelve States have Departmental approval to operate WECEP programs in the 1992&hyph;94 school years. (1) Those in manufacturing and mining; (2) Those declared to be hazardous for the employment of minors under 18 years of age (set forth in subpart E of the regulations); or (3) Those declared to be hazardous for employment of minors below the age of 16 in agriculture (set forth in subpart E&hyph;1 of the regulations). The regulations at ยง570.35a(c)(3) allow the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division to approve a variance from the prohibited occupations in individual cases or classes of cases after notice to interested parties and an opportunity to furnish views. In State Educational Agency applications for WECEP program approval and requests for variances from the Reg. 3 occupations restrictions in those programs pursuant to ยง570.35a(c)(3), the Department has consistently approved variances for particular activities which, within the operation of programs that meet all the WECEP criteria, have been determined by the Department not to interfere with the health and well-being of the 14- and 15-year-olds enrolled in the programs. To provide pertinent guidance to the State Educational Agencies and other interested parties, the Department proposes to amend the WECEP regulations to specify that the following activities will be ordinarily considered to be acceptable for participants in approved WECEP programs: (1) Using a deep fryer or cooking at a grill with a maximum temperature of 375 degrees; (2) Operating power-driven mowers, weed-eaters, trimmers and whips with nylon string only; (3) Retrieving and/or placing food in coolers/freezers; (4) Loading and unloading goods weighing up to 30 lbs. provided that such work does not exceed 30 percent of the minor's weekly hours worked; and
