FR940816-0-00002 FR940816-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service 19 CFR Part 101 [T.D. 94&hyph;68] Realignment of Tampa and Miami Districts AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document amends the Customs Regulations governing the Customs field organization by changing the boundaries of the Tampa District and the Miami District, which lie in the Southeast Region. The boundaries of these two districts are being altered to reflect the established judicial districts within the state. This is being accomplished by transferring the counties of Collier and Hendry to the Tampa Customs District from the Miami Customs District. The realignment will allow a more efficient use of Customs employees and facilitate operations for many of the users of Customs services. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 15, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Brad Lund, Office of Inspection and Control, (202) 927&hyph;0192. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background As part of its continuing effort to utilize its personnel, facilities and resources more efficiently, and to provide better service to the public, importers and carriers, Customs is realigning the boundaries of its Tampa and Miami Districts. The realignment gives jurisdiction over all cities and counties along the west coast of Florida to the Tampa District. This is being accomplished by removing the counties of Collier and Hendry from the Miami District and adding them to the Tampa District. The realignment will permit personnel from the Tampa District to serve the areas of Collier and Hendry Counties which are currently under the jurisdiction of the Miami District. Currently, aircraft inspection clearances from Naples, which is in Collier County, must be coordinated by personnel from the Miami District which is headquartered approximately 120 miles away while personnel from the Tampa District are stationed at the Southwest Regional Airport in Fort Myers, only 20 miles distant. An additional reason supporting the change is that the new District boundaries will also conform to the current jurisdictional boundaries of the Customs Office of Enforcement. The enforcement boundaries were realigned in 1989 so that they would coincide with the jurisdictional boundaries of the 0U.S. Attorney's office and provide for a uniformity of treatment for all liquidated damage, penalty and seizure cases instituted in the state. After this change, all Customs transactions can be handled within the same District offices. Support for this realignment has been voiced by several elements of the regional importing community who anticipate improved service from a local headquarters. It is not anticipated that this amendment will have any impact on the staffing level in either District. Boundaries of Tampa The new boundaries of the Tampa, Florida, District are as follows: The North shore of the St. Marys River and the city of St. Marys, Ga., and all the State of Florida except the counties of Indian River, St. Lucie, Martin, Okeechobee, Palm Beach, Broward, Monroe, Dade. Boundaries of Miami The new boundaries of the Miami, Florida, District are as follows: The counties of Indian River, St. Lucie, Martin, Okeechobee, Palm Beach, Broward, Monroe, and Dade. Comments Customs published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in the Federal Register on March 18, 1994 (59 FR 12879) which invited the public to comment on the above described realignment of the Tampa and Miami District boundaries. No comments were received in response to this invitation. Accordingly, the amendment is being published in final as it was proposed. Regulatory Flexibility Act and Executive Order 12866 Customs establishes the boundaries of the various districts throughout the United States to enable it to best perform its mission and to serve the public as efficiently as possible. Although this document is being issued after notice for public comment, it is not subject to the notice and public procedure requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553 because it relates to agency management and organization. Accordingly, this document is not subject to the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ). Because this document relates to agency organization and management, it is not subject to E.O. 12866. Drafting Information The principal author of this document was Peter T. Lynch, Regulations Branch, Office of Regulations and Rulings, U.S. Customs Service. However, personnel from other offices participated in its development. List of Subjects in 19 CFR Part 101 Customs duties and inspection, Exports, Imports, Organizations and functions (Government agencies). Amendment to the Regulations PART 101_GENERAL PROVISIONS 1. The authority citation for Part 101 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 19 U.S.C. 2, 66, 1202 (General Note 8, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), 1623, 1624. 2. Section 101.3(b) is amended by removing the words ``Hendry,'' and ``Collier,'' from the list in the Column headed ``Area'' opposite the entry for Miami, Fla. in the Southeast Region and also from the listing in the ``Area'' column opposite the entry for Tampa, Fla. in the Southeast Region. George J. Weise, Commissioner of Customs. Approved: August 4, 1994. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Treasury. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20030 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4820&hyph;02&hyph;P
