FR940106-2-00047 FR940106-2-00031 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 92N&hyph;0416] David J. Brancato; Denial of Hearing and Final Debarment Order AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Deputy Commissioner for Operations of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is denying a request for a hearing and issuing a final order under section 306(a) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) (21 U.S.C. 335a(a)) permanently debarring Mr. David J. Brancato, 13010 Atlantic Ave., Rockville, MD 20851, from providing services in any capacity to a person that has an approved or pending drug product application. FDA bases this order on a finding that Mr. Brancato was convicted of a felony under Federal law for conduct relating to the development or approval, including the process for development or approval of a drug product; and relating to the regulation of a drug product under the act. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Application for termination of debarment to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, 12420 Parklawn Dr., rm. 1&hyph;23, Rockville, MD 20857. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Diane M. Sullivan, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (HFD&hyph;366), Food and Drug Administration, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855, 301&hyph;594&hyph;2041. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background David J. Brancato, a former review chemist with FDA's Division of Generic Drugs, pled guilty and was sentenced on January 5, 1990, for receiving unlawful gratuities, a felony offense under 18 U.S.C. 201(c)(1)(B). This conviction was based on Mr. Brancato's acceptance of payment of approximately $4,300 from senior officials of generic drug manufacturers, Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. (Par), and its subsidiary, Quad Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Quad), while Mr. Brancato was involved in the regulation of Par's and Quad's drug products and while he was specifically responsible for reviewing Par's and Quad's applications to determine whether those applications met certain statutory standards for approval. On December 12, 1992, Mr. Brancato received a certified letter from the Deputy Commissioner for Operations offering Mr. Brancato an opportunity for a hearing on the agency's proposal to issue an order under section 306(a) of the act debarring him from providing services in any capacity to a person that has an approved or pending drug product application. FDA based the proposal to debar Mr. Brancato on its finding that he was convicted of a felony under Federal law for conduct relating to the development, approval, and regulation of Par's and Quad's drug products. The certified letter further informed Mr. Brancato that his request for a hearing could not rest upon mere allegations or denials but must present specific facts showing that there was a genuine and substantial issue of fact requiring a hearing. The letter also notified Mr. Brancato that if it conclusively appeared from the face of the information and factual analyses in his request for a hearing that there was no genuine and substantial issue of fact which precluded the order of debarment, FDA would enter summary judgment against him and deny his request for a hearing. In a letter dated December 21, 1992, Mr. Brancato requested a hearing and submitted arguments and information in support of his hearing request. In his request for a hearing, Mr. Brancato acknowledges that he was convicted of a felony under Federal law as alleged by FDA; however, he argues that FDA's findings are incorrect and that the agency's proposal to debar him is unconstitutional.
