FR941205-0-00173 FR941205-0-00029 Mortgage means such a single first lien upon the real estate as is commonly given to secure advances on, or the unpaid purchase price of, real estate under the laws of the jurisdiction where the real estate is situated, together with the credit instruments, if any, secured thereby. Mortgagee means the original lender under a mortgage and its successors and assigns approved by the Commissioner. Mortgagor means the original borrower under a mortgage and its successor and assigns. Multifamily housing means housing accommodations on the mortgaged property that are designed principally for residential use, conform to standards satisfactory to the Secretary, and consist of not less than 5 rental units (including cooperative units) on 1 site. These units may be detached, semidetached, row house, or multifamily structures. Qualified HFA means an HFA that meets the requirements described in ยง266.100(a). Risk-Sharing Agreement means a contract between an HFA and the Commissioner that incorporates the terms, obligations, and conditions specified in this part. Secondary financing means any grant, loan, inferior lien, or other form of indebtedness used during loan origination prior to HUD endorsement to finance a multifamily property insured under this part which is inferior to the insured mortgage as defined above and does not have first priority for payment. Single Room Occupancy, or SRO, projects means multifamily projects consisting of units that are not required to contain food preparation or sanitary facilities for occupancy by single individuals capable of independent living. Supportive services means any service provided under a planned program of services designed to enable residents of a residential rental property to remain independent and avoid placement in a hospital, nursing home, or intermediate care facility for the mentally or physically handicapped. In the case of a single room occupancy unit, the term includes any service provided to assist tenants in locating and retaining permanent housing. This definition is to be used in conjunction with the ``gross rent'' calculation. ยง266.10 Allocations of Assistance and Credit Subsidy. (a) Notice of availability of assistance. HUD will announce the availability of assistance under this program through publication of a Notice in the Federal Register . Such Notice will invite qualified HFAs to submit an application for approval and/or for additional units under this part. The Notice will indicate the deadline date for submission of applications, required documentation, the address to which the applications must be submitted and other relevant information. (b) Credit subsidy will be obligated and allocated in accordance with outstanding Department instructions. ยง266.15 Risk-Sharing Agreement. (a) Requirement for participation. Execution of a Risk-Sharing Agreement is a prerequisite to participation in this program. (b) Provisions. The Agreement will include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following: (1) The allocation of units for the HFA; (2) The risk sharing level or levels at which the HFA has been approved to participate in the program; (3) The standards and procedures, and loan terms and conditions, to be used by the HFA in originating, underwriting, closing, project management and servicing of loans and for disposing of defaulted properties (which may be incorporated by reference to existing HFA documents); (4) The identification of the individuals responsible for the overall underwriting decision (Chief Underwriter) and for project management, servicing, and property disposition (Housing Management Director), principal staff, and identification of individuals, with specimen signatures, with authority to sign loan documents or otherwise commit the HFA; (5) Certifications by the HFA that it: (i) Will allow periodic auditing and review by the Commissioner and the HUD Inspector General and their authorized agents regarding the HFA's participation in the program and permit an inspection and examination of its financial and other records as the Commissioner deems necessary for program review and monitoring purposes. (ii) Will notify HUD promptly in writing any time the HFA changes principal staff, persons authorized to commit the HFA, and operating procedures, underwriting standards and procedures, and loan terms and conditions. Level II HFAs must also obtain the prior written approval of the Commissioner before implementing any amendment to the HFA's underwriting standards and procedures, and loan terms and conditions. (iii) Has fully disclosed all underwriting standards and procedures, loan terms and conditions; (iv) Will at all times comply with program financial requirements and notify HUD of any pending and actual changes that would adversely affect HFA operations or financial status; (v) Will provide HUD with a copy of its annual certified audit report;
