FR940825-2-00002 FR940825-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service [TMD&hyph;94&hyph;00&hyph;2] Nominations for Members of the National Organic Standards Board AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, as amended (Act), requires the establishment of a National Organic Standards Board (NOSB) to assist in the development of standards for substances to be used in organic production and to advise the Secretary of Agriculture on any other aspects of the implementation of the Act. The NOSB was originally established on January 24, 1992, with individual members appointed for staggered appointments of 3, 4, and 5 years. Appointments for four members will be up in January 1995, and the Secretary seeks nominations of individuals to be considered for selection as NOSB members. DATES: Written nominations, with resumes, must be postmarked on or before September 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Nominations should be sent to Dr. Harold S. Ricker, Assistant Director, Transportation and Marketing Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), Room 4006 South Building, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Harold S. Ricker, (202) 720&hyph;2704. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act, Public Law Number 92&hyph;463, notice is hereby given that the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990, as amended, requires the Secretary to establish an organic certification program for producers and handlers of agricultural products that have been produced using organic methods. In developing this program, the Secretary is required to establish a NOSB. The purpose of the NOSB is to assist in the development of standards for substances to be used in organic production and to advise the Secretary on any other aspects of the implementation of the program. The current NOSB has worked to develop recommendations to the Secretary to establish the initial program. It is anticipated that the NOSB will continue to work on recommendations for refinements in the program and the ongoing review of substances considered for organic production and processing. A member of the NOSB shall serve for a term of 5 years, except that the Secretary appointed the original members of the NOSB for staggered terms of 3, 4, and 5 years. The terms of four members of the current NOSB, who were appointed for 3-year terms, will be completed on January 24, 1995. A member may serve consecutive terms if such member served an original term that was less than 5 years. However a member of the NOSB, with 3 years of service, seeking reappointment may only be reappointed for 3 years in accordance with 7 U.S.C. 2283 (c) which states ``No person other than an officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture may serve more than six consecutive years on an advisory committee, unless authorized by the Secretary.'' Nominations are sought for the positions of Farmer, Handler or Processor, Retailer, and Environmentalist. Individuals desiring to be appointed to the NOSB at this time must be either an owner or operator of an organic farming operation, an owner or operator of an organic handling or processing operation, an owner or operator of a retail establishment with significant trade in organic products, or an expert in the area of environmental or resource conservation. One member of the NOSB must be a certifying agent as defined in Public Law Number 101&hyph;624. That member shall be appointed at an appropriate date after the accreditation of a number of individuals as certifying agents has been completed. Selection criteria will include such factors as: demonstrated experience and interest in organics; commodity and geographic representation; endorsed support of industry organizations; demonstrated experience with environmental concerns; and other factors as may be appropriate for specific positions. After applications have been reviewed, individuals receiving nominations will be contacted and supplied with biographical forms. The biographical information must be completed and returned to USDA within 10 working days of its receipt, to expedite the security clearance process that is required by the Secretary. Dated: August 19, 1994. Lon Hatamiya, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20993 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;02&hyph;P
