FR940429-0-00142 FR940429-0-00014 Changes: An institution may receive a waiver if the contracts provide job training for low-income individuals who are in need of such services. An institution may not receive a waiver if its enrollment of ATB students who are not being served under contract exceeds 40 percent of its total enrollment. If the Secretary grants a waiver to an institution under this section, the waiver will extend indefinitely provided that the institution satisfies the waiver requirements in each award year. If an institution fails to satisfy the waiver requirements for an award year, the institution becomes ineligible on June 30 of that award year. Section 600.9␣Written Agreement Between an Eligible Institution and Another Institution or Organization Comment: One commenter suggested that the provision that requires an eligible institution to give credit to students enrolled in a contracted program on the same basis as if it provided that program itself be modified to make an exception in the case of study abroad programs approved for credit by the eligible institution. Discussion: The Secretary believes that this rule should apply to all contracted programs, including contracted programs involving study abroad. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter noted that this section prevents an eligible institution from entering into an agreement with an ineligible institution if that institution had its eligibility to participate in the title IV, HEA programs terminated by the Secretary. The commenter suggested that this provision be expanded to prevent an eligible institution from entering into an agreement with an ineligible institution that withdrew from participating in the title IV, HEA programs under a show-cause or suspension order issued by the institution's State licensing agency, accrediting agency, guarantor, State Postsecondary Review Entity (SPRE), or the Secretary. On the other hand, another commenter suggested removing this provision entirely since it could eliminate teachout agreements when institutions close and could prevent students from participating in valuable educational programs. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter's suggestion that it is inappropriate for an eligible institution to contract with an ineligible institution that had its eligibility to participate in the title IV, HEA programs terminated or that withdrew from participating in the title IV, HEA programs under a termination, show-cause, suspension, or similar type proceeding initiated by the institution's State licensing agency, accrediting agency, guarantor, or SPRE, or by the Secretary. Moreover, the Secretary believes that this limitation should also apply to contracts under which the ineligible institution provides 25 percent or less of the eligible institution's program. The Secretary believes that there are a sufficient number of eligible institutions to allow teachouts of students whose institutions closed. Changes: Section 600.9 is amended to preclude an eligible institution from contracting any portion of its educational program to an ineligible institution that had its participation in the title IV, HEA programs terminated by the Secretary, or that withdrew from that participation under termination, show-cause, suspension, or similar type proceeding initiated by the institution's State licensing agency, accrediting agency, guarantor, or SPRE, or by the Secretary. Section 600.10␣Date, Extent, Duration, and Consequences of Eligibility Comment: Several commenters suggested that it is unfair to require that certain new educational programs have to be approved by the Secretary as eligible programs before students enrolled in those programs would be eligible to receive title IV, HEA program funds. The commenters felt that this would place an undue burden on the institution and the students the institution is attempting to serve by creating delays in new program implementation. Discussion: Prior to the issuance of the Institutional Eligibility regulations in April of 1988, it was the Secretary's practice to require institutions to apply to the Department of Education to have any new program designated as an eligible program before students enrolled in that program could receive title IV, HEA program funds. The Secretary changed this practice in the regulation to reduce the burden on institutions and the Department of Education. Under current regulations, an institution could determine on its own whether a new educational program qualified as an eligible program. However, the institution would be liable for all title IV, HEA program funds it disbursed to students enrolled in a new program if the institution incorrectly determined that the program qualified as an eligible program. The Secretary has found that this new practice has not worked out. The Secretary has found that when institutions have made incorrect determinations regarding whether a new educational program is an eligible program, the liability associated with that incorrect determination was usually too high to be repaid. Moreover, this practice is inconsistent with the new emphasis on ``gatekeeping'' as evidenced in Program Integrity Triad legislation, particularly with respect to the certification process. The Secretary has found that most problems in this area come from an institution offering new, short-term vocational programs. Therefore in the NPRM, the Secretary has not required preapproval for new programs leading to an associate degree or higher, or new vocational programs similar to the ones the institution already provides. The Secretary retains this position in the final rule and believes that this procedure provides a proper balance between the need of institutions to provide title IV, HEA program funds to students enrolled in new programs, and the need to limit abusive practices of certain institutions. Changes: None. Section 600.20␣Application Procedures
