FR940419-1-00083 FR940419-1-00009 (a) Subject to §990.403 of this section, the amount of funds provided by a PHA to a project managed by a resident management corporation under this subpart may not be reduced during the three-year period beginning on February 5, 1988 or on such later date as a resident management corporation first assumes management responsibility for the project. (b) For purposes of determining the amount of funds provided to a project under §990.402(a) of this section, the provision of technical assistance by the PHA to the resident management corporation will not be included. (c) The resident management corporation and the PHA shall submit a separate operating budget, including the calculation of operating subsidy eligibility in accordance with §990.401 of this section, for the project managed by a resident management corporation to HUD for approval. This budget will reflect all project expenditures and will identify which expenditures are related to the responsibilities of the resident management corporation and which are related to the functions which will continue to be performed by the PHA. (d) Each project or part of a project that is operating in accordance with the ACC amendment relating to this subpart and in accordance with a contract vesting maintenance responsibilities in the resident management corporation will have transferred, into a sub-account of the operating reserve of the host PHA, an operating reserve. Where all maintenance responsibilities for the resident-managed project are the responsibility of the corporation, the amount of the reserve made available to projects under this subpart will be the per unit cost amount available to the PHA operating reserve, exclusive of all inventories, prepaids and receivables (at the end of the PHA fiscal year preceding implementation), multiplied by the number of units in the project operated in accordance with the provision of this subpart. Where some, but not all, maintenance responsibilities are vested in the resident management corporation, the contract may provide for an appropriately reduced portion of the operating reserve to be transferred into the corporation's sub-account. (e) The use of the reserve will be subject to all administrative procedures applicable to the conventionally owned public housing program. Any expenditure of funds from the reserve will be for eligible expenditures which are incorporated into an operating budget subject to approval by HUD. (f) Investment of funds held in the reserve will be in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 4 of the Financial Management Handbook, 7476.1 REV.1 and interest generated will be included in the calculation of operating subsidy in accordance with this part. §990.403 Adjustments to total income. (a) Operating subsidy calculated in accordance with §964.401 will reflect changes in inflation, utility rates and consumption, and changes in the number of units in the resident management project. (b) In addition to the amount of income derived from the project (from sources such as rents and charges) and the operating subsidy calculated in accordance with §990.401 of this subpart, the contract may specify that income be provided to the project from other sources of income of the PHA. (c) The following conditions may not affect the amounts to be provided to a project managed by a resident management corporation under this subpart: (1) Any reduction in the total income of a PHA that occurs as a result of fraud, waste, or mismanagement by the PHA. (2) Any change in the total income of a PHA that occurs as a result of project-specific characteristics that are not shared by the project managed by the corporation under this subpart. §990.404 Retention of excess revenues. (a) Any income generated by a resident management corporation that exceeds the income estimated for the income category involved as specified in the RMC's management contract must be excluded in subsequent years in calculating: (1) The operating subsidy provided to a PHA under part 990 subpart A of this chapter. (2) The funds provided by the PHA to the resident management corporation. (b) The management contract must specify the amount of income expected to be derived from the project (from sources such as rents and charges) and the amount of income to be provided to the project from the other sources of income of the PHA (such as operating subsidy under part 990 subpart A of this chapter, interest income, administrative fees, and rents). These income estimates must be calculated on a PHA-wide basis, as well as for each category of income on which the PHA and the resident management corporation agree, consistent with HUD's administrative instructions. Income estimates may provide for proration of anticipated project income between the corporation and the PHA, based upon the management and other project-associated responsibilities (if any) that are to be retained by the PHA under the contract. §990.405 Use of retained revenues. Any revenues retained by a resident management corporation under §990.404 of this subpart may only be used for purposes of improving the maintenance and operation of the project, establishing businesses enterprises that employ residents of public housing, or acquiring additional dwelling units for lower income families. Units acquired by the resident management corporation will not be eligible for payment of operating subsidy. Dated: April 11, 1994. Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9319 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;33&hyph;P
