FR940902-1-00006 FR940902-1-00002 A postretirement benefit plan is a deferred compensation arrangement in which an employer promises to exchange future benefits for an employee's current services. Postretirement benefits include, but are not limited to, health care, life insurance, tuition assistance, day care, legal services, and housing subsidies provided outside of a pension plan. The REA USoA parallels the USoA prescribed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for electric utilities and, as such, is consistent with the standards of financial accounting for the electric utility industry as a whole. As FERC amends its USoA, REA reviews the appropriateness and applicability of each amendment and proposes revisions, as necessary, to the REA USoA. On December 17, 1992, FERC issued its policy statement on postretirement benefits. Included in its statement was the requirement that natural gas pipelines and public utilities make cash deposits into an irrevocable, external trust fund, in amounts that are proportional and, on an annual basis, equal to the annual test period allowance for postretirement benefits. REA reviewed and analyzed these accounting policies and procedures, including the funding requirement, and promulgated these requirements in its USoA. The REA USoA requires REA borrowers to fund the liability associated with postretirement benefit costs by making cash deposits into an irrevocable trust. Since the issuance of the final rule, REA borrowers and their representatives through the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, have questioned the necessity for REA borrowers to fund their postretirement benefit obligations. FERC and a majority of state utility commissions require funding for the inclusion of postretirement benefit expenses in rates, in order to deter investor owned utilities from arbitrarily increasing postretirement benefit costs. Due to the many variables involved in estimating postretirement benefit costs, the cost incorporated into rates can be easily manipulated if an investor owned utility desires to increase cash flow through increased accruals of postretirement benefit costs. By requiring utilities to fund an amount equal to the postretirement benefit costs that were recovered through rates, much of the incentive for investor owned utilities to over estimate postretirement benefit costs is eliminated. The ratepayers/consumers, and investors/owners of an REA electric borrower, because of its cooperative organizational structure, are one in the same. REA cooperatives do not, therefore, have this same incentive to over estimate postretirement benefits costs because profits do not accrue to a separate, different class of investors/owners. In fact, REA electric borrowers have no incentive to over estimate postretirement benefit costs to increase rates since the investors/owners are the same as the ratepayers/consumers. REA is proposing to eliminate the funding requirement currently contained in Section 1767.41, Interpretation No. 627, Postretirement Benefits. REA borrowers may, however, elect to voluntarily fund their postretirement benefit obligations. Finally, REA is proposing to revise Section 1767.13, Departures from the Prescribed REA Uniform System of Accounts, and Section 1767.14, Interpretations of the REA Uniform System of Accounts, to specifically identify the organizational unit within REA to which requests for departures from and interpretations of the REA USoA should be addressed. This revision should assist borrowers in filing requests and should expedite the review process within REA. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 1767 Accounting. For the reasons set out in the preamble, REA hereby proposes to amend 7 CFR chapter XVII as follows: PART 1767_ACCOUNTING REQUIREMENTS FOR REA ELECTRIC BORROWERS 1. The authority citation for part 1767 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 901 et seq. 2. Section 1767.13 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (c) introductory text, and (d) to read as follows: ยง1767.13 Departures from the prescribed REA Uniform System of Accounts. (a) No departures are to be made to the prescribed REA USoA without the prior written approval of REA. Requests for departures from the REA USoA shall be addressed, in writing, to the Director, Borrower Accounting Division (BAD). * * * * * (c) If any state regulatory authority with jurisdiction over an REA borrower prescribes accounting methods or principles for the borrower that are inconsistent with the provisions of this part, the borrower must immediately notify the Director, BAD, and provide such documents, information, and reports as REA may request to evaluate the impact that such accounting methods or principles may have on the interests of REA. * * * * *
