FR940912-1-00003 FR940912-1-00002 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 25 [Docket No. NM&hyph;95; Special Conditions No. 25&hyph;ANM&hyph;88] Special Conditions: Learjet Inc., Model 45 Airplane, Lightning and High-Intensity Radiated Fields AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final special conditions. SUMMARY: These special conditions are issued for the Learjet Inc. (Lear) Model 45 airplane. This new airplane utilizes new avionics/electronic systems that provide critical data to the flightcrew. The applicable regulations do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards for the protection of these systems from the effects of lightning and high-intensity radiated fields. These special conditions contain the additional safety standards that the Administrator considers necessary to establish a level of safety equivalent to that established by the existing airworthiness standards. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Quam, FAA, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington, 98055&hyph;4056, (206) 227&hyph;2145. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On January 27, 1992, Learjet Inc. (Lear), 8220 West Harry Street, Wichita, KS 67209&hyph;2942, P.O. Box 7707, Wichita, KS 67277&hyph;7707, applied for a new type certificate in the transport airplane category for the Model 45 airplane. The Learjet Model 45 is a T-tail, low wing, medium sized business jet powered by two Garrett TFE 731&hyph;20 turbofan engines mounted on pylons extending from the aft fuselage. Each engine is capable of delivering 3,500 lbs. thrust (3,650 lbs. thrust with auto performance reserve). The airplane is capable of operating with two flight crewmembers and a maximum of ten passengers (standard is eight passengers). Type Certification Basis Under the provisions of §21.17 of the FAR, Learjet must show, except as provided in §25.2, that the Model 45 meets the applicable provisions of part 25, effective February 1, 1965, as amended by Amendments 25&hyph;1 through 25&hyph;75. In addition, the proposed certification basis for the Model 45 includes part 34, effective September 10, 1990, plus any amendments in effect at the time of certification; and part 36, effective December 1, 1969, as amended by Amendments 36&hyph;1 through the amendment in effect at the time of certification. These special conditions form an additional part of the type certification basis. In addition, the certification basis may include other special conditions that are not relevant to these special conditions. If the Administrator finds that the applicable airworthiness regulations (i.e., part 25, as amended) do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards for the Learjet Model 45 because of a novel or unusual design feature, special conditions are prescribed under the provisions of §21.16 to establish a level of safety equivalent to that established in the regulations. Special conditions, as appropriate, are issued in accordance with §11.49 of the FAR after public notice, as required by §§11.28 and 11.29, and become part of the type certification basis in accordance with §21.17(a)(2). Special conditions are initially applicable to the model for which they are issued. Should the type certificate for that model be amended later to include any other model that incorporates the same novel or unusual design feature, or should any other model already included on the same type certificate be modified to incorporate the same novel or unusual design feature, the special conditions would also apply to the other model under the provisions of §21.101(a)(1). Novel or Unusual Design Features The Model 45 incorporates new avionic/electronic installations, including primary flight displays, an electronically controlled braking system, digital electronic engine controls, an engine indication and crew alerting system (EICAS), multifunction display, and a digital autopilot/flight director system. These systems may be vulnerable to lightning and high-intensity radiated fields (HIRF) external to the airplane. Discussion The existing lightning protection airworthiness certification requirements are insufficient to provide an acceptable level of safety with new technology avionic and electronic systems. There are two regulations that specifically pertain to lightning protection: one for the airframe in general (§25.581), and the other for fuel system protection (§25.954). There are, however, no regulations that deal specifically with protecton of electrical and electronic systems from lightning. The loss of a critical function of these systems due to lightning would prevent continued safe flight and landing of the airplane. Although the loss of an essential function would not prevent continued safe flight and landing, it could significantly impact the safety level of the airplane. There is also no specific regulation that addresses protection requirements for electrical and electronic systems from HIRF. Increased power levels from ground based radio transmitters and the growing use of sensitive electrical and electronic systems to command and control airplanes have made it necessary to provide adequate protection. To ensure that a level of safety is achieved equivalent to that intended by the regulations incorporated by reference, special conditions are needed for the Lear Model 45, which require that new technology electrical and electronic systems be designed and installed to preclude component damage and interruption of function due to both the direct and indirect effects of lightning and HIRF. Lightning To provide a means of compliance with these special conditions, clarification of the threat definition of lightning is needed. The following ``threat definition,'' based on FAA Advisory Circular 20&hyph;136, Protection of Aircraft Electrical/Electronic Systems Against the Indirect Effects of Lightning, dated March 5, 1990, is proposed as a basis to use in demonstrating compliance with the lightning protection special condition, with the exception of the multiple burst environment, which has been changed to agree with the latest recommendation from the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) AE4L lightning committee. The lightning current waveforms (Components A, D, and H) defined below, along with the voltage waveforms in AC 20&hyph;53A, will provide a consistent and reasonable standard that is acceptable for use in evaluating the effects of lightning on the airplane. These waveforms depict threats that are external to the airplane. The effect of these threats on the airplane and its systems depends upon several factors, including installation configuration, materials, shielding, airplane geometry, etc. Therefore, tests (including tests on the completed airplane or an adequate simulation) and/or verified analyses need to be conducted in order to obtain the resultant internal threat to the installed systems. The electronic systems may then be evaluated with this internal threat in order to determine their susceptibility to upset and/or malfunction. To evaluate the induced effects to these systems, three considerations are required: 1. First Return Stroke: (Severe Strike_Component A, or Restrike-Component D). This external threat needs to be evaluated to obtain the resultant internal threat and to verify that the level of the induced currents and voltages is sufficiently below the equipment ``hardness'' level.
