FR940425-2-00015 FR940425-2-00014 Finding of No Significant Impact for the Use of Military Surplus Armored Tanks for Artificial Reef Construction AGENCY: Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) and the U.S. Army Materiel Command (AMC), Department of Defense (DoD). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: An environmental assessment on the use of Military Surplus Armored Tanks for Artificial Reef Construction was prepared pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) as amended (42 U.S.C. 4321 ( et seq ) and the Council on Environmental Quality Guidelines (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508). The environmental assessment concluded that there will be no significant impact on the environment and that preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement will not be necessary. Interested parties may submit comments to the address listed below for a 30-day period from the date of this notice. EFFECTIVE DATE: 22 April 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Larry J. Wilson, CAAV, Staff Director, Public Affairs Office, Defense Logistics Agency, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22304&hyph;6100, (703) 274&hyph;6135. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: DLA is responsible for overseeing the disposal of excess military assets. The normal disposal protocols for military tanks involve the selling of demilitarized tanks to salvage companies. However, the size of the current surplus inventory and the likely growth due to DoD downsizing motivated consideration of other methods of disposition. An environmental assessment has been prepared to address the proposed use of surplus tanks for reef construction material, possible alternative approaches, environmental consequences of the proposed action, and measures recommended to mitigate potentially adverse effects. This environmental assessment has been prepared jointly by the DLA and AMC in accordance with Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) regulations and DLA implementing regulation DLAR 1000.22, Environmental Consideration in DLA Actions in the United States. The proposed action involves the use of as many as 200 surplus military armored tanks for placement in coastal waters for artificial reef construction. These surplus tanks are located at the Anniston Army Dept (ANAD), Anniston Al. The Artificial Reef Program is administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE) pursuant to 33 USC Section 2104. Under this program, the COE designates specific areas to be used as artificial reef sites and issues permits to ensure that only suitable materials are placed in the artificial reef. There has been considerable interest by various coastal states in using surplus armored tanks as artificial reef material. It is believed that the heavy gauge steel construction of the tanks will extend the useful life of the artificial reef. Properly designed, constructed, and located, artificial reefs can enhance recreational and commercial fishing opportunities, increase the production of fishery products, increase the energy efficiency of recreational and commercial fisheries, and contribute to coastal economies. DLA and AMC will institute measures which will mitigate potential adverse effects. Tank cleanup and preparation procedures have been developed to ensure that tanks are cleaned of environmentally harmful materials and that they meet applicable environmental criteria. These procedures include draining all fluids, removal of the tank engine, transmission and hydraulic systems, and steam cleaning exterior and interior surfaces. Tank preparation, transportation and deployment will be in accordance with military operational and safety plans with comprehensive transportation and deployment plans if performed by nonmilitary activities. The use of surplus military armored tanks for artificial reef construction materials is not considered a major action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment or requiring the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement. A public comment period regarding the environmental assessment will begin at the time of publication of this notice and will conclude 30 days following. Copies of the environmental assessment are available for inspection at the address listed above. Interested parties may also contact the DLA Public Affairs Office at commercial telephone (703) 274&hyph;6135. Dated: 20 April 1994. Jan B. Reitman, Staff Director, (Environmental and Safety Policy). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9900 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3620&hyph;01&hyph;M
