FR940525-1-00085 FR940525-1-00008 (ii) Other risk factors for coronary heart disease include a family history of heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, cigarette smoking, obesity, and lack of regular physical exercise. (iii) Intakes of saturated fat exceed recommended levels in many people in the United States. Intakes of cholesterol are, on average, at or above recommended levels. Intakes of fiber-containing fruits, vegetables, and grain products are about half of recommended intake levels. One of the major public health recommendations relative to coronary heart disease risk is to consume less than 10 percent of calories from saturated fat, and an average of 30 percent or less of total calories from all fat. Recommended daily cholesterol intakes are 300 mg or less. Recommended total dietary fiber intakes are about 25 g daily, of which about 25 percent (about 6 g) should be soluble fiber. (iv) Current dietary guidance recommendations encourage decreased consumption of dietary fat, especially saturated fat and cholesterol, and increased consumption of fiber-rich foods to help lower blood LDL-cholesterol levels. Results of numerous studies have shown that fiber-containing fruits, vegetables, and grain products can help lower blood LDL-cholesterol. (3) Requirements . (i) All requirements set forth in ยง381.414 shall be met. (ii) Specific requirements. (A) Nature of the claim . A health claim associating diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber, particularly soluble fiber, with reduced risk of heart disease may be made on the label or labeling of a poultry product described in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; Provided, That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of heart disease; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the terms ``heart disease'' or ``coronary heart disease''; ( 3 ) The claim is limited to those fruits, vegetables, and grains that contain fiber; ( 4 ) In specifying the dietary fiber, the claim uses the terms ``fiber,'' ``dietary fiber,'' ``some types of dietary fiber,'' ``some dietary fibers,'' or ``some fibers,'' and the term ``soluble fiber'' may be used in addition to these terms; ( 5 ) In specifying the fat component, the claim uses the terms ``saturated fat'' and ``cholesterol''; ( 6 ) The claim indicates that development of heart disease depends on many factors; and ( 7 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of risk reduction for coronary heart disease to diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber. (B) Nature of the food . (1) The product shall contain a fruit, vegetable, or grain product; ( 2 ) The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat,'' ``low saturated fat,'' and ``low cholesterol'' as defined in ยง381.462, except that the product may meet all the requirements for ``extra lean'' in ยง381.462; and ( 3 ) The product shall contain at least 0.6 g of soluble fiber per reference amount customarily consumed prior to any nutrient addition, except the basis for meal-type products as defined in 381.413(l) shall be per labeled serving size. (4) Optional information . (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for heart disease about which there is general scientific agreement: A family history of coronary heart disease, elevated blood total- and LDL-cholesterol, excess body weight, high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diabetes, and physical inactivity. (ii) The claim may indicate that the relationship of diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber to heart disease is through the intermediate link of ``blood cholesterol'' or ``blood total- and LDL-cholesterol.'' (iii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber and coronary heart disease and the significance of the relationship. (iv) In specifying the nutrients, the claim may include the term ``total fat'' in addition to the terms ``saturated fat'' and ``cholesterol.'' (v) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with ``Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans.'' (vi) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have coronary heart disease. The source of this information shall be identified, and it shall be current information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (vii) The claim may state that individuals with elevated blood total- and LDL-cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. If the claim defines high or normal blood total- and LDL-cholesterol levels, then it shall state that individuals with high blood cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. (5) Model health claims . The following model health claims may be used in food labeling to describe the relationship between diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber and risk of heart disease: (i) Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and rich in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain some types of dietary fiber, particularly soluble fiber, may reduce the risk of heart disease, a disease associated with many factors. (ii) Development of heart disease depends on many factors. Eating a diet low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber may lower blood cholesterol levels and reduce your risk of heart disease.
