FR940106-1-00009 FR940106-1-00003 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;AGL&hyph;26] Proposed Establishment of Class E Airspace; Oconto, WI AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to establish Class E airspace (Class E airspace areas extending upward from 700 feet or more above the surface of the earth) at Oconto Municipal Airport, Oconto, WI, to accommodate Nondirectional Beacon (NDB) Runway 29 Standard Instrument Approach Procedure (SIAP). Controlled airspace extending upward from 700 to 1200 feet above ground level (AGL) is needed to contain aircraft executing the approach. The intended effect of this proposal is to provide segregation of aircraft using instrument approach procedures in instrument conditions from other aircraft operating in visual weather conditions. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 8, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, AGL&hyph;7, Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;AGL&hyph;26, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the Air Traffic Division, System Management Branch, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Frink, Air Traffic Division, System Management Branch, AGL&hyph;530, Federal Aviation Administration, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois 60018, telephone (708) 294&hyph;7568. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed below. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;AGL&hyph;26.'' The postcard will be date/time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the Rules Docket, FAA, Great Lakes Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, 2300 East Devon Avenue, Des Plaines, Illinois, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Public Affairs, Attention: Public Inquiry Center, APA&hyph;220, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591, or by calling (202) 267&hyph;3485. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Counsel No. 11&hyph;2A, which describes the application procedure. The Proposal The FAA is considering an amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) to establish Class E airspace to Oconto Municipal Airport, Oconto, WI, to accommodate NDB Runway 29 SIAP. Controlled airspace extending from 700 to 1200 feet AGL is needed to contain aircraft executing the approach. The intended effect of this action is to provide segregation of aircraft using instrument approach procedures in instrument conditions from other aircraft operating in visual weather conditions. Aeronautical maps and charts would reflect the defined area which would enable pilots to circumnavigate the area in order to comply with applicable visual flight rules requirements.
