FR940505-1-00495 FR940505-1-00012 (i) Provide and maintain such facilities as are necessary for sampling and testing purposes in order to secure information that will disclose the nature, extent, quantity or degree of air contaminants discharged into the atmosphere from the equipment in question. In the event of such a requirement, the EPA shall notify the applicant in writing of the required size, number and location of sampling holes; the size and location of the sampling platform; the access to the sampling platform; and the utilities for operating the sampling, testing, and air monitoring equipment. Such platform and access shall be constructed in accordance with the applicable General Industry Safety Orders of the State of California. (ii) Provide and maintain sampling and monitoring apparatus to measure emissions of air contaminants when the EPA has determined that such apparatus is available and should be installed. (A) Continuous emission monitoring systems at a minimum shall be installed when required, and to the performance specifications required by ยง52.3001. (B) A violation of emission standards of these rules, as shown by the stack-monitoring system, shall be reported by the owner or operator to the EPA within 96 hours, or such earlier time as may be required by any permit issued pursuant to this section. (C) In the event of a breakdown of monitoring equipment, the owner or operator shall notify the EPA within 48 hours and shall initiate repairs. The owner or operator shall inform the EPA of the intent to shutdown any monitoring equipment at least 24 hours prior to the event. (iii) If the EPA determines that technological or economic limitations on the application of measurement methodology to a particular class of sources would make the imposition of a numerical emission standard infeasible, the EPA may instead prescribe a design, operational, or equipment standard. In such cases, the EPA may require the installation or modification of process monitoring devices such that the design characteristics or equipment will be properly maintained, or that the operational conditions will be properly performed, so as to continuously achieve the assumed degree of control. To the extent applicable, reporting requirements for process monitors shall be the same as for continuous emission monitoring systems. (iv) A person operating or using a stack monitoring system shall, upon written notice from the EPA, provide a summary of the data obtained from such systems. This summary of the data shall be in the form and manner prescribed by the EPA. The summary of data shall be available for public inspection at the office of the Air Pollution Control District. Records from the monitoring equipment shall be kept by the owner or operator for a period of five years, during which time they shall be available to the EPA in such form as directed. (5) Transfer . An Authority to Construct shall not be transferable, whether by operation of law or otherwise, either from one location to another, from one piece of equipment to another, or from one person to another. In the event any person contemplates or desires to make any such transfer as herein above described, said person shall make an application for authorization in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section. (6) Performance testing . Within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate or the maximum rate of emissions to which the source is limited by enforceable conditions, but not later than 180 days after initial startup of such source, or as otherwise required by the EPA to determine continuous compliance with emission limitations or to confirm emission reductions claimed, the owner or operator of such source shall conduct performance test(s) in accordance with methods and under operating conditions as are approved by the EPA and furnish the EPA a written report of the results of such performance test(s). (i) Such test(s) shall be at the expense of the owner or operator. (ii) Testing shall be conducted with the source(s) of emissions operating at maximum capacity or other rate conforming to the maximum rate of emissions to which the source(s) are limited by enforceable condition(s). (iii) The EPA may monitor such tests and may also conduct performance tests. (iv) The owner or operator of a source shall provide the EPA 15 days prior notice of the performance test to afford the EPA the opportunity to have an observer present. (v) The EPA may waive the requirement for performance tests if the owner or operator of a source has demonstrated by other means to the EPA's satisfaction that the source is being operated in compliance with all local, state and federal regulations which are part of the California State Implementation Plan or any applicable Federal Implementation Plan. (d) Exemptions . (1) General . The exemptions contained in this section shall not apply to an otherwise exempt piece of equipment which is part of a process that requires a permit. An Authority to Construct shall not be required for the equipment listed in paragraphs (d)(2) to (11) of this section unless an emissions unit is: (i) Subject to New Source Performance Standards; or (ii) Subject to National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants; or (iii) An emissions unit or stationary source for which emission reduction credits have been requested or granted in accordance with ยง52.3002, Emissions Reduction Credit Authorization; or (iv) Any emissions unit that, in combination with other emissions units at the source, would cause the source to exceed the offset trigger as specified in ยง52.3001. (2) Vehicles .
