FR940610-2-00165 FR940610-2-00082 It is anticipated that each class of the GNMA REMIC securities will be issued initially in the form of one or more physical certificates registered in the name of MBSCC & Co., nominee for PTC, and held in physical form by PTC's custodian, with participants receiving and delivering REMIC securities by book-entry on PTC's books. REMIC securities may be held subsequent to original issuance in either certificated form, outside of PTC, or on PTC's book-entry system, as is currently the case with the GNMA I and GNMA II single-class MBS and the VA REMIC securities on deposit at PTC. PTC's current custody agreement with its custodian, Chemical Bank, accommodates the deposit of GMNA REMIC securities with the custodian. The REMIC securities will be supported entirely by the cash flows on the underlying GMA-guaranteed GNMA I MBS. REMIC trustees will be required to pay principal and interest (``P&I'') on the REMIC securities in same day funds on the 16th day of the month, or the first business day thereafter if the 16th is not a business day. REMIC P&I will therefore be paid to REMIC holders on the same day that the PSI on the underlying MBS is paid to MBS holders. PTC will pass through the REMIC payment on the same day as received. Not later than the 14th day of each month, the trustee will deliver to PTC and Chemical Bank the factor information for payment on the REMIC securities. PTC will follow the instructions from the trustee for disbursement of funds received on the GNMA MBS collateralizing the REMIC trust. The volume of the GNMA REMIC securities initially deposited at FTC will be modest compared to the total face amount of GNMA securities now on deposit at FTC and is expected to have a comparably small impact on FTC's overall transaction volume. 9 GNMA I's that constitute the corpus of a GNMA REMIC trust will remain immobilized at FTC and, therefore, will be removed from FTC's transaction volume after the creation of the REMIC. 9 The total face amount of GNMA securities now on deposit at FTC is approximately $880 billion. It is expected that FTC will utilize pricing sources and the methodology employed for the VA REMIC pricing at FTC for the GNMA REMIC product. 10 As an eligible security, functionally and legally comparable to GNMA single-class and VA REMIC securities, PTC's Rules and procedures are currently consistent with, and govern PTC's and it's participants' rights and obligations with respect to, the GNMA REMIC securities. PTC end of day borrowing agreements also currently apply to GNMA REMIC securities without the change. Finally, PTC anticipates that the fees imposed by PTC for providing depository services for GNMA REMIC securities will be the same as those in effect for GNMA MBS. 10 For further information regarding the pricing sources and methodology employed by PTC, see Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34017 (May 5, 1994) 59 FR 24495. PTC has gained almost six years of experience with GNMAs. The Commission believes that PTC's experience with GNMAs serves as a good foundation for continuing to handle REMICs. In addition, PTC has been accepting VA REMICS for deposit for almost two years. PTC's experience with the VA REMIC program has provided a basis for determining the depository services which will be required for the GNMA REMIC. The Commission therefore believes that this proposal furthers the perfection of the national system for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions becuase GNMA REMIC will be processed within a centralized, electronic book-entry environment. III. Conclusion On the basis of the foregoing, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act, and in particular with section 17A of the act, and with the rules and regulations thereunder. It Is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 11 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;PTC&hyph;94&hyph;01) be, and hereby is, approved. 11 15 CFR 78s(b)(12) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 12 12 17 CFR 200.30(a)(12). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary.
