FR940706-1-00005 FR940706-1-00002 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;42] Proposed Establishment of Class E Airspace: Springdale, AR AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to establish Class E airspace at Springdale, AR. Currently, Springdale, AR has Class D airspace during the hours of operation of the Springdale Air Traffic Control Tower. This action is proposing to provide controlled airspace, Class E, upward from the surface to contain instrument flight rule (IFR) operations during the hours that the control tower is closed. The intended effect of this proposal is to provide adequate Class E airspace to contain IFR operations during the hours that the control tower is closed at Springdale, AR. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to Manager, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Southwest Region, Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;42, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. The official docket may be examined in the office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Blvd., Room 662, Fort Worth, TX, between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Blvd., Fort Worth, TX. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gregory L. Juro, System Management Branch, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530; telephone: 817&hyph;222&hyph;5591. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed above. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit, with those comments, a self-addressed, stamped, postcard containing the following statement: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 93&hyph;ASW&hyph;42.'' The postcard will be date and time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in the light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, at 2601 Meacham Blvd., Fort Worth, TX, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Manager, System Management Branch, Department of Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A that describes the application procedure. The Proposal The FAA is considering an amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) to establish Class E airspace at Springdale, AR. Controlled airspace to the surface is needed during the hours that the control tower is closed to contain IFR operations at the airport. The intended effect of this proposal is to provide adequate Class E airspace, during the hours that the control tower is closed, for IFR operations at Springdale Regional Airport, Springdale, Arkansas. The coordinates for this airspace docket are based on North American Datum 83. Class E airspace areas designated as surface areas for airports are published in Paragraph 6002 of FAA Order 7400.9A dated June 17, 1993, and effective September 16, 1993, which is incorporated by reference in 14 CFR 71.1 958 FR 36298; July 6, 1993). The Class E airspace designation listed in this document would be published subsequently in the Order. The FAA has determined that this proposed regulation only involves an established body of technical regulations that need frequent and routine amendments to keep them operationally current. It, therefore_(1) Is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979); and (3) does not warrant preparation of a regulatory evaluation as the anticipated impact is so minimal. Since this is a routine matter that will only affect air traffic procedures and air navigation, it is certified that this rule, when promulgated, will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act.
