FR940722-0-00098 FR940722-0-00019 30. As noted in the Second Report and Order , simultaneous auctions are more likely than sequential auctions to award interdependent licenses efficiently because they provide more information about the value of interdependent licenses and allow the use of that information because all licenses remain available throughout the bidding process. Simultaneous auctions are also likely to raise more revenue than sequential auctions for two reasons. First, they increase the value of the licenses by facilitating efficient aggregation. Second, because they provide more information about the value of interdependent licenses they reduce the propensity of sophisticated bidders to bid cautiously in order to avoid the ``winner's curse''_the tendency for the winner to be the bidder who most overestimates the value of the item up for bid. Simultaneous auctions also eliminate the need to choose the order in which licenses will be auctioned. The advantage offered by simultaneous auctions depends on how much interdependence exists among licenses. Second Report and Order at ¶¶89&hyph;94. The disadvantages of simultaneous multiple round auctions appear to be that they may be difficult to implement and there is little experience in their use. Second Report and Order at ¶95. 31. We agree with commenters who support simultaneous multiple round bidding for awarding broadband PCS licenses. Estimates of total PCS revenues by the Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office indicate that the value of broadband PCS licenses will likely be sufficiently high to warrant the use of simultaneous auctions. 10 We further believe that the values of most broadband PCS licenses will be significantly interdependent because of the desirability of aggregation across spectrum blocks and geographic regions and because there is a high degree of substitutability among licenses with the same amount of spectrum and covering the same geographic area. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶90&hyph;91. Compared with other bidding mechanisms, simultaneous multiple round bidding generates the most information about license values during the course of the auction and provides bidders with the most flexibility to pursue back-up strategies, and is therefore most likely to award licenses to the bidders who value them the most. Simultaneous multiple round auctions will also facilitate efficient aggregation across spectrum bands, where permitted, thereby enhancing competition among wireless products and services. 10 A study by the Congressional Budget Office estimated that an auction for PCS licenses on two 25 MHz nationwide blocks of spectrum could raise $1.3 billion to $5.7 billion in revenues. Congressional Budget Office, Auctioning Radio Spectrum Licenses, at 23 (March 1992). The Office of Management and Budget estimated that auctioning broadband PCS licenses would generate $12.6 billion in revenues. Budget of the United States Government, Analytical Perspective, Fiscal Year 1995, at 220 (February 1994). 32. We recognize, however, that simultaneous multiple round bidding may involve a greater degree of complexity than other competitive bidding methods, and that it may present greater operational difficulties both for the FCC and for bidders, especially where many bidders are expected to participate. Therefore, we will use a sequence of simultaneous auctions. Licenses that are highly interdependent will be grouped together and auctioned simultaneously. 2. Sequential Auctions 33. In a pure sequential auction, whether oral or electronic, licenses are put up for bid one at a time, so that bidding ends on one item before it begins on the next item. Sequential multiple round oral or electronic auctions generate valuable information about earlier auctioned licenses, which can assist bidders in valuing later auctioned licenses. If license values are interdependent, however, sequential oral or electronic auctions are less likely than simultaneous auctions to award interdependent licenses to the parties who value them most highly and to result in the efficient aggregation of licenses, because bidders for licenses that are auctioned early must bid with less information about the value of licenses to be auctioned later, and they will have less opportunity to pursue backup bidding strategies. For these reasons, we conclude that sequential multiple round auctions are less preferred in the award of broadband PCS licenses than simultaneous multiple round auctions. Nevertheless, if, as a result of our auction experience, we determine that the operational costs or complexities associated with simultaneous multiple round auctions outweigh their benefits, we may decide instead to employ pure sequential oral or electronic (multiple round) auctions or a sequence of single combined oral auctions in which bidding is combined for all licenses in a given band with the same bandwidth and the same geographic service area. If such a change becomes necessary, the auction method will be announced by Public Notice before each auction.
