FR940616-0-00123 FR940616-0-00013 Change: None. Comment: Two commenters recommended that the Secretary should encourage guaranty agencies to consider those borrowers who have defaulted on their loans but are likely to be eligible for loan forgiveness to be good candidates for a rehabilitated loan. Discussion: The Secretary believes that it is illogical to conclude that eligibility for one program assures eligibility for another. The loan rehabilitation program has specific requirements separate from the forgiveness program. Change: None. Comment: One commenter requested that the Secretary clarify that defaulted loans that have been rehabilitated should be eligible for forgiveness. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter. Once a loan has been rehabilitated it is no longer in default and is therefore considered to be eligible for forgiveness under this program. Change: The final regulations have been revised to incorporate this clarification. Section 682.215(c) Comment: Three commenters urged the Secretary to develop a standardized loan forgiveness application form that includes such data items as borrower dates of service, loan balance information, eligibility, and interest amounts in order to simplify the process. Discussion: The Secretary agrees and is committed to consulting with FFEL participants to develop a standardized application form pursuant to the requirements of section 432(1) of the HEA. Change: None. Comment: One commenter questioned to whom the term ``designee'' in ยง682.215(c) refers. The commenter also recommended that the Secretary provide the designee with a means by which to identify and verify that a certain type of facility, tax-exempt organization or teacher shortage area meets the criteria of ยง682.215. The commenter suggested that a more suitable alternative would be to require the certifying official to certify that the organization meets the requirements of ยง682.215. Discussion: The term ``designee'' refers to the departmental official assigned with implementing this program. The Secretary will provide the designee with all necessary information at the appropriate time if necessary. The Secretary notes that the NPRM provided that the certifying official in each category of forgiveness certify that the borrower's service meets the requirements of ยง682.215. Change: None. Comment: In considering the October 1 deadline for submitting forgiveness applications, some commenters recommended that the regulations define a specific timeframe as to the earliest date an application for forgiveness may be received. They reasoned that since funding for this program may be limited and will be awarded on a first-come, first-served basis, applicants should be informed of the first date upon which they can apply. The commenters also wished to know whether a borrower need complete the service prior to applying for forgiveness or merely have completed service before the October 1 deadline. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters that a borrower should be informed of the first date on which a forgiveness application can be received. A borrower's application for forgiveness should be postmarked no earlier than September 1 of each year that forgiveness is requested. The Secretary has chosen the September start date in order to be fair to all categories of borrowers, since certain professions have more definitive begin and end dates or terms that may end in June or July that would give them an advantage over other borrowers if the earliest date to apply was July or August. The Secretary also believes that it is appropriate to require that the service be completed prior to the borrower's submission of an application for forgiveness. This would result in fair treatment to the greatest number of borrowers and would eliminate the need to confirm that the borrower completed the service. Change: The final regulations have been revised to include September 1 as the earliest date for forgiveness applications to be received. Comment: A commenter asked if applications for forgiveness should be routed through the lender or guaranty agency or directly to the Secretary.
