FR940426-1-00085 FR940426-1-00008 b. Timing of Reductions. As noted above, the OTC recommendation calls for adoption of the LEV program in the OTR in 1996, providing two years lead-time to auto manufacturers with the LEV standards applicable to model year 1999 vehicles. The benefits of this program are also dependent upon turnover in the vehicle fleet. As referenced above, EPA is thus mindful that this schedule for the LEV program will not generate reductions in time to assist areas in meeting a moderate area 1996 and will generate only minimal reductions by the serious area 1999 attainment deadline. More benefits would be available for severe areas with a 2005 or 2007 attainment deadline. The importance of when upwind reductions are necessary for downwind attainment, and when the LEV program will generate such reductions raises a number of important issues. First, in order for the LEV standards to apply in model year 1999, EPA may have to reach a decision to approve the OTC recommendation by the end of 1994. This may be an important factor supporting EPA's action within the nine month statutory timetable based on the best available current information. Under section 177 of the Act, States may adopt motor vehicle emissions standards identical to California's standards if ``California and the State adopt such standards at least two years before commencement of such model year (as determined by regulations of the Administrator).'' Under EPA's current regulations, model year 1999 may begin as early as January 2, 1998 (See 40 CFR 86.082&hyph;2). To provide two years lead-time, States might then have to adopt California's standards by January 2, 1996 in order for the standards to apply for model year 1999. 13 If EPA were to approve the OTC's LEV recommendation, section 184(c)(5) provides that EPA's finding of SIP inadequacy is to require that States revise their SIPs to include the LEV program within one year of the finding. 14 Therefore, if EPA is to require that States adopt the LEV program and submit SIP revisions by January 2, 1996, then EPA must make a finding of SIP inadequacy no later than January 2, 1995. Delays in an EPA decision could delay application of an approved program, and would further delay the benefits and the degree to which such benefits could contribute to timely attainment. 13 An issue in litigation in New York and Massachusetts has been whether the model year and two-year lead-time requirement under section 177 may vary for different manufacturers that begin their model years at different times, or whether the model year begins for purposes of section 177 for all manufacturers as soon as the model year may begin for any manufacturer. 14 It is not entirely clear whether EPA has discretion to give States less than one full year to submit their SIP revisions. Under section 110(k)(5), EPA ``may establish reasonable deadlines (not to exceed 18 months after such notice) for submission of such plan revisions.'' The more specific provision in section 184 that lacks the explicit grant of discretion from section 110(k)(5) itself arguably indicates that EPA does not have such discretion. EPA requests comment on this view. Finally, EPA believes the time when the LEV program would generate reductions also relates to the locations where reductions are needed for purposes of relieving contribution of transported pollutants that interfere with timely attainment. It appears that the LEV program will generate reductions in time only to help areas to achieve attainment by the severe classification deadline of 2005 or 2007. States in the most northeast portion of the OTR, including Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, and New Hampshire, contain no such areas. EPA believes that its recent considerations in response to ozone transport problems in a letter to Senator Carl Levin 15 and in subsequent March 21, 1994 letters to the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection and the Conservation Law Foundation (CLF) 16 may be relevant to the timing of LEV reductions. In particular, certain moderate nonattainment areas have raised a concern that they may not be able to themselves adopt controls to ensure attainment of the ozone standard by the 1996 deadline for areas classified as moderate because air pollution transported from upwind may be the dominant factor accounting for their nonattainment problem. The solution contemplated in the section 184 transport provision is for the responsible upwind areas to relieve their significant contribution so that the downwind areas may attain on time. Still, in certain cases this view could be at odds with the overall title I scheme that establishes later deadlines for attainment in more polluted areas and also establishes a graduated program of additional and more stringent requirements to be accomplished in those areas over the longer time-frame. If accelerating controls in the upwind areas is impracticable and certain facts related to ozone transport could be shown, EPA suggested it might consider reasonably interpreting the Act to grant the downwind areas additional time to reach attainment beyond the dates specified in section 181(a)(1). EPA concluded its letters to Senator Levin and the CLF by indicating that it is continuing to develop policy to address this problem. EPA requests comment on the relevance of this policy here. In particular, reductions generated over time through fleet turnover to vehicles meeting LEV standards could be more important in assisting areas in reaching attainment by later deadlines. If any moderate or serious areas in the OTR have until later than 1999 to attain, this could affect the utility of the LEV program for such areas to reach attainment. 15 See letter from Mary D. Nichols, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, to the Hon. Carl Levin (March 7, 1994). 16 See letters from John S. Seitz, Director, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, to Renee J. Robins, Staff Scientist, Conservation Law Foundation (March 21, 1994) and to Barbara Kweta, Director, Division of Air Quality Control, Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection (March 21, 1994).
