FR940620-1-00089 FR940620-1-00009 (End of Identification and Assertion) (e) An offeror's failure to submit, complete, or sign the notification and identification required by paragraph (d) of this clause with its offer may render the offer ineligible for award. (f) If the offeror is awarded a contract, the assertions identified in paragraph (d) of this provision shall be listed in an attachment to that contract. Upon request by the contracting officer, the offeror shall provide sufficient information to enable the contracting officer to evaluate any listed assertion. (END OF PROVISION) 21. Section 252.227&hyph;7018 is revised to read as follows: 252.227&hyph;7018 Rights in Noncommercial Technical Data and Computer Software_Small Business Innovative Research Program. As prescribed in 227.404(a), use the following clause: RIGHTS IN NONCOMMERCIAL TECHNICAL DATA AND COMPUTER SOFTWARE_SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATIVE RESEARCH PROGRAM (XXX 1994) (a) Definitions. As used in this clause: (1) Commercial computer software means software developed or regularly used for non-governmental purposes which_ (i) Has been sold, leased, or licensed to the public; (ii) Has been offered for sale, lease, or license to the public; (iii) Has not been offered, sold, leased, or licensed to the public but will be available for commercial sale, lease, or license in time to satisfy the delivery requirements of this contract; or, (iv) Satisfies a criterion expressed in (a)(1) (i), (ii), or (iii) and would require only minor modification to meet the requirements of this contract. (2) Computer database means a collection of recorded data in a form capable of being processed by a computer. The term does not include computer software. (3) Computer program means a set of instructions, rules, or routines, recorded in a form that is capable of causing a computer to perform a specific operation or series of operations. (4) Computer software means computer programs, source code, source code listings, object code listings, design details, algorithms, processes, flow charts, formulae, and related material that would enable the software to be reproduced, recreated, or recompiled. Computer software does not include computer databases or computer software documentation. (5) Computer software documentation means owner's manuals, user's manuals, installation instructions, operating instructions, and other similar items, regardless of storage medium, that explain the capabilities of the computer software or provide instructions for using the software.
