FR940503-2-00161 FR940503-2-00101 Tuesday May 3, 1994 Part III Department of Education Dwight D. Eisenhower National Program for Mathematics and Science Education; Three Final Priorities for Fiscal Year 1994; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 84␣/␣Tuesday, May 3, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Dwight D. Eisenhower National Program for Mathematics and Science Education_Model Professional Development in the Use of Technology for Mathematics and Science Instruction; Model Projects in Encouraging Female and Minority Students in Mathematics and Science; and Model Science-Based Professional Development Projects in Environmental Education AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of final priorities for fiscal year 1994. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces three priorities for fiscal year 1994 under the Dwight D. Eisenhower National Program for Mathematics and Science Education: model professional development projects in the use of technology for mathematics and science education, model projects in encouraging female and minority students in mathematics and science, and model science-based professional development projects in environmental education. EFFECTIVE DATE: These priorities take effect either 45 days after publication in the Federal Register or later if the Congress takes certain adjournments. For information about the effective date of these priorities, call or write the Department of Education contact person. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Liz Barnes or Annora Dorsey, U.S. Department of Education, 555 New Jersey Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20208&hyph;5673. Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;2210. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The goal of the Eisenhower National Program is to support projects of national significance in elementary and secondary schools in mathematics and science education designed to improve the skills of teachers and the quality of instruction in these areas and to increase the access of all students to that instruction. The program is authorized under Title II, Part A, Subpart 1, section 2012 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended. The Secretary may subsequently conduct an external study or studies of the effectiveness and lessons learned from projects funded under this program. If he does so, projects will be required to cooperate with the conduct of the study, by sharing their experiences, project evaluations, and data. Regarding priority 1, the Secretary believes that technology can be used to improve instruction and assessment in mathematics and science and provide all students with greater opportunity to learn in accordance with state content and student performance standards. The Secretary believes that developments in technology have great promise for helping to attain National Education Goal Five, that by the Year 2000, United States students will be first in the world in mathematics and science achievement; however, he sees ample evidence that many teachers are not confident about using these resources in the classroom. The scope of these projects may include professional development in the use of technology for assessment of student learning. For purposes of substantiating that two or more schools assisted under this priority serve underachieving students, the applicant may cite test scores, drop-out rates, Chapter I eligibility, or similar indices. Regarding priority 2, the Secretary is concerned that the Nation's schools encourage too few minority and female students to study and pursue careers in the fields of mathematics and science. The Secretary believes that the well-documented underrepresentation of minorities and women in these disciplines represents a waste of human talent that the Nation can ill afford. This priority will therefore support, and learn from, projects that seek to stimulate and sustain the interest and attainments of female and minority children in mathematics and science. Regarding priority 3, the Secretary believes that environmental education can stimulate students' interest in scientific fields and enhance their understanding of these disciplines. The Secretary also believes that environmental issues are important in their own right and are, therefore, eminently worthy of study. The Secretary finds, however, that environmental education programs of high quality are available in too few of the Nation's schools, in part because American teachers have very limited opportunities to increase their knowledge of environmental issues and to learn the most successful means of providing environmental education. The Secretary proposes, therefore, to support and learn from projects in professional development for teachers in environmental education. The Secretary draws to the attention of potential applicants responding to priority 3 the National Consortium for Environmental Education and Training (NCEET) at the University of Michigan, an undertaking funded by the Environmental Protection Agency under Section 5 of the National Environmental Education Act of 1990. NCEET's primary emphasis is professional development for teachers in environmental education. Potential applicants should consult with NCEET to ensure that their projects are not duplicative of the National Consortium's efforts. On November 12, 1993, the Secretary announced in the Federal Register (58 FR 60007) a proposed priority for the Eisenhower National Program in model professional development in the use of technology for mathematics and science instruction. After considering the intent of the Senate Report that accompanied the Fiscal Year 1994 Department of Education Appropriations Act, the Secretary proposed two additional priorities. These proposed priorities were announced on February 28, 1994 in the Federal Register (59 FR 9610).
