FR940128-1-00060 FR940128-1-00006 Decomposition can also occur before the fish are removed from the harvest water if the fish dies in capture nets or on long lines. In such an event, the degree of decomposition will reflect the sea temperature, time in the water, and particular species (Ref. 118). It is not uncommon to encounter water temperatures of 80 ○F to 90 ○F in tropical waters, which can produce rapid decomposition. Thus, rapid cooling of fish when they are captured is very important to prevent initiation of the process by which histamine is produced. Fish subjected to 68 ○F for periods as short as one day, a practice which can happen in warm climates on fishing vessels, will yield high levels of histamine, even if the fish are later stored at refrigerated temperatures (Ref. 117). For these reasons, the guideline advises that processors of fish and fishery products from scombroid toxin forming species must ensure that their raw materials are essentially free of decomposition and histamine as a result of time/temperature abuse that occurred before the processor received them. The guideline provides for three interrelated controls for the processor to apply with regard to raw materials. For the first processor that takes ownership after harvest, these are: (1) Time/temperature records from the harvesting vessel (Appendix B, section 3.a.1.); (2) organoleptic examination of the fish from the harvesting vessel for decomposition (Appendix B, section 3.a.2.); and (3) histamine analysis, if warranted by the time/temperature history of the fish as revealed by the time/temperature record from the vessel or by the results of the organoleptic examination (Appendix B, section 3.a.3.), or both. Time/temperature records from the vessel indicate whether entire lots from the vessel may be suspect, and thus in need of a histamine examination, because of unusual events on the vessel. Such records would not normally reveal, however, whether there are individual fish in the lot that may have decomposition. An organoleptic examination for decomposition serves to screen individual fish. It also serves as a way to verify the time/temperature records from the vessel with regard to an entire lot. If organoleptic examination reveals an unusually high number of fish with decomposition, the entire lot should be considered suspect and subjected to histamine analysis. Appendix B, section 3.a.1. provides for how the first processor can take measures to determine whether the fish were properly harvested and handled on board the harvesting vessel. Certification of the mode of capture, including information on the time between physical capture and bringing the fish on board, handling techniques, and the use of temperature logs onboard the vessel that record that time/temperature history of the fish (for example, catch date and time, means and rate of cooling, storage temperature, and refrigerated brine or seawater temperature) provide documentation to the processor and to regulatory authorities that the fish were properly handled. Such records on the handling of the fish should be part of an HACCP system and can be used in the specific HACCP plans of processors.
