FR940317-0-00022 FR940317-0-00008 9 CFR Part 94 [Docket No. 93&hyph;102&hyph;2] Importation of Pork and Pork Products From Countries Where Swine Vesicular Disease Is Known To Exist AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the regulations concerning importation of certain cured and dried pork and pork products from countries where swine vesicular disease is known to exist, to allow the bones to be removed in the country where the pork or pork products are processed. Prior to the effective date of this final rule, the regulations required that bones be removed in the country where the swine are raised and slaughtered. This action will give processors an option as to where bones are removed, while continuing to prevent the introduction of swine vesicular disease into the United States. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 17, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. John Cougill, Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Products Staff, National Center for Import-Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 759, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7834. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Regulations in 9 CFR part 94 regulate, among other things, the importation of certain animals, meat, and animal products into the United States. These regulations are designed to prevent the introduction into the United States of certain diseases of livestock and poultry. Section 94.12 restricts the importation of pork and pork products into the United States from countries where swine vesicular disease (SVD) is known to exist. In order to prevent the introduction of this disease into the United States, only pork and pork products that meet conditions detailed in the regulations are eligible for entry into the United States. Prior to the effective date of this final rule, the regulations allowed swine to be raised and slaughtered in an SVD-free country and the meat shipped to an SVD-infected country for curing and drying. However, if the resulting cured and dried pork or pork products were to be imported into the United States, all bones had to be removed in the country of origin, that is, the country where the swine were raised and slaughtered. The bones could not be removed in the country where the pork or pork products were cured and dried. (See ยง94.12(b)(1)(iv)(A).) On November 15, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 60146&hyph;60147, Docket No. 93&hyph;102&hyph;1) a proposal to amend ยง94.12(b)(1)(iv)(A) of the regulations to allow the option of removing the bones in the country where the pork and pork products are cured and dried. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 60-day comment period ending January 14, 1994. We received one comment by that date. It was from a veterinary medical association, and was in favor of the proposed changes. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule. Effective Date This is a substantive rule that relieves restrictions and, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, may be made effective less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . Immediate implementation of this rule is necessary to provide relief to those persons who are adversely affected by restrictions we no longer find warranted. Therefore, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this rule should be effective upon publication in the Federal Register . Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. At present, Germany is the only country where SVD is considered to exist that exports these cured and dried pork and pork products to the United States. During 1989, approximately 17,987 kilograms of cured and dried pork and pork products were exported from Germany to the United States. The value of these imports totaled $113,000. Three facilities in Germany currently process cured and dried pork and pork products for the United States market. The regulatory amendments made final in this document will allow these processing facilities to purchase pork from SVD-free countries with the bones in, and remove the bones at the processing facilities in Germany. The amendments will not have any impact on the domestic pork industry, which is valued in excess of $4 billion.
