FR941012-0-00077 FR941012-0-00011 In order to retain flexibility in the final rule, OSHA is requiring chain saws placed in service after the effective date of this standard to be equipped with chain brakes or other protective device that prevents or minimizes kickback. OSHA notes that whatever kickback device is present, the final rule requires that it not be removed or otherwise disabled. 7. Operator manuals or instructions. In the hearing notice OSHA raised two issues regarding operator manuals or instructions (referred to collectively as instructions) for machines: the location of instructions, and the experience of employers in obtaining manuals from manufacturers. a. Location of operator manuals or instructions. Both the existing pulpwood standard and the proposed standard contained provisions requiring either an operator's manual or set of instructions be kept with each machine. In addition, both stated that the instructions, at a minimum, must describe the operation, maintenance and safe practices for the machine. The proposed standard added a provision requiring each operator and maintenance employee to comply with the manual. All commenters generally agreed with the need to have instructions available to operators and maintenance personnel. Several hearing participants supported OSHA's proposal to require instructions to be kept with machines (Tr. W1 201, OR 168, 194). For example, one participant stated: We urge OSHA to require that operator manuals be kept on the machine. Operator manuals contain important personal safety and machine operational information which must be utilized during training and must be available for reference to assure safety for all different operating conditions. Efficient and productive logging operations go hand in hand with safe work practices and proper machine maintenance and operation. Ready and immediate access to safety and operational information is essential to minimize downtime caused by accidents (Tr. OR 168). Another commenter added that once instructions are placed back at the office, they are not used: Ms. Schuster: I just have one question. Do you have any idea of the percentage of equipment out there in the woods that does not currently have operator's manuals available? Mr. Carr: I'm afraid I'd have to agree, most of them probably do not. This is our concern as manufacturers that most of them do not. Most of the time they have taken them and put them in the office and that's the last they see of them. Mr. Schuster: You say most of them would have put them in the office. Would you say that many of them do have them available though somewhere, if not on the equipment? Mr. Carr: If somebody can find it (Tr. OR 194).
