FR940512-2-00085 FR940512-2-00053 Final Judgment Plaintiff, United States of America, filed its Complaint on April 26, 1994. Plaintiff and Defendants, by their respective attorneys, have consented to the entry of this Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law. This Final Judgment shall not be evidence or admission by any party with respect to any issue of fact or law. Therefore, before any testimony is taken, and without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and upon consent of the parties, it is hereby Ordered, Adjudged and Decreed: I Jurisdiction This Court had jurisdiction of the subject matter of this action and of each of the parties consenting to this Final Judgment. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against Defendants under section 7 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 18. II Definitions As used in this Final Judgment: A. Affiliated means an ownership interest (other than a de minimis interest) in, or the right to direct the management decisions of, an entity. B. Control means (i) the right, contractual or otherwise, to direct the management decisions of an entity, or (ii) an ownership interest of 50% or greater, unless Defendants do not have the right to direct the management decisions of such entity. C. Financial interest means any economic interest, including, but not limited to, any ownership interest or right to any portion of current or future revenues. D. Multichannel subscription television distributor means a person providing multiple channels of video programming to consumers fro which a fee is charged, by any of various methods including, but not limited to, cable, satellite master antenna television, multichannel multipoint distribution, direct-to-home satellite (C-band, Ku-band, or broadcast satellite), or the facilities of common carrier telephone companies or their affiliates. E. Video programming provider means a person engaged in the wholesale distribution for sale of video programming. III Applicability This Final Judgment shall apply to Defendants and each of their affiliates, subsidiaries, officers, directors, employees, agents, successors, and assigns: IV Prohibited Conduct A. Defendants are restrained and enjointed, with respect to each multichannel subscription television distributor they control, from discriminating against any video programming provider not affiliated with Defendants in the selection, terms or conditions of carriage of video programming offered by such distributors, where the effect of such discrimination is to unreasonably restrain competition. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to create any automatic right of access for any individual video programming provider to any individual multichannel subscription television distributor controlled by Defendants. B. Defendants are restrained and enjoined, with respect to any video programming provider they control, from refusing to sell or license, or from selling or licensing only on a discriminatory basis, any video programming service for distribution by any competing multichannel subscription television distributor, where the effect of such conduct is to unreasonably restrain competition. Differences in price or terms reasonably based on ordinary commercial factors, including but not limited to those factors currently set forth in 47 CFR 76.1002 (b), shall not constitute discrimination.
