FR941021-2-00074 FR941021-2-00046 The ROs will negotiate with the fiscal intermediaries and carriers to resolve any differences between HCFA's allocations and the contractors' requests within the limits of the funding available to HCFA. 8. Participating Physicians/Suppliers (Part B Only) In determining the individual carrier funding levels for the participating physician/supplier program for FY 1995, we considered the following factors: •The number of physicians/suppliers in the carrier's service area; •The carrier's current participation rate; •The carrier's recent performance in increasing its participation rate; •The statement of work to be performed as outlined in the BPRs; and •Last year's cost experience. Since participating physicians/suppliers are eligible for toll-free telephone lines for electronic billing, allowance has been made for these expenses. Carriers with lower participation rates will receive greater funding for the limiting charge violation monitoring. We have discontinued carrier monitoring of the elective surgery disclosure requirement. We now require carriers to investigate beneficiary complaints on a case-by-case basis. Carrier monitoring funds are allocated based on the national percentage of nonparticipating physicians/suppliers. All carriers will receive the same funding amount for reporting participation statistics. In FY 1995 the participating physician incentive payment will be discontinued due to the implementation of the Resource-Based Relative Value Scale fee schedules that have contributed largely to the increase in the number of physicians participating in the Medicare program. Non- participation is discouraged by the ``limiting charges'' imposed under Physician Payment Reform. The ROs will negotiate with the carriers to resolve any differences between HCFA's allocations and the carriers' requests within the limits of the funding available to HCFA. 9. Productivity Investments (PIs) The costs of implementing legislation and new initiatives that are designed to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of Medicare program administration are referred to as PIs. Several allocation methodologies will be employed in calculating the PI budgets for individual fiscal intermediaries and carriers. For those projects involving only single contractors or small groups of contractors, we will allocate funds based upon the specifications of the particular project. For those projects involving all fiscal intermediaries or carriers, where the costs are driven by bill or claim volume, we will distribute the funding based upon our workload projections for each contractor. Finally, for those projects involving all fiscal intermediaries or carriers that require equal effort, regardless of the contractor's size, we derived a standard allocation to be given to all contractors. The ROs will negotiate with the fiscal intermediaries and carriers to resolve any differences between HCFA's allocations and the contractors' requests within the limits of the funding available to HCFA. 10. Provider (Physician/Supplier) Education and Training (Part B Only) Distribution of funds made available to HCFA for provider (physician/supplier) education and training is based upon the ratio of physicians and suppliers in each carrier's service area to the national total of physicians and suppliers. 11. Benefit Integrity (BI) In allocating the FY 1995 BI budget to individual fiscal intermediaries and carriers, HCFA will consider: •The prior year's effectiveness in initiating fraud referrals to the Office of Inspector General;
