FR940224-2-00088 FR940224-2-00046 Every effort will be made to coordinate the activities under this priority areas with the Department of Education and other Federal agencies. Proposed Fiscal Year 1994 Priority Area 2: Expanding the Scope of Developmental Disabilities Planning Councils Individuals with significant disabilities other than developmental disabilities can and have benefitted from the systems change, capacity building and advocacy activities of the Developmental Disabilities Planning Councils (DDPCs) authorized by Part B of the Act. In response to concerns of some advocates in the States, ADD proposes to award funds to study the expansion of the scope of DDPCs to include concerns of a broad range of citizens with disabilities other than developmental disabilities. Because this issue is complex and little information is available regarding the implications of such an expansion, ADD is interested in funding three types of projects to explore the effects of such an expansion: •A short-term (not to exceed six months) study of DDPCs that are currently authorized under State law to focus on individuals with disabilities other than developmental disabilities as well as persons with developmental disabilities. •Pilot studies in up to five (5) additional states by DDPCs, in conjunction with and with support from Protection and Advocacy systems and University Affiliated Programs, to explore the implications of expanding the current scope of Council activity. Pilots are expected to be completed within 15 months. •A national study of the process, outcomes, and implications of the five (5) pilot studies. Completion of this study is expected five months following the pilots. Under separate contractual solicitations, ADD proposes to award funds to provide technical assistance to improve the functions of the DD Council, Protection and Advocacy System, and the University Affiliated Program; and to develop information and referral systems. ADD also proposes to fund projects through demonstrations as well as procurements that would ensure the integration and active participation of racial and ethnic minorities into the ``mainstream'' of the service delivery system. (Federal Catalog Domestic Assistance Number 13.631 Developmental Disabilities_Projects of National Significance) Dated: Janaury 14, 1994. Bob Williams, Commissioner, Administration on Developmental Disabilities. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4103 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
