FR940719-2-00010 FR940719-2-00003 Nebraska Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured By (Insurance Company:) Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with insurance laws of the State of Nebraska, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects your coverage: Article VI_APPRAISAL is amended by deleting paragraphs ``A'' and ``B'' thereof in their entirety and substituting in lieu thereof the following: A. To start appraisal either You or We must make the request in writing to the other. The party to whom the request is made must agree in writing to the appraisal process. B. Within ten (10) days after the party to whom the request is made agrees to the appraisal process, You and We must choose an independent appraiser and give the name and address of that appraiser to the other. Article XI_CONCEALMENT OR FRAUD is deleted in its entirety and the following new Article XI_CONCEALMENT OR FRAUD is substituted in lieu thereof: Article XI&hyph;Concealment or Fraud Any misrepresentation or warranty made by You or on Your behalf in the negotiation or application of this Policy or contract of insurance shall defeat or void the Policy or contract or affect Our obligation under the Policy or contract if such misrepresentation or warranty: (1) Was material; (2) Was made knowingly with the intent to deceive; (3) Was relied and acted upon by Us; and (4) Deceived Us to Our injury. The breach of a warranty or condition in any contract or policy of insurance shall not void the Policy or allow Us to avoid liability unless such breach exists at the time of the loss and contributes to the loss. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and any other endorsements to the policy remain unchanged. North Carolina Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insured Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance laws of the State of North Carolina, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects you coverage: Article XII_SUIT AGAINST US is deleted in its entirety and the following new Article XII_SUIT AGAINST US IS substituted in lieu thereof: Article XII&hyph;SUIT AGAINST US You cannot bring suit against Us unless You have complied with all the Policy provisions. If You do enter suit against Us, You must do so within ten (10) years of the occurrence causing loss or damage. All other terms and conditions of the Policy and any endorsements of the Policy remain unchanged.
