FR940106-0-00080 FR940106-0-00021 Congress enacted this legislation based on its finding of a shortage of RN's in the United States. See, e.g. , H.R. Rep. No. 101&hyph;288, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. 1&hyph;4 (October 16, 1989). Some health care facilities had been relying on nonimmigrant RN's admitted under H&hyph;1 visas to meet this need. However, the numbers of visas available for such aliens to adjust their immigration status to permanent residency had been limited. Id . at 2 and 3. At the time of INRA's enactment, many such RN's were approaching the end of their periods of admission to the United States and faced return to their home countries. Many H&hyph;1 RN's potentially affected by the INRA were thought to be employed in critical care and emergency service units. Id . at 2. The House Judiciary Committee found that departure of these H&hyph;1 RN's would have a detrimental impact on the care provided to critically ill patients. Id . The INRA addressed this situation by permitting certain RN's who had H&hyph;1 status to become permanent residents. Public Law 101&hyph;238, sec. 2, 8 U.S.C. 1255 note. At the same time, Congress was concerned about the perceived increased dependence of health care providers on foreign RN's. As a result, the INA, as amended, links future access to nonimmigrant RN's to the taking of significant steps by the facility to develop, recruit and retain U.S. workers in the registered nursing profession while ensuring that the temporary foreign nurses admitted are protected in their employment and that their employment does not adversely affect the employment of U.S. nurses. 8 U.S.C. 1182(m). Facilities are required to file attestations with DOL attesting to certain conditions and to steps taken to recruit and retain U.S. nurses in order to reduce dependence on nonimmigrant alien nurses. Facilities are required to submit these attestations to DOL as a condition to being able to petition INS for admission of H&hyph;1A nurses. The attestation process is administered by ETA, while complaints and investigations regarding the attestations are handled by ESA. The INRA-amended portions of the INA were amended by IMMACT to make clear that where nursing contractors are involved, both the contractor and the worksite facility (other than private households) must file attestations, but granted the Secretary of Labor (Secretary) some discretion in determining the requirements of the worksite facility attestation. MTINA further amended the INA to clarify Congressional intent concerning the ``no lay off'' provision, to specify that a facility that has laid off a nurse other than a staff nurse still meets the ``no lay off'' requirement, if it attests that it will not replace the nurse with an H&hyph;1A nurse for 1 year after the lay off. B. Attestation Process The INA requires a health care facility seeking access to temporary foreign RN's (under the H&hyph;1A visa category) to file an ``attestation'' with the Department of Labor (DOL or Department) on an annual basis. 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15)(H)(i)(a) and 1182(m)(2)(A) and (C). This includes worksites (except private households) seeking to use the services of an H&hyph;1A nurse through a nursing contractor. See IMMACT section 162(f). The attestation must assure that the following six statutory criteria are met: (1) There would be a substantial disruption through no fault of the facility in the delivery of health care services of the facility without the services of such alien(s). A facility is not considered to meet this clause if, within the previous year, it laid off RN's, unless such RN's were other than staff nurses and the facility has attested that it will not replace them with H&hyph;1A visa nurses. (2) The employment of the alien(s) will not adversely affect the wages and working conditions of RN's similarly employed. (3) The alien(s) employed by the facility will be paid the wage rate for RN's similarly employed by the facility. (4) Either: (a) The facility has taken and is taking timely and significant steps designed to recruit and retain sufficient RN's who are United States citizens or immigrants who are authorized to perform nursing services, in order to remove as quickly as reasonably possible the dependence of the facility on nonimmigrant RN's or (b) The facility is subject to an approved State plan for the recruitment and retention of nurses (see 8 U.S.C. 1182(m)(3)). (5) There is not a strike or lockout in the course of a labor dispute, and the employment of such alien(s) is not intended or designed to influence an election for a bargaining representative for RN's of the facility. (6) At the time of the filing of the petition for RN's, notice of the filing has been provided by the facility to the bargaining representative of the RN's at the facility or, where there is none, notice of the filing has been provided to RN's employed at the facility through posting in conspicuous locations. 8 U.S.C. 1182(m)(2)(A)(i) through (vi). Each of the following is a ``significant step'' reasonably designed to recruit and retain RN's (see Item (4)(a) above): (i) Operating of training program for RN's at the facility or financing (or providing participation in) a training program for RN's elsewhere; (ii) Providing career development programs and other methods of facilitating health care workers to become RN's;
