FR940317-1-00134 FR940317-1-00013 (b) The following documents will be affixed to the right inside cover in descending order: (1) First. All remaining copies of the DA Form 3 (Individual Claims Data Report) (except the organizational file copy retained by the forwarding claims office), or a print-out of the automated Individual Claims Report, as applicable. (2) Second. A copy of the letter to USAFAC requesting deduction of unearned freight charges, if applicable. (3) Third. Certified copy of the voucher from the servicing finance and accounting office, showing the amount paid the claimant. (4) Fourth. DD Form 1842. (5) Fifth. If applicable, paperwork regarding private insurance settlements. (6) Sixth. All inventories. (7) Seventh. All other documents, such as request for exception sheet, orders, turn-in slips, witness statements, and correspondence. (c) See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 3&hyph;21, for further guidance. ยง536.197 Offset actions. (a) Offset actions against GBL carriers. Only USARCS may process offset actions against GBL carriers. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 3&hyph;26.) (b) Offset actions against NTS contractors. When an NTS contractor is liable and a satisfactory settlement cannot be reached, the claims office will forward the file to the Regional Storage Management Office (RSMO) responsible for administering the Basic Ordering Agreements for storage in that geographic area. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 3&hyph;26.). (c) Offset against packing and containerization contractors. When any claims office determines that a packing and crating contractor is liable and a satisfactory settlement cannot be made, a copy of the complete claim file will be forwarded by letter to the local contracting office administering the contract, requesting offset action. The contracting officer will conduct a careful review of the claim file and will make a determination on the issue of contractual liability on the information contained in the file and on personal findings of fact in accordance with the contract involved. (Also see DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 3&hyph;26.) (d) Title 4 CFR 102.3(b)(2) affords a carrier or contractor certain procedural rights prior to offset. A JA/claims attorney will certify to the contracting office that the Army has complied with 4 CFR 102.3 if requested to do so. The JA/claims attorney will give the carrier/contractor: (1) written notice of the nature and amount of the debt, and the agency's intention to collect by offset if the debt isn't paid. The DD Form 1843 or demand letter provides this notice. (2) the opportunity to inspect and copy agency records pertaining to the debt if requested. (3) the opportunity to obtain review within the agency if the carrier/contractor requests this. If requested, the JA/claims attorney will review the file prior to offset. No oral hearing is required. (4) the opportunity to enter into a written agreement with the agency to repay the debt. A carrier/contractor will normally be allowed 45 days to follow up a settlement offer with a check. If a satisfactory check is not received within the 45 days, the JA/claims attorney should offset the carrier/contractor without delay. (e) In accordance with 4 CFR 102.3(b)(5), the head of an area claims office or claims processing office may effect offset prior to completion of any or all of the procedures in paragraph d above if failure to promptly offset would substantially prejudice the Government's ability to collect the debt. ยง536.198 Compromise or termination of recovery actions. Subject to the limitations contained in this chapter, the Commander, USARCS, is delegated authority to compromise or determine collection action on claims against third parties in accordance with the provisions of 31 U.S.C. 3711. ยง536.199 Terms and abbreviations. Definitions of terms and a glossary of abbreviations frequently used in recovery actions are in DOD 4500.34&hyph;R, in the definitions section, beginning at page XXXIV. ยง536.200 Required references. Each claim office will maintain copies of the following references for recovery purposes: (a) DA Pam 27&hyph;162. (b) Personal Property Traffic Management Regulation (DOD 4500.34&hyph;R). (c) Domestic and mobile home personal property carrier approvals. (d) ITGBL personal property carrier approvals by area/code. (e) Local packing and containerization contracts. Subpart L_Nonappropriated Fund (NAF) Claims
