FR940727-2-00122 FR940727-2-00070 DEPARTMENT OF STATE [Public Notice 2038] Privacy Act of 1974; Creation of Two New Systems of Records Notice is hereby given that the Department of State proposes to create two new systems of records, STATE&hyph;59 and STATE&hyph;60, pursuant to the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552a(r)) and the Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A&hyph;130, Appendix I. The Department's report was filed with the Office of Management and Budget on July 11, 1994. These systems principally support the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration's role in the processing of applicants for the U.S. refugee program and the initial reception and placement in the United States of those who are selected. The Refugee Case Records contain information about applicants for the United States refugee program. The Refugee Data Center Processing Records contain information on applicants for the U.S. refugee program that is used by the Immigration and Naturalization Service to determine their eligibility for the U.S. refugee program. The Refugee Data Center Processing Records contain information on applicants for the U.S. refugee program which is used in the initial reception and placement of persons admitted to the U.S. as refugees and to assist in the collection of refugee travel loans. Any persons interested in commenting on these proposed systems of records may do so by submitting comments in writing to Margaret P. Grafeld, Chief, Privacy, Plans, and Appeals Division, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW., Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. These systems of records will be effective 40 days from the date of publication, (September 6, 1994), unless we receive comments which will result in a contrary determination. The proposed systems, ``Refugee Case Records, STATE&hyph;59'' and ``The Refugee Data Center Processing Records, STATE&hyph;60'' will read as set forth below. Dated: July 11, 1994. Patrick R. Kennedy, Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of Administration. STATE&hyph;59 System name: Refugee Case Records. Security classification: Unclassified. System location: Refugee processing posts, i.e., designated U.S. embassies, U.S. consulates general and consulates, and offices of voluntary agencies (i.e., voluntary agencies that assist in the processing of applicants under cooperative agreements with the Department of State), and the Washington Processing Center (for Moscow), 1401 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22209. Locations may change at the discretion and depending on the needs of the U.S. Department of State. (A list of refugee processing posts is available from the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, Room 5824, Department of State, Washington, DC 20520.) Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who have applied for admission to the United States under the U.S. refugee program, including individuals who seek and may be denied admission as refugees but are ultimately approved for admission as non-refugees (e.g., immigrants or parolees).
