FR941116-0-00073 FR941116-0-00012 Alberta, Total, and the Farmers support the Commission's geographic market proposal. Alberta maintains that the geographic size of markets will depend on many factors. Total submits that there are many instances where BEAs are larger than a relevant geographic market area, such as where a pipeline needs two terminals to serve distinct population centers. It further states that it does not object to the Commission's proposal to allow pipelines to submit data on a BEA basis, provided that shippers have the right to contend that the BEA is too large. In addition, Total states that it supports the Commission's conclusion that shippers should be entitled to present information demonstrating that it may be appropriate to utilize a point-to-point transportation corridor market as the relevant geographic market. The Farmers maintain that it is far more realistic to define relevant geographic markets on a fact basis than on the basis of arbitrary BEAs. The Commission rejects the oil pipelines' requests with respect to BEAs. As stated above, the Commission believes that the appropriate geographic markets should be determined in each proceeding based on its facts. The burden is on the proponent of any particular definition. The AOPL also argues against the proposal to include origin markets. It states that the Commission provided no rationale in the NOPR and that in Buckeye and Williams the Commission rejected arguments that it consider origin markets and focused only on destination markets. It adds that this complexity is not needed when there is little reason to be concerned about monopsony power in origin markets, that an analysis of each end of point-to-point service would significantly increase the burden on oil pipelines, and that the definition of origin market is a matter of some uncertainty owing to interconnections. The AOPL asserts that a competitive analysis of origin markets should be required only when proposed by an oil pipeline or if a shipper raises an issue of market power in origin markets. On the other hand, Alberta and the Farmers support the Commission's proposal to include origin markets. Alberta maintains that an oil pipeline need only possess market power in either an origin or destination market to exert market power in a transportation corridor. The Farmers state that while the NOPR properly allows protestants to seek corridor market definitions, there is no justification for requiring protestants to bear the burden of proof and that if a protestant raises the issue of corridor market power, the burden of proof should remain with the applicant as part of its overall burden of establishing the relevant geographic market.
