FR940912-1-00046 FR940912-1-00010 Owners or operators are required to keep records of all reports submitted under the proposed rule, of all monitoring parameters, equipment inspections, and of the determination of volatile organic concentration and/or annual average flow rate using knowledge of the process. Records must be maintained for 5 years. L. Solicitation of Comments The EPA seeks full public participation in arriving at its final decisions, and strongly encourages comments on all aspects of this proposal from all interested parties. Whenever applicable, full supporting data and detailed analysis should be submitted to allow the EPA to make maximum use of the comments. The Agency invites all parties to coordinate their data collection activities with the EPA to facilitate mutually beneficial and cost-effective data submissions. The EPA is interested in participating in study plans, data collection, and documentation. Please refer to the FOR FURTHER INFORMATION section at the beginning of this preamble for technical contacts at the EPA. All comments should be directed to the EPA Air Docket, Docket No. A&hyph;94&hyph;32 (see ADDRESSES ). Comments on this notice will be accepted to the date specified in DATES. In addition, the EPA particularly requests comments and data on the following issues: 1. The proposed approach to reducing the burden on owners or operators of waste management units, treatment processes, or control devices that allows owners or operators to comply with the control requirements of the proposed SOCMI NSPS for these waste management units, treatment processes, or control devices by demonstrating compliance with the benzene waste operations NESHAP, the HON, or the RCRA air emission standards for hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities; 2. The EPA's proposed approach to identifying parameters that define process unit wastewater streams that do not require control, whether it is feasible to identify such streams in ways other than through concentration or flow rate cutoffs, and information for defining such streams; 3. The selection of temperature as a control device parameter to monitor to demonstrate compliance with the control device standards, and the correlation between temperature and the control efficiency, especially for regenerable activated carbon adsorption systems; and 4. The inclusion of maintenance wastewater as part of the scope of the proposed standards and any barriers to the control of maintenance wastewater streams that meet the concentration and flow criteria used to identify those streams that require control at new facilities. 5. The accessibility of SOCMI monitoring data and periodic reports to the general public as required by section 114(c) of the CAAA. 6. The extent the enhanced monitoring requirements in the proposed rule are sufficient to meet the general requirements of the EPA for enhanced monitoring. 7. The appropriateness of using method 25D and the resulting volatile organic concentration in the applicability and compliance determinations within the structure of the proposed regulation without discounting the non-VOC portion of the volatile organic concentration and also without eliminating low volatility compounds from test results. 8. The relevance of including in the NSPS an alternative percent reduction compliance option for treatment processes that is based on the fraction removed by the design steam stripper for the individually speciated VOC. Commenters wishing to submit proprietary information for consideration should clearly distinguish such information from other comments, and clearly label it ``Confidential Business Information.'' Submissions containing such proprietary information should be sent directly to the contact person listed above, and not to the public docket. Information covered by such a claim of confidentiality will be disclosed by the EPA only to the extent allowed and by the procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. If no claim of confidentiality accompanies the submission when it is received by the EPA, it may be made available to the public without further notice to the commenter.
