FR941220-2-00012 FR941220-2-00010 Routine use (d): Contract Disclosure. This routine use has been rewritten to clarify its meaning. Routine use (e): Employee Grievance, Complaint or Conduct Disclosure. This routine use has been revised to make it clearer. Routine use (f): Labor Organization Disclosure. It was suggested that the Department remove this routine use as unnecessary. However, the Assistant Secretary foresees the possibility of a case in which a supervisor takes an action against an employee and cites specific alleged mishandling of Privacy Act information by the employee as the basis for the action. The employee is entitled to representation by a union representative who might need access to the individually identifiable information in order to adequately protect the interests of the employee. This routine use is consistent with the purposes of the system in that it ensures that questions about proper handling of confidential information are properly addressed to the benefit of the individuals on whom the Department maintains information in this system of records. Routine use (g): Research Disclosure. This routine use has been removed because 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(5) adequately covers the needs intended to be served by this routine use. Routine use (i): FOIA Advice Disclosure. The Office of Management and Budget suggested that disclosure to OMB of individually identifiable information be removed because the Department can obtain sufficient advice on Privacy Act matters from OMB without disclosing individually identifiable information. The reference to OMB disclosures has been removed. Routine use (j): Subpoena Disclosure. This routine use is removed because it appears inconsistent with certain judicial decisions relating to the Privacy Act. Regarding the Safeguards clause for the system, the description of the safeguards has been rewritten to indicate more precisely the nature of the safeguards used to protect this system. Regarding the Retention and Disposal clause for the system, the details regarding optical disk storage as a means of archiving data has been changed to clarify that the shelf life of the archived information will be enhanced through an optical disk maintenance program and will be maintained for a total of ten years after the loan is closed. The commenter was concerned about the timeframe for implementation of the NSLDS system and the enhancements to its own system so that it can report information to the NSLDS. The commenter was also concerned that the Department appeared to be making changes to data elements in the system and believed that the Department should continue to involve program participants in the implementation strategies for NSLDS, including setting the appropriate implementation timeframes. Contrary to the commenter's understanding, the data elements that will require system enhancements are not required to be reported until July 1995, and the Department is now making changes to data elements that will be submitted to NSLDS. The Department has worked closely with program participants during the design phase of this system and intends to continue working closely with them. The system notice is being republished in its entirety to assist readers in understanding the context for the changes that are being made. Dated: December 14, 1994. David A. Longanecker, Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary Education.
