FR940228-1-00150 FR940228-1-00010 (IV) The institution must clearly designate all optional charges as ``optional'' in all published schedules and related materials. Charges that are mandatory and charges that are optional must be plainly differentiated in all printed materials. Statements accompanying the schedule may include institutional endorsements of the optional program or service. The institution must state clearly in its schedule if a charge is optional for some students but required for others. (V) The institution must clearly identify charges and deposits that are nonrefundable as ``nonrefundable'' on all published schedules. Institutions determine on an individual basis which of their charges are refundable or nonrefundable. In general, admission fees, application fees, laboratory fees, facility and student activity fees, and other similar charges are not refundable. These fees are generally charged to cover the cost of activities such as processing applications and other student information, reserving academic positions and establishing the limits of institutional programs and services, reserving housing space, and otherwise setting the fixed costs of the institution for the coming academic periods. Institutions determine on an individual basis which of their deposits are refundable or nonrefundable. Some deposits will be nonrefundable or will be credited to a student's account (e.g., tuition deposits). Others are refundable according to the terms of the deposit agreement (e.g., deposits for breakage). (VI) The institution must refund housing rental charges, less a deposit, as long as written notification of cancellation is made prior to a well-publicized date that provides reasonable opportunity to make the space available to other students. Written notification on or before the beginning of the term of the contract is necessary to ensure utilization of housing units. During the term of the contract, room charges are generally not refundable. However, based on the program offered, space availability, debt service requirements, State and local laws, and other individual circumstances, institutions may provide for some more flexible refund guideline for housing. (VII) The institution must refund board charges in full, less a deposit, if written notification of cancellation is made prior to a well-publicized date that falls on or before the beginning of the term of the contract. Subsequent board charges should be refunded on a pro rata basis. It is reasonable to make a refund for those goods and services not consumed. The deposit should reflect that portion of an institution's costs that are fixed for the term of the contract. (VIII) The institutional refund policy must include the following requirements: A. The institution must refund 100 percent of the tuition charges, less an administrative fee that does not exceed the lesser of $100 or 5 percent of the tuition, if the student submits written notice of cancellation on or before one week preceding the first day of classes for the period of enrollment for which the student was charged. B. The institution must refund at least 90 percent of the tuition charges if the student submits written notice of cancellation between the end of the period of time specified in (VIII) A. and the end of the first 10 percent (in time) of the period of enrollment for which the student was charged. C. The institution must refund at least 50 percent of the tuition charges if the student submits written notice of cancellation between the end of the first 10 percent (in time) of the period of enrollment for which the student was charged and the end of the first 25 percent (in time) of that period of enrollment. D. The institution must refund at least 25 percent of the tuition charges if the student submits written notice of cancellation between the end of the first 25 percent (in time) of the period of enrollment for which the student was charged and the end of the first 50 percent (in time) of the period of enrollment. E. The institution may deduct from the refund owed under this paragraph the documented cost to the institution of equipment issued to the student if the institution specifies in the enrollment agreement a separate charge for equipment that the student actually obtains or if the institution refers the student to a vendor operated by an affiliated or related entity and the student does not return the equipment in good condition, allowing for reasonable wear and tear, within 20 days following the date of the student's withdrawal. The student shall be liable for the amount, if any, by which the documented cost for equipment exceeds the refund under this paragraph. Equipment is not considered to be returned in good condition if the equipment cannot be reused because of clearly recognized health and sanitary reasons, and this fact is clearly and conspicuously disclosed in the enrollment agreement. (IX) The institution must assess no penalty charges where the institution, as opposed to the student, is in error. Penalty charges, such as those involving late registration fees, change-of-schedule fees, and late payment fees, must not be assessed if it is determined that the student is not responsible for the action causing the charges to be levied.
