FR941125-2-00124 FR941125-2-00082 INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT COOPERATION AGENCY Overseas Private Investment Corporation Public Hearing AGENCY: Overseas Private Investment Corporation, IDCA. ACTION: Notice of public hearing. SUMMARY: This notice sets forth the schedule and requirements for participation in an annual public hearing to be conducted by the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) on Department 19, 1994. This hearing is required by the OPIC Amendments Act of 1985, and this notice is being published to facilitate public participation. The notice also describes OPIC and the subject matter of the hearing. DATES: The hearing will be held on December 19, 1994 and will begin promptly at 2 p.m. Prospective participants must submit to OPIC before close of business December 7, 1994, notice of their intent to participate. ADDRESSES: The location of the hearing will be: Overseas Private Investment Corporation, 1100 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC. Notices and prepared statements should be sent to Harvey Himberg, Investment Development Department, Overseas Private Investment Corporation, 1100 New York Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20527. Procedure (a) Attendance; Participation. The hearing will be open to the public. However, a person wishing to present views at the hearing must provide OPIC will advance notice on or before December 7, 1994. The notice must include the name, address and telephone number of the person who will make the presentation, the name and address of the organization which the person represents (if any) and a concise summary of the subject matter of the presentation. (b) Prepared Statements. Any participant wishing to submit a prepared statement for the record must submit it to OPIC with the notice or, in any event, not later than 5 p.m. on December 16, 1994. Prepared statements must be typewritten, double spaced and may not exceed twenty-five (25) pages. (c) Duration of Presentations. Oral presentations will in no even exceed ten (10) minutes, and the time for individual presentations may be reduced proportionately, if necessary, to afford all prospective participants on a particular subject an opportunity to be heard or to permit all subjects to be covered. (d) Agenda. Upon receipt of the required notices, OPIC will draw up an agenda for the hearing setting forth the subject or subjects on which each participant will speak and the time allotted for each presentation. OPIC will provide each prospective participant with a copy of the agenda. (e) Publication of Proceedings. A verbatim transcript of the hearing will be compiled and published. The transcript will be available to members of the public at the cost of reproduction. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: OPIC is a U.S. Government agency which provides, on a commercial basis, political risk insurance and financing in friendly developing countries and emerging democracies for projects which confer positive developmental benefits upon the project country while avoiding negative effects on the U.S. economy and the environment of the project country. OPIC's Board of Directors is required by section 231A(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended ``the Act'') to hold at lest one public hearing each year.
