FR941206-2-00067 FR941206-2-00050 [Docket No. D&hyph;94&hyph;1079; FR&hyph;3834&hyph;D&hyph;01] Redelegation of Authority AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, HUD. ACTION: Notice of redelegation of authority. SUMMARY: In this notice, the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner redelegates to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Multifamily Housing Programs, who retains this authority and redelegates to the Director, Office of Insured Multifamily Housing Development, the authority to endorse for mortgage insurance Secretary-held multifamily mortgage loans. This responsibility is being redelegated to assist in the management of the workload. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 22, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gerald H. Salzman, Office of General Counsel, Room 9234, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington, DC 20410, (202) 708&hyph;2975. A telecommunications device for the hearing impaired (TDD) is available at 202&hyph;708&hyph;3259. [These are not toll-free numbers.] SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In recent years, the volume of FHA-insured multifamily mortgages that have reverted to FHA, primarily through defaults has grown substantially. Servicing these assigned multifamily mortgages has consumed a disproportionately large share of FHA staff time and resources. This, in turn, has diminished FHA's capacity to monitor the privately-held multifamily mortgages it insures, which thereby increases the potential for further defaults and losses. HUD has determined to sell the multifamily mortgages it now owns so that the Agency can focus more of its asset management staff and resources toward proactive oversight of the Agency's insured mortgage portfolio. To assist in carrying out the responsibilities attendant to selling Secretary-held multifamily mortgages, pursuant to this delegation and redelegation, the Assistant Secretary for Housing-FHA Commissioner is redelegating authority to endorse for mortgage insurance Secretary-held multifamily mortgage loan documents. This redelegation will assist the Agency in managing its workload generated through the sale of multifamily mortgages. Accordingly, the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner redelegates as follows: Section A. Authority Redelegated The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner redelegates to the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Multifamily Housing Programs, who retains this authority and redelegates to the Director, Office of Insurance Multifamily Housing Development, the power and authority to endorse, or under his or her direction to direct the endorsement of documents necessary to effectuate mortgage insurance for Secretary-held multifamily mortgages. Section B. Authority to Further Redelegate The authority redelegated pursuant to Section A., above, may be further redelegated. Authority: Sec. 7(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Dated: November 22, 1994. Nicolas P. Retsinas, Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29888 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;M
