FR940128-2-00126 FR940128-2-00087 The Act further authorizes the Secretary to make grants to entities that establish and operate Transitional Living projects for homeless youth to enable the youth to become self-sufficient and to avoid long-term dependency on social services. Currently, 73 such projects are being funded. The Act also authorizes financial support for: •A National Communications System (NCS, a toll-free 25-hour runaway hotline) which serves as a neutral channel of communication between at-risk youth and their families and as a source of referral to needed services; •Grants to statewide and regional non-profit organizations for the provision of Training and Technical Assistance (T&TA) to agencies and organizations eligible to establish and operate runaway and homeless youth centers; and •Grants to conduct research, demonstration, and evaluation projects. Annual Program Priorities. Sections 384(a) and 384(b) of the Act instruct the Secretary to develop for each fiscal year, and to publish annually in the Federal Register for public comment, a proposed plan specifying the priorities the Department will follow in making grants under the Basic Center and the Transitional Living Programs. The Secretary is further instructed to take into consideration the comments received in developing and publishing the subsequent plan specifying the final fiscal year priorities. This notice constitutes the Department's proposed priorities in these two program areas for fiscal year (FY) 1994. No acknowledgement will be made of the comments received in response to this notice, but all comments received by the deadline will be considered in preparing the runaway and homeless youth final priorities. Final priorities will be published in the Federal Register at the time of solicitation of grant applications. One program announcement soliciting applications for both Basic Center Program grants and Transitional Living Program grants will appear in the Federal Register as in previous years. Because all current grants to carry out training and technical assistance (T&TA) activities will expire this fiscal year, the announcement will also request proposals to provide T&TA to staff of FYSB-funded projects. Finally, the announcement will solicit grant proposals to analyze and interpret the considerable data that are being produced by the Runaway and Homeless Youth Management Information System, the Runaway and Homeless Youth Monitoring System, a number of Runaway and Homeless Youth Evaluation Studies, and recent Research and Demonstration projects. Copies of the announcement will be sent to all persons who comment on these proposed priorities.
