FR940707-2-00110 FR940707-2-00050 Administration on Aging White House Conference on Aging; Recognition of National Pre-White House Conferences on Aging AGENCY: White House Conference on Aging, AoA, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice complements the March 17 and April 19, 1994 Federal Register Notices announcing the White House Conference on Aging's (WHCoA's) intent to recognize local programs/events and mini-conferences as part of its grass roots pre-1995 WHCoA strategy. The WHCoA proposes to recognize an additional category of events which is national in scope and which will precede the official 1995 WHCoA. Recognition implies the WHCoA's acknowledgement of the relevancy of the event to the goals of the WHCoA. To qualify for this additional category, interested organizations must adhere to the guidelines listed below. ADDRESSES: Letters of intent should be sent to the WHCOA, 501 School Street SW., 8th Floor, Washington, DC 20024. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Judy Satine, White House Conference on Aging, 202&hyph;245&hyph;7826. See address above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A White House Conference on Aging is intended to produce policy recommendations to guide national aging policy over the next decade. To further these efforts, the WHCoA proposes to recognize National Pre-White House Conferences on Aging (National Pre-Conference) to address in detail and to develop substantive recommendations for those topics identified as WHCoA agenda items. Guidelines In order for an organization to qualify as a National Pre-Conference, it must have nationwide representation and/or an affiliate structure; have a national focus and an impact on national policy; have an organizational mission or purpose related to aging and related issues; conduct national substantive meetings and propose to conduct the National Pre-Conference in conjunction with an annual or regular national meeting. The program of the proposed National Pre-Conference must be structured to ensure specific discussion on one or more of the major topic areas of the White House Conference on Aging as listed in the agenda expected to be published in the Federal Register in the fall of 1994. Recommendations in each of these topic areas must be the specific product of the National Pre-Conference. Organizations are encouraged to develop discussion papers which could be presented to the participants in these National Pre-Conferences and which may later be distributed to the delegates to the 1995 White House Conference on Aging. The proposed National Pre-Conference should be held by March 31, 1995. Recognition by the White House Conference on Aging allows the organization conducting the event to publicize that the event has been recognized by the WHCoA and that it will be listed in the final report of the Conference. However, recognition is not meant to imply and does not signify that the WHCoA agrees with or endorses the recommendations. Interested organizations should submit a letter of intent to the above address by August 31, 1994. The letter should include the name, address, telephone number and contact person of the organization as well as a brief description of the proposed National Pre-Conference including the theme and/or title. Fernando M. Torres-Gil, Assistant Secretary for Aging. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16367 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4130&hyph;02&hyph;M
