FR940805-1-00117 FR940805-1-00013 (9) Wash basins. Inmates shall have access to operable wash basins with hot and cold running water in the housing units at a minimum ratio of one basin for every twelve occupants. (10) Showers. Inmates shall have access to operable showers with temperature-controlled hot and cold running water at a minimum of one shower for every eight inmates. Water for showers shall be thermostatically controlled to temperatures ranging from one hundred degrees to one hundred-twenty degrees Fahrenheit. (11) Housing for the disabled. Disabled inmates shall be housed in a manner that provides for their safety in compliance with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17, yet prevents their being discriminated against in their use of the facility. (12) Interview room. The facility shall provide a minimum of one accessible interview room. (13) Visiting spaces. The facility shall provide a secure visiting room, which facilitates staff observation of visiting. The facility shall provide secure space outside the security perimeter for the storage of visitors' personal items. (14) Food service spaces. When the facility provides for food preparation, it shall have adequate space for food processing, storage, refrigeration and sanitation. Toilet and wash basin facilities shall be available to food service personnel and inmates in the vicinity of the food preparation area. The square footage of the kitchen shall be appropriate to the needs of the facility. If dining occurs outside the dayroom, the facility shall provide a minimum of fifteen square feet per occupant. (15) Storage spaces. The facility shall provide the following storage spaces: (i) a secure, well-ventilated janitor closet, which includes sink and adequate space for the storage of cleaning implements and supplies; (ii) secure storage, located outside the secure area, for flammable, toxic and caustic items; and (iii) storage space for inmate clothing, bedding, mattresses, personal hygiene items and facility supplies. (16) Laundry. The facility shall provide access to laundry services or laundry space and equipment. (17) Booking. The facility shall provide an intake/booking and release area which shall be located inside the security perimeter, but outside inmate living quarters. The booking area shall include: (i) an intake/booking work area; (ii) sallyport; (iii) access to operable toilets, with some degree of privacy, wash basins, drinking water and showers; (iv) space for alcohol and drug testing equipment; (v) space for inmate identification equipment; (vi) a secure, well-ventilated storage room for inmates' personal property; (vii) telephone(s), which can be used by inmates; (viii) private interview spaces; (ix) temporary holding rooms or waiting spaces with sufficient fixed seating for all inmates at their rated capacities; and (x) access to continuously observable protective holding cells for the safe holding of intoxicated individuals. (18) Staff toilets. The facility shall provide staff toilets inside the secure area of the facility that inmates shall not use. (19) Public spaces. The facility shall provide public restroom(s) and a public lobby with an adequate number of seats to accommodate anticipated visitors outside the secure perimeter. (20) Administration. The facility shall provide adequate space for its administrative functions. This space shall include an office for the administrator, work space for clerical staff, duplication of copies and supply and equipment storage, space for storage of facility records and space for meetings. (21) Staff. The facility shall provide adequate space for staff assigned to work in the facility. These spaces shall include an area in which they can store personal property, change clothes and shower and an area in which training, meetings, briefings and breaks can occur. (22) Mechanical. The facility shall provide separate and adequate space for mechanical systems and equipment. (g) Existing construction_ (1) Occupancy by one inmate. Only one inmate shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy. All general population and immediate segregation living areas shall be constructed to facilitate continuous staff observation, including electronic surveillance, of cell or room fronts and activity areas, such as dayrooms and recreation spaces. (2) Single occupancy space requirements. All single rooms or cells shall have at least sixty square feet of floor space, provided inmates spend no more than ten hours per day locked in. When confinement exceeds ten hours per day, there shall be at least seventy square feet of floor space. (3) Multiple occupancy space requirements. Where used, multiple occupancy rooms or cells shall house inmates, who have been screened for suitability for group living. The rooms shall provide: (i) continuing observation by staff; (ii) a minimum of fifty square feet of floor space per occupant in the sleeping area and a clear floor-to-ceiling height of not less than eight feet; (iii) a toilet(s) with some degree of privacy; (iv) an operable wash basin(s) with hot and cold running water; (v) access to showers; and (vi) beds above floor level and a locker or container for each occupant's belongings. (4) Single occupancy furnishings and conditions (general population). Each room or cell shall have, at a minimum; (i) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and that are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (ii) a wash basin with hot and cold running water; (iii) access to showers; and
