FR940613-2-00057 FR940613-2-00032 Mutual Holding Companies The Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 and the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 authorized conversion of mutual savings institutions into federal mutual holding companies, which in turn transfer virtually all their assets and liabilities to new, stock savings institutions, part of whose stock is acquired by subscribers in the conversion, with the majority retained by the mutual parent. This structure has the benefit of permitting converting institutions to raise only the amount of new capital they actually need. It has, however, in our view, potential for even a higher level of insider abuse than in standard conversions. We note that many newly formed mutual holding companies propose to refuse dividends declared by their operating subsidiary_with no corresponding change in their percentage ownership of the subsidiary as dividends flowed to its minority stockholders. It seems to us that this could constitute a breach of fiduciary duty on the part of the trustees_which would be particularly acute were the trustees significant stockholders of the subsidiary. (It is worthy of note that ``pops'' in conversions involving mutual holding have been in the 40% range, compared to 26% for standard conversions.) As our suggested form of standard conversion would eliminate the need to raise excessive amounts of capital, we believe use of the mutual holding company structure should be discouraged in future conversions. Summary As we have studied the mutual-to-stock conversion process, it has become clear that there are two intertwined problems to be solved. One is technical: how to do it? The other is political: who should get the value? The first problem is interesting and challenging, but the second one is fundamental. Deciding who should get the value makes a lot of people uncomfortable. Almost every answer makes someone angry. As we read the history, the FHLBB settled on the existing form of transaction precisely because it allowed them to avoid answering the value-distribution question. We have come to believe that the primary appeal of some value-distribution schemes_ e.g. , giving it to depositors or to ``the government''_is that they appear to disperse value enough to make the issue moot. As we have discussed the subject over the past two months, we have observed how tempting it is to continue to avoid it. Lawyers and investment bankers and professional depositors with a vested interest have urged us to drop the subject_which is not surprising. But even disinterested individuals wind up asking, ``Do we care?''_and they reach that point with remarkable consistency. We should care. The integrity of a banking system is a national treasure. Careless distribution of the value of converting institutions undermines that integrity. A form of transaction in part designed to avoid the value-distribution question_though it worked well for a while_today forces well-meaning bankers and lawyers and trustees and regulators to wink at polite fictions. Many have suggested that this is hardly a crime, since there is no victim. We disagree. Honor is the victim. Life is full of compromises. There is no ``right'' answer to the value-distribution question. But there is a right process for addressing it. We invite broad participation in fashioning a compromise, as only democracy can, with which no one is entirely satisfied, but in which all can take pride. Questions on Which Comment Is Sought The FDIC is hereby requesting comment during a 60-day comment period on all aspects of this notice, including the following specific issues:
