FR940503-2-00127 FR940503-2-00085 In addition, DTC's three failure to settle procedures applicable to the CP program will be applicable to the new MMI programs. First, DTC will employ the same procedures with regard to the sequence in which DTC will use MMI collateral and eliminate payment order debits in a failing participant's account. Second, if DTC is notified before 3 p.m. eastern standard time (``E.S.T.'') that a paying agent will not pay on an MMI issuer's maturity presentments, reorganization presentments, periodic principal presentments, or periodic income presentments or if DTC is informed of an MMI issuer's bankruptcy and a participant fails to settle with DTC on that day, DTC has the authority to reduce the settlement credits of participants who had transactions on the day of default with the defaulting issuer or the defaulting participant on the day of the default. Third, if the paying agent has not settled with DTC by noon E.S.T. on the DTC business day following the settlement day or if a paying agent is determined to be insolvent according to DTC's rules, DTC will notify the issuers utilizing that paying agent and provide those issuers with information on any presentments related to their MMIs on which the PA failed to pay DTC. C. Expanded or Improved Existing MMI Programs DTC will be expanding its CP program to include ``uncommon CP.'' Uncommon CP is CP paying income periodically, a variable amount of income, or a variable amount of principal. It also includes CP denominated in a foreign currency, CP with a maturity of 271 days to a year, or corporate variable-rate demand obligations in CP mode. These instruments were not included in the original CP program. DTC also will be enhancing their MMI programs for medium-term notes, short-term notes, discount notes, and preferred stock in CP-like mode. The medium-term note program will be enhanced by DTC's collection and allocation of income, principal, reorganization, and maturity payments within the SDFS system. Paying agents will no longer have to separately wire such payments to DTC. Instead, as with maturity payments in the CP program, these payments will be included in each paying agent's net settlement figure due to or from DTC at the end of each day. Similarly, the short-term note program will be enhanced with the inclusion in the SDFS system maturity payments and periodic income payments in the SDFS system and in the paying agents' net SDFS amounts due to or from DTC. The restriction that short-term notes must have a minimum maturity period of thirty days to be included in this program will be removed. The short-term notes program, the discount notes program, and the preferred stock in CP-like mode program will all provide for uncertificated issuer programs. However, one master note or certificate may be held for DTC by the paying agent. II. Discussion Section 17A(b)(3)(F) 8 of the Act requires that the rules of a clearing agency be designed to promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and to assure the safeguarding of securities and funds which are in the custody or control of the clearing agency or for which it is responsible. As discussed below, the Commission believes the DTC's proposed rule change is consistent with DTC's obligations under the Act. 8 15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F) (1988). As previously described, the new MMI programs and the expanded and enhanced programs are an extension of DTC's current SDFS system and include many of the same risk management features that are employed in the SDFS system. The Commission previously examined these features when DTC first proposed the SDFS system and again when the CP program was added. 9 At those times, the Commission found, and continues to believe, that these risk management measures are consistent with Section 17A of the Act and should minimize the impact of a default by a participant in the SDFS system. 9 Supra note 4. The use of provisional credits and unwind procedures if an MMI issuer were to default, however, could increase the risk of settlement gridlock in certain circumstances. For example, if DTC were to confirm the insolvency of an MMI issuer before 3:00 p.m., 10 DTC would reverse all participants' credits attributable to the insolvent issuer without regard to any of the risk management controls. Such reversals of credits could result in a participant having a net debit that exceeds the participant's net debit cap and DTC's liquidity resources. If such a participant then failed to settle its net debit with DTC, DTC would possibly have difficulty completing other settlements thus creating systemic risk. 10 If DTC cannot confirm that an MMI issuer is insolvent before 3 p.m. EST., DTC will not reverse credits attributable to that issuer because after 3 p.m. E.S.T. credits are no longer provisional in DTC's SDFS system.
