FR940526-2-00095 FR940526-2-00063 Under OPM regulations, federal civilian employees who have unlimited access to commissaries and post exchanges due to their employment by the government may receive a different allowance rate than other federal employees. This regulation does not apply to federal employees who have limited access or unlimited access for other reasons_e.g., being married to active or retired military personnel. Task 2 of the OPM contract also required Runzheimer International to calculate comparative living costs in the areas listed below and the Washington, D.C., area for federal civilian employees who have access to military commissaries and post exchanges. 1. City and County of Honolulu, HI 2. Guam/CNMI 3. Puerto Rico 1.2␣Changes in This Year's Survey Runzheimer and OPM made several changes to the surveys and analyses, including_ •reporting the results of the summer and winter surveys separately; •using a moving average approach to introduce new Federal employment weights; •combining St. Croix and St. Thomas data to produce indexes for the Virgin Islands as a whole; •increasing the sample size of housing information in several areas, including Hawaii, San Juan, St. Croix, and the Maryland suburbs of the Washington, D.C., area; •developing a percent-to-market value formula to calculate real estate taxes for San Juan because tax assessment data were no longer available as a result of a decentralization of property tax function in Puerto Rico; •increasing the comparability of automobile insurance in the Virgin Islands, Guam, and Puerto Rico, compared with the Washington, D.C., area; •surveying only the cash price at branded gas stations unless only non-branded stations are available; and •more accurately defining the distinguishing differences between family dining and fine dining. Runzheimer has continued to include catalog sales in its survey. Since the Sears catalogs have been discontinued. Runzheimer has researched hundreds of catalogs to determine which are most appropriate. Runzheimer researchers found that most catalogs have uniform shipping charges. Only catalogs that sell merchandise in the allowance areas and the Washington, D.C., area were used. Appendix 3 identifies Goods & Services, Miscellaneous Expense, and Housing Related pricing changes. Current housing data can be found in appendix 9A and Appendix 9B. Other changes are discussed where applicable in the report. 1.3␣Pricing Period Consistent with last year's tropical-area surveys. Runzheimer collected data for the Hawaii, Guam/CNMI, Puerto Rico, and Virgin Islands allowance areas (and the Washington, D.C., area) in August, September, and October of 1993, pricing most items during August. Also during August, our research associates priced durable goods, such as cars, and, in October, items such as homeowner insurance, which depend on the pricing of other items (i.e., housing). To ensure consistent seasonable catalog pricing, Runzehimer used spring/summer catalogs for the catalog items covered in these surveys. 1.4␣Living Cost Components In accordance with federal regulations, expense components Runzheimer costed to develop analyses, comparisons, and the report were: 1. Housing and Housing Related Expenses 2. Transportation 3. Consumption Goods & Services 4. Miscellaneous Expenses Runzehimer factored sales, excise and property taxes into the analysis where applicable. However, in keeping with previous reports, we did not factor federal, state and local income taxes into the analysis. Because income taxes significantly affect living-cost analyses, Runzheimer and OPM are researching the issue of including income taxes in future surveys. Educational opportunities vary significantly among locations in terms of availability, quality, and other factors. Runzheimer analyst and OPM officials agree that, without additional information, attempts to measure cost differences in education in the selected areas would be highly subjective and would not add to the integrity of the model. Therefore, education expense is not included in the model or surveys.
