FR940505-2-00066 FR940505-2-00041 [WY&hyph;060&hyph;93&hyph;4410&hyph;02] Newcastle Resource Area, WY AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Comment period extension for the Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the Newcastle Resource Management Plan for the BLM Administered Public Lands in the Wyoming Portion of the Newcastle Resource Area. SUMMARY: The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) is extending the public comment period for the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Newcastle Resource Management Plan (RMP). Comments will be accepted until June 10, 1994. The draft EIS for the Newcastle RMP describes and analysis four alternative RMPs, including the BLM's preferred alternative, for managing the Wyoming portion of the Newcastle Resource Area. The planning area is located in Crook, Weston, and Niobrara Counties, in northeastern Wyoming. When completed, the Newcastle RMP will provide the management direction for future land and resource management actions on approximately 291,000 acres of public land surface and approximately 1,700,000 acres of Federal mineral estate administered by the BLM within this portion of the Newcastle Resource Area. The draft EIS focuses on resolving three key issues that were identified with public involvement early in the planning process. These issues are: (1) Retention or disposal of public lands; (2) surface disturbance; and (3) special management areas designations. There is one designated area of environmental concern (ACEC) within the Newcastle RMP planning area, the Whoopup Canyon ACEC. The preferred alternative recommends that the Whoopup Canyon ACEC designation be retained and that the area of the ACEC be expanded in size. The potential for new ACEC designations was also explored. One potential new ACEC was identified and is proposed in the preferred alternative. This involves the BLM administered public land surface in the Lance Creek Fossil Area. During development of the draft EIS, the BLM conducted a Wild and Scenic Rivers review of BLM administered public lands that lie along waterways within the planning area. There were no BLM administered public lands in the planning areas that were found to meet the Wild and Scenic Rivers eligibility criteria to be given further consideration for inclusion in the Wild and Scenic Rivers System. The coal screening process (including application of the coal unsuitability criteria under 43 CFR part 3461) was not conducted for the planing effort. Any interest in coal exploration or leasing will be handled on a case by case basis. If an application for a coal lease is received sometime in the future, an appropriation land use environmental analysis will be conducted (which will include conducting the coal screening process), to determine whether or not the coal areas applied for are acceptable for development and leasing consideration. The RMP will be amended by necessary. To date, there has been no interest expressed to the BLM for leasing and development of BLM-administered coal in the planning area. Wilderness management and wild horse management were not addressed in the planning effort. There are no wilderness areas or wilderness study areas on BLM-administered public lands in the planning area. In addition, there have been no other areas with wilderness characteristics identified on public lands in the planning area. There are no known wild horse or wild horse herd management areas in the planning area. When approved, the Newcastle RMP will guide BLM's management of the public lands in the Newcastle Resource Area. DATES: Written comments will be accepted until June 10, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the Newcastle RMP draft EIS are available from the BLM Newcastle Resource Area Office at 1101 Washington Boulevard, Newcastle, Wyoming 82701, or the BLM Casper District Office at 1701 East ``E'' Street, Casper Wyoming 82601. Comments should be sent to the Newcastle Area Manager at the Newcastle Resource Area Office. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Floyd Ewing, Newcastle Area Manager, or Gary Lebsack, Newcastle RMP Team Leader, at the above address or telephone 307&hyph;746&hyph;4453. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Newcastle Resource Area is responsible for managing the BLM administered public lands in Crook, Niobrara, and Weston countries in Wyoming, and all BLM administered public lands in Nebraska. Management of the BLM administered public lands in Nebraska is covered under the Nebraska Resource Management Plan completed in 1992. Within the Nescastle RMP planning areas, there are varied and intermingled land surface ownerships and overlapping mineral ownerships. Therefore, the administrative jurisdictions for land use planning and for managing the land surface and minerals are also varied, intermingled, and sometimes overlapping. For this reason, it is important to understand that the Newcastle RMP draft EIS does not address management of lands or minerals within the planning areas that are privately owned or owned by the State of Wyoming of local Governments (about 1,000 acres). If also does not address those Federally owned minerals within the planning area that are under Federal land surface managed by other Federal agencies (about 420,000 acres). The draft EIS for the Newcastle RMP presents four alternatives, multiple use RMPs for managing the BLM administered public lands in the planning area, Alternative A (continuation of present management) and three other alternatives that suggest different combinations and emphases for managing the various resource and land uses on the BLM administered public lands, on the basis of needs, opportunities, and public demand. The four alternative plans focus on allocating public lands and resources among their valid uses and prescribing general management actions that would be taken. The preferred alternative is a combination of parts of Alternatives A, B, and C and represents what BLM believes is the best balance between the public land and resource uses and environmental protection in the planning area. The various impacts that would be expected from implementing each of the alternative is also presented in the draft EIS. Dated: April 29, 1994. David J. Walter, Acting State Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10774 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;22&hyph;M
