FR940204-2-00140 FR940204-2-00096 2. Applicant will continue to furnish annually to its stockholders its financial statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, together with a brief description of the business done by applicant during the most recent fiscal year which will, in the opinion of management, indicate the general nature and scope of the business of applicant. Because of the small amount of assets involved and the limited nature of applicant's operations, such financial statement will not be audited. 3. Applicant will not knowingly make available to any broker or dealer registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 any financial information concerning applicant for the purpose of knowingly enabling that broker or dealer to initiate any regular trading market for applicant's common stock. 4. Applicant will be at least 80 percent owned by or for the benefit of the direct descendants of Heber J. Grant and/or their spouses; direct descendants of donees of Heber J. Grant; family trusts, estates, partnerships or corporations established for the exclusive benefit of direct descendants of Heber J. Grant, direct descendants of donees of Heber J. Grant, or their spouses and in which such persons collectively exercise sole voting and dispositive power; the LDS Church or another tax-exempt religious or charitable institution as defined in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, controlled by or under common control with the LDS Church; and natural persons who, at the time they receive an interest in applicant, are executive employees or former executive employees of applicant; and any portion of applicant which is not owned by or for the benefit of these categories of shareholders will be beneficially owned (as the term is used in section 3(c)(1) of the Act) by not more than 35 persons and will not have been publicly offered. 5. Applicant will limit the sale or other issuance of additional shares of common stock so that after such sale or other issuance applicant will be in compliance with the last preceding condition. 6. Applicant will obtain approval by the holders of a majority of the issued and outstanding shares of an amendment to applicant's articles of incorporation granting to applicant a right of redemption in the event of a proposed sale or other transfer by any shareholder of shares in applicant, except in the case of a proposed sale or other transfer to direct descendants of Heber J. Grant and/or their spouses; direct descendants of donees of Heber J. Grant; family trusts, estates, partnerships or corporations established for the exclusive benefit of direct descendants of Heber J. Grant, direct descendants of donees of Heber J. Grant, or their spouses and in which such persons collectively exercise sole voting and dispositive power; the LDS Church or another tax-exempt religious or charitable institution as defined in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, controlled by or under common control with the LDS Church; and natural persons who, at the time they receive an interest in applicant, are executive employees or former executive employees of applicant. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2492 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
