FR940505-1-00299 FR940505-1-00012 (4) ASTM D2369&hyph;87: Standard Test Method for Volatile Content of a Coating. (5) ASTM D3792&hyph;86: Standard Test Method for Water Content of Water-Reducible Paints by Direct Injection into a Gas Chromatograph. (6) ASTM D4017&hyph;81 (1987): Standard Test Method for Water Content in Paints and Paint Materials by the Karl Fischer Method. (7) ASTM D4457&hyph;85: Standard Test Method for Determination of Dichloromethane and 1,1,1-Trichloroethane in Paints and Coatings by Direct Injection into a Gas Chromatograph. (8) ASTM D2697&hyph;86: Standard Test Method for Volume Non-volatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings. (9) ASTM E180&hyph;85: Standard Practice for Determining the Precision Data of ASTM Methods for Analysis and Testing of Industrial Chemicals. (10) ASTM Method D2879&hyph;86: Standard Test Method for Vapor Pressure-Temperature Relationship and Initial Decomposition Temperature of Liquids by Isoteniscope. ยง52.2954 Stationary and area source caps (South Coast). 18 (a) General Provisions. 18 EPA intends to issue a supplemental document in the Federal Register which addresses portions of proposed ยง52.2954. (1) Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all stationary emission sources located in the ``control area'' as defined as the Los Angeles-South Coast Air Basin ozone nonattainment area in 40 CFR 81.305, and all other persons identified in subsequent applicability paragraphs in this section. (2) Compliance dates. Unless otherwise specified in this section, compliance with all requirements of this section is required as of [Insert date of publication of the final rule]. This paragraph (a)(2) shall not operate to provide additional time for compliance under Section 113(d) of the Act, 42 U.S.C 7413(d), for sources subject to compliance as of [Insert date of publication of the final rule]. (3) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Actual emissions means the actual quantity of VOC emissions from an emissions source during a particular time period. Actual emissions rate means the actual quantity of VOC emissions from an emissions source per unit of actual production or throughput. Agency means the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Air contaminant means any solid, liquid, or gaseous matter, any odor, or any form of energy, that is capable of being released into the atmosphere from an emission source. Air pollution means the presence in the atmosphere of one or more air contaminants in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration as to be injurious to human, plant, or animal life, to health, or to property, or to unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property. Air pollution control equipment means any equipment or facility of a type intended to eliminate, prevent, reduce or control the emission of specified air contaminants to the atmosphere. Allowable emissions rate means the most stringent of the applicable standards in 40 CFR parts 60 and 61; the applicable implementation plan; or a federally enforceable permit. Baseline emissions means the emissions calculated using 1990 emission inventory data in the affected FIP areas and adjusted for emission reductions projected to occur by the implementation year of the FIP cap program in the affected FIP area. The baseline shall be denominated in pounds per year of FIP cap pollutant (e.g., pounds of VOC per year) and monthly caps shall be prorated based on this data. Coating applicator means any equipment or device including but not limited to cloth, rollers, brushes, spray guns, or dip tanks used to apply a coating. Day means a period of consecutive 24 hours beginning at 12 a.m. (midnight) local time, or beginning at a time consistent with a facility's operating schedule. Emission rate means the total mass of VOCs released or discharged from an emissions source into the atmosphere per unit of production or throughput (e.g., pound VOC/gallon of coating solids).
