FR940406-0-00044 FR940406-0-00002 (d) Notification to complainant of completion of administrative efforts . Where the Commission has determined that the Board has failed to adopt the EEOC decision as its final decision, the Commission may notify the complainant who has petitioned the Commission under paragraph (a) of this section of his or her right to file a civil action under §268.505 of this part for failure of the Board to adopt the EEOC decision as its final decision. §268.504 Compliance with settlement agreements and final decisions. (a) Any settlement agreement knowingly and voluntarily agreed to by the Board and a complainant, reached at any stage of the complaint process, shall be binding on both parties. A final decision of the Board that has not been the subject of review by the Commission, or in a civil action, shall nonetheless be binding on the Board. If the complainant believes that the Board has failed to comply with the terms of a settlement agreement or a final decision, the complainant shall notify the EEO Programs Director, in writing, of the alleged noncompliance within 30 days of when the complainant knew or should have known of the alleged noncompliance. The complainant may request that the Board implement the terms of the settlement agreement or final decision or alteratively, that the complaint be reinstated for further processing from the point processing ceased. (b) The Board shall attempt to resolve the matter brought to the Board's attention by the complainant in paragraph (a) of this section, and respond to the complainant, in writing. If the Board has not responded to the complainant, in writing, or if the complainant is not satisfied with the Board's attempt to resolve the matter, the complainant may request the Commission to review whether the Board has complied with the terms of the settlement agreement or the final decision. The complainant may file such request for review 35 days after he or she has served the Board with the notice of allegations of noncompliance, but must file the request for review with the Commission within 30 days of his or her receipt of a Board's determination. The complainant must serve a copy of the request for review on the Board and the Board may submit a response to the Commission within 30 days of receiving notice of request for review. (c) Prior to rendering its determination, the Commission may request that the parties submit whatever additional information or documentation they deem necessary, or it may direct that an investigation or hearing on the matter be conducted. If the Commission determines that the Board is not in compliance and the noncompliance is not attributable to acts or conduct of the complainant, it may order that the complaint be reinstated for further processing from the point processing ceased. Allegations that subsequent acts of discrimination violate a settlement agreement shall be processed as separate complaints under §§268.205 or 268.305 of this part, as appropriate, rather than under this section. §268.505 Civil action: Title VII, Age Discrimination in Employment Act and Rehabilitation Act. A complainant who has filed an individual complaint, an agent of the class who has filed a class complaint or a claimant who has filed a claim for individual relief pursuant to a class complaint may file a civil action in an appropriate United States District Court alleging violations of Title VII, the ADEA or the Rehabilitation Act: (a) Within 90 days of receipt of the Board's final decision on an individual or class complaint, whether or not a request for review has been filed with the Commission; (b) After 180 days from the date of filing an individual or class complaint if a request for review by the Commission has not been filed and a final decision of the Board has not been issued;
