FR940505-1-00175 FR940505-1-00012 (c) Control Strategies_Discount for Using Port Facilities While Hotelling. As noted earlier, marine vessels account for approximately 12 percent of all NO X emissions from both mobile and stationary sources in the State of California. According to the Booz-Allen & Hamilton study, emissions from maneuvering and hotelling activities make up a large portion of those emissions. That report shows that maneuvering and hotelling activities by commercial vessels contribute an average of approximately 64.9 tons of NO X to local air quality every day (Booz-Allen report, p. A&hyph;2). This amount is equal to an average of 16 percent of daily average NO X emissions from all fishing, harbor, and commercial vessels that use these ports. For the South Coast, ship berthing and other ship port operations for commercial vessels contribute approximately 26 tons of NO X emissions per day, of which 16.5 tons are attributable solely to hotelling operations. Emissions from vessels at port affect local ambient air quality in the same way as stationary sources, in that the vessels assume the characteristics of large stationary plants when they are berthed in a port. According to the Sierra report, ``total SO X and NO X emissions from marine vessels currently exceed the corresponding total (i.e., combined emissions) for the 100 largest SO X and NO X stationary sources in California'' (Sierra Report, p. 70), which includes all of the state's larger power plants, oil refineries, and cement plants. This huge contribution is in large part because the stationary sources are subject to emission controls while the marine vessels currently are not. A significant portion of the time a ship spends in a port is spent moored or at anchor, for loading or unloading purposes. In addition, vessels also spend time waiting for a berth. Typically, during the loading and unloading periods, a vessel uses its own engines to generate power for steam generation, auxiliary electrical power, hot water, and so on. This is referred to as hotelling. In this respect, ships act like stationary power plants while in port, contributing large amounts of NO X emissions to local air quality in the same way as stationary sources. There are several reasons why ships use their own power sources for hotelling. First, it is simpler for a ship to continue using its own power instead of taking the time to tap into port power facilities. Second, it is difficult and time-consuming to start a ship's very large primary and auxiliary engines once they have been shut off. Third, shore and vessel power characteristics and connecting hardware are sometimes incompatible. Because the time spent in port is relatively short, it often does not seem worth the trouble to spend the time connecting to port facilities or even ensuring that such connections are possible. To reduce these emission levels, it is necessary to encourage ship operators to use port power facilities instead of generating power on board. The proposed control strategy will accomplish this by providing a discount to the port fees described in the previous section for ships that use port power facilities. The amount of the discount is proposed to be equal to the average contribution to NO X emissions levels from commercial vessels attributable to hotelling. This is because cold ironing would reduce NO X emission by an equivalent amount. On a statewide basis, the Booz-Allen & Hamilton study estimates the portion of average daily NO X emissions attributable to hotelling of commercial vessels to be 7.38 percent (Booz-Allen report. p. A&hyph;2). Requiring vessels to use port power facilities will reduce discharges of NO X from these vessels by an equivalent amount. Therefore, using the Booz-Allen data, the amount of the discount for using port power facilities would be 7.38 percent. If average daily contribution of NO X emissions by commercial vessels is limited to the South Coast, the relevant reduction is 24.12 percent, which would be associated with an equivalent discount. EPA requests comments on these discount levels and whether the average state or South Coast figures should be used. As described above, EPA proposes to consider maneuvering (berthing) operations in calculation of the base fee. 95 Berthing operations must be powered by the ship's engine; ships cannot be powered by onshore power plants during those maneuvers. In addition, even if such emissions could be eliminated, berthing operations account for only about 9 percent of total NO X emissions from commercial vessels. Therefore, EPA is not considering additional fee discounts for reductions in berthing emissions. 95 See Section (2)(A) Fee Categories, above, with regard to proposed fee calculations. The primary argument against offering a discount for using local onshore power facilities when at port is that using those port facilities simply displaces emissions from one area to another. In other words, although the ship is not discharging NO X and SO X , the power plant that is supplying the electricity is. Thus, hotelling will cause an increased demand for electricity from the power plant, which will result in an increase in electric output from that utility. The power plant, in turn, will increase emissions to meet that increased demand.
