FR940414-2-00017 FR940414-2-00010 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Economic Development with The Enterprise Corporation of Tampa Bay AGENCY: Pinellas Area Office, Albuquerque Operations Office. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The Pinellas Area Office (PAO) awarded an organizational planning grant to The Enterprise Corporation of Tampa Bay (TEC) in August 19, 1993. Under the grant, the TEC defined thirteen (13) separate support projects to accomplish economic development goals for the Tampa Bay, Florida area. Under the follow on cooperative agreement awarded on February 28, 1994, the TEC will complete development of, implement, and administer these projects. Most of these projects will be funded as subawards by TEC based on established award criteria. These awards will provide community impact assistance funding to mitigate defense downsizing and eventual plant closure of the DOE's Pinellas Plant in Largo, Florida. The projects will attempt to maximize reuse of the existing Pinellas Plant facilities to (1) create jobs that will employ dislocated Pinellas plant employees and subcontractors, (2) stimulate local economic growth, (3) promote the commercialization of site-developed technology, and (4) reuse DOE facilities compatibly with the site's continuing mission in a manner consistent with environmental requirements. The projects to be implemented under the current cooperative agreement with TEC will cover many facets necessary for economic development, including but not limited to the following: Small business incubator sites, small business Research & Development awards, Challenge awards for small to medium-sized businesses, a proposal assistance center, an outrearch program, a Manufacturing Technology Center, a Technology Deployment Center, plant personnel economic development incentives, a Technology Training Center, the Center for International Enterprise Development, a Small Business Development Center, an enterprise investment fund, and facility refurbishment projects. The intent is to provide this financial assistance primarily through TEC, as the single best source. Total efforts may reach $50M over the next several years. For information on any of the projects listed above and evaluation criteria for award projects please contact the individual listed below. DATES: This document is effective April 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION PLEASE CONTACT: To express interest in a program and to be placed on a mailing list, please write to: Mr. Lewis C. Attardo, Director, Tampa Bay Defense Transition Task Force, 7381&hyph;114th Avenue N., suite 403A, Largo, FL 34643. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: TEC is the agent for the Tampa Bay Defense Transition Task Force which has been designated the Community Reuse Organization by the DOE. The projects are to be awarded under the DOE's Technical Integration Program (Catalogue of Federal Domestic Assistance No. 81.103). These projects are authorized under the DOE Organizational Act, Public Law 95&hyph;91 as amended, and Public Law 102&hyph;484, Section 3161. Issued in Albuquerque, New Mexico on April 4, 1994. Richard A. Marquez, Assistant Manager for Management and Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9026 Filed 4&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
