FR940406-0-00046 FR940406-0-00002 (2) Description of the qualifications, in terms of training and experience relating to equal employment opportunity, of the principal and operating officials concerned with administration of the Board's equal employment opportunity program; and (3) Description of the allocation of personnel and resources proposed by the Board to carry out its equal employment opportunity program. ยง268.603 Voluntary settlement attempts. The Board shall make reasonable efforts to settle, voluntarily, complaints of discrimination as early as possible in, and throughout, the administrative processing of complaints, including the pre-complaint counseling stage. Any settlement reached shall be reduced to writing and shall be signed by both parties and shall identify the allegations resolved. ยง268.604 Filing and computation of time. (a) All time periods in this part that are stated in terms of days are calendar days unless otherwise stated. (b) A document shall be deemed timely filed if it is delivered in person, or sent via U.S. mail and postmarked before the expiration of the applicable filing period; or, in the absence of a legible postmark, if it is received via U.S. mail within five days of the expiration of the applicable filing period. (c) The time limits in this part are subject to waiver, estoppel, and equitable tolling. (d) The first day counted shall be the day after the event from which the time period began to run and the last day of the period shall be included, unless it falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, in which case the period shall be extended to include the next business day. ยง268.605 Representation and official time. (a) At any stage in the processing of a complaint, including the counseling stage under ยง268.204 of this part, the complainant shall have the right to be accompanied, represented and advised by a representative of complainant's choice. (b) If the complainant is an employee of the Board, he or she shall have a reasonable amount of official time, if otherwise on duty, to prepare the complaint and to respond to Board and Commission requests for information. If the complainant is an employee of the Board and he or she designates another employee of the Board as his or her representative, the representative shall have a reasonable amount of official time, if otherwise on duty, to prepare the complaint and respond to Board and Commission requests for information. The Board is not obligated to change work schedules, incur overtime wages, or pay travel expenses to facilitate the choice of a specific representative or to allow the complainant and representative to confer. The complainant and the representative, if employed by the Board and otherwise in a pay status, shall be on official time, regardless of their tours of duty, when their presence is authorized or required by the Board or the Commission during the investigation, informal adjustment, or hearing on the complaint. (c) In cases where the representation of a complainant or the Board would conflict with the official or collateral duties of the representative, the Board may, after giving the representative an opportunity to respond, disqualify the representative. (d) Unless the complainant states otherwise in writing, after the Board has received written notice of the name, address and telephone number of a representative, all official correspondence shall be with the representative with copies to the complainant. When the complainant designates an attorney as representative, service of documents and decisions on the complaint shall be made on the attorney and not on the complainant, and time frames for receipt of materials by the complainant shall be computed from the time of receipt by the attorney. The complainant must serve all official correspondence on the designated representative of the Board. (e) The complainant shall at all times be responsible for proceeding with the complaint whether or not he or she has designated a representative.
