FR940712-2-00054 FR940712-2-00041 [Announcement Number 491] Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS)/Immunology Cooperative Agreement Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces a program for competitive fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds to conduct Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) Immunologic Investigations. These activities are intended to focus on the role of immunopathology and its role in induction of HPS. These investigations will provide the basis for further work in understanding the pathogenesis of HPS and provide additional avenues for progress in clinical management, treatment, and vaccine development. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Immunization and Infectious Diseases. (To order a copy of Healthy People 2000, see the section Where to Obtain Additional Information .) Authority: This program is authorized under Section 301(a) [42 U.S.C. 241(a)], 311 [42 U.S.C. 243], and 317(k)(3) [42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(3)] of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Application program regulations are found in 42 CFR Part 52_Grants for Research Projects. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Applications may be submitted by public and private, nonprofit and for-profit organizations and governments and their agencies. Thus, universities, colleges, research institutions, hospitals, other public and private organizations, including State and local governments or their bona fide agents, federally recognized Indian tribal governments, Indian tribes or Indian tribal organizations, and small, minority- and/or women-owned businesses are eligible to apply. Availability of Funds Approximately $250,000 is available in FY 1994 to fund one award. It is expected that the award will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 3 years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the approved project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds. Purpose The purpose of this cooperative agreement is to assist researchers in studies of the immunology and immunopathology of hantavirus infections that focus on the role of cellular immune response. The overall goals of this program are to facilitate: (1) Development of information that can guide future strategies for vaccine development, and (2) Identification of immunopathologic disease processes which can lead to the development of therapeutic approaches for blocking these processes.
