FR940204-0-00056 FR940204-0-00021 During the comment periods, the Service received written and oral comments from 48 parties. CDFG, California Department of Parks and Recreation, The Nature Conservancy, California Native Plant Society, National Audubon Society, Sierra Club, Environmental Council of Santa Cruz County, Southridge Watershed Association, and the Resource Defense Fund were some of the 38 commenters expressing support for the listing proposal. Eight commenters opposed the listing of Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii. The city of Marina opposed the listing of Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens. Two commenters, one of whom offered technical comments on the proposal, were neutral. In addition, results of additional surveys for the plants (Army Corps of Engineers 1992, Habitat Restoration Group 1992) were incorporated into this final rule. Written comments and oral statements obtained during the public hearing and comment periods are combined in the following discussion. Opposing comments and other comments questioning the rule were organized into specific issues. These issues and the Service's response to each are summarized as follows: Issue 1: Several commenters felt that there was insufficient scientific evidence to list Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii. Others stated that the Service used data that were skewed or selectively chosen to support the listing of this plant; ``relied on the expertise of an amateur botanist whose opinion [is cited] without investigation of contrary opinions by, arguably, more qualified professionals;'' and did not utilize information supplied by Dr. Thomas that challenged the appropriateness of listing C. robusta var. hartwegii. Service Response: In preparing the proposed rule, the Service utilized information from botanical collections and observations that date from the mid-1800s, as well as data that were submitted to the Service in response to a request for information made to local and State agencies and other interested parties. The Service therefore maintains that the best available commercial and scientific information was utilized in preparation of the proposed rule. No data were submitted to support the contention that the Service skewed or selectively chose data to support the proposal. During preparation of the proposal, the Service consulted with a number of professional botanists, and other professional biologists commented during the comment period. These botanists and biologists gave biological bases that supported the listing of Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii. The Service, therefore, believes that this determination to list the plant as endangered under C. robusta is appropriate and is supported by the botanical community. Issue 2: Several commenters pointed out that the California Fish and Game Commission rejected a proposal to State list Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii, and it was, therefore, inappropriate for the Service to pursue Federal listing due to the ``doctrine of comity'' (the informal and voluntary recognition by courts of one jurisdiction of the laws and judicial decision of another). Service Response: The California Fish and Game Commission did not reject a proposal to State list Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii, rather it determined that not enough information was available to petition the plant for State listing. The opinions of the California Fish and Game Commission were not shared by CDFG, which supported the Federal listing at the public hearing and in writing (Ken Berg, CDFG, pers. comm., 1992). The Act does not require agreement among State agencies. Moreover, CDFG, in collaboration with The Nature Conservancy and the California Native Plant Society, supplied the Service with data, through the CNDDB (1990), that supports Federal listing of the four plants.
