FR940314-2-00053 FR940314-2-00030 [Docket No. CP94&hyph;260&hyph;000, et al.] Algonquin Gas Transmission Company, et al.; Natural Gas Certificate Filings March 8, 1994. Take notice that the following filings have been made with the Commission: 1. Algonquin Gas Transmission Company [Docket No. CP94&hyph;260&hyph;000] Take notice that on March 2, 1994, Algonquin Gas Transmission Company (``Algonquin''), 1284 Soldiers Field Road, Boston, Massachusetts 02135, filed in Docket No. CP94&hyph;260&hyph;000 an application pursuant to section 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act for a certificate of public convenience and necessity authorizing Algonquin to (i) transport gas on a pipeline lateral for Canal Electric Company (``CEC'') and Montaup Electric Company (``MEC'') (CEC and MEC are collectively referred to herein as ``Customer'') pursuant to a proposed new Rate Schedule X&hyph;40, and (ii) to construct and operate facilities necessary to perform such service, all as more fully set forth in the application which is on file with the Commission and open to public inspection. Algonquin proposes to construct and operate facilities and transport on a firm basis up to 75,000 MMBtu per day of natural gas through such facilities under a new Rate Schedule X&hyph;40 for Customer. Algonquin states that Customer intends to use the natural gas transported hereunder as fuel for Unit No. 2 of the electric generating station in Sandwich, Massachusetts. Specifically, Algonquin proposes to construct, own and operate a pipeline lateral, meter station, and appurtenant facilities (the ``Canal Lateral''). Algonquin states that the Canal Lateral will extend from a point on Algonquin's existing G&hyph;8 system in Bourne, Massachusetts along the north side of the Cape Cod Canal to an agreed upon point of interconnection, at or near the Bourne/Sandwich town line, with facilities to be constructed by Customer for purposes of receiving the gas. Algonquin states that Customer is filing a contemporaneous petition for declaratory order requesting that the Commission declare its facilities to be nonjurisdictional. Algonquin states that transportation service under proposed Rate Schedule X&hyph;40 will consist of receipt of gas at the head of the Canal Lateral and delivery to Customer's facilities at the terminus of the Canal Lateral. Algonquin states that transportation service upstream of the Canal Lateral will be provided through existing facilities under existing open access rate schedules, including firm transportation obtained through capacity release or interruptible transportation. Customer and Algonquin have executed a precedent agreement contemplating firm transportation service for a fourteen year term under proposed Rate Schedule X&hyph;40 and construction of the following facilities necessary to provide that service: 1. 4.0 miles of 18-inch pipeline extending from the interconnection of Algonquin's existing G&hyph;8 and G&hyph;11 System in Bourne, Massachusetts along the north side of the Cape Cod Canal to an agreed upon point of interconnection with facilities to be constructed by Customer at or near the Bourne/Sandwich, Massachusetts town line. 2. Line pressure measurement meter station adjacent to the existing Algonquin Sagamore Meter Station, consisting of measurement facilities with flow control capability, a remote terminal unit, and utilities for data transmission, valves and other associated equipment. 3. Expansion of the existing G&hyph;11 System tap valve site and construction of a new valve site at the upstream and downstream ends of the Canal Lateral respectively. Algonquin states that the facilities would be constructed during the summer and fall of 1995 for an in-service date of November 1, 1995. The cost of the facilities is estimated to be approximately $7.5 million. The proposed monthly demand charge for service under Rate Schedule X&hyph;40 is $2.4986 per MMBtu. Comment date: March 29, 1994, in accordance with Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice.
