FR941019-0-00013 FR941019-0-00003 (24) Notice of assessment of civil money penalties. The term notice of assessment of civil money penalties shall mean a notice of assessment of civil penalties, findings of fact and conclusions of law, and order to pay issued pursuant to sections 7(a)(1), 7(j)(15), 8(i) or 18(j) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(1), 1817(j)(15), 1818(i), or 1828(j)), section 106(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1972), section 910(d) of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (12 U.S.C. 3909), or any other provision of law providing for the assessment of civil money penalties by the FDIC. (25) Amended order to pay. The term amended order to pay shall mean an order to forfeit and pay civil money penalties, the amount of which has been changed from that assessed in the original notice of assessment of civil money penalties. (26) Book capital. The term book capital shall mean total equity capital which is comprised of perpetual preferred stock, common stock, surplus, undivided profits and capital reserves, as those items are defined in the instructions of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) for the preparation of Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income for insured banks. (27) Tier 1 capital. The term Tier 1 capital shall have the same meaning as provided in §325.2(m) of this chapter (12 CFR 325.2(m)). (28) Total assets. The term total assets shall have the same meaning as provided in §325.2(n) of this chapter (12 CFR 325.2(n)). (29) Adjusted Part 325 total assets. The term adjusted Part 325 total assets shall mean adjusted 12 CFR part 325 total assets as calculated and reflected in the FDIC's Reports of Examination. (30) Protest. The term protest shall include any comment from the public which raises a negative issue relative to the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2901 et seq. ), whether or not it is labeled a protest and whether or not a hearing is requested; however, the term protest shall not include any such comment which the appropriate regional manager determines to be frivolous, or to have been filed for competitive reasons by a financial institution, or to have been filed primarily as a means of delaying action on the application, or any comment which raises negative Community Reinvestment Act issues between the commenter and the applicant that have been resolved. (31) Standard conditions. The term standard conditions refers to conditions that any delegate may include as a matter of routine in an order approving an application, whether or not the applicant has agreed to their inclusion. The following conditions, or variations thereof, are standard conditions: (i) That the applicant has obtained all necessary and final approvals from the appropriate state authority or other applicable authority; (ii) That if the transaction does not take effect within a specified time limit, or unless, in the meantime, a request for an extension of time has been approved, the consent granted shall expire at the end of the said time period; (iii) That until the conditional commitment of the FDIC becomes effective, the FDIC retains the right to alter, suspend or withdraw its commitment should any interim development be deemed to warrant such action; and (iv) In the case of a merger transaction (as defined in §303.7(b)(1)), including a phantom merger or reorganization, that the proposed transaction not be consummated before the thirtieth calendar day after the date of the order approving the merger. (c) Powers. (1) Authority delegated to Director (DOS) and Director (DCA). For purposes of this part, any authority delegated to the Director (DOS) or the Director (DCA) may also be exercised by the Executive Director, Divisions of Compliance, Resolutions and Supervision, or in the event the title of Executive Director, Divisions of Compliance, Resolutions and Supervision becomes obsolete, any official of equivalent authority. (2) Authority delegated to regional manager. For purposes of this part, and where confirmed in writing, any authority delegated to the regional manager may also be exercised by his or her principal assistant. (d) Construction. Any singular term includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate. Any use of the masculine, feminine, or neuter gender shall encompass all three, if such use would be appropriate. §303.4 [Amended] 3. Section 303.4(b)(1) is amended by removing the words ``of the Division of Supervision'' after the word ``Director'' in the last sentence and adding in lieu thereof the word ``(DOS)''. §303.5 [Amended] 4. Section 303.5(e) introductory text is amended by removing the words ``Division of Supervision'' before the words ``regional director'' and adding in lieu thereof the word ``DOS''. 5. In §303.6, paragraph (b) is revised; by removing the word ``and'' at the end of paragraph (e)(1)(i), removing the period at the end of paragraph (e)(1)(ii) and adding ``; and'' in its place, designating the concluding text of paragraph (e)(1) as paragraph (e)(1)(iii) and revising it, and revising paragraph (e)(2); amending paragraph (i)(3) by adding the word ``(DOS)'' after the word ``Director''; and amending footnote 7 in paragraph (k)(2) by adding the word ``(DOS)'' after the word ``Director'', to read as follows: §303.6 Application procedures. * * * * * (b) Investigations and examinations. With respect to all applications, requests, or submittals, the Board of Directors, or the Director (DOS) or the Director (DCA), or their associate directors, or the appropriate regional director, or the appropriate deputy regional director, or the appropriate regional manager acting under delegated authority may require any investigation or examination, or both, to be performed as deemed appropriate. Upon receipt of the report of any investigation or examination and any recommendations based on the report, the Board of Directors, or either director, or their associate directors, or the regional director, or the deputy regional director, or the regional manager acting within the scope of delegated authority will take any action determined necessary or appropriate under the circumstances.
