FR940505-1-00386 FR940505-1-00012 (D) The owner shall monitor the total gas collection flowrate for the landfill at least once every 15 minutes and keep records at least once per hour. A chart recorder may be used for this purpose. (E) Within two weeks after the end of each quarter the owner shall determine the overall effectiveness of the gas collection system for the past quarter. To make such a determination, the owner shall meet the following requirements. ( 1 ) The owner shall establish a quarterly target for the volume of landfill gas to be collected. The target volume shall be the time-weighted average of all baseline collection flowrates (SCFM) established pursuant to paragraph (g)(3)(i)(B) of this section during the quarter, multiplied by the number of minutes in the quarter. The volume is calculated as follows: Quarterly target volume= E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.102 or simply, E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.103 ( 2 ) Each hourly flowrate record during which the measured oxygen concentration (established in paragraph (g)(3)(i)(C) of this section) exceeds the current baseline oxygen concentration (established in paragraph (g)(3)(i)(B)( 2 ) of this section) by a measured value greater than 2% oxygen, shall be corrected using the following equation: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.104 ( 3 ) The owner shall use this corrected flowrate data to calculate the total volume of gas collected for the quarter. (F) If the volume of gas collected in any quarter is less than 90% of the target volume established for that quarter, the owner shall be in violation of this section and shall re-establish baseline conditions pursuant to paragraph (g)(3)(i)(B) of this section within the first two weeks of the following quarter. (G) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (g)(3)(i)(F) of this section, the owner of any active landfill shall re-establish baseline conditions pursuant to paragraph (g)(3)(i)(B) of this section at least once every six months. (H) The owner shall install and operate a gas collection system that effectively captures the gas that is generated within the landfill. The collection system shall: ( 1 ) Be designed to handle the maximum expected gas flowrate over the lifetime of the gas control or treatment system equipment from the entire area of the landfill that warrants control. For the purposes of calculating the maximum expected gas generation flowrate from the landfill to determine compliance, the following equation shall be used: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.105 where Q m =maximum expected gas generation flow rate, m 3 /yr; L o =refuse methane generation potential, m 3 /Mg refuse; R=average annual acceptance rate, Mg/yr; k=methane generation rate constant, yr ^1 ; and t=age of the landfill plus the gas mover equipment life or active life of the landfill, whichever is less, in years. A value of 230 m 3 /Mg shall be used for L o . A value of 0.02 year ^1 shall be used for k. A value of 15 years shall be used for gas mover equipment life. The active life of the landfill is the age of the landfill plus the estimated number of years until closure.
