FR940324-0-00023 FR940324-0-00007 On November 23, 1993, the Department published an interim rule containing the foreign availability determination. This rule removed validated licensing requirements for exports to most non-proscribed destinations (i.e. Country Groups T and V, except for Iran, Syria, and the People's Republic of China) for oil well perforators controlled by 1C18A, and made them eligible for export under General License GFW. Effective March 18, 1994, these oil well perforators are eligible for export under General License G-DEST to all destinations except Cuba, North Korea, Libya, Iran, Syria, and the South African military and police. Exporters should also be aware that the Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control maintains an embargo on other destinations, such as Iraq, Haiti, and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro). In the course of the foreign availability study, the U.S. determined that there was not unanimous agreement that these oil well perforators were, in fact, controlled under the COCOM International Munitions List. Consistent with the foreign availability procedures, the United States has notified COCOM that it is removing national security controls on these oil well perforators. This final rule amends ECCN 1C18A by revising the GFW paragraph in the Requirements section to remove GFW eligibility for certain oil well perforators. General License GFW no longer applies to these oil well perforators because they may now be exported under General License G-DEST to most destinations. This rule also creates a new ECCN 1C93F for shaped charges specially designed for oil well operations, utilizing one charge functioning along a single axis, that upon detonation produce a hole, and: (a) Contain any formulation of RDX, PYX, PETN, HNS, or HMX; and (b) have only a uniformly shaped conical liner with an included angle of 90 degrees or less; and (c) have a total explosive mass of no more than 90 grams; and (d) have a diameter not exceeding three inches. These changes are controlled for foreign policy reasons to Country Groups S and Z, Iran, Syria, and the South African military and police. The creation of ECCN 1C93F does not constitute a new control. Rulemaking Requirements 1. This rule was not subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866. 2. This rule involves collections of information subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). These collections have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 0694&hyph;0005, 0694&hyph;0007, and 0694&hyph;0010. 3. This rule does not contain policies with Federalism implications sufficient to warrant preparation of a Federalism assessment under Executive Order 12612. 4. Because a notice of proposed rulemaking and an opportunity for public comment are not required to be given for this rule by section 553 of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553) or by any other law, under section 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 603(a) and 604(a)) no initial or final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis has to be or will be prepared. 5. The provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553, requiring notice of proposed rulemaking, the opportunity for public participation, and a delay in the effective date, are inapplicable because this regulation involves a military or foreign affairs function of the United States. Section 13(b) of the EAA does not require that this rule be published in proposed form because this rule does not impose a new control. Further, no other law requires that a notice of proposed rulemaking and an opportunity for public comment be given for this rule.
