FR941107-2-00207 FR941107-2-00109 Proposed Absolute Priority 4_Recorded Audio Cassettes for Visually and Print Disabled Students Comment: One commenter proposed that the priority be expanded to include the research and development, production, and distribution of books in computerized form (electronic digital text files). The commenter also suggested that the priority consider for funding the ``establishment of a national Clearinghouse for post-secondary education materials in audio and digital text form'' and the ``establishment of a national repository of electronic text files for accessible text format.'' Discussion: The suggested activities go beyond the purpose of the priority announced under section 652(d) of IDEA and are not included within the activities authorized under this section. Changes: None. Comment: The commenter suggested inserting professional as one of the classifications under ``students'' to be served. Discussion: The Secretary feels that by adding professionals to the population of students to be served under this priority would be going beyond the intent of this project, as originally visioned. Change: None. Proposed Absolute Priority 5_Video Description Project Comment: One commenter recommended that funds be made available for the description of programming designed specifically for classroom instruction or broadcast programs, particularly documentaries, that will be distributed to educational institutions. Discussion: The Secretary believes that general access to national television programming is of greater importance at this time. However, the type of programs to be described under this priority may include programming that can be used for classrooms. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the Department should encourage distribution of video described programming through public and educational libraries. Discussion: The Department believes that the most effective use of resources is to concentrate on national television programming at this time. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter expressed the concern that outreach was not identified as an important goal in the priority for video description. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that outreach (marketing and dissemination) is a necessary component to approved projects for video description. All applications submitted to the Secretary under this priority are evaluated under the established evaluation criteria at 34 CFR 332.32, which includes information related to marketing and dissemination. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that private sector support for video description should be encouraged but not required. Discussion: The Secretary recognizes the importance of private sector support, although he cannot require it in this priority. Changes: None. Priorities Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary gives an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priorities. The Secretary funds under these competitions only applications that meet one of these absolute priorities: Absolute Priority 1_Closed-Captioned Daytime Television Programs Background This priority would continue and expand closed-captioning of a variety of daytime television programs broadcast nationally for persons who are deaf or hard of hearing during this segment of the day that has proven to be the most difficult in terms of private sector support. Priority: To be considered for funding under this priority, a project must_ (1) Include the criteria used to determine which programs are proposed for captioning. These criteria must take into account the preference of consumers for particular programs, the diversity of programming available, and the contribution of programs to the general educational and cultural experiences of individuals with hearing impairments;
