FR940613-0-00031 FR940613-0-00009 Section 660.109␣Program Development Comment: One commenter proposed that a seventh FH project selection criterion should be added to the existing six criteria in paragraph (a) of this section. The new criterion, which would read: ``The results for forest highways from the pavement, bridge, and safety management systems'' is needed to comply with §660.105(b) of this part, which discusses the management systems required under 23 U.S.C. 134 and 135. It would also have to be consistent with any changes made in 23 U.S.C. 105. Response: Because management systems provide input to transportation planning and the TIP, this seventh criterion was added to the final rule as worded above. Comment: One of the SHAs noted that the NPRM, in paragraph (a), stated that: ``The FHWA will arrange and conduct a conference with the FS and the State Highway Agency (SHA) to jointly select the projects which will be included in the programs. *␣*␣*'' The commenter stated that cooperators (agencies) with jurisdiction over the FHs under consideration should be included in this conference to enhance the regional planning aspect for these projects. Response: Under current procedures, the State represents the interests of the cooperators. The program meetings are always open to interested cooperators who may wish to attend. The States may invite cooperators to the meetings, if they wish. Thus, there is no need to change the wording of the NPRM. Comment: The previous commenter also called attention to paragraph (a) of the NPRM which stated that the FS and the SHA will ``jointly select the projects which will be included in the programs for the current fiscal year and at least the next 4 years.'' The commenter recommended that, since the projects selected will ultimately be added to the STIP, the planning and selection of FH projects should cover the same timeframe as the STIP. Response: Generally, at least 5 years are needed to identify early environmental and other preliminary engineering required to ensure meeting the schedule to advance a project to construction. The proposed FH timeframe is consistent with this since the TIP generally shows 3 years of the 5-year FH program. Thus, there is no need to change the wording of the NPRM. Comment: One commenter requested that, in paragraph (b) of this section, the term ``recommended,'' as used in the first sentence, ``The recommended program will be prepared by the FHWA and concurred in by the FS and the SHA,'' should be replaced with the term ``selected.'' This would more accurately reflect the current procedure, as stated in paragraph (a), that the FHWA, the FS, and the SHA will ``jointly select the projects,'' not just recommend them. One of the SHAs felt the second sentence should be revised to read, ``The FHWA will approve the program `only when there is concurrence by the FS and the SHA.''' Otherwise, the FHWA could conceivably approve the program without waiting for concurrence by the other two agencies. Response: A review of this section indicated that the wording of the NPRM may still create some confusion, even with the recommended word changes, because the first two sentences of paragraph (b) state that ``The recommended program will be prepared by the FHWA and concurred in by the FS and the SHA'' and that ``The FHWA will approve the program.'' This would make it appear that the FHWA simply prepares and approves its own program. Consequently, the wording of the first sentence of this paragraph was revised to read: ``The recommended program will be prepared and approved by the FHWA with concurrence by the FS and the SHA.'' The second sentence was deleted. Comment: One commenter pointed out that the term ``incorporate,'' as used in the third sentence of NPRM paragraph (b), which states that ``the SHA shall advise any other cooperators in the State of the projects included in the final program and shall incorporate the approved program into the STIP,'' seems vague. It appears to imply that the approved FH program is independent of the regional and statewide STIP planning requirements of the ISTEA. The commenter felt that, although this may be the correct way to handle a program of this nature, the process required to ``incorporate'' the final program into the STIP should be clarified. Response: This sentence was clarified by adding the following phrase to the end of the sentence: ``And shall include the approved program in the State's process for development of the STIP.''
