FR941026-0-00017 FR941026-0-00007 By letter received November 17, 1992 (Administrative Record No. IND&hyph;1171), the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (IDNR), Division of Reclamation, submitted a proposed Program Amendment to the Indiana Program. The amendment describes the specific procedures which Indiana will follow to investigate, reclaim and document emergency reclamation activities in the State. The amendment also describes the realty and environmental compliance activities that will support this function of the State's AMLR program. OSM published an announcement of proposed rulemaking on the Indiana amendment and requested public comment on January 14, 1993 (58 FR 4374). The public comment period closed on February 16, 1993. On March 26, 1993 (58 FR 16379), OSM published a correction of the address of the Indiana Department of Natural Resources (IDNR) which was printed in the January 14, 1993, proposed rule document. On October 29, 1993 (Administrative Record Number IND&hyph;1303), OSM received from Indiana a revised version of the Indiana plan amendment. The proposed revisions were intended to address OSM's comments on the original amendment. OSM published an announcement of the proposed revisions to the initial submittal of the Indiana plan amendment and reopened the public comment period on December 6, 1993 (58 FR 64212). The public comment period closed on December 20, 1993. By letter dated June 27, 1994 (Administrative Record Number IND&hyph;1381) Indiana submitted a second revised version of the Indiana plan amendment. The proposed revision contains two changes which are intended to address OSM's comments on the October 29, 1993 revised version of the Indiana plan amendment. III. Director's Findings Set forth below, pursuant to SMCRA and the Federal regulations at 30 CFR 884.14 and 884.15, are the Director's findings concerning the proposed amendment. Revisions not specifically discussed below concern nonsubstantive wording changes, or revise cross-references and paragraph notations to reflect organizational changes resulting from this amendment. The following information is contained in Indiana's formal submission to OSM pursuant to the guidelines published in the Federal Register , 47 FR 42729 (September 29, 1982), as to its authority and procedures for implementing an emergency response reclamation program based on the provisions in Section 410 of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Pub. L. 95&hyph;87 (SMCRA). 1. The agency designated by the Governor as authorized to receive grants and administer an emergency program. 2. A legal opinion from the chief legal officer that the designated agency has the authority under State law to conduct the emergency program in accordance with the requirements of Section 410 of Title IV of the Act. 3. A description of the policies and procedures to be followed by the designated agency in conducting the reclamation program including: a. The purpose of the emergency response reclamation activities to be undertaken by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources, Division of Reclamation is to enter upon any land where an emergency exists and on any other land to have access to the land where the emergency exists and restore, reclaim, abate, control or prevent the adverse effect of coal mining practices and to do all things necessary or expedient to protect the public health, safety, or general welfare. For the purposes of this plan amendment emergency is defined as a sudden danger or impairment that presents a high probability of substantial physical harm to the health, safety, or general welfare of people before the danger can be abated under normal program operation procedures. b. The Indiana Department of Natural Resources will assume authority for all emergency projects within Indiana and will coordinate work with the Federal Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (OSM). Coordination with other state or local agencies will be on a project specific basis. The Department of Administration will be a key component in the procurement of goods and services for emergency work. Assistance is also available from the Indiana Department of Transportation and the Indiana State Emergency Management Agency. All investigations and eligibility findings required by Title IV of SMCRA will be conducted by the Division of Reclamation. This information on emergency investigations will be provided to OSM. Once OSM makes a finding of fact that an emergency situation exists, the state will undertake the specific construction efforts approved by OSM to abate the declared emergency situation.
