FR940512-2-00180 FR940512-2-00078 Eligible Applicants: Eligible applicants for a TLP grant under this announcement include States, units of local government (or a combination of units of local government), public or non-profit, private agency organizations, institutions or other non-profit entities. Federally recognized Indian Tribes are eligible to apply for TLP grants. Non-Federally recognized Indian Tribes and urban Indian organizations are also eligible to apply for grants as private, non-profit agencies. Grantees (including subgrantees) with current project periods extending into FY 1995 may not apply for new TLP grants under this announcement. Applicants may refer to Part VI, Appendix D.2, for a listing of current grantees which are ineligible for grants under this priority area. As required by runaway and homeless youth legislation, priority for funding will be given to agencies with demonstrated experience in providing direct services to runaway and homeless youth. In line with this requirement, applicants which have three (3) or more years of continuous effort serving runaway and homeless youth in one or more areas set forth in Section 312 of the Act are eligible to receive an additional five (5) points in this criterion. Program purpose, goals and objectives: The Administration on Children, Youth and Families will award approximately 25 new service grants to provide shelter, skill training and support services to assist homeless youth in making a smooth transition to self-sufficiency and to prevent long-term dependency on social services. Applications are solicited under this priority area to carry out direct service projects designed to carry out the program purpose, goals and objectives set forth in the legislation and as specified in Part I, section C.3 of this announcement. Funds available under Part B of the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act are to be used to enhance the capacities of youth-serving agencies in local communities to effectively address the service needs of homeless older adolescents and young adults. Activities that may be maintained, improved and/or expanded through a TLP grant must include, but are not necessarily limited to: 1. Providing stable, safe living accommodations while a homeless youth is a program participant; 2. Providing the services necessary to assist homeless youth in developing both the skills and personal characteristics needed to enable them to live independently; 3. Providing education, information and counseling aimed at preventing, treating and reducing substance abuse among homeless youth; 4. Providing homeless youth with appropriate referrals and access to medical and mental health treatment; and 5. Providing the services and referrals necessary to assist youth in preparing for and obtaining employment. Background: It is estimated that about one-fourth of the youth served by all runaway and homeless youth programs are homeless. This means that many of the youth served cannot return home or to another safe living arrangement with a relative. Other homeless youth have aged out of the child welfare system and are no longer eligible for foster care. These young people are often homeless through no fault of their own. The families they can no longer live with are often physically and sexually abusive and involved in drug and alcohol abuse. They cannot provide the youth with their basic human needs such as shelter, food, clothing, let alone the supportive and safe environment needed for development of healthy self-images and the skills and personal characteristics which would enable them to mature into self-sufficient adults.
