FR940525-1-00067 FR940525-1-00008 (3) Requirements . (i) All requirements set forth in §317.314 shall be met. (ii) Specific Requirements. (A) Nature of the claim. A health claim associating diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables with reduced risk of cancer may be made on the label or labeling of a meat or meat food product described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) (B) of this section; Provided , That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of some cancers; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the terms ``some types of cancer'' or ``some cancers''; ( 3 ) The claim is limited to grain products, fruits, and vegetables that contain dietary fiber; ( 4 ) The claim indicates that the development of cancer depends on many factors; ( 5 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of cancer risk reduction to diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables; ( 6 ) In specifying the dietary fiber component of the labeled product, the claim uses the terms ``fiber,'' ``dietary fiber,'' or ``total dietary fiber''; and ( 7 ) The claim does not specify types of dietary fiber that may be related to risk of cancer. (B) Nature of the food . ( 1 ) The product shall contain a grain product, fruit, or vegetable; ( 2 ) The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat'' as defined in §317.362, except that the product may meet the total fat and cholesterol criteria for ``extra lean'' in §317.362; and ( 3 ) The product shall meet the requirements for a ``good source'' of fiber as defined in §317.354 prior to any nutrient addition, except the basis for meal-type products as defined in §317.313(l) shall be per labeled serving size. ( 4 ) Optional information . (i) The claim may identify one or more of the following risk factors for development of cancer: Family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors. (ii) The claim may include information from paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section, which summarizes the relationship between diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables and cancer and the significance of the relationship. (iii) The claim may indicate that it is consistent with ``Nutrition and Your Health: Dietary Guidelines for Americans.'' (iv) The claim may include information on the number of people in the United States who have cancer. The source of this information must be identified, and it must be current information from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. (5) Model health claims . The following model health claims may be used in food labeling to characterize the relationship between diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables and cancer risk: (i) Low fat diets rich in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables may reduce the risk of some types of cancer, a disease associated with many factors. (ii) Development of cancer depends on many factors. Eating a diet low in fat and high in grain products, fruits, and vegetables that contain dietary fiber may reduce your risk of some cancers. (f) Fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain dietary fiber, particularly soluble fiber, and risk of coronary heart disease _(1) Relationship between diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and high in fruits, vegetables, and grain products that contain fiber, particularly soluble fiber, and risk of coronary heart disease. (i) Cardiovascular disease means diseases of the heart and circulatory system. Coronary heart disease is the most common and serious form of cardiovascular disease and refers to diseases of the heart muscle and supporting blood vessels. High blood total- and low density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol levels are major modifiable risk factors in the development of coronary heart disease. High coronary heart disease rates occur among people with high blood cholesterol levels of 240 mg per decaliter (mg/dL) (6.21 millimoles per liter (mmol/L) or above and LDL-cholesterol levels of 160 mg/dL (4.13 mmol/L) or above. Borderline high risk blood cholesterol levels range from 200 to 239 mg/dL (5.17 to 6.18 mmol/L) and 130 to 159 mg/dL (3.36 to 4.11 mmol/L) of LDL-cholesterol. Dietary lipids (fats) include fatty acids and cholesterol. Total fat, commonly referred to as fat, is composed of saturated fat (fatty acids containing no double bonds), and monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fat (fatty acids containing one or more double bonds). (ii) The scientific evidence establishes that diets high in saturated fat and cholesterol are associated with increased levels of blood total- and LDL-cholesterol and, thus, with increased risk of coronary heart disease. Diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol are associated with decreased levels of blood total- and LDL-cholesterol and, thus, with decreased risk of developing coronary heart disease.
