FR940620-2-00002 FR940620-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service [Docket No. 90&hyph;006&hyph;4] Farm Animal Issues Under the Animal Welfare Act; Public Meeting AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: We are advising the public that the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service is hosting a public meeting to gather information on the care and use of farm animals for nonagricultural activities regulated by the Animal Welfare Act. Recommendations and proposed guidelines from this meeting will be used in further evaluation and review of regulatory issues concerning the care and use of farm animals for nonagricultural activities. PLACE, DATE, AND TIME OF MEETING: The meeting will be held at the University of Maryland University College, The Inn and Conference Center, room 0105, University Boulevard and Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20742. The meeting will be held from 9 a.m. until 4 p.m. on Thursday, July 7, 1994. Parking will be available at The Inn and Conference Center for $0.50 per hour or $4.00 for the entire day. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. G. Cherry, Acting Director, Animal Care Staff, REAC, APHIS, USDA, room 565, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7833. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2131 et seq .), the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) is responsible for regulating the care and use of farm animals for nonagricultural activities. In September 1993, APHIS hosted an open forum in Oklahoma City, OK, to canvass the concerned public for recommendations and opinions on the housing, care, handling, and unique practices applied to the nonagricultural uses of farm animals. The forum addressed almost exclusively the concerns of the agricultural and nonagricultural research industry in respect to these issues. In December 1993, APHIS held a meeting attended solely by Federal personnel representing various governmental agencies, also to discuss issues concerning the care and use of farm animals for nonagricultural activities. The purpose of the public meeting announced in this notice is to obtain input from the general public, animal scientists and researchers, exhibitors, dealers, commercial animal transporters, and animal protection groups concerning the issues discussed above. Topics addressed may include, but need not be limited to: (1) Agricultural exemptions; (2) agricultural versus nonagricultural environments; (3) the well-being of farm animals; and (4) special considerations for major operative procedures. We emphasize that the meeting will focus only on farm animal issues that are subject to the Animal Welfare Act; issues concerning farm animals used in production agriculture are not subject to the Animal Welfare Act. The comments received during the meeting will aid APHIS in developing regulations and standards for the humane care and treatment of farm animals used for nonagricultural activities that are subject to the Animal Welfare Act. The meeting on July 7, 1994, will begin at 9 a.m. and end at 4 p.m.; however, the meeting may end earlier if all persons desiring to speak have been heard. We ask that persons who wish to speak register with APHIS by submitting their request in writing to Ms. Joy DeArce, Animal Care Program Specialist, REAC, APHIS, USDA, room 568&hyph;C, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, no later than July 1, 1994. Participants should limit presentations to 10 minutes in order to allow everyone wishing to speak an opportunity to be heard. Any person attending the meeting who did not register with APHIS by July 1 will be given an opportunity to speak after the registered speakers have completed their presentations, as time permits. All participants are requested to submit a written or computer disc copy of their presentation to APHIS on the day of the meeting. Any person who is unable to attend the public meeting but wishes to comment, or any person who attends the public meeting but wishes to submit additional comments, may send written comments to Ms. Joy DeArce, at the address listed for her above, no later than July 22, 1994. Done in Washington, DC, this 15th day of June 1994. Alex B. Thiermann, Acting Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14930 Filed 6&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;P
