FR940317-1-00052 FR940317-1-00013 (xi) Federal Medical Care Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. 2651&hyph;53. (See subpart M.) (2) Claims against nonappropriated fund activities and the risk management program (RIMP). (See subpart L.) (3) Claims under industrial security regulations (DOD Directive (DODD) 5220.6) and claims by the U.S. Postal Service for losses or shortages in postal accounts caused by unbonded Army personnel (39 U.S.C 411 and DOD Manual 4525.6&hyph;M). (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, chap 5, sec XI.) (b) DA Pam 27&hyph;162, chapter 8 lists other laws and regulations under which claims not covered by this regulation may be cognizable. (c) Where a conflict exists between a general provision of this part and a specific provision found in subparts implementing a specific claims statute, the specific provision will control. ยง536.5 Command and organizational relationships. (a) The Secretary of the Army has delegated authority to The Judge Advocate General (TJAG) to assign areas of responsibility and designate functional responsibility for claims purposes. TJAG has delegated authority to the Commander, U.S. Army Claims Service (USARCS), to carry out responsibilities assigned in ยง536.7(b). (b) USARCS, a field operating agency of the Office of TJAG, is the agency through which the Secretary of the Army and TJAG discharge their responsibilities for the administrative settlement of claims worldwide. (See AR 10&hyph;72.) The proper mailing address of USARCS is Commander, U.S. Army Claims Service, Office of The Judge Advocate General, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755&hyph;5360. (c) Command claims services. (1) Command claims services exercise general supervisory authority over claims matters arising within their assigned areas of operation. Command claims services will provide_ (i) Effective control and supervision of the investigation of incidents occurring within the geographic area of the command, occurring in other areas for which the command is assigned claims responsibility or occurring in the course of the command's operations. (ii) Services for the processing and settlement of claims for and against the United States. (2) The commander of a major overseas command or other commands that include areas outside the United States, its territories, and possessions, and report directly to the Department of the Army (DA) may be designated by TJAG to establish, a command claims service. (3) A command claims service may be a separate organization with a designated commander or chief. If it is part of the Office of the Staff Judge Advocate (SJA) of the command, the SJA will also be the chief of the command claims service. (d) The following may be designated as area claims offices: (1) An office under the supervision of the senior judge advocate (JA) of each command or organization so designated by the Commander, USARCS. The senior JA is the head of the area claims office.
