FR941116-0-00032 FR941116-0-00006 Principal Maintenance Inspector Involvement These same commenters request that a statement be added to proposed paragraph (b) to indicate that the ``AD is no longer applicable once a revision to the FAA-approved maintenance program is implemented.'' These commenters indicate that it would be less cumbersome to operators to accomplish all of the AD-required tasks within the parameters of their FAA-approved maintenance program, where the cognizant PMI would be the FAA official permitted to approve any further changes to the program. These commenters contend that it is much more appropriate for the PMI, rather than the Seattle Aircraft Certification Office (ACO) engineering staff, to approve subsequent changes to the program once the program has been approved. The commenters consider that the PMI is more qualified than the ACO staff to approve tasks on training, reporting, and adjustments to the leak check intervals based upon reliability program recommendations. The commenters point out that the subject matter of the rule is clearly maintenance-related, and the ACO staff is not equipped to effectively respond to requests for maintenance interval changes that may occur. The FAA does not concur with this request for the same reasons it did not concur with a similar request made by these commenters to the previous supplemental NPRM. While the FAA agrees that the PMI may be permitted certain oversight of the proposed alternative maintenance program provision of the rule (specifically with regard to recordkeeping), the FAA does not agree that the PMI should be tasked with approving certain adjustments of the program. As was explained in detail in the preamble to the supplemental NPRM, failure threshold criteria and definitive leak/failure rate data do not exist for the majority of the subject valves; therefore, a PMI would have no data on which to base the approval of an extension of a leak check interval for many valves with the assurance that the valve would not fail within the adjusted interval. In light of this, it is essential that the FAA, at the ACO level, have feedback as to the leak and failure rates experienced in the field. Although the PMI's serve as the FAA's critical link with the operators (and the PMI's oversight responsibilities will not be minimized by this AD action), it is the staff of the ACO that provides the engineering support necessary to evaluate whether increases in leak check intervals will maintain an acceptable level of safety. Further, the FAA considers it essential that any adjustment of the required leak check intervals, seal change intervals, and data reporting procedures should be approved in a uniform manner in order to ensure that the program is administered uniformly (and appropriately) fleetwide. The staff of the Seattle ACO is in the best position to ensure that this is accomplished. Additionally, given that possible new relevant issues might be revealed during the approval process, it is imperative that the engineering staff at the ACO have such feedback. In any case, the ACO staff will work closely with the cognizant PMI to ensure that any approved revisions to this aspect of the maintenance program are appropriate and workable for the applicable airline. Specific Leak Check Instructions One commenter requests that the proposed rule be revised to include a procedure for performing the leak checks. The commenter suggests that the instructions contained in Boeing Service Letter 737&hyph;SL&hyph;38&hyph;3&hyph;A (which applies to Model 737 series airplanes) be referenced in order to ensure that all affected operators perform the same leak check. The FAA does not concur totally. The instructions contained in Boeing Service Letter 737&hyph;SL&hyph;38&hyph;3&hyph;A address only the forward lavatory service panel (not the aft or executive panels), and do not correlate with the requirement to perform a leak check of the outer cap on certain valves. The instructions do contain procedures for performing a leak test of the toilet tank anti-siphon (check) valve, which are appropriate for performing that leak check in accordance with the requirements of this AD; therefore, the FAA has added a Note to paragraphs (a)(5) and (b)(3) to indicate that operators may consider the leak check procedures relative to the toilet tank anti-siphon (check) valve in accordance with the service letter as an acceptable means of compliance with those paragraphs. The FAA does agree that a standard leak check procedure would be beneficial, and will consider revision of this final rule to include one if an acceptable procedure becomes available in the future. Another commenter requests that the proposed rule be revised to include specific procedures for conducting the leak check of the dump valve. This commenter suggests that this leak check should be performed by filling the toilet tank with water or rinsing fluid to a level such that the bowl is approximately half full (at least 2 inches above the flapper in the bowl) and waiting at least 5 minutes to determine if leakage is present. The FAA concurs and has revised the rule to include a new Note 1, which indicates that operators may conduct this particular leak check in accordance with the procedures suggested by this commenter. Service Panel Waste Drain Cap Leak Check Several commenters request that paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (b)(2)(i) of the proposed rule be revised to delete the requirement to perform a leak check of the service panel waste drain cap that does not have an inner door with a second positive seal. These commenters state that, to perform this leak check, approximately 20 gallons of contaminated waste water are required to be dumped on the ramp; such dumping violates various environmental regulations. The FAA does not agree that conducting this leak check will necessarily require spilling a vast amount of waste water on the ramp. Compliance with FAA rules is not a license to violate environmental regulations. Operators could devise a means to catch or handle the waste water to ensure that they will be in compliance with applicable State or Federal environmental regulations.
