FR941121-2-00088 FR941121-2-00075 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT Renewal of the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Office of Personnel Management has renewed the charter for the Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee (the Committee). It takes this action in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act, which requires rechartering advisory committees at least every 2 years to insure against continuing committees that no longer carry out their original purposes. The Committee will continue to advise the Director of the Office of Personnel Management in matters pertaining to establishing rates under 5 U.S.C., chapter 53, subchapter IV, as amended. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 31, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Office of Personnel Management. Anthony F. Ingrassia, Chairman. Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee Charter A. Official Designation. The Federal Prevailing Rate Advisory Committee. B. Objectives and Scope. The Committee shall study the prevailing rate system and other matters pertinent to the establishment of prevailing rates under 5 U.S.C., chapter 53, subchapter IV, as amended. C. Duration. There is no time limit set forth in 5 U.S.C., chapter 53, subchapter IV. The mandate of the Committee is one of a continuing nature, until amended or revoked by appropriate act of Congress. D. Responsible Agency Official. The Committee makes recommendations to the Office of Personnel Management. The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Director, Office of Personnel Management. E. Agency Providing Support. United States Office of Personnel Management. F. Committee Responsibilities. The Committee is advisory; its primary responsibility is to study the prevailing rate system and from time to time advise the Office of Personnel Management thereon. The Committee shall submit an annual report to the Office of Personnel Management and the President, for transmittal to Congress, as required by section 5347(e) of 5 U.S.C. G. Estimated Annual Operating Costs in Dollars and Staff-Years. Using current salary schedules, $198,000.00 and two staff-years. H. Estimated Number and Frequency of Meetings. The meeting schedule contemplated for the Committee is two meetings each month throughout a calendar year; more frequent meetings shall be scheduled when deemed necessary. I. The Committee's Termination Date. There is no statutory termination due. The Chairman of the Committee serves for a 4-year term, as set forth in section 5347(a)(1) of 5 U.S.C. Management members serve at the pleasure of the designating authority. Labor membership is reviewed every 2 years to assure entitlement under the criteria set forth in section 5347(b) of 5 U.S.C. J. Date Filed. Dated: October 31, 1994. James B. King, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28586 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M
