FR940317-0-00057 FR940317-0-00022 In particular, investors need to be informed about the nature and effects of each significant term of the debt, including credit enhancements and risk modifiers, such as inverse floaters and detachable call rights. Investors in these securities should be aware of their exposure to interest rate volatility, under all possible scenarios. In addition, any legal risk concerning the issuer's authority to issue securities with unconventional features needs to be disclosed. The PSA recently has identified disclosure that should be provided in connection with the offer of financial instruments that include such features as auction and swap-based inverse floaters and embedded cap bonds. 42 42 PSA, Recommendation on Dissemination of Product_Specific Terms For Municipal Derivative Products (1993). Credit enhancements are used with increasing frequency in the municipal market. According to published information, over 37% of the dollar volume of new long term issues carry some form of credit enhancement. 43 The existence of bond insurance or other credit enhancement creates the need for disclosure concerning the provider of the credit enhancement and the terms of the enhancement 44 to avoid misleading investors concerning the value of the enhancements provided and the party's ability to fund the enhancement. The GFOA recommends that appropriate financial information about the assets, revenues, reserves and results of operations of credit enhancers be provided in the official statement. In determining the extent of disclosure, consideration should be given to the amount of the enhancement relative to the income and cash flows of the issuer or obligor, conditions precedent to application of the enhancement, duration of the enhancement, and other factors indicating a material relationship between the enhancement and the investor's anticipated return. 43 PSA, Municipal Market Developments (Aug. 1993) at 5. 44 See Revisions to Rules Regulating Money Market Funds, Securities Act Rel. No. 7038, 58 FR 68585, 68588 (footnote omitted) (``Money Market Fund Release''); Securities and Exchange Commission, Report by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on the Financial Guarantee Market: The Use of the Exemption in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 for Securities Guaranteed by Banks and the Use of Insurance Policies to Guarantee Debt Securities (Aug. 28, 1987) (``SEC Financial Guarantee Report'') at 82; Adopting Release, 54 FR at 28812. In a trend that has become increasingly common, municipal bond insurers are including in indentures provisions that appear to delegate to the bond insurer the ability to modify terms of the indenture, prior to default, without the consent of, or even prior notification to, bondholders. 45 There should be clear disclosure of any such provision that may have a material impact on the rights of bondholders or the obligations of the issuer, including the specific material rights of the bondholder that could be so altered. 45 See Allstate Letter. 3. Financial Information a. Financial Accounting. Sound financial statements are critical to the integrity of the primary and secondary markets for municipal securities, just as they are for corporate securities. 46 The key to the reliability and relevancy of the information contained in the financial statements of a municipal issuer is the use of a comprehensive body of accounting principles consistently applied by the issuer. 47 46 See NY City Report at Ch. II p. 92. 47 See GFOA Guidelines at 50. Although there continues to be some diversity in the financial reporting practices used in preparing financial statements of governmental issuers, practice in the municipal market is evolving rapidly to reliance on generally accepted accounting principles (``GAAP'') as determined by the Government Accounting Standards Board (``GASB''). 48 Only two years after GASB was founded in 1984, financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, as promulgated by GASB, were required by 75.2% of cities, 78.3% of counties and 69% of school districts responding to a research survey. 49 Forty-six states currently require, or are in the process of establishing a requirement, that state government financial statements be presented in accordance with GAAP. 50 In addition, local as well as state governments that receive significant amounts of federal aid must prepare financial statements in accordance with GAAP or provide information concerning variance from GAAP. 51 48 The financial statements of corporate obligors backing conduit securities should follow GAAP for such entities, as established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board and other bodies. 49 Ingram & Robbins, Financial Reporting Practices of Local Governments, Government Accounting Standards Board (1987) at 12 (The survey results were based on information received from 567 respondents to a survey questionnaire mailed to 1161 government units). 50 State Comptrollers: Technical Activities and Functions (1992 Edition). 51 Where state and local governments programs that are subject to the federal ``Single Audit Act of 1984,'' Public Law 98&hyph;502 et seq. prepare financial statements on a basis other than GAAP, ``the audit report should state the nature of the variances therefrom and follow professional guidance for reporting on financial statements which have not been prepared in accordance with GAAP.'' Office of Management and Budget, ``Questions and Answers on the Single Audit Process of OMB Circular A&hyph;128, `Single Audits of State and Local Governments,' '' 52 FR at 43716 (Nov. 13, 1987), question 35. The GFOA Guidelines call for financial statements that are either prepared in accordance with GAAP or accompanied by a quantified (if practicable) explanation of the differences. 52 To avoid misunderstanding, investors need to be informed of the basis for financial statement presentation. Accordingly, when a municipal issuer neither uses GAAP nor provides a quantified explanation of material deviations from GAAP, investors need a full explanation of the accounting principles followed. 52 GFOA Guidelines at 45. b. Audits . Investors in the public securities markets have a reasonable expectation that annual financial statements contained in offering documents or periodic reports are subject to audit. 53 In the case of municipal issuers, these financial statement audits are typically conducted by either an independent certified public accountant or a state auditor. Although the frequency and timeliness of audits vary, every state requires some periodic audit verification of government financial statements. 54 A prudent investor needs to be able to evaluate the extent to which he or she can rely on the second look an auditor provides. 53 See Gauthier, An Elected Official's Guide to Auditing (1992) at vii and xi. 54 State Comptrollers: Technical Activities and Functions; NASACT, Municipal Task Force Report (1990) (``NASACT 1990 Task Force Report'') at 12.
