FR941027-2-00122 FR941027-2-00074 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement; Smith County, TX AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement (EIS) will be prepared for a proposed new location highway project in Smith County, Texas. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John R. Mack, P.E., Acting District Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, Room 826, Federal Building, 300 East 8th Street, Austin, Texas 78701. Rodolfo J. Rivera, P.E., Director of Transportation Planning and Development, Texas Department of Transportation, P.O. Box 2031, Tyler, Texas 75710. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT), will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to construct the southern section of Loop 49, an approximately 40 mile circumferential controlled access highway around the urbanized area of Tyler in Smith County, Texas. The southern section of the proposed Loop 49 extends from State Highway 155 to State Highway 110 in southern Smith County. The length of the project varies, depending on the selected alternative, from approximately 15.3 kilometers (9.5 miles) to 18.5 kilometers (11.5 miles). The proposed action is intended to provide access and increased mobility to the southern Tyler/Smith County area; to alleviate traffic congestion on existing roadways in urbanized Smith County; and to provide a safer, more convenient route for traffic travelling through the Tyler area. Alternatives to the proposed action to be discussed in the EIS consist of (1) taking no action; and (2) improving existing roadways in the urbanized areas of Smith County. The build alternatives include three alternative alignments along new location rights-of-way connecting State Highway 155 to State Highway 110. Impacts caused by the construction and operation of Loop 49 will vary according to the alternative alignments utilized. Generally, impacts would include the following: transportation impacts (construction detours, construction traffic, and mobility improvement), air and noise impacts from construction equipment and operation of the roadway, water impacts from construction area and roadway stormwater runoff, impacts to waters of the United States including wetlands from right-of-way encroachment, and impacts to residents and businesses based on potential relocations. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, and to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed interest in the proposal. A Major Investment Study has been completed in compliance with the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act. In addition, several meetings have been held by the Loop 49 Steering Committee, composed of representatives of local governments, agencies, and interested organizations and citizens. A public meeting was held on October 13, 1994, at Robert E. Lee High School in Tyler, Texas, at which public comments on the proposed action and alternatives were requested. In addition, a public hearing will be held after publication of the Draft EIS. Public notice will be given of the time and place of the hearing. The Draft EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to the public hearing. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA or TxDOT at the addresses provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research, Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program). Issued on: October 20, 1994. John R. Mack, Acting District Engineer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26618 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
