FR941102-0-00101 FR941102-0-00026 (ii) In the case of a transaction in an equity security, whether he is a market maker in the security (otherwise than by reason of his acting as a block positioner in that security). * * * * * (e) *␣*␣* (9) Payment for order flow shall mean any monetary payment, service, property, or other benefit that results in remuneration, compensation, or consideration to a broker or dealer from any broker or dealer, national securities exchange, registered securities association, or exchange member in return for the routing of customer orders by such broker or dealer to any broker or dealer, national securities exchange, registered securities association, or exchange member for execution, including but not limited to: research, clearance, custody, products or services; reciprocal agreements for the provision of order flow; adjustment of a broker or dealer's unfavorable trading errors; offers to participate as underwriter in public offerings; stock loans or shared interest accrued thereon; discounts, rebates, or any other reductions of or credits against any fee to, or expense or other financial obligation of, the broker or dealer routing a customer order that exceeds that fee, expense or financial obligation. * * * * * 3. Section 240.11Ac1&hyph;3 is added to read as follows: §240.11Ac1&hyph;3 Customer account statements. (a) No broker or dealer acting as agent for a customer may effect any transaction in, induce or attempt to induce the purchase or sale of, or direct orders for purchase or sale of, any subject security as defined in §240.11Ac1&hyph;2 or a security authorized for quotation on an automated inter-dealer quotation system that has the characteristics set forth in section 17B of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;2), unless such broker or dealer informs such customer, in writing, upon opening a new account and on an annual basis thereafter, of the following: (1) The broker's or dealer's policies regarding receipt of payment for order flow as defined in §240.10b&hyph;10(e)(9), from any broker or dealer, national securities exchange, registered securities association, or exchange member to which it routes customers' orders for execution, including a statement as to whether any payment for order flow is received for routing customer orders and a detailed description of the nature of the compensation received; and (2) The broker's or dealer's policies for determining where to route customer orders that are the subject of payment for order flow as defined in §240.10b&hyph;10(e)(9) absent specific instructions from customers, including a description of the extent to which orders can be executed prices superior to the best bid or best offer as defined in §240.11Ac1&hyph;2. (b) Exemptions. The Commission, upon request or upon its own motion, may exempt by rule or by order, any broker or dealer or any class of brokers or dealers, security or class of securities from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section with respect to any transaction or class of transactions, either unconditionally or on specified terms and conditions, if the Commission determines that such exemption is consistent with the pubic interest and the protection of investors. By the Commission. Dated: October 27, 1994. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27109 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;P&hyph;M
