FR940803-1-00012 FR940803-1-00004 Accounts held by a parent or custodian for a minor under a state's Uniform Gift to Minors Act (or Uniform Transfers to Minors Act) Individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and simplified employee pension (SEP) accounts Examples of accounts not subject to the regulation are: Mortgage escrow accounts for collecting taxes and property insurance premiums Accounts established to make periodic disbursements on construction loans Trust accounts other than individual retirement accounts (IRAs) and simplified employee pension (SEP) accounts Accounts opened by an executor in the name of a decedent's estate Accounts of individuals operating businesses as sole proprietors Certificates of indebtedness. Some credit unions borrow funds from their members through a certificate of indebtedness that sets forth the terms and conditions of the repayment of the borrowing, such as federal credit unions do through 12 CFR 701.38. Such an account does not represent shares in a credit union and is not covered by part 707. 2. Other investments. The term ``account'' does not apply to all products of a credit union. Examples of products not covered are: Government securities Mutual funds Annuities Securities or obligations of a credit union Contractual arrangements such as repurchase agreements, interest rate swaps, and bankers acceptances Purchases of U.S. Savings Bonds through a credit union Services offered through a group purchasing plan or a credit union service organization (CUSO) 3. Unincorporated nonbusiness association accounts. An account held by or offered to an unincorporated association of natural persons is a consumer account if the account is primarily for a nonbusiness purpose. The following factors may be considered: The credit union may rely on the declaration of the person representing the association as to whether the account is held for a business or nonbusiness purpose. Whether the association has paid employees, which would indicate a business purpose for the account. For example, an account held by a religious organization that has payroll obligations is not covered by the regulation. Examples of unincorporated nonbusiness associations are softball teams, bowling leagues, and church and school groups. Accounts of such organizations opened on or after the compliance date of part 707 are covered by part 707. Such accounts in existence prior to the compliance date of part 707 are not covered unless one of the association members notifies the credit union that it would like to receive applicable account disclosures. If the credit union is notified by such an organization, it must begin complying with the requirements of this rule for subsequent disclosures as applicable, such as periodic statements and change-in-terms notices, within a reasonable period of time after notification. A credit union would be required to comply with the provisions regarding notices to existing members, including full disclosures at the credit union's option, if the association notifies the credit union prior to the first periodic statement mailing after the compliance date of part 707. 4. Options. All accounts are either fixed-rate or variable-rate accounts. (b) Advertisement
