FR940527-2-00069 FR940527-2-00059 B. CDC Activities 1. Provide technical assistance in the design and conduct of the research; 2. Provide technical guidance in the development of study protocols, consent forms and questionnaires; 3. Assist in designing a data management system; 4. Perform selected laboratory tests; 5. Coordinate research activities among the different sites; and 6. Participate in the analysis of research information and the presentation of research findings. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated based on the evidence submitted which specifically describes the applicants' abilities to meet the following criteria: 1. The inclusion of a detailed review of the scientific literature pertinent to the study being proposed and specific research questions and/or hypotheses that will guide the research. (25 points) 2. The originality and need for the proposed research and the extent to which it does not replicate past or present research efforts. (25 points) 3. The plans to develop and implement the study describing how study participants will be identified, enrolled, tested and followed. (25 points) 4. The ability to enroll and follow an adequate number of eligible study participants to assure proper conduct of the study. This includes both demonstration of the availability of HIV-infected potential study participants and the experience of the investigator in enrolling and following such persons. (25 points) 5. The applicant's current activities in AIDS and HIV or related research and how they will be applied to achieving the objectives of the study. Letters of support from cooperating organizations which demonstrate the nature and extent of such cooperation should be included. (20 points) 6. The applicant's understanding of the research objectives and their ability, willingness and/or need to collaborate with CDC and researchers from other study sites in study design and analysis, including use of common forms, and sharing of specimens (when appropriate) and data. (25 points) 7. The plan to protect the rights and confidentiality of all participants. (25 points) 8. The size, qualifications and time allocation of the proposed staff and the availability of facilities to be used during the research study. How the project will be administered to assure the proper management of the daily activities of the program should be described. (10 points) 9. The proposed schedule for accomplishing the activities of the research, including time-frames. (10 points) 10. A detailed evaluation plan which specifies methods and instruments to be used to evaluate the progress made in attaining research objectives. (10 points) (A maximum of 200 points can be awarded.) The budget will be reviewed to determine the extent to which it is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with the intended use of funds. Budget information should be specific to the purpose of each budget item and all budget categories should be itemized. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are not subject to review under Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number is 93.943, Epidemiologic Research Studies of Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) Infection in Selected Population Groups.
