FR940527-1-00047 FR940527-1-00014 Third, we have found that some hospitals that employ physicians are not appropriately eliminating Part B physician salaries from the total salaries reported for the wage index as required in the cost reporting instructions. Accordingly, we are proposing that hospitals exclude all physicians' salaries (both Part A and Part B related) from the wage data reported on the Medicare cost report. In addition, we are proposing that the salaries for teaching physicians also be excluded, since payment for these services does not fall under the prospective payment system. Regarding Part A CRNA (certified registered nurse anesthetist) costs, we propose to require hospitals to exclude these salaries from the wage data reported on the cost report. These Part A services are currently paid on a ``pass-through'' basis, outside the prospective payment system. Therefore, we believe it is appropriate to exclude these costs from the wage index. Moreover, this Part A pass-through provision is applicable to a limited number of hospitals (small rural hospitals). All other hospitals are paid for CRNA services under Part B of the Medicare program. Therefore, in order to ensure consistency across areas, we believe that no CRNA costs should be reflected in the wage index computation. CRNA services are generally excluded from the wage index as Part B services. Since the Part A portion was granted as a pass through for certain rural hospitals, it is currently included in wage index. We note that these changes are effective for cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1994 and will not affect the current reporting of physicians and CRNA salaries. 2. Management Contracts The second major proposed change concerns the inclusion of certain management contracts in the hospital wage index data. Before FY 1994, the wage index did not include any costs associated with contract services. However, many hospitals indicated that they were inappropriately disadvantaged because they were forced to contract out for nurses and technicians due to shortages of these services in their areas. To alleviate this problem, we revised the cost report to collect the data associated with any direct patient care service contract (that is, nursing, therapeutic, etc.). We specifically excluded any Part B services, Part A physician services, management contracts, or any contract for services not directly involved with patient care. The hospital industry has expressed concern that we do not currently recognize the cost of certain contract management services. In particular, many rural hospitals that are either unable to recruit or cannot afford top managers such as hospital administrators must contract for the services of these individuals. Therefore, we believe it is appropriate to include the costs of certain management contracts in the wage index. We propose to expand the definition of contract services reported on the Worksheet S&hyph;3 to include the personnel cost associated with contracts for any personnel hired in the top four positions within the hospital. Allowable contract management services would be limited to the personnel costs for those individuals who are working at the hospital facility in the capacity of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)/Hospital Administrator, Chief Operating Officer (COO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), or Nursing Administrator. The exact titles assigned to individuals may vary but the individuals should be performing essentially the same duties as customarily assigned these management positions. The hospitals (via HCFA&hyph;339 form) would be required to provide the fiscal intermediary with complete details on all direct patient care related contracts and the description and aggregate totals for all management contracts. Because of the difficulty in accurately determining hours and isolating wage related costs for the other types of contract services, the wage data would continue to exclude all other non-patient care contract services except those limited management contracts discussed above. Since the current cost report does not provide for the collection of management contract data, this revised definition would not be effective until cost reporting periods beginning on or after October 1, 1994. To provide consistent reporting of data, hospitals must continue to exclude all management contracts until the FY 1995 data is reported. 3. Reporting of Wage-Related Costs Since we began including fringe benefits in the wage index, we have been concerned with the inconsistent reporting of fringe benefits, whether because of a lack of provider proficiency in identifying fringe benefit costs or varying interpretations across fiscal intermediaries of the definition for fringe benefits in PRM&hyph;I, ยง2144.1. Although we have attempted to promote consistent reporting of fringe benefits by providing fiscal intermediaries with general guidelines to be used in determining allowable fringe benefit costs, the intermediaries must necessarily make judgments as to whether certain costs qualify as a fringe benefit, and inconsistencies persist. Last summer, HCFA conducted a survey to determine what costs the health care industry thought should be recognized as fringe benefit costs. The survey consisted of a questionnaire with a yes/no response column and a column for comments. We received 238 responses from hospitals, fiscal intermediaries, state hospital associations, national hospital associations, state agencies, and bureaus and offices within HCFA. The results of those surveys were examined closely by the MTAG task force. Based on the recommendations of the task force, we are proposing several changes that we believe will promote more equitable and consistent reporting of wage-related costs for all hospitals. Where the term ``fringe benefit'' has been used in the past, we will now refer to these costs as ``wage- related costs'' for wage index purposes. We believe that this change in terminology will eliminate the confusion regarding those wage-related costs that we will allow to be incorporated in the wage index versus the definition of fringe benefits required by Medicare principles for cost reimbursement purposes. Accordingly, we are proposing to revise the Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II to capture wage-related costs in three parts.
