FR940721-2-00108 FR940721-2-00065 On April 2, 1993, the Commission directed the staff to develop a compatibility policy for all program areas other than low level radioactive waste. While developing the policy, the staff participated in discussions with the Agreement States, the non-Agreement States, the regulated community, and the general public. A working group was formed and a draft issues paper was developed. The draft issues paper was discussed with the Agreement States in a public meeting in May 1993 and draft options, SECY&hyph;93&hyph;290, were discussed in October 1993 at the All Agreement States Meeting. The Agreement and non-Agreement States, the regulated community and the general public participated in a public workshop on the final issues paper in July 1993. Results of Discussions With Various Groups A. States The States would like to see a minimum number of requirements for compatibility determinations. From the comments at the July 1993 public workshop and during the October 1993 All Agreement States Meeting in Tempe, Arizona, the following positions, though not a formal consensus, emerged: The States are in favor of: 1. uniformity of requirements that are necessary to assure interstate commerce, i.e., labels, signs and symbols. 2. uniformity of radiation standards necessary to protect public health and safety. However, States want the flexibility to set stricter dose limits when local conditions warrant them. 3. early and substantive involvement in the deliberations on the development of regulations. B. Regulated Community The regulated community desires strict adherence to uniform national radiation standards so that licensees meet the same standards in all States and will not be subject to different regulations in different States. C. Environmental Group An environmental advocacy group indicated that Federal and State regulations should be the minimum requirements with the proviso that communities may have the flexibility to go beyond those regulations. In the formulation of this draft policy statement, the staff has carefully considered the views of the Agreement States, the regulated community, the environmental group and other members of the public. II. Discussion The question posed by the current task to develop a compatibility policy centers on making a determination of what components or elements of a State radiation control program are needed beyond those which establish and maintain an adequate radiation control program. Presently, adequacy of Agreement State programs is only applied to program elements in terms of their direct or indirect bearing on public health and safety and compatibility is only applied to the degree of conformity between State regulations and NRC's regulations. However, staff believes that some regulations should be a matter of adequacy to protect public health and safety and some program elements should be a matter of compatibility. In order to fully understand this concept, the relationship between adequacy and compatibility must be examined. Section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act requires that Agreement State programs be both ``adequate to protect the public health and safety'' and ``compatible with the Commission's program.'' Thus, under the proposed compatibility policy, these separate findings must be based on consideration of two different objectives; first, providing for an acceptable level of protection for public health and safety in an Agreement State (the ``adequacy'' component), and second, providing for the overall national interest in radiation protection, (the ``compatibility'' component). An ``adequate'' program, including regulations or other legally binding measures (e.g., license conditions) and program elements (e.g., organization and resources) should consist of those attributes considered necessary by the Commission to maintain an acceptable level of protection of the public health and safety within the Agreement State. A ``compatible'' program, including radiation protection standards and other program elements, should consist of those attributes considered necessary by the Commission to meet a larger national interest in radiation protection. The requirements for adequacy would focus on the protection of public health and safety within a particular State, whereas the requirements for compatibility would focus on the extraterritorial effect of State action or inaction either on other States or on the national program for radiation protection. As a basis for determining what ultimately will be required for compatibility, the Commission must first identify what is necessary for a State program to be ``adequate.''
