FR941222-0-00043 FR941222-0-00004 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Parts 208 and 225 [Regulations H and Y; Docket No. R&hyph;0795] Capital; Capital Adequacy Guidelines AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board or Federal Reserve) is revising its capital adequacy guidelines for state member banks and bank holding companies to establish a limitation on the amount of certain deferred tax assets that may be included in (that is, not deducted from) Tier 1 capital for risk-based and leverage capital purposes. The capital rule was developed in response to the Financial Accounting Standards Board's (FASB) issuance of Statement No. 109, ``Accounting for Income Taxes'' (FAS 109). Under the final rule, deferred tax assets that can only be realized if an institution earns taxable income in the future are limited for regulatory capital purposes to the amount that the institution expects to realize within one year of the quarter-end report date_based on its projection of taxable income_or 10 percent of Tier 1 capital, whichever is less. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 1, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charles H. Holm, Project Manager, (202) 452&hyph;3502; Nancy J. Rawlings, Senior Financial Analyst, (202) 452&hyph;3059, Regulatory Reporting and Accounting Issues Section; Barbara J. Bouchard, Supervisory Financial Analyst, (202) 452&hyph;3072, Policy Development Section, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. For the hearing impaired only , Telecommunication Device for the Deaf (TDD), Dorothea Thompson (202) 452&hyph;3544. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background A. Characteristics of Deferred Tax Assets Deferred tax assets are assets that reflect, for financial reporting purposes, benefits of certain aspects of tax laws and rules. Deferred tax assets may arise because of specific limitations under tax laws of different tax jurisdictions that require that certain net operating losses (e.g., when, for tax purposes, expenses exceed revenues) or tax credits be carried forward if they cannot be used to recover taxes previously paid. These ``carryforwards'' are realized only if the institution generates sufficient future taxable income during the carryforward period. Deferred tax assets may also arise from the tax effects of certain events that have been recognized in one period for financial statement purposes but will result in deductible amounts in a future period for tax purposes, i.e., the tax effects of ``deductible temporary differences.'' For example, many depository institutions and bank holding companies may report higher income to taxing authorities than they reflect in their regulatory reports 1 because their loan loss provisions are expensed for reporting purposes but are not deducted for tax purposes until the loans are charged off. 1 State member banks are required to file quarterly Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Reports) with the Federal Reserve. Bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $150 million or more file quarterly Consolidated Financial Statements for Bank Holding Companies (FR Y&hyph;9C reports) with the Federal Reserve. Deferred tax assets arising from an organization's deductible temporary differences may or may not exceed the amount of taxes previously paid that the organization could recover if the organization's temporary differences fully reversed at the report date. Some of these deferred tax assets may theoretically be ``carried back'' and recovered from taxes previously paid. On the other hand, when deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences exceed such previously paid tax amounts, they will be realized only if there is sufficient future taxable income during the carryforward period. Such deferred tax assets, and deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, are hereafter referred to as ``deferred tax assets that are dependent upon future taxable income.'' B. Summary of FAS 109 In February 1992, the FASB issued Statement No. 109, `` Accounting for Income Taxes '' which supersedes Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 11 and FASB Statement No. 96. FAS 109 provides guidance on many aspects of accounting for income taxes, including the accounting for deferred tax assets. FAS 109 potentially allows some state member banks and bank holding companies to record significantly higher deferred tax assets than previously permitted under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the federal banking agencies' prior reporting policies. 2 Unlike the general practice under previous standards, FAS 109 permits the reporting of deferred tax assets that are dependent upon future taxable income. However, FAS 109 requires the establishment of a valuation allowance to reduce the net deferred tax asset to an amount that is more likely than not (i.e., a greater than 50 percent likelihood) to be realized. 2 The federal banking agencies consist of the Federal Reserve Board (Board), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS) (hereafter, the ``agencies''.) FAS 109 became effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 1992. The adoption of this standard has resulted in the reporting of additional deferred tax assets in Call Reports and FR Y&hyph;9C reports that directly increase institutions' undivided profits (retained earnings) and Tier 1 capital. C. Concerns Regarding Deferred Tax Assets That Are Dependent Upon Future Taxable Income The Federal Reserve has certain concerns about including in capital deferred tax assets that are dependent upon future taxable income. Realization of such assets depends on whether a banking organization has sufficient future taxable income during the carryforward period. Since a banking organization that is in a net operating loss carryforward position is often experiencing financial difficulties, its prospects for generating sufficient taxable income in the future are uncertain. In addition, the condition of and future prospects for an organization often can and do change very rapidly in the banking environment. This raises concerns about the realizability of deferred tax assets that are dependent upon future taxable income, even when an organization may be sound and well-managed. Thus, for many organizations such deferred tax assets may not be realized, and for other organizations there is a high degree of subjectivity in determining the realizability of this asset. Furthermore, while many organizations may be able to make reasonable projections of taxable income for relatively short periods and actually realize this income, beyond a short time period, the reliability of the projections tends to decrease significantly. In addition, unlike many other assets, banking organizations generally cannot obtain the value of deferred tax assets by selling them. Moreover, as an organization's condition deteriorates, it is less likely that deferred tax assets that are dependent upon future taxable income will be realized. Therefore, the organization is required under FAS 109 to reduce its deferred tax assets through increases to the asset's valuation allowance. Additions to this allowance would reduce the organization's regulatory capital at precisely the time it needs capital support the most. Thus, the inclusion in capital of deferred tax assets that are dependent upon future taxable income raises supervisory concerns. Because of these concerns, the agencies, under the auspices of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), considered whether it would be appropriate to adopt FAS 109 for regulatory reporting purposes. On August 3, 1992, the FFIEC requested public comment on this matter, and on December 23, 1992, after consideration of the comments received, the FFIEC decided that banks and savings associations should adopt FAS 109 for reporting purposes in Call Reports and Thrift Financial Reports (TFRs) beginning in the first quarter of 1993 (or the beginning of their first fiscal year thereafter, if later). Furthermore, the Board decided that bank holding companies should adopt FAS 109 in FR Y&hyph;9C Reports at the same time. D. Proposal for the Treatment of Deferred Tax Assets The FFIEC, in reaching its decision on regulatory reporting, also recommended that each of the agencies amend its regulatory capital standards to limit the amount of deferred tax assets that can be included in regulatory capital. In response to the FFIEC's recommendation, on February 11, 1993, the Board issued for public comment a proposal to adopt the recommendation of the FFIEC in full, as summarized below (54 FR 8007, February 11, 1993). The FFIEC recommended that the agencies limit the amount of deferred tax assets that are dependent upon future taxable income that can be included in regulatory capital to the lesser of:
