FR941117-0-00079 FR941117-0-00011 (1) Clearly identify the pertinent major filing(s); (2) Comply with all applicable requirements of §1.41 through §1.52 of this chapter; (3) Contain specific allegations of fact which, except for facts of which official notice may be taken, are supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof, and which are sufficient to demonstrate that the petitioner (or respondent) is a party in interest and that a grant or other FCC action regarding the major filing would be inconsistent with the public interest; (4) Be filed within 30 days after the date of the Public Notice listing the major filing; and. (5) Contain a certificate of service showing that a copy has been mailed to the applicant no later than the date of filing with the FCC. (b) Expansion . Petitions to deny a major amendment to an application may raise only matters directly related to the major amendment that could not have been raised in connection with the application as originally filed. This paragraph does not apply to petitioners who gain standing because of the major amendment. (c) Dismissal . The FCC may, by letter, dismiss any petition to deny a major filing if the petition does not comply with the requirements of this section, if the issues raised become moot, or if the petitioner or his/her attorney fails to appear at a settlement conference pursuant to §22.135. The reason(s) for the dismissal are stated in the letter. When a petition to deny is dismissed, any related responsive pleadings are also dismissed. §22.131 Mutually exclusive applications. Two or more pending applications are mutually exclusive if the grant of one application would effectively preclude the grant of one or more of the others under the rules governing the Public Mobile service involved. (a) Procedures . Procedures for disposing of mutually exclusive applications are prescribed in the subparts of this part governing the individual Public Mobile Services and in part 1 of this chapter. The FCC may first dismiss any applications that are untimely filed or otherwise subject to dismissal under §22.128. If any remaining applications continue to be mutually exclusive, the FCC may grant one of the mutually exclusive applications and dismiss the rest pursuant to §22.128. In selecting the application to grant, the FCC may use competitive bidding, random selection processes or comparative hearings, depending on the nature of the mutually exclusive applications involved. (b) Separate applications . Applicants that file an application, knowing that it will be mutually exclusive with one or more applications, should not include in the mutually exclusive application a request for other channels of facilities that would not, by themselves, render the application mutually exclusive with those other applications. Instead, the request for such other channels or facilities should be filed in a separate application. §22.132 Grant of applications. Applications for authorization may be granted thirty days after the issuance date of a Public Notice listing an application or the latest filed major amendment thereto as acceptable for filing. (a) Criteria for grants . The FCC grants applications without a hearing if, after examination of the application and consideration of any petitions or other pleadings and of such other matters as it may officially notice, the FCC finds that: (1) A grant will serve the public interest, convenience, and necessity; (2) There are no substantial and material questions of fact presented; (3) The applicant is eligible and qualified under applicable FCC regulations and policies; (4) The application is acceptable for filing, and complies with the FCC rules and other applicable requirements; (5) The application has not been designated for a hearing after being selected in a random selection process; (6) There are no applications entitled to comparative consideration with the application being granted; and (7) Operation of the proposed station would not cause interference to any authorized station(s). (b) Grant of petitioned applications . The FCC may grant, without a formal hearing, applications against which petitions to deny has been filed. If any petition(s) to deny are pending (i.e. have not been dismissed pursuant to §22.130(c) or withdrawn by the petitioner) when an application is granted, the FCC denies the petition(s) and issues a concise statement of the reason(s) for the denial, disposing of all substantive issues raised in the petitions. (c) Partial and conditional grants . The FCC may grant applications in part, and/or subject to conditions other than those normally applied to authorizations of the same type. When the FCC does this, it will inform the applicant of the reasons therefor. Such partial or conditional grants are final unless the FCC revises its action in response to a petition for reconsideration. Such petitions for reconsideration must be filed by the applicant within thirty days after the date of the letter or order stating the reasons for the partial or conditional grant, and must reject the partial or conditional grant and return the instrument of authorization. (d) Designation for hearing . The FCC may designate applications for a hearing, specifying with particularity the matters in issue, if, after consideration of the application, any petitions or other pleadings, and other matters which it may officially notice, the FCC is unable to make one or more of the findings listed in paragraph (a) of this section. The FCC may grant, deny or take other action with respect to applications designated for a hearing. §22.135 Settlement conference. Parties are encouraged to use alternative dispute resolution procedures to settle disputes (see subpart E of part 1 of this chapter). In any contested proceeding, the FCC, in its discretion, may direct the parties or their attorneys to appear before it for a conference. (a) The purposes of such conferences are: (1) To obtain admissions of fact or stipulations between the parties as to any or all of the matters in controversy; (2) To consider the necessity for or desirability of amendments to the pleadings, or of additional pleadings or evidentiary submissions; (3) To consider simplification or narrowing of the issues; (4) To encourage settlement of the matters in controversy by agreement between the parties; and (5) To consider other matters that may aid in the resolution of the contested proceeding.
