FR940719-2-00008 FR940719-2-00003 For Spring Seeded Crops: ␣ 1For policies canceled during period of 1Percent of paid premium to be returned January, February, March, April 75 May 1 through May 14 50 May 15 through May 31 25 After May 31 0 For Fall Seeded Crops: ␣ 1For policies canceled during period of 1Percent of paid premium to be returned July, August, September 75 October 1 through October 14 50 October 15 through October 31 25 After November 1 0 All other terms and conditions of the Policy and any endorsements to the Policy remain unchanged. Minnesota Mandatory Endorsement Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. In compliance with the insurance laws of the State of Minnesota, the following provisions are added to the Policy. In the event that similar provisions are already contained in the Policy or in any other endorsements to the Policy, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this endorsement, the provisions of this endorsement shall take precedence over such similar provisions. How this endorsement affects your coverage: Paragraph ``C'' of the ``Our Duties'' section of Article IV_``Duties After Loss'' is deleted in its entirety and the following new paragraph ``C'' is substituted in lieu thereof: C. We will pay Your loss within five (5) days after: 1. We reach agreement with You; or 2. The entry of a final court judgement; or 3. The filing of an appraisal award with Us; and 4. The company has completed the audit process on the loss. Under Paragraph ``A'' of the Indemnity Payment'' section of Article V of the Policy and all specific Crop Loss Endorsements to the Policy, the following shall apply: A. In calculating the indemnity payable to You, if any, for any loss to any Wheat Crop the ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' shall mean the average derived by totalling the Minneapolis Grain Exchange commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for wheat for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, such immediately preceding consecutive full active trading days from the previous month(s) as are necessary will be added to the applicable months' trading days until fifteen (15) full active trading days are available to determine the Average Daily Settlement Price. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Minneapolis Grain Exchange commodity futures market during which more than fifty (50) wheat futures contracts are traded. In the event that trading on the Minneapolis Grain Exchange commodity futures market for wheat is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, such immediately preceding consecutive full active trading days from the previous month(s) as are necessary will be added to the applicable months' trading days until fifteen (15) full active trading days are available to determine the Average Daily Settlement Price. B. In calculating the indemnity payable to You, if any, for any loss to any Crop other than Wheat, the ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' for such Crop shall mean the average derived by totalling the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for such Crop for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price for any such Crop, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month for such Crop, such immediately preceding consecutive full active trading days from the previous month(s) as are necessary will be added to the applicable months' trading days until fifteen (15) full active trading days are available to determine the Average Daily Settlement Price for such Crop. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market during which more than fifty (50) futures contracts are traded for such Crop. In the event that trading on the Chicago Board of Trade commodity futures market for any such Crop is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, such immediately preceding consecutive full active trading days from the previous month(s) as are necessary will be added to the applicable months' trading days until fifteen (15) full active trading days are available to determine the Average Daily Settlement Price for such Crop.
