FR940922-2-00021 FR940922-2-00006 Comment 54 Respondent argues that the Department should reallocate horticultural costs based on net orchard area because the Department failed to account for the headlands and sidelands of other orchard crops. DOC Position We disagree. Since respondent did not provide an exact breakdown between canopy, shelterbelts, headlands, sidelands, pasture, and residential area, the Department imputed the land area devoted to headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts. In addition, this grower's response to the Department's questionnaire indicated that the pasture area was leased to another party. Headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts are crucial to growing kiwifruit. However, respondent did not put forward any support that demonstrated that headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts are an integral part of this grower's other crops. Without any contrary evidence on the record, the Department could only conclude that the land area for headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts applies solely to kiwifruit production. Grower 17 Comment 55 Petitioners argue that the Department should incorporate into its COP analysis the cost of the spray expense that the grower sold to a third party because the grower failed to provide an invoice for it at verification. Furthermore, petitioners contend that there is no indication that the sale price for the spray was the same as the grower's purchase price for the spray. Petitioners argue that if the resale price of the spray was higher, the Department should ensure that the actual costs are not distorted by a profit the grower may have made on the sale. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners. The Department verified this grower's costs, including spray costs, in New Zealand by tracing it from the original invoice to the grower's bank account. We have found them to reflect the actual costs of producing kiwifruit. Accordingly, no adjustment to the grower's costs for the spray expense has been made in the final results. With respect to petitioners argument regarding the resale price of the spray, the Department has made no adjustment for potential profits. The total cost of the spray and the total amount of revenue received by respondent for the resold spray was verified by the Department. The Department was able to determine that potential profit incurred on the resale of the spray would have no significant impact on the dumping margin. Thus, pursuant to 19 CFR ยง353.59, we have disregarded this insignificant adjustment. Comment 56 Petitioners contend that since this grower raised apples as well as kiwifruit, the Department should disregard respondent's allocation and recompute an imputed labor cost for the grower's labor. DOC Position We disagree. Respondent's methodology of allocating costs based on orchard land area is an acceptable methodology in this case. Without a more accurate alternative, we accepted respondent's cost allocation as an appropriate estimation of the cost of cultivating kiwifruit and have used it in these final results. Comment 57 Respondent argues that the Department should allocate horticultural costs based on net orchard area because this grower's other crops have headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts around them. DOC Position We agree with respondent in part. In the case of this particular grower, apple and kiwifruit crops were planted together and the Department verified that both crops were surrounded by headlands, sidelands, and shelterbelts. Although the Department recognizes that shelterbelts are not crucial to the apple trees, since both crops were planted side-by-side, we have revised some of this grower's costs and allocated them on the basis of net area only in the final results. Comment 58 Respondent contends that the Department should not allocate to kiwifruit the entire depreciation cost of the jeep because it is a luxury vehicle used as the family car and not in the orchard business. DOC Position We disagree with respondent because the depreciation expense for the jeep was fully allotted to the orchard in the grower's financial statement. Absent specific evidence to the contrary, we consider expenses recorded in a company's financial statements to reflect actual expenses incurred in its operations. See Final Results of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, Sweaters Wholly or in Chief Weight of Man-Made Fiber From Taiwan, 55 FR 34585 (1990). Respondent has not presented any documentary evidence in support of its claim that the depreciation expense was not an actual expense. Accordingly, we continue to rely on the grower's financial statement for orchard expenses in the final results. Comment 59 Respondent argues that the Department improperly denied a credit to COP for packaging sold by the grower and contends that it is appropriate for the Department to allow such a packaging credit. DOC Position We disagree with respondent. The credit in question was granted by the packhouse for kiwifruit packaging specifically to be used in future years. However, since the grower is no longer in the kiwifruit business, he would not be able to use this credit for kiwifruit packaging. Accordingly, we have not allowed for such a credit in our COP analysis. Grower 18 Comment 60 Petitioners argue that, since this grower raised apples as well as kiwifruit, its labor cost should be recomputed to reflect actual costs of growing kiwifruit.
