FR940419-1-00075 FR940419-1-00009 §964.130 Election procedures and standards. At a minimum, a resident council may use local election boards/commissions or if none exists, or is unwilling, an independent third-party to oversee elections and recall procedures. (a) Resident councils shall adhere to the following minimum standards regarding election procedures: (1) All procedures must assure fair and frequent elections of resident council members_at least once every three years for each member. (2) Staggered terms for resident council governing board members and term limits shall be discretionary with the resident council. (3) Each resident council shall adopt and issue election and recall procedures in their by-laws. (4) The election procedures shall include qualifications to run for office, frequency of elections, procedures for recall, and term limits if desired. (5) Sufficient notice of nomination and election, minimally 30 days, describing election procedures, eligibility requirements and dates of nominations/elections must be given to all voting members prior to the date of the nominations/elections. (b) If a resident council fails to satisfy HUD minimum standards for fair and frequent elections, or fails to follow its own election procedures as adopted, HUD shall require the HA to withdraw recognition of the resident council and to withhold resident services funds as well as funds provided in conjunction with services rendered for resident participation in public housing. (c) HAs shall monitor the resident council election process and shall establish a procedure to appeal any adverse decision relating to failure to satisfy HUD minimum standards. Such appeal shall be submitted to a jointly selected third-party arbitrator at the local level. If costs are incurred by using a third-party arbitrator, then such costs should be paid from the HAs resident services funds pursuant to §964.150. §964.135 Resident involvement in HA management operations. Residents shall be involved and participate in the overall policy development and direction of Public Housing operations. (a) Resident management corporations (RMCs) may contract with HAs to perform one or more management functions provided the resident entity has received sufficient training and/or has staff with the necessary expertise to perform the management functions and provided the RMC meets bonding and licensing requirements. (b) Residents shall be actively involved in a HA's decision-making process and give advice on matters such as modernization, security, maintenance, resident screening and selection, and recreation. (c) While a HA has responsibility for management operations, it shall ensure strong resident participation in all issues and facets of its operations through the duly elected resident councils at public housing developments, and with jurisdiction-wide resident councils. (d) A HA shall work in partnership with the duly elected resident councils. (e) HAs, upon request from the duly elected resident council, shall ensure that the duly elected resident council officers as defined in subpart B of this rule, and other residents in the development are fully trained and involved in developing and implementing Federal programs including but not limited to Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program (CIAP), Comprehensive Grant Program, Urban Revitalization Demonstration, Drug Elimination, and FIC. (f) HAs shall involve resident council officers and other interested residents at the development through education and direct participation in all phases of the budgetary process. (g) Resident council officers shall be encouraged to become involved in the resident screening and selection process for prospective residents at the development. Those selected to perform resident screening and selection functions must be trained by the HA in resident screening and selection and must sign a legal document committing to confidentiality. §964.140 Resident training. (a) Resident training opportunities. HUD encourages a partnership between the residents, the HA and HUD, as well as with the public and non-profit sectors to provide training opportunities for public housing residents. The categories in which training could occur include, but are not limited to: (1) Community organization and leadership training; (2) Organizational development training for Resident Management Corporations and duly elected Resident Councils; (3) Public housing policies, programs, rights and responsibilities training; and (4) Business entrepreneurial training, planning and job skills. (b) Local training resources. HUD encourages the use of local training resources to ensure the ongoing accessibility and availability of persons to provide training and technical assistance. Possible training resources may include: (1) Resident organizations; (2) Housing authorities; (3) Local community colleges, vocational schools; and (4) HUD and other Federal agencies and other local public, private and non-profit organizations. §964.145 Conflict of interest. Resident council officers cannot serve as contractors or employees at the HA. §964.150 Funding tenant participation. ’ (a) Funding duly elected resident councils. (1) The HA shall provide funds it receives for this purpose to the duly elected resident council to use for resident participation activities. This shall be an add-on to the Performance Funding System (PFS), as provided by 24 CFR part 990, to permit HAs to fund $25 per unit per year for resident services, subject to the availability of appropriations. Of this amount, $15 per unit per year would be provided to fund appropriate activities for duly elected resident councils, and $10 per unit per year would be used by the HA to pay for costs incurred in carrying out tenant participation activities under subpart B of this rule, including the expenses for an arbitrator required under subpart B §964.130. This will guarantee the resources necessary to create a bonafide partnership among the duly elected resident council, the HA and HUD. (2) A duly elected resident council shall receive tenant services funding regardless of the HA's financial status. The resident council funds shall not be impacted or restricted by the HA financial status and all said funds must be used for the purpose set forth in subparts B & C under this rule. (b) Stipends. (1) HUD encourages HAs to provide stipends to resident council officers who serve as volunteers in their public housing developments. The amount of the stipend, up to $200 per month/per officer, shall be decided locally by the resident council and the HA. Pursuant to §913.106, stipends are excluded from income for rent purposes.
