FR941125-0-00034 FR941125-0-00016 Summary of Factors Affecting the Species After a thorough review and consideration of all information available, the Service has determined that Eugenia haematocarpa and Pleodendron macranthum should be classified as endangered species. Procedures found at Section 4(a)(1) of the Act and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act were followed. A species may be determined to be an endangered or threatened species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to Eugenia haematocarpa Alain and Pleodendron macranthum (Baill.) v. Tiegh are as follows: A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Its Habitat or Range One of the five known populations of Eugenia haematocarpa in the Sierra de Cayey is located on private land and may be impacted by clearing of the vegetation. Although four of the five populations of Eugenia haematocarpa and all the known populations of Pleodendron macranthum are found on Federal and Commonwealth forest lands, the two species may be affected by forest management practices. B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes Taking for these purposes has not been a documented factor in the decline of these tree species. However, these species may be very attractive for collectors due to their rarity. C. Disease or Predation Disease and predation have not been documented as factors in the decline of these species. D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico has adopted a regulation that recognizes and provides protection for certain Commonwealth listed species. However, Eugenia haematocarpa and Pleodendron macranthum are not yet on the Commonwealth list. Federal listing would provide immediate protection and, if the species are ultimately placed on the Commonwealth list, enhance their protection and possibilities for research funding. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence One of the most important factors affecting the continued survival of these species is their limited number and distribution, which makes the risk of extinction extremely high. Hurricane Hugo in 1989 dramatically affected the forests of eastern Puerto Rico. Both E. haematocarpa and P. macranthum are known from such a small number of individuals that loss of genetic variation may be a factor in their future survival.
