FR941006-2-00189 FR941006-2-00113 VI. Concept Paper Submission Requirements for new Projects Concept papers are an extremely important part of the application process because they enable the Institute to learn the program areas of primary interest to the courts and to explore innovative ideas, without imposing heavy burdens on prospective applicants. The use of concept papers also permits the Institute to better project the nature and amount of grant awards. This requirement and the submission deadlines for concept papers and applications may be waived for good cause (e.g., the proposed project would provide a significant benefit to the State courts or the opportunity to conduct the project did not arise until after the deadline). A. Format and Content All concept papers must include a cover sheet, a program narrative, and a preliminary budget, regardless of whether the applicant is proposing a single project or a ``package of projects,'' or whether the applicant is requesting accelerated award of a grant of less than $40,000. 1. The Cover Sheet The cover sheet for all concept papers must contain: a. A title describing the proposed project; b. The name and address of the court, organization or individual submitting the paper; c. The name, title, address (if different from that in b.), and telephone number of a contact person(s) who can provide further information about the paper; d. The letter of the Special Interest Category (see section II.B.2.) or the number of the statutory Program Area (see section II.B.1.) that the proposed project addresses most directly; and e. The estimated length of the proposed project. Applicants requesting the Board to waive the application requirement and approve a grant of less than $40,000 based on the concept paper, should add APPLICATION WAIVER REQUESTED to the information on the cover page. 2. The Program Narrative a. Concept Papers Proposing a Single Project . The program narrative of a concept paper describing a single project should be no longer than necessary, but in no case should exceed eight (8) double-spaced pages on 81/2 by 11 inch paper. Margins must not be less than 1 inch and type no smaller than 12 point and 12 cpi must be used. The narrative should describe: i. Why this project is needed and how it will benefit State courts? If the project is to be conducted in a specific location(s), applicants should discuss the particular needs of the project site(s) to be addressed by the project, why those needs are not being met through the use of existing materials, programs, procedures, services or other resources, and the benefits that would be realized by the proposed sites(s). If the project is not site specific, applicants should discuss the problems that the proposed project will address, why existing materials, programs, procedures, services or other resources do not adequately resolve those problems, and the benefits that would be realized from the project by State courts generally. ii. What will be done if a grant is awarded? A summary description of the project to be conducted and the approach to be taken, including the anticipated length of the grant period. Applicants requesting a waiver of the application requirement for a grant of less than $40,000 should explain the proposed methods for conducting the project as fully as space allows. iii. How the effects and quality of the project will be determined? A summary description of how the project will be evaluated, including the evaluation criteria. iv. How others will find out about the project and be able to use the results? A description of the products that will result, the degree to which they will be applicable to courts across the nation, and the manner in which the products and results of the project will be disseminated. b. Concept Papers Requesting a Package Grant Covering More Than One Project. The program narrative of a concept paper requesting a package grant (see definition in section III.I.) should be no longer than necessary, but in no case should exceed 15 double-spaced pages on 81/2 by 11 inch paper. Margins must not be less than 1 inch, and type no smaller than 12-point and 12 cpi must be used. In addition to addressing the issues listed in paragraph VI.A.2.a., the program narrative of a package grant concept paper must describe briefly each component project, as well as how its inclusion enhances the entire package; and explain: i. How are the proposed projects related? ii. How would their operation and administration be enhanced if they were funded as a package rather than as individual projects; and iii. What disadvantages, if any, would accrue by considering or funding them separately. 3. The Budget a. Concept Papers Proposing a Single Project. A preliminary budget must be attached to the narrative that includes the estimates and information specified on Form E included in Appendix IV of this Guideline.
