FR941102-1-00071 FR941102-1-00018 3. Components and Component Prices Unlike the multiple component pricing plans adopted previously in other Federal milk marketing orders, this decision recommends the adoption of a pricing plan for milk based on three components rather than two. Under the five orders involved in this decision, milk should be priced on the basis of its protein, other nonfat solids, and butterfat components. The protein price contained in this decision is based on the value of protein in the manufacture of cheese, as determined by cheese market prices, and is not a residual of the Minnesota- Wisconsin (M-W) price minus butterfat value as is the case in other MCP plans. The butterfat price would be based on the butter market, as it is in other multiple component pricing systems. ``Other nonfat solids'' will be priced as a residual of the M-W price minus protein value and butterfat value. The butterfat, protein, and other nonfat solids prices shall be expressed in dollars per pound carried to the fourth decimal place. In addition, payments to each producer should reflect the value of participation in the marketwide pools on a hundredweight basis. As in other orders for which multiple component pricing has been adopted, this decision maintains the relationship of the value of producer milk to the M-W price. If the sum of the butterfat value and the protein value is greater than the M-W price, a situation which would result in a negative other nonfat solids price, the protein price will be adjusted such that the other nonfat solids price will be zero. In testimony and brief a witness for the Trade Association of Proprietary Plants (TAPP) and Farmers Union Milk Marketing Cooperative (FUMMC) presented a plan that would pay producers for protein above a neutral zone of 3.00% to 3.29%, and provide deductions for protein levels below the neutral zone. The level of adjustment would be tied to the price of barrel cheddar cheese on the National Cheese Exchange, and would be used to adjust pay prices to producers in a manner similar to the current butterfat differential. The witness said that milk traditionally has been purchased on a per hundredweight basis, with differential adjustments for levels of components. According to the witness, not only are producers usually paid on a per hundredweight basis, but milk is measured on a per hundredweight basis for purposes of plant accounting, payments between plants and to haulers, and by breed associations and DHIA with adjustments for percentages of components where necessary. The witness also claimed that using differential pricing would be revenue neutral. The TAPP/FUMMC witness is correct that switching payments to producers from a per hundredweight system to one of pounds of components, as adopted in this decision, is not a minor change. Some expense will be incurred by handlers and producers in adapting to the new system. However, the benefits to the industry in the affected areas of adopting a uniform multiple component pricing system outweigh the one-time costs of its adoption. The implication that everyone connected with the dairy industry must adopt this system is not correct. Pounds of milk must still be accounted for under the multiple component pricing system. For example, nothing in this decision would prevent a handler from continuing to pay haulers on a hundredweight basis. No testimony at the hearing from witnesses that have producers pooled under Federal orders that have already adopted multiple component pricing indicated that moving to a pricing system that prices milk component by the pound was an onerous burden. The transcript does reveal disagreement with the level of the protein price under some Federal orders with multiple component pricing, but little dissatisfaction with the system itself, nor complaints about the difficulty of switching to a component pricing system. As to the argument that pricing protein and butterfat on the basis of price differentials would be revenue neutral, the multiple component pricing system recommended for adoption is designed neither to enhance nor reduce total producer returns. The only changes in the total pool value that may occur because of the recommended changes would result from differences in the protein and other nonfat solids content between milk pooled under the orders included in this proceeding and the milk included in the Minnesota-Wisconsin survey. In addition, some redistribution of the dollars involved in each pool can be expected between producers, and between handlers.
