FR940511-1-00014 FR940511-1-00001 (h) Final opinion or mortgage title policy. As soon as possible after the transaction has been closed: (1) Final opinion. The attorney will issue a final opinion to FmHA and the borrower on Form FmHA 1927&hyph;10, ``Final Title Opinion.'' If that form is not legally sufficient in a particular state, a state form approved by OGC may be used. Issuance of the final opinion should not be held up pending the return of recorded instruments. If it is not possible for the final title opinion to show the book and page of recordation of the FmHA security instrument, the words ``and is recorded'' in paragraph II B of Form FmHA 1927&hyph;10 may be deleted and the following blank space completed to show the filing office and the filing instrument number if available. Attached to the final opinion will be required documents then available, including any which the approval official has furnished to the attorney which were not previously returned. The attorney will ensure that all recorded instruments are forwarded or delivered, to the proper parties after recording. The certification of title will be forwarded for a voluntary conveyance. (2) Mortgagee title policy. The closing agent will send or deliver the mortgagee title policy, with the United States listed as mortgage holder, to the approval official. The policy will be subject only to standard exceptions and those outstanding encumbrances, exceptions, reservations, and other defects approved by the approval official. If an owner's policy of title insurance is requested, the closing agent will send or deliver it to the borrower. The closing agent will ensure that all recorded instruments are delivered or sent to the proper parties after recording. (3) Responsibilities of the approval official. The approval official will check the final title opinion or mortgagee title policy to make sure that the lien priority required in the loan approval has been obtained. Form FmHA 1927&hyph;15 will be checked to see that funds were disbursed as authorized. If these conditions have not been met, the approval official will report it to the State Director for advice. (i) Other services of the closing agent. (1) The closing agent will assist the approval official in preparing, completing, obtaining execution, acknowledgment, and recording the required documents when necessary. Standard FmHA forms will be used whenever possible. The closing agent will keep the approval official advised as to the progress of title clearance and preparation of material for closing the transaction. (2) The closing agent will provide services for voluntary conveyances as set forth in ยง1927.62 of this subpart, and ยง1955.10 of subpart A of part 1955 of this chapter. ยง1927.59 Subsequent loans and/or transfers with assumptions. Title services and closing for subsequent loans to an existing borrower will be done in accordance with previous instructions in this subpart, except that: (a) Loans closed using title insurance. (1) Title insurance will only be obtained if: (i) Additional land is being acquired, (ii) An initial loan is being refinanced with a subsequent loan, (iii) An additional loan is being made where the prior secured loan was not subject to title clearance (e.g. where the prior loan was secured by the best mortgage obtainable), or (iv) An additional section 504 loan is being made where the previous loan was unsecured, or secured for less than $7,500 and the outstanding debt amount plus the new loan exceeds $7,500. (2) When a new mortgagee title policy is required,: (i) It will cover the entire real property which is to secure the loan, including the real property already owned and any additional real property being acquired by the borrower with the loan proceeds. (ii) Title insurance coverage will be obtained for the entire amount of any subsequent loan plus the amount of any existing loan being refinanced. If the existing loan is not being refinanced, the new mortgagee policy will insure only the amount of the subsequent loan. (b) Loans closed using title opinions. Unless the approval official is aware of problems with or discrepancies in the original title opinion, the title will be researched back to the date of the last FmHA mortgage, except when the conditions of paragraph (a)(1) (i), (ii), or (iii) of this section exist. In these cases, the title will be examined in accordance with ยง1927.55 of this subpart.
