FR940317-0-00018 FR940317-0-00006 Identification of Exposed Swine From Herds Affected With Brucellosis The regulations in 9 CFR part 78 govern, among other things, the interstate movement of swine affected with brucellosis. Under these regulations, the interstate movement of brucellosis reactor swine and exposed swine is subject to certain restrictions. Among the restrictions on the movement of reactor swine is the requirement that such swine be individually identified by attaching to the left ear a metal tag bearing a serial number and the inscription, ``U.S. Reactor,'' or a metal tag bearing a serial number designated by the State animal health official for identifying brucellosis reactors. Although part 78 does require that exposed swine moved interstate be accompanied by a permit, it does not require that exposed swine from a herd known to be affected with brucellosis be identified with a metal eartag. However, because some swine originating in a herd known to be affected are likely to be the offspring of infected sows, and because the swine in the herd may be in extended contact with infected swine, they are at increased risk of being infected with brucellosis. Because of this increased risk, we consider it necessary to provide that such swine can be readily identified prior to slaughter. In order to better monitor the movement of exposed swine to ensure that they are destroyed and are not diverted into herds not affected with brucellosis, we are amending ยง78.32 to require that exposed swine from a herd known to be affected with brucellosis may be moved interstate from the herd only if identified in the same manner as reactor swine. This identification will facilitate the monitoring of such swine until they are slaughtered, thus protecting against the spread of brucellosis by such animals. An additional benefit of such identification is that it will alert packing plants to the arrival of reactor swine, allowing them to take appropriate handling precautions. Immediate Action The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that there is good cause for publishing this interim rule without prior opportunity for public comment. Immediate action is necessary to eliminate a public health risk, avert a potentially serious economic impact on swine marketing, reduce government expenses, and significantly shorten the time necessary for the eradication of swine brucellosis. Because prior notice and other public procedures with respect to this action are impracticable and contrary to the public interest under these conditions, we find good cause under 5 U.S.C. 553 to make it effective upon publication in the Federal Register . We will consider comments that are received within 60 days of publication of this rule in the Federal Register . After the comment period closes, we will publish another document in the Federal Register . It will include a discussion of any comments we receive and any amendments we are making to the rule as a result of the comments. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act The Department has reviewed this rule under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. This interim rule provides for indemnity payment for whole herd depopulation of swine herds known to be affected with brucellosis. Prior to the effective date of this interim rule, indemnity for herd depopulation was paid only for breeding swine infected with or exposed to the disease, and was based on a maximum ``per head'' rate of $150 per head for registered, inbred, or hybrid swine, and $65 per head for all other breeding swine. At present 34 swine herds in the United States are known to be affected with brucellosis. This number represents 0.014 percent of the 235,840 swine herds in this country. Of the 34 herds, 18 are in Florida and 12 are in Texas. Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina, and Oklahoma have 1 each. The 34 herds known to be affected are all independently owned, and all of the farmers are considered ``small entities'' (annual gross receipts of $0.5 million or less, according to Small Business Administration size standards). APHIS cannot require that farmers depopulate their herds, so it is impossible to determine exactly how many owners will accept indemnity for whole herd depopulation. Because several herds are in the final stages of brucellosis ``cleanup,'' these farmers may not choose to depopulate their entire herds. At the time of this writing, current market values for the different classes of swine are: 1 Sows, $160; boars, $150; gilts, $160; feeder pigs, $100; and suckling pigs, $20. 1 These values do not include potential salvage values received at the time of slaughter. If owners choose to depopulate their entire herds, under the regulations they could start new operations with a more productive swine herd after a standard minimum of 30 days of ``downtime'' for elimination of the Brucella bacteria from the premises through cleaning and disinfecting. Noninfected sows tend to produce more piglets than do infected sows.
