FR940527-1-00214 FR940527-1-00014 However, there is one significant philosophical difference between the ProPAC and HCFA frameworks. ProPAC's framework is based on the premise that capital prospective payments are for future capital purchases. Thus, ProPAC's proposed capital market basket reflects the projected increase in the purchase price of capital goods from one year to the next. To put it another way, the market basket under the ProPAC framework reflects the price of replacing current capital stock at future prices. HCFA's framework is based on the premise that capital prospective payments are for hospitals' future capital-related expenses rather than for future capital-related purchases. That is, HCFA's framework addresses the expenses associated with hospitals' given stock of capital in a particular fiscal year; ProPAC's framework ignores hospitals' present stock of capital and focuses on costs of capital purchases that hospitals will make in a particular fiscal year. There is a sound economic reason why the current purchase price of capital assets alone is an inadequate measure of the price of capital. The crucial distinguishing feature of capital assets is that they are consumed over time. A satisfactory measure of the change in capital input prices must therefore account for this fact. Consideration of the costs for all capital currently in use for patient care, not just the costs for current capital purchases, is necessary for this purpose. The ProPAC index cannot adequately capture this aspect of changes in capital input prices. In addition to our disagreement with ProPAC over the basic purpose of the CIPI, we also disagree over the treatment of interest. The pure price aspects of interest costs (that is, the interest rate and the purchase price that is represented in the amount of loan principal) are beyond the control of the hospital industry. To be sure, the actual decision to purchase capital assets or acquire debt is a ``quantity'' decision and typically is discretionary for a particular span of time. However, measuring the actual expected price per unit of real capital, independently of any evaluation of the propriety of any actual purchase decisions, is essential to recognize that the industry has control over the amount of capital it purchases but no control over the price it pays for capital. Thus, the pure price aspect of interest cost changes must be incorporated into the CIPI. Otherwise, the CIPI will not accurately reflect the prices faced by hospitals who must borrow to finance necessary capital acquisitions. Limitations on the quantity of capital are appropriately implemented through policy adjustment factors. The ProPAC approach artificially eliminates pure price changes related to interest costs from the CIPI and incorporates them into a discretionary adjustment factor. The HCFA CIPI retains all price components of increase in interest costs as one measure of inflation in capital-related expenses. It thereby keeps price and quantity aspects distinct, allowing separate analysis of each factor of increases in capital expenses. We provide further comments on particular ProPAC recommendations in sections III and IV of this appendix. The ProPAC recommendations concerning the methodology for recognizing increases due to quality-enhancing new technology and the case-mix index adjustment are discussed in Appendix D in the context of the update recommendation for the prospective payment system for operating costs. III. Measurement of Capital Input Price Increases A. Introduction HCFA proposed a capital input price index as one component in developing future update factors for the Federal rate in the September 1, 1992 Federal Register (57 FR 40016). We have presented revised versions of the capital input price index in the May 26, 1993 (58 FR 30448) and September 1, 1993 (58 FR 46490) issues of the Federal Register. The developing capital input price index parallels the operating input price index. Both the developing capital input price index and the operating input price index are designed to measure input price changes for hospitals' current year expenses, that is, to separate pure price changes from quantity and expenditure changes. The operating sector input price index measures input price changes for operating-related expenses. The capital input price index measures input price changes for capital-related expenses. Capital-related expenses include depreciation, interest, and other expenses (taxes and insurance related to capital goods.) B. Review of the HCFA Capital Input Price Index Methodology The current version of the CIPI is based on the following assumptions: •The Federal rate is based on the concept of capital- related expenses of capital assets used for patient care in the fiscal year and, therefore, any change in the Federal rate should take into account expected changes in the input price aspects of capital-related expenses; •Capital-related expenses are defined as the sum of depreciation expense, capital-related interest costs, and other capital-related costs, including taxes, insurance, and leases; and •The input prices related to capital-related expenses are beyond the control of the hospital industry (that is, the hospital is a price-taker, not a price-setter). These assumptions lead directly to a definition of a CIPI that takes into account the price aspects of changes in depreciation expense, interest costs, and other capital-related costs. Further, the assumptions lead directly to input prices for depreciation expense and interest costs which, unlike operating costs, have a time dimension that must be captured in the CIPI. HCFA includes three categories of capital-related expenses in the CIPI: depreciation expense, interest costs, and other capital-related costs (taxes and insurance).
