FR940825-1-00136 FR940825-1-00009 (b) A tribe that has not made a demonstration under 40 CFR 49.6 is eligible for financial assistance under 42 U.S.C. 7405 and 7602(b)(1) if: (1) The Indian tribe has a governing body carrying out substantial duties and powers. (2) The functions to be exercised by the Indian tribe pertain to the management and protection of air resources within the boundaries of an Indian reservation or other areas within the tribe's jurisdiction. (3) The Indian tribe is reasonably expected to be capable, in the judgment of the Regional Administrator, of carrying out the functions to be exercised in a manner consistent with the terms and purposes of the Clean Air Act and applicable regulations. (c) The Administrator shall process a tribal application for financial assistance under this section in a timely manner. 7. Part 49 is added to read as follows: PART 49_TRIBAL CLEAN AIR ACT AUTHORITY Sec. 49.1␣Program overview. 49.2␣Definitions. 49.3␣General Tribal Clean Air Act authority. 49.4␣Clean Air Act provisions inapplicable to Tribes. 49.5␣Tribal requests for inapplicability of additional Clean Air Act provisions. 49.6␣Tribal eligibility requirements. 49.7␣Request by an Indian Tribe for eligibility determination and Clean Air Act program approval. 49.8␣Provisions for Tribal criminal enforcement authority. 49.9␣EPA review of Tribal Clean Air Act applications. 49.10␣EPA review of State Clean Air Act programs. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401, et seq. §49.1 Program overview. (a) The regulations in this part identify those provisions of the Clean Air Act (Act) for which Indian Tribes are treated in the same manner as States. In general, these regulations authorize eligible Tribes to have the same rights as States under the Clean Air Act and authorize EPA approval of Tribal air quality programs meeting the applicable minimum requirements of the Act. (b) Nothing in this part shall prevent an Indian Tribe from establishing additional or more stringent air quality protection requirements not inconsistent with the Act. §49.2 Definitions. Clean Air Act or Act means those statutory provisions in the United States Code at 42 U.S.C. 7401, et seq. Federal Indian Reservation, Indian Reservation or Reservation means all land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation. Indian Tribe or Tribe means any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village, which is Federally recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. Indian Tribe Consortium or Tribal Consortium means a group of two or more Indian Tribes. State means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa and includes the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
