FR940906-0-00060 FR940906-0-00019 a. Paragraph (b) has been revised and a new paragraph (d) is added to implement a credit program rather than a rebate program during the first year of the Research Plan. In paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2), regulatory language has been added to exempt the exvessel value of whole fish that is processed into meal from bimonthly fee assessments. This change addresses concerns that the imposition of Research Plan fees on the exvessel value of retained catch may create a greater incentive for processors to discard fish that otherwise may have been processed. b. Old paragraph (d) has been redesignated paragraph (e) and revised to authorize NMFS to charge late fees for the balance of a bimonthly fee assessment in the event the Director, Alaska Region, NMFS, determines that a billing error has not occurred in response to a billing dispute initiated by a processor. The authority to charge a late fee is necessary to discourage a person from using the process set out for disputing a bimonthly fee assessment bill only as a means to delay payment of the bill. c. Old paragraph (e) has been redesignated paragraph (f) and revised to encourage the timely payment of a billed fee assessment by providing NMFS the authority to assess a penalty fee in the event payment is not received after 90 days from the due date. d. Paragraph (f), which would have implemented the proposed rebate program, has been removed. 6. In ยง677.7, paragraph (g) has been changed to refer to the revised program for the first year of the Research Plan instead of the proposed rebate program. 7. In ยง677.10 the following changes have been made in addition to those referred to under item 4. a. Paragraph (a)(3) has been changed to include references to Alaska State observer coverage requirements at 5 AAC 34.035, 34.082, and 35.082. b. Paragraph (c) has been revised to remove the reference to required compliance with U.S. Coast Guard vessel safety requirements. This requirement was moved to a new paragraph (g). c. Paragraph (c)(1) has been revised to remove a proposed requirement that vessel operators provide accommodations for observers that are equivalent to those provided for officers of the vessel. The regulatory language has been clarified to implement the intent of the proposed rule to require a vessel operator to treat the observer with respect and not provide the observer with accommodations reflective of the lowest level crew onboard the vessel. d. Paragraph (e) has been revised to clarify that if contractors for observer coverage are not notified within specified time periods, the availability of an observer to meet observer coverage requirements will not be guaranteed. e. Paragraph (f) has been revised to reflect recent rulemaking that authorized the release of specified observer data on prohibited species bycatch (59 FR 18757, April 20, 1994). f. Paragraph (g) has been added to clarify a requirement formerly at paragraph (c) that vessels required to carry observers must pass a U.S. Coast Guard safety inspection. Safety requirements for all vessels are clarified. Observers will not be stationed aboard vessels not meeting safety requirements. 8. In ยง677.11, regulatory language has been added that would authorize the annual specification of standard exvessel prices by season, area, gear, and processing sector. Reference to the annual specification of ``standardized cost(s) of an observer day'' also has been removed because this term no longer is applicable. Classification This final rule contains collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. Public reporting burden for each year of this collection is estimated to average 0.33 hour per response for completing the semiannual FPP&hyph;1, 0.25 hour per response for notifying contractors of needs for observers, and 1.0 hour per response to provide information to document claims of disputed bills. For the first year of the Research Plan, completion of FPP&hyph;2 by observer contractors for payment of observer coverage by processor vessels and shoreside processing facilities is estimated to average 0.16 hours per response. All reporting burden estimates include the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. The collection of information has been approved by the Office of Management and Budget, OMB control numbers 0648&hyph;0206 (Processor Permit Application) and 0648&hyph;0280 (North Pacific Fisheries Research Plan). The Council, NMFS, and the Alaska Department of Fish and Game prepared a final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis as part of the Regulatory Impact Review. A copy of this analysis is available from the Council at (See ADDRESSES ). This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. List of Subjects 50 CFR Part 204 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 50 CFR Parts 301, 671, 672, 675, 676, and 677 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: August 25, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service.
