FR941012-1-00070 FR941012-1-00012 The reader should note that the Agency is making several technical corrections to the 40 CFR part 355 elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register . As mentioned earlier in this preamble, the listing of ``paraquat'' is being corrected to read ``paraquat dichloride.'' ``Phenylthiourma'' in 40 CFR part 355, appendix A should read ``phenylthiourea. ``The listing of hydrogen chloride in 40 CFR part 355, appendix B should read ``hydrogen chloride (gas only).'' ``Quabain'' in 40 CFR part 355, appendix B should read ``ouabain.'' IV. Regulatory Analyses A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, [58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)] the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or lean programs or the rights and obligations or recipients thereof; or (4) raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. It has been determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., whenever an agency is required to publish a notice of rulemaking for any proposed or final rule, it must prepare and make available for public comment a regulatory flexibility analysis that describes the effect of the rule on small entities (i.e., small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions). This analysis is unnecessary, however, if the agency's administrator certifies that the rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities. EPA has examined the rule's potential effects on small entities as required by the Regulatory Flexibility Act. It has determined this rule will have no adverse effect on small entities because it reduces the number of chemicals which would potentially make businesses subject to the reporting requirements. Therefore, I certify that today's proposed rule will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities. C. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule relieves facilities from having to report the presence of these four chemicals to the State Emergency Response Commissions and Local Emergency Planning Committees. If these facilities have no other Extremely Hazardous Substances, they will no longer be required to participate in the emergency planning process required by the statute. Therefore, there are no information collection requirements for OMB to review under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 355 Environmental Protection, Air pollution control, Chemicals, Chemical accident prevention, Chemical emergency preparedness, Community emergency response plan, Community right-to-know, Contingency planning, Disaster assistance, Extremely hazardous substances, Hazardous substances, Hazardous waste, Intergovernmental relations, Natural resources, Penalties, Reportable quantity, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Superfund, Threshold planning quantity, Water pollution control, and Water supply.
