FR941102-2-00104 FR941102-2-00071 6. Participating insurance companies will pass through voting privileges to all variable contract owners so long as the Commission continues to interpret the Act as requiring pass-through voting privileges for variable contract owners. Accordingly, participating insurance companies will vote shares of the Fund held in their separate accounts in a manner consistent with timely voting instructions received from contract owners. Each participating insurance company will vote shares of the Fund held in its separate accounts for which no timely voting instructions from contract holders are received, as well as shares it owns, in the same proportion as those shares for which voting instructions are received. Participating insurance companies shall be responsible for assuring that each of their separate accounts participating in the Fund calculates voting privileges in a manner consistent with other participating insurance companies. The obligation to calculate voting privileges in a manner consistent with all other separate accounts investing in the Fund shall be a contractual obligation of all participating insurance companies under their agreements governing participation in the Fund. 7. The Fund will comply with all provisions of the Act requiring voting by Shareholders, and in particular the Fund will either provide for annual meetings (except insofar as the Commission may interpret Section 16 not to require such meetings), or comply with section 16(c) of the Act (although the Fund is not one of the trusts described in the section 16(c) of the Act) as well as with section 16(a) and, if and when applicable, 16(b). Further, the Fund will act in accordance with the Commission's interpretation of the requirements of section 16(a) with respect to periodic elections of trustees and with whatever rules the Commission may promulgate with respect thereto. 8. The Fund shall disclose in its prospectus that (1) the Fund is intended to be a funding vehicle for all types of variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts offered by various insurance companies, (2) material irreconcilable conflicts may possibly arise, and (3) the Board will monitor events in order to identify the existence of any material irreconcilable conflicts and determine what action, if any, should be taken in response to such conflict. The Fund will notify all participating insurance companies that separate account prospectus disclosure regarding potential risks of mixed and shared funding may be appropriate. 9. If and to the extent that Rule 6e&hyph;2 and Rule 6e&hyph;3(T) are amended, or Rule 6e&hyph;3 is adopted, to provide exemptive relief from any provision of the Act or the rules promulgated thereunder with respect to mixed or shared funding on terms and conditions materially different from any exemptions granted in the order requested in this application, then the Fund and/or participating insurance companies, as appropriate, shall take such steps as may be necessary to comply with Rules 6e&hyph;2 and 6e&hyph;3(T), or Rule 6e&hyph;3, as such rules are applicable. 10. The participating insurance companies shall at least annually submit to the Board such reports, materials or data as the Board may reasonably request so that the Board or the Fund may fully carry out the obligations imposed upon them by the conditions contained in the application and said reports, materials and data shall be submitted more frequently if deemed appropriate by the Board. The obligation of the participating insurance companies to provide these reports, materials and data to the Board when it so reasonably requests, shall be a contractual obligation of all participating insurance companies under their agreements governing participation in the Fund. 11. All reports received by the Board of potential or existing conflicts, and all Board action with regard to determining the existence of a conflict, notifying participating insurance companies of a conflict, and determining whether any proposed action adequately remedies a conflict, will be properly recorded in the minutes of the Board or other appropriate records, and such minutes or other records shall be made available to the Commission upon request. Applicants' Conclusion For the reasons stated above, Applicants believe that the requested exemptions, in accordance with the standards of section 6(c) of the 1940 Act, are appropriate in the pubic interest and are consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and the provisions of the Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27163 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
