FR940711-2-00091 FR940711-2-00040 Bicycle-Related Head Injuries Awards for prevention of bicycle-related head injuries are to be used to develop, implement, and evaluate the effectiveness of multi-faceted bicycle injury prevention programs in increasing helmet use and reducing morbidity, mortality, severity, disability, and costs associated with bicycle injuries for which helmets are effective. This program will facilitate the development, expansion, and improvement of bicycle injury control programs, and in particular, bicycle helmet usage programs within State public health agencies. Programs within State public health agencies are expected to define and monitor the extent of the bicycle-related injury problem, develop intervention strategies, including public education programs, and evaluate the program's effectiveness in terms of reduced morbidity, mortality, severity, disability, and cost. Specifically, bicycle helmet usage programs are intended to: A. Develop or improve injury surveillance activities to identify bicycle-related head injuries, including data describing the magnitude of the problem, who is affected, utilization of bicycle helmets, costs associated with bicycle-related head injuries, and to identify and monitor health outcomes to measure the impact of the program; B. Implement and evaluate multifaceted prevention activities to address and define the bicycle injury problem using evaluation guidelines for State injury control programs developed by CDC/National Center of Injury Prevention and Control (NCIPC); C. Enact legislation and implement community-based prevention programs (including educational, promotional and legislative strategies) to encourage the use of bicycle helmets. D. Determine the effectiveness of strategies for increasing bicycle helmet use. Fire-Related Burns Awards for prevention of fire-related burns are to be used to develop, implement, and evaluate the effectiveness of smoke detector promotion programs in increasing installation and utilization of smoke detectors and in reducing morbidity, mortality, severity, disability, and costs associated with fire-related burns which are preventable by utilization of smoke detectors. This program will facilitate the development, expansion, and improvement of smoke detectors programs within State public health agencies. Programs within State public health agencies are expected to define and monitor the fire-related burn problem, develop and implement intervention strategies, including public education programs, and evaluate the program's effectiveness in terms of increased smoke detector installation and use, and reduced morbidity, mortality, severity, disability, and cost of fire-related burns. Specifically, smoke detector usage programs are intended to: A. Develop or improve injury surveillance activities for fire-related burn injuries, including data describing the magnitude of the problem, who is affected, and utilization of smoke detectors; B. Implement and evaluate multi-faceted prevention activities to address and define the fire-related burn problem using evaluation guidelines for State injury control programs developed by CDC/NCIPC.
