FR940603-1-00198 FR940603-1-00009 The measurement of the length of clearing off the right-of-way shall be considered as a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between poles or centerline of structures, such measurement of length to be based on maximum dimension of foliage (not trunk) projected to the ground line. (See Details E, F, G, and H, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) Dead trees having no foliage shall be measured across the maximum dimension and multiplied by two. (See Detail F, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) Each tree so removed shall be added together to determine the total length of clearing. All length thus arrived at, added together and divided by 1,000, shall give the number of TM&hyph;13 units. (Example: Details E, F, G, and H, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A, total .1 of a TM&hyph;13 unit.) TM&hyph;14. The unit is 1,000 feet in length and XXX ( XXX ) feet in width (to be measured XXX ( XXX ) feet on one side of right-of-way centerline) of actual clearing of right-of-way. Trees and underbrush should be cleared from the ground up within 10 feet of any structure location. The Engineer will mark the trees and brush to be cleared to provide ``undulating'' boundaries. Low growing trees and brush are to be left in the right-of-way to the extent it will not be hazardous to the line or will not interfere with the access road. The length of actual clearing shall be measured in a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between poles or centerline of structures and across the maximum dimension of foliage cleared projected to the ground line (See Detail B, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) All trees and underbrush cleared across the right-of-way shall be considered to be grouped together as a single length in measuring the total length of clearing (See Detail C, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) Spaces along the right-of-way in which no trees are to be removed or trimmed or underbrush cleared shall be omitted from the total measurement. TM&hyph;14 (1). This unit is identical with TM&hyph;14 except the full width of the right-of-way to be cleared shall be XXX ( XXX ) feet in width (to be measured XXX ( XXX ) feet wide (See Detail D, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A.) TM&hyph;15. The unit is 1,000 feet in length and XXX ( XXX ) feet in width (to be measured XXX ( XXX ) feet on one side of the right-of-way centerline) of actual clearing of the right-of-way. Trees and underbrush should be cleared from ground up within 10 feet of any structure location. The Engineer will mark the trees and brush to be cleared to provide a ``feathered'' appearance in the right-of-way. Low growing trees and brush are to be left in the right-of-way to the extent it will not be hazardous to the line or will not interfere with the access road. The length of actual clearing shall be measured in a straight line parallel to the horizontal line between poles or centerline of structures and across the maximum dimension of foliage cleared projected to ground line (See Detail B, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). All trees and underbrush cleared across the right-of-way shall be considered to be grouped together as a single length in measuring the total length of clearing (See Detail C, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). Spaces along the right-of-way which no trees are to be removed or trimmed or underbrush cleared shall be omitted from the total measurement. TM&hyph;15 (1). This unit is identical to TM&hyph;15 except the full width of the right-of-way to be cleared shall be XXX ( XXX ) feet wide (See Detail D, Drawing TM&hyph;12&hyph;2A). Additional Requirements (When specifying TM units denote type of disposal (A or B).) A. Trees, brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used): 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (describe) XXX B. Trees that are felled shall be cut to commercial wood lengths, stacked neatly, and left on the right-of-way for the landowner. Commercial wood length means the length designated by the Engineer but in no case shall it be required to be less than XXX ( XXX ) feet. Brush, branches, and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used): 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (describe) XXX ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials ␣ Total, Section 6_ XXXX Proposal Summary
