FR940203-2-00079 FR940203-2-00050 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Office of the Secretary Agency Recordkeeping/Reporting Requirements Under Review by the Office of Management and Budget Background: The Department of Labor, in carrying out its responsibilities under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35), considers comments on the reporting/recordkeeping requirements that will affect the public. Recordkeeping/Reporting Requirements Under Review: As necessary, the Department of Labor will publish Agency recordkeeping/ reporting requirements under review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) since the last publication. These entries may include new collections, revisions, extensions, or reinstatements, if applicable. The Departmental Clearance Officer will, upon request, be able to advise members of the public of the nature of the particular submission they are interested in. Each entry may contain the following information: The Agency of the Department issuing this recordkeeping/ reporting requirement. The title of the recordkeeping/reporting requirement. The OMB and/or Agency identification numbers, if applicable. How often the recordkeeping/reporting requirement is needed. Whether small businesses or organizations are affected. An estimate of the total number of hours needed to comply with the recordkeeping/reporting requirements and the average hours per respondent. The number of forms in the request for approval, if applicable. An abstract describing the need for and uses of the information collection. Comments and Questions: Copies of the recordkeeping/reporting requirements included in each notice may be obtained by calling the Departmental Clearance Officer, Kenneth A. Mills ((202) 219&hyph;5095). Comments and questions about the items included in each notice should be directed to Mr. Mills, Office of Information Resources Management Policy, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., room N&hyph;1301, Washington, DC 20210. Comments should also be sent to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attn: OMB Desk Officer for (BLS/DM/ESA/ ETA/OLMS/MSHA/OSHA/PWBA/VETS), Office of Management and Budget, room 3001, Washington, DC 20503 ((202) 395&hyph;6880). Any member of the public who wants to comment on recordkeeping/ reporting requirements which have been submitted to OMB should advise Mr. Mills of this intent at the earliest possible date. New Bureau of Labor Statistics Pricing Collective Bargaining Settlements_Private Sector Other_upon reaching a new collective bargaining agreement, which is about once every 3 years on average Businesses or other for-profit 396 respondents; 35.1 min. per response; 232 total hours; 2 forms The Bureau of Labor Statistics will use the information collected in Pricing Collective Bargaining Settlements to compile quarterly measures of collective bargaining settlements. As a primary Federal economic indicator, the measure is used by Federal policymakers to help set economic policy. In addition, company officials and labor groups request the data for collective bargaining negotiations and researchers use the data for compensation and unionization analyses. Revision Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration Annual Report/Form 5500 Series 1210&hyph;0016; Form 5500 Businesses or other for-profit; Non-profit institutions; Small businesses or organizations 832,000 respondents; 1.2 hours per response; 998,400 total hours Section 104(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) requires plan administrators to file an annual report containing the information described in section 103 of ERISA. The Form 5500 Series provides a standard format for fulfilling that requirement. Extension Employment Standards Administration Agreement and Undertaking 1215&hyph;0034; OWCP&hyph;1 On occasion Businesses or other for-profit 300 respondents; .25 hours per response; 75 total hours; 1 form The Office of Workers Compensation Programs (OWCP) OWCP&hyph;1 is a joint use form (Longshore and Black Lung programs) completed by employers to provide the Secretary of Labor with authorization to sell securities, or to bring suit under indemnity bonds deposited by the self-insured employers in the event there is a default in the payment of benefits. Extension Employment and Training Administration Preliminary Estimates of Average Employer Tax Rates 1205&hyph;0228; ETA 205 Annually State or local governments 53 respondents; 16 minutes per response; 14 total hours; 1 form The average rate collected from States is used to compare average tax rates among the States by the Employment and Training Administration and State agencies, and along with the current tax rate schedule, is used to certify that a State is complying with the law.
