FR940511-2-00121 FR940511-2-00078 Notice of Availability of a Draft Revised Recovery Plan for the Green Pitcher Plant for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft revised recovery plan for the green pitcher plant ( Sarracenia oreophila ). Populations are known to occur in northeast Alabama (Cherokee, DeKalb, Etowah, Jackson, and Marshall Counties), north Georgia (Towns County), and southwest North Carolina (Clay County). A historical record exists for Tennessee. Habitat for the green pitcher plant varies somewhat with populations located in moist upland areas and others along boggy, sandy stream edges. With the exception of a few sites on State park land, populations occur on privately owned lands. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before July 1, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review a draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Jackson Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 6578 Dogwood View Parkway, Suite A, Jackson, Mississippi 39213. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Field Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Carry Norquist at the above address (601/965&hyph;4900). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals and plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that a public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment to provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The species considered in this draft recovery plan is the green pitcher plant ( Sarracenia oreophila ). This carnivorous plant occurs in moist upland areas and along boggy, sandy stream edges of northeastern Alabama, north Georgia, and southwest North Carolina. The green pitcher plant was listed as endangered in 1979 due to its limited distribution, and loss or decline in populations due to agricultural conversion, increased rural residential development, encroachment by woody plants due to hydrological alterations and fire suppression, and commercial and amateur collecting. The objective of this proposed plan is to delist the green pitcher plant. Delisting will be considered when a minimum of 18 viable populations, representing the diversity of habitats and the geographic range of the species, are protected and managed as necessary to ensure their continued existence. Actions needed to reach this goal include: (1) Protecting, managing, and monitoring populations, (2) surveying for new populations, (3) gathering additional baseline and hydrological information, (4) studying pollination biology and conducting genetic analyses of populations, (5) monitoring transplant and reestablishment experiments, (6) preserving genetic stock, and (7) continuing public education efforts. This Plan is the second revision of the original and is being submitted for technical and agency reviews. After consideration of comments received during the review period, it will be submitted for final approval. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: April 28, 1994. Robert Bowker, Field Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11462 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
