FR940810-0-00198 FR940810-0-00021 (3) Medical surveillance. (i) The employer shall establish and maintain an accurate record for each employee subject to medical surveillance by paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. (ii) The record shall include at least the following information: (A) The name and social security number of the employee; (B) Physician's written opinions; (C) Any employee medical complaints related to exposure to asbestos; and (D) A copy of the information provided to the physician as required by paragraph (l)(6) of this section. (iii) The employer shall ensure that this record is maintained for the duration of employment plus thirty (30) years, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. (4) Training. The employer shall maintain all employee training records for one (1) year beyond the last date of employment of that employee. (5) Availability. (i) The employer, upon written request, shall make all records required to be maintained by this section available to the Assistant Secretary and the Director for examination and copying. (ii) The employer, upon request shall make any exposure records required by paragraph (m)(1) of this section available for examination and copying to affected employees, former employees, designated representatives and the Assistant Secretary, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20 (a) through (e) and (g) through (i). (iii) The employer, upon request, shall make employee medical records required by paragraph (m)(2) of this section available for examination and copying to the subject employee, to anyone having the specific written consent of the subject employee, and the Assistant Secretary, in accordance with 29 CFR 1910.20. (6) Transfer of records. (i) The employer shall comply with the requirements concerning transfer of records set forth in 29 CFR 1910.20(h). (ii) Whenever the employer ceases to do business and there is no successor employer to receive and retain the records for the prescribed period, the employer shall notify the Director at least 90 days prior to disposal of records and, upon request, transmit them to the Director. (n) Observation of monitoring_(1) Employee observation. The employer shall provide affected employees or their designated representatives an opportunity to observe any monitoring of employee exposure to asbestos conducted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. (2) Observation procedures. When observation of the monitoring of employee exposure to asbestos requires entry into an area where the use of protective clothing or equipment is required, the observer shall be provided with and be required to use such clothing and equipment and shall comply with all other applicable safety and health procedures. (o) Dates_(1) Effective date. This standard shall become effective October 11, 1994. (2) The provisions of 29 CFR 1910.1001 remain in effect until the start-up dates of the equivalent provisions of this standard. (3) Start-up dates. All obligations of this standard commence on the effective date except as follows: (i) Exposure monitoring. Initial monitoring required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than January 9, 1995. (ii) Regulated areas. Regulated areas required to be established by paragraph (e) of this section as a result of initial monitoring shall be set up as soon as possible after the results of that monitoring are known and not later than February 8, 1995. (iii) Respiratory protection. Respiratory protection required by paragraph (g) of this section shall be provided as soon as possible but no later than January 9, 1995. (iv) Hygiene and lunchroom facilities. Construction plans for change rooms, showers, lavatories, and lunchroom facilities shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than July 10, 1995. (v) Employee information and training. Employee information and training shall be provided as soon as possible but not later than April 10, 1995.
