FR940405-0-00045 FR940405-0-00004 (c) Quality assurance criteria. _(1) Management (i) Program. A written QAP shall be developed, implemented, and maintained. The QAP shall describe the organizational structure, functional responsibilities, levels of authority, and interfaces for those managing, performing, and assessing the work. The QAP shall describe management processes, including planning, scheduling, and resource considerations. (ii) Personnel Training and Qualification. Personnel shall be trained and qualified to ensure they are capable of performing their assigned work. Personnel shall be provided continuing training to ensure that job proficiency is maintained. (iii) Quality Improvement. Processes to detect and prevent quality problems shall be established and implemented. Items, services, and processes that do not meet established requirements shall be identified, controlled, and corrected according to the importance of the problem and the work affected. Correction shall include identifying the causes of problems and working to prevent recurrence. Item characteristics, process implementation, and other quality-related information shall be reviewed and the data analyzed to identify items, services, and processes needing improvement. (iv) Documents and Records. Documents shall be prepared, reviewed, approved, issued, used, and revised to prescribe processes, specify requirements, or establish design. Records shall be specified, prepared, reviewed, approved, and maintained. (2) Performance _(i) Work Processes. Work shall be performed to established technical standards and administrative controls using approved instructions, procedures, or other appropriate means. Items shall be identified and controlled to ensure their proper use. Items shall be maintained to prevent their damage, loss, or deterioration. Equipment used for process monitoring or data collection shall be calibrated and maintained. (ii) Design. Items and processes shall be designed using sound engineering/scientific principles and appropriate standards. Design work, including changes, shall incorporate applicable requirements and design bases. Design interfaces shall be identified and controlled. The adequacy of design products shall be verified or validated by individuals or groups other than those who performed the work. Verification and validation work shall be completed before approval and implementation of the design. (iii) Procurement. Procured items and services shall meet established requirements and perform as specified. Prospective suppliers shall be evaluated and selected on the basis of specified criteria. Processes to ensure that approved suppliers continue to provide acceptable items and services shall be established and implemented. (iv) Inspection and Acceptance Testing. Inspection and testing of specified items, services, and processes shall be conducted using established acceptance and performance criteria. Equipment used for inspections and tests shall be calibrated and maintained. (3) Assessment _(i) Management Assessment. Managers shall assess their management processes. Problems that hinder the organization from achieving its objectives shall be identified and corrected. (ii) Independent Assessment. Independent assessments shall be planned and conducted to measure item and service quality, to measure the adequacy of work performance, and to promote improvement. The group performing independent assessments shall have sufficient authority and freedom from the line to carry out its responsibilities. Persons conducting independent assessments shall be technically qualified and knowledgeable in the areas assessed. Subpart B_Design [Reserved] Subpart C_Operations [Reserved] Subpart D_Material Management [Reserved] [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8123 Filed 4&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
