FR940705-2-00117 FR940705-2-00082 [Release No. 34&hyph;34271; File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;14] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Assessments and Fees on Members June 28, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on June 24, 1994, the Pacific Stock Exchange Incorporated (``PSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the PSE. The PSE has designated this proposal as one establishing or changing a fee under Section 19(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act, which renders the rule effective upon the Commission's receipt of this filing. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1994). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The PSE is proposing to add new Rule 12.32 to the Rules of the Board of Governors of the PSE to require that any member named as a party to an arbitration proceeding shall be assessed a $200 non-refundable surcharge when the Arbitration Department perfects service of the claim naming the member on any party to the proceeding. Below is the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is italicized. * * * * * Member Surcharge Rule 12.32 (a) Each member, member organization, or associated person who is named as a party to an arbitration proceeding, whether in a Claim, Counterclaim, Third-Party Claim, or Crossclaim, shall be assessed a $200 non-refundable surcharge when the Arbitration Department perfects service of the claim naming the member, member organization or associated person on any party to the proceeding. For each associated person who is named, the surcharge shall be assessed against the member(s) or member organization(s) which employed the associated person at the time of the events which gave rise to the dispute, claim or controversy. No member or member organization shall be assessed more than a single surcharge in any arbitration proceeding. The surcharge shall not be subject to reimbursement under Rule 12.31. (b) For the purposes of this Rule, service is perfected when the Arbitration Department properly serves the Respondent(s) to the arbitration proceeding under Rule 12.13(c). * * * * * II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis For, The Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the PSE included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The PSE has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The PSE is proposing to add new Rule 12.32 to provide that any member, member organization or associated person named as a party to an arbitration proceeding shall be assessed a $200 non-refundable surcharge when the Arbitration Department perfects service of the claim naming the member, member organization or associated person on any party to the proceeding. In addition, the firm whose associated persons are named in an arbitration proceeding will be assessed the surcharge. Historically, the revenue-to-expense ratio of the PSE's arbitration service has resulted in a deficit, which has been subsidized by other revenues of the PSE. Although the deficit has declined in recent years, the Arbitration Department has determined in a recent review of the arbitration process that the deficit will begin to rise in the immediate future as a result of significantly increased resourcing needs. The PSE anticipates such needs to be ongoing. The increased resourcing needs result from a number of factors, including case growth, more complex cases being filed, more selective arbitrator recruitment, increased arbitrator training, and increased arbitrator compensation. Cost recovery for increased resourcing needs should be directed at those member firms using the PSE's arbitration service. Proposed new Rule 12.32(a) would require each member, member organization or associated person who is named as a party to an arbitration proceeding, as a Claimant or a Respondent, in a Claim, Counterclaim, Third-Party Claim, or Crossclaim, to be assessed a $200 non-refundable surcharge when the Arbitration Department perfects service of the Claim naming the member, member organization or associated person on any party to the proceeding. This fee would be in addition to fees assessed pursuant to Rule 12.31. The fee applies both to members, member organizations and associated persons who file as Claimants and to members, member organizations and associated persons who are served by the Arbitration Department as Respondents. In a claim brought by a member, member organization or associated person against a customer, the $200 fee would be assessed in addition to the $500 claim filing fee described in the current fee schedule in Rule 12.31. For an associated person who is named as a party to an arbitration proceeding, the fee would be assessed against the member or member organization which employed the associated person at the time of the events which gave rise to the claim. However, no member or member organization will be assessed more than a single charge in any arbitration proceeding. Finally, Rule 12.32(a) clarifies that the surcharge is not subject to reimbursement under Rule 12.31. Proposed new Rule 12.32(b) clarifies that service is considered to have been perfected when the Arbitration Department serves the Claim under Rule 12.13. The PSE believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the provisions of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, which require that the rules of the Exchange provide for the equitable allocation of reasonable dues, fees and other charges among members, member organizations and associated persons in that the proposed rule equitably assesses a surcharge on each member, member organization and associated person who is named and for whom service is perfected in an arbitration proceeding and applies such revenue to additional costs resulting from increased arbitration resourcing needs. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance the purposes of the Act. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing For Commission Action The foregoing rule change has become effective pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act and subparagraph (e) of Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder in that it constitutes a due, fee or other charge. At any time within 60 days of the filing of such proposed rule change, the Commission may summarily abrogate such rule change if it appears to the Commission that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;14 and should be submitted by July 26, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16187 Filed 7&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
