FR940913-0-00084 FR940913-0-00027 (d) Federally-owned and exempt property. (1) Federally-owned property. (i) Title to federally-owned property remains vested in the Federal Government. Recipients shall submit annually an inventory listing of federally-owned property in their custody to HUD. Upon completion of the award or when the property is no longer needed, the recipient shall report the property to HUD for further HUD utilization. (ii) If HUD has no further need for the property, it shall be declared excess and reported to the General Services Administration, unless HUD has statutory authority to dispose of the property by alternative methods (e.g., the authority provided by the Federal Technology Transfer Act (15 U.S.C. 3710 (I)) to donate research equipment to educational and non-profit organizations in accordance with E.O. 12821, ``Improving Mathematics and Science Education in Support of the National Education Goals.'') Appropriate instructions shall be issued to the recipient by HUD. (2) Exempt property. When statutory authority exists, HUD has the option to vest title to property acquired with Federal funds in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government and under conditions HUD considers appropriate. Such property is ``exempt property.'' Should HUD not establish conditions, title to exempt property upon acquisition shall vest in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government. (e) Equipment. (1) Title to equipment acquired by a recipient with Federal funds shall vest in the recipient, subject to conditions of this section. (2) The recipient shall use the equipment in the project or program for which it was acquired as long as needed, whether or not the project or program continues to be supported by Federal funds and shall not encumber the equipment without approval of HUD. When the equipment is no longer needed for the original project or program, the recipient shall use the equipment in connection with its other federally-sponsored activities, in the following order of priority: (i) Activities sponsored by HUD which funded the original project; then (ii) Activities sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies. (3) During the time that equipment is used on the project or program for which it was acquired, the recipient shall make it available for use on other projects or programs if such other use will not interfere with the work on the project or program for which the equipment was originally acquired. First preference for such other use shall be given to other projects or programs sponsored by HUD that financed the equipment; second preference shall be given to projects or programs sponsored by other Federal awarding agencies. If the equipment is owned by the Federal Government, use on other activities not sponsored by the Federal Government shall be permissible if authorized by HUD. (4) The recipient's property management standards for equipment acquired with Federal funds and federally-owned equipment shall include all of the following. (i) Equipment records shall be maintained accurately and shall include the following information. (A) A description of the equipment. (B) Manufacturer's serial number, model number, Federal stock number, national stock number, or other identification number. (C) Source of the equipment, including the award number. (D) Whether title vests in the recipient or the Federal Government. (E) Acquisition date (or date received, if the equipment was furnished by the Federal Government) and cost. (F) Location and condition of the equipment and the date the information was reported. (ii) Equipment owned by the Federal Government shall be identified to indicate Federal ownership. (iii) A physical inventory of equipment shall be taken and the results reconciled with the equipment records at least once every two years. Any differences between quantities determined by the physical inspection and those shown in the accounting records shall be investigated to determine the causes of the difference. The recipient shall, in connection with the inventory, verify the existence, current utilization, and continued need for the equipment. (iv) A control system shall be in effect to insure adequate safeguards to prevent loss, damage, or theft of the equipment. Any loss, damage, or theft of equipment shall be investigated and fully documented; if the equipment was owned by the Federal Government, the recipient shall promptly notify HUD.
