FR940419-2-00041 FR940419-2-00033 The priority areas identified in this announcement are derived from legislative mandates as well as Departmental goals and initiatives. The priorities reflect the state of current knowledge as well as emerging issues which have come to ACYF's attention by several means including consultation with advocates, policymakers, and practitioners in the field. The priorities seek to focus attention on and to encourage demonstration efforts to obtain new knowledge and improvements in service delivery for the solution of particular problems and to promote the dissemination and utilization of the knowledge and model practices developed under these priorities. A. Structure of Priority Area Descriptions This section presents the basic set of issues that must be addressed in the application. Typically, they relate to project design, evaluation, and community involvement. This section also asks for specific information on the proposed project. Inclusion and discussion of these items in the applicant's proposal is important since they will be used by the reviewers in evaluating the proposal against the evaluation criteria. Project products, continuation of the project effort after the Federal support ceases, and dissemination/utilization activities, if appropriate, should also be addressed. Each priority area is composed of the following sections: • Eligible Applicants : This section specifies the type of organization which is eligible to apply under the particular priority area. Specific restrictions are also noted, where applicable. Each priority area description contains information about the types of agencies and organizations which are eligible to apply under that priority area. Since eligibility varies among priority areas depending on statutory provisions, it is critical that the Eligible Applicants section under each specific priority area be read carefully. • Purpose : This section presents the basic focus and/or broad goal(s) of the priority area. • Background : This section briefly discusses the current state-of-the-art and/or current state-of practice that supports the need for the particular priority area activity and provides relevant information on projects previously funded by ACYF and/or other State models, where applicable. • Minimum Requirements for Project Design : This section presents the basic set of issues that must be addressed in the application. Typically, they relate to project design, evaluation, and community involvement. This section also asks for specific information on the proposed project. The inclusion and discussion of these items in the applicant's proposal is important since they will be used by the reviewers in evaluating the proposal against the evaluation criteria. Project products, continuation of the project effort after the Federal support ceases, and dissemination/utilization activities, if applicable, should also be addressed. • Project Duration : This section specifies the maximum allowable length of time for the project period; it refers to the amount of time for which Federal funding is available. • Federal Share of Project Cost : This section specifies the amount of Federal support for the project. The term budget period refers to the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which a multi-year period of assistance (project period) is divided for budgetary and funding purposes. The term project period refers to the total time a project is approved for support, including any extensions. • Matching Requirement : This section specifies the minimum non-Federal contribution, either through cash or in-kind match, that is required. Applicants are encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions. Grantees must provide at least 25 percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the project is the sum of the ACYF share and the non-Federal share. Therefore, a project requesting $50,000 in Federal funds must include a match of at least $16,666 (25 percent of the total project cost of $66,666). • Anticipated Number of Projects To Be Funded : This section specifies the number of projects that ACYF anticipates it will fund in the priority area. B. List of Priority Areas Included in This Announcement 1.01A_Temporary Child Care for Children with Disabilities and Chronically Ill Children 1.01B_Crisis Nurseries 1.02_National Resource Center for Respite and Crisis Care Services C. Priority Area Descriptions and Requirements 1.01A␣Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Chronically Ill Children and 1.01B Crisis Nurseries Eligible Applicants : Only State agencies designated by the Governor of the State to carry out programs funded under the Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Act of 1986, as amended (42 U.S.C. 5117a and 5117b) are eligible to apply. Other State agencies carrying out similar programs are ineligible.
