FR940128-0-00013 FR940128-0-00002 (iv) Draft copy of any new mortgage or mortgage amendment (supplement) required by REA or the lender, unless REA has notified the borrower that it wishes to prepare these documents itself; (v) A copy of the loan agreement, loan note, bond or other financing instrument, unless REA has notified the borrower that these documents need not be submitted. These documents will not be subject to REA approval, but may be reviewed to determine whether they contain any provisions that would result in the security, including assurance of repayment, for loans made or guaranteed by REA no longer being reasonably adequate; (vi) The following certifications and reports required by law: (A) The certification by the project architect for any buildings to be constructed, as required by 7 CFR 1717.850(i); (B) A certification by an authorized official of the borrower that flood hazard insurance will be obtained for the full value of any buildings, or other facilities susceptible to damage if flooded, that will be located in a flood hazard area; (C) Form AD&hyph;1047, Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters_Primary Covered Transactions, as required by 7 CFR part 3017; (D) A report by the borrower stating whether or not it is delinquent on any Federal debt, and if delinquent, the amount and age of the delinquency and the reasons therefor; and a certification, if not previously provided, that the borrower has been informed of the Government's collection options; and (E) The written acknowledgement from a registered engineer or architect regarding compliance with seismic provisions of applicable model codes for any buildings to be constructed, as required by 7 CFR 1792.104. All other elements of an application listed in §1717.855, §1717.856, and §1717.858(c) not listed in this paragraph (c) are exempted. (3) Applications from distribution borrowers are submitted to the general field representative (GFR), while applications from power supply borrowers are submitted to the REA Power Supply Division, or its successor, in Washington, DC. When an application is satisfactory to the GFR, it will be sent promptly to the Washington office. If Washington office staff determine that an application is incomplete, the borrower will be promptly notified in writing about the deficiencies. When the application is complete, and if the security, including assurance of repayment, of loans made or guaranteed by REA will remain reasonably adequate after granting the lien accommodation or subordination, the borrower and the lender will be promptly notified in writing that the lien accommodation or subornation has been approved, subject to the conditions cited in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (d) Rural development and other non-electric utility investments. Although REA recommends the use of separate subsidiaries as set forth in §1717.858, if requested by a borrower that meets the 110 percent equity test and all other applicable requirements of this section, REA will provide a lien subordination on the specific assets financed in the case of loans made directly to the borrower for rural development and other non-electric utility purposes, provided that the outstanding balance of all such loans lien subordinated under this paragraph (d), after taking into consideration the effect of the new loan, does not exceed 15 percent of the borrower's net worth and the security, including assurance of repayment, of loans made or guaranteed by REA will remain reasonably adequate after granting the lien subordination. Investments lien subordinated under this paragraph shall be included among those investments subject to the 15 percent of total utility plant limitation set forth in 7 CFR 1717.654(b)(1), and granting of the lien subordination will not constitute approval of the investment under 7 CFR Part 1717, subpart N. (e) Equity development plans. Borrowers that qualify for a lien accommodation or lien subordination under this section are exempt from the requirement set forth in §1717.856(d) that they submit an equity development plan as part of their application. This exemption applies only to applications for a lien accommodation or subordination, and does not exempt borrowers from the requirements of 7 CFR 1710.116 applicable to applications for a loan or loan guarantee from REA. (f) Requirements and controls not exempted. All requirements and limitations imposed with respect to lien accommodations and subordinations by this subpart R that are not specifically exempted by this section are not exempted and shall continue to apply according to their terms. 8. New §1717.904 is added to read as follows: §1717.904 Exemptions pursuant to section 306E of the RE Act. (a) General policy. If a borrower's net worth to REA debt ratio exceeds 110 percent, as determined by REA, and the borrower is in compliance with all requirements of its mortgage, loan agreement with REA, and any other agreement with REA that have not been exempted in writing by REA, REA will expeditiously approve a lien accommodation for a concurrent supplemental loan if requested in writing by the borrower, provided that the security, including assurance of repayment, of loans made or guaranteed by REA will remain reasonably adequate. REA's approval will be conditioned upon execution and delivery by the borrower of a security instrument satisfactory to REA, if required, and such additional information, documents, and opinions of counsel as REA may require.
