FR941116-0-00164 FR941116-0-00022 (i) Producers are required to provide a copy of their written lease to the county committee, and, in the absence of a written lease, must provide to the county committee the terms and conditions of any oral agreement or lease. (ii) A lease will be considered a cash lease if the lessor receives only a sum certain cash payment, or a fixed quantity of the crop (for example, cash, pounds, or bushels per acre), according to paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (iii) If a lease contains provisions that require the payment of rent on the basis of the amount of crop produced or the proceeds derived from the crop, or the interest such producer would have had if the crop had been produced, such agreement shall be considered to be share lease. (iv) If a lease provides for both a cash payment and/or a share of the crop or production, the county committee will determine a normal cash lease amount by crop for the area. If the guaranteed production or cash lease payment is equal to or exceeds the normal cash lease established by the county committee for the area, then the lease shall be considered to be a cash lease. (v) If the lease is determined to be a cash lease, the landlord is not eligible to receive disaster or deficiency payments in accordance with this part, or price support loans in accordance with part 1421 of this title, on such part of the crop. (vi) If the cash guaranty is less than the normal cash guaranty for the area, the lease shall be determined to be a share lease. (2) Deficiency payments shall be divided by one of the following rules: (i) According to each producer's share of the expected production of the planted program crop or the way the production would have been shared if such crop had been planted; (ii) According to each producer's share of planted crop or the way the crop would have been shared if the crop had been planted; (iii) After considering the share of the program crop acreage planted for harvest and the acreage designated as ACR, or conserving use acreage, according to ยง1413.61, designated as the planted program crop; or (iv) According to the share of the program crop payment acreage instead of the shares of the planted program crop. (3) The division of program payments according to paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be fair and equitable to all producers. (4)(i) For hybrid seed corn growers with a contract with a seed corn company, only those operations not unique to the production of hybrid seed corn will be considered when making determinations as to contributions by a seed company that would reduce the grower's share. Items common to normal production that will be considered in determining contributions by the producer are: (A) Land; (B) Equipment; (C) Capital; (D) Active personal labor; (E) Active personal management in cultural practices and production services not unique to hybrid seed corn production; and (F) The risk in growing the crop, including crop insurance, compensation guarantees, and grower incentives for producing sellable corn seed.
