FR940721-2-00071 FR940721-2-00036 20. To Federal, State, or local agencies (or agents on their behalf) for the purpose of validating SSNs used in administering cash or noncash income maintenance programs or health maintenance programs (including programs under the Social Security Act). 21. To third party contacts when the party to be contacted has, or is expected to have, information which will verify documents when SSA is unable to determine if such documents are authentic. 22. Upon request, information on the identity and location of aliens may be disclosed to the DOJ, Criminal Division, Office of Special Investigations, for the purpose of detecting, investigating, and, when appropriate, taking legal action against suspected Nazi war criminals in the United States. 23. To the Selective Service System for the purpose of enforcing draft registration pursuant to the provisions of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 462, as amended by section 916 of Pub. L. 97&hyph;86). 24. To contractors and other Federal agencies, as necessary, for the purpose of assisting SSA in the efficient administration of its programs. We contemplate disclosing information under this routine used only in situations in which SSA may enter into a contractual or similar agreement with a third party to assist in accomplishing an agency function relating to this system of records. 25. Validated SSN information may be disclosed to organizations or agencies such as prison systems that are required by law to furnish SSA with SSN information. 26. Nontax return information that is not restricted from disclosure by Federal law may be disclosed to the General Services Administration and the National Archives and Records Administration for the purpose of conducting records management studies with respect to their duties and responsibilities under 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906, as amended by the National Archives and Records Administration Act of 1984. 27. Disclosure of SSNs and dates of birth may be made to the DVA or third parties under contract to that agency for the purpose of conducting DVA medical research and epidemiological studies. 28. SSN information may be disclosed to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) upon receipt of a request from that agency in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 8347(m)(3), when OPM needs the information in administering its pension program for retired Federal Civil Service employees. 29. Upon request by the Department of Education, SSNs which are provided by students to postsecondary educational institutions may be verified as required by Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1091). Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records in this system are maintained in paper form (e.g., paper lists, punch cards, Forms SS&hyph;5 (Application for an SSN), and systems generated forms); magnetic media (e.g., magnetic tape and disk with on-line access); and in microfilm and microfiche form. Retrievability: Records of SSN holders are indexed by both SSN and name. Records of applications that have been denied because the applicant submitted fraudulent evidence, or that are being verified because the evidence is suspected to be fraudulent, are indexed either by the applicant's name plus month and year of birth, or by the applicant's name plus the eleven-digit reference number of the disallowed application. Safeguards: Safeguards for automated records have been established in accordance with the HHS Automated Data Processing Manual, ``Part 6, ADP Systems Security.'' This includes maintaining the magnetic tapes and disks within a secured enclosure attended by security guards. Anyone entering or leaving this enclosure must have a special badge issued only to authorized personnel. For computerized records electronically transmitted between Central Office and Field Office locations (including organizations administering SSA programs under contractual agreements), safeguards include a lock/unlock password system, exclusive use of leased telephone lines, a terminal-oriented transaction matrix, and an audit trail. All microfilm, microfiche, and paper files are accessible only by authorized personnel who have a need for the records in the performance of their official duties. Expansion and improvement of SSA's telecommunications systems has resulted in the acquisition of terminals equipped with physical key locks. The terminals also are fitted with adapters to permit the future installation of data encryption devices and devices to permit the identification of terminal users. Retention and Disposal: All paper forms are retained for 5 years after they have been filmed or entered on tape and the accuracy has been verified. They then are destroyed by shredding. All tape, disks, microfilm, and microfiche files are updated periodically. Out-of-date magnetic tapes and disks are erased. Out-of-date microfiches are disposed of by applying heat.
