FR941220-1-00066 FR941220-1-00010 (d) Any other cause of so serious or compelling a nature that it affects the present responsibility of a person. * * * * * 9. Section 24.313 would be revised to read as follows: §24.313 Opportunity to contest proposed debarment. (a) Submission in opposition. Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of proposed debarment, the respondent may submit, in person, in writing, or through a representative, information and argument in opposition to the proposed debarment. (1) The information and argument should be addressed to the Debarment Docket Clerk, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20410. (2) If the respondent does not contest the proposed debarment within the 30 day period, the proposed debarment shall become final. (3) If the respondent desires a hearing, it shall submit a written request to the Debarment Docket Clerk within the 30-day period following receipt of the notice of proposed debarment. (b) Additional proceedings as to disputed material facts . (1) In actions not based upon a conviction or civil judgment, if the debarring official finds that the respondent's submission in opposition raises a genuine dispute over facts material to the proposed debarment, respondent(s) shall be afforded an opportunity to appear with a representative, submit documentary evidence, present witnesses, and confront any witness the agency presents. (2) A transcribed record of any additional proceedings shall be made available at cost to the respondent, upon request, unless the respondent and the agency, by mutual agreement, waive the requirement for a transcript. 10. Section 24.314 would be revised to read as follows: §24.314 Debarring official's decision. (a) No additional proceedings necessary. In actions based upon a conviction or civil judgment, or in which there is no genuine dispute over material facts, the debarring official shall make a decision on the basis of all the information in the administrative record, including any submission made by the respondent. The decision shall be made within 45 days after receipt of any information and argument submitted by the respondent, unless the debarring official extends this period for good cause. (b) Additional proceedings necessary. (1) In actions in which additional proceedings are necessary to determine disputed material facts, written findings of fact shall be prepared. The debarring official shall base the decision on the facts as found, together with any information and argument submitted by the respondent and any other information in the administrative record. (2) The debarring official may refer disputed material facts to another official for findings of fact. The debarring official may reject any such findings, in whole or in part, only after specifically determining them to be arbitrary and capricious or clearly erroneous. (i) If the debarring official refers disputed material facts to an Administrative Law Judge or Member of the Board of Contract Appeals, the provisions of part 26 of this chapter shall be generally applicable to the proceeding, with the exception that no appeal to the Secretary may be taken under §§26.24&hyph;26.26 of this chapter with respect to any order or decision by such Judge or Member. (ii) Such additional proceedings shall in all events be concluded within 45 days after the debarring official has issued the notice of disputed factual issues in accordance with §24.313(b)(1) of this part. Findings of fact shall be issued by the debarring official, or by any official to whom the factual issues have been referred, within 30 days after conclusion of such additional proceedings. The time limitations of this subparagraph may be extended only upon issuance, by the debarring official or other official to whom factual issues have been referred, of a written notice describing good cause for such extension. (3) The debarring official's decision shall be made after the conclusion on the proceedings with respect to the disputed facts. (i) Such decision shall be made within 15 days after the issuance of findings of fact concerning the disputed material facts. (ii) [Reserved]. (c)(1) Standard of proof. In any debarment action, the cause for debarment must be established by a preponderance of the evidence. Where the proposed debarment is based upon a conviction or civil judgment, the standard shall be deemed to have been met. (2) Burden of proof. The burden of proof is on the agency proposing debarment. (d) Notice of debarring official's decision. (1) If the debarring official decides to impose debarment, the respondent shall be given prompt notice: (i) Referring to the notice of proposed debarment; (ii) Specifying the reasons for debarment; (iii) Stating the period of debarment, including effective dates; and (iv) Advising that the debarment is effective for covered transactions throughout the executive branch of the Federal Government unless an agency head or an authorized designee makes the determination referred to in §24.215. (A) Where a debarment is based solely on §24.305(f) of this Part, the notice of the debarring official's decision shall advise that the debarment is effective for programs or activities of the Department. (B) [Reserved]. (2) If the debarring official decides not to impose debarment, the respondent shall be given prompt notice of that decision. A decision not to impose debarment shall be without prejudice to a subsequent imposition of debarment by any other agency. §24.400 [Amended] 11. In §24.400, paragraph (d) would be removed. §24.410 [Amended] 12. In §24.410, paragraph (c) would be removed. 13. Section 24.411 would be revised to read as follows:
