FR941216-1-00130 FR941216-1-00012 Titanium tetrachloride is a heavy, colorless liquid acid with a pungent odor. When it leaks it produces a massive amount of smoke. It is used solely to produce smoke and has slight toxic effects. Liquid FM shall burn the skin, however; and quantities of smoke cause a choking sensation and difficulty breathing; a protective mask is required for the comfort of the worker. In extremely heavy concentrations, protective mask canisters may become clogged to such an extent as to render breathing difficult; in enclosed places, serious injury can result. Large quantities of water can remove liquid FM from the skin. Leaking munitions containers should be removed from the magazine and destroyed by pouring contents on the ground in a disposal area. Spillage can be removed with large quantities of water. §184.143 Hexachloroethane mixture (HC). HC, a gray-colored powder without characteristic odor, consists largely of a hexachloroethane, zinc oxide, and aluminum mixture. HC reacts with water which can start it burning; it burns rather slowly with the evolution of a dense cloud of smoke. Respiratory protection shall be worn by personnel exposed to any concentration of HC smoke. §184.144 Burning mixture (CN&hyph;DM). CN&hyph;DM is a mixture of chloroacetophenone and diphenylamine chloroarsine with pyrotechnic material. Respiratory protection is required when this mixture burns. §184.145 Phosphorus munitions agents. (a) General . At present, white phosphorus (WP) and plasticized white phosphorus (PWP) are the only two chemical agents in this group; they have somewhat similar characteristics. (b) White phosphorus . WP is a yellowish, wax-like substance, melting at 110 ○F. Its most characteristic property is that it spontaneously ignites when exposed to air, burning with a yellow flame and giving off a large volume of white smoke. Smoke in field concentrations is not toxic, fumes are toxic. WP is intensely poisonous when taken internally. (c) Plasticized white phosphorus . PWP is finely divided WP suspended in a gel of rubber and xylene. §184.146 Storage for phosphorus munitions. (a) General . Phosphorus munitions should be stored in fire-resistive magazines with concrete floors or in earth-covered magazines in a manner facilitating inspection. (b) Temperature control . White phosphorus filling in munitions becomes liquid at 111 ○F. When exposed to air, WP shall ignite; in cases when a burster is in the projectile, it may explode. Below 111 ○F the filling is solid and shall not leak; for this reason, the temperature shall be kept below 111 ○F. (c) Position of munitions . Where temperature is likely to reach 111 ○F, WP munitions shall be stacked upright, sitting on their bases, so that a subsequent drop in temperature shall not solidify the WP in a position affecting the ballistics of the item. §184.147 Special protective equipment for phosphorus munitions. (a) General . Special equipment, including that required for first aid, should be readily available to personnel working where phosphorus munitions are stored, processed, or handled. (b) Personal protective equipment . Personal protective equipment consisting of flameproof gloves and coveralls and face shield, sufficient in number to equip all personnel required to work with phosphorus munitions, shall be centrally stored and maintained under close supervision. These items shall be issued to personnel working with WP- or PWP-filled items and shall be worn whenever munitions containers leak. §184.148 First aid for phosphorus burns. Phosphorus buried in the flesh is absorbed and may result in systemic poisoning. The tissues immediately around the burn are particularly affected by the absorbed phosphorus. Untrained personnel administering first aid should immediately plunge burned areas into water, then wrap them in wet gauze. §184.149 Leaking phosphorus munitions. (a) General . White smoke immediately alerts observers to leaks in WP munitions. Spontaneous ignition occurs when air contacts the WP. Only prompt action can combat the great risk of fire posed by leaking WP munitions. (b) Immediate action on discovering leaking munitions . During operations, the person discovering the leaking munitions shall, when practicable, submerge the leaker in one of the tubs provided. (Rubber protective equipment does not give adequate protection when exposed to high temperatures such as produced by burning phosphorus. When burning phosphorus adheres to gloves, the gloved hands should be dipped in water.) (c) Disposal of leaking munitions . After a single leaking item has been immersed in water, it should be disposed of in an area where fragmentation shall not be a hazard, smoke shall not create a nuisance, and no dry vegetation could be ignited. (1) An item that does not contain a fuze or burster shall be removed to the demolition ground and destroyed by static firing. All personnel shall retire to a safe distance before the projectile is exploded. (2) The fire shall be extinguished before a filled item with a fuze or burster, not in a container, is handled or moved. This is extremely hazardous, and shall be carried out under the direction of an expert in demolition techniques, familiar with chemical munitions. After the flames have been extinguished, the instructions given in §184.149(c) shall be followed. §184.150 Removal of phosphorus munitions. (a) General . After leaked phosphorus has been doused and contained by water, the water can evaporate, making it possible for the phosphorus to reignite. Phosphorus that has self-extinguished by forming a crust can reignite if the crust is broken.
