FR940418-1-00048 FR940418-1-00012 (3) A letter of acceptance from an eligible institution (required only for new applicants, transfers and previously suspended students); and (4) A ``financial aid package'', prepared and certified by the institution's Financial Aid Office, indicating the student's unmet needs. (c) Any applications received after the stated closing date will be considered only if funds remain available after grants are made to eligible applicants who met the deadline. (d) A separate application must be submitted for a summer school program. §40.13 Application review. (a) The Higher Education Office shall review each completed application, including the financial aid package, and verify a student's unmet financial need with the Financial Aid Office. Any changes must be supported with appropriate documentation from the applicant or other directly involved party. (b) Approval of eligible applicants for grants under this Part is to be made by the Education Line Officer in accordance with the tribe's priority plan. (c) The Higher Education Office may award students no more than the unmet need amount. (d) Students who reside on the Indian reservations or trust or restricted lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau shall receive first priority in funding, in accordance with the priority established under §40.5. Those residing near the reservation shall be considered afterward. §40.14 Time period for a grant. (a) Grants made under this Part are subject to the availability of funds. (b) Grants may only cover the period of time required by students to complete their first undergraduate baccalaureate course of study under the limitations set out in §40.16. §40.15 Duration of student eligibility. (a) A student is eligible to receive a grant for the period required to complete an undergraduate baccalaureate course of study, as determined by the institution. (b) The period required to complete the undergraduate baccalaureate course of study may not exceed the full-time equivalent of: (1) Five (5) academic years for an undergraduate degree or certificate program that normally requires four (4) academic years, or less, of study to complete; or (2) Six (6) academic years for an undergraduate degree or certificate program that normally requires more than four academic years of study to complete, as determined by the institution. (c) The Higher Education Office may, with appropriate supporting documentation, waive the limitations contained in paragraph (b) of this section, if it determines that the student's failure to complete the program in the time set forth in this section resulted from an undue hardship caused by one of the following: (1) The death of a relative of the student; (2) An injury or illness of the student; or (3) Other special circumstances. (d) To verify progress toward the completion of an undergraduate baccalaureate course of study, all continuing students shall submit grade reports or transcript(s), as issued by the institution for each term, to the Higher Education Office on an annual basis. §40.16 Notification of grant award or denial. The Higher Education Office shall notify each applicant and the Financial Aid Office in writing of their approval or denial. Denial notification shall provide supporting reason for such determination. §40.17 Payment of grant. (a) Grants made by the Higher Education Office shall be made available to the applicant in care of the Financial Aid Office of the eligible institution in which he or she is enrolled. (b) Financial Aid Offices shall disburse grants made under this Part to the recipients according to the disbursement policy of the institution. §40.18 Effect of termination of enrollment. (a) A grant recipient who, without justifiable circumstances, fails to enroll; officially or unofficially withdraws; is expelled before completion of the academic term, semester, trimester, or quarter; or fails to meet the academic standards required by the institution during a probation period, shall repay the amount of the grant received from the institution to the Higher Education Office. (b) A grant recipient who does not enroll, who withdraws, or who is expelled during an academic term shall submit a written notification to the Higher Education Office, within 10 days of his/her failure to enroll, withdrawal or expulsion, with the following information: (1) The date of withdrawal, expulsion, or failure to enroll (2) A statement with supporting documentation indicating the reason for withdrawal or expulsion or failure to enroll, including mitigating circumstances, if any; and (3) A copy of the student's request made to the institution to return, by check or money order payable to the Higher Education Office, any remaining balance of the grant for that academic term. (c) The student must demonstrate justifiable circumstances to avoid repayment of the grant amount expended upon termination of enrollment for the academic term. Failure to provide documentation for justifiable circumstances will result in termination of the student's eligibility for future grants under this Part and may require the student to repay any portion of the amount received for the academic term. The justifiable circumstances include, but are not limited to: (1) Withdrawal due to an injury or illness of the student; and (2) Other special circumstances. (d) Within 30 days of receipt of the information required in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Higher Education Office shall determine the portion of the grant that must be repaid, and notify the student. (e) The Higher Education Office shall make a reasonable effort to contact the student and make arrangements for recovery of the determined amount. §40.19 Effect of academic probation or suspension. (a) Grant recipients shall continue to be eligible for a grant under this Part as long as they maintain the academic standards required by the institution, subject to the time limitations set forth in §40.16.
