FR940505-1-00226 FR940505-1-00012 Manufacturers of engines subject to the inherently low evaporative emissions requirement would submit test results or an engineering evaluation to demonstrate that the certified vehicles have inherently low evaporative emissions. Test procedures are described in EPA Clean Fuel Fleet program regulations (58 FR 11888, March 1, 1993). For vehicles certified under chassis-based requirements, EPA also proposes to require evaporative emission testing using the Federal test procedure and standards. CARB adopted a new evaporative emission test in August 1990 and is now in the process of making improvements to its test procedure before requesting a waiver from Federal requirements. It is unclear at this point how closely aligned the two test procedures will be. If CARB receives a waiver, EPA will consider the appropriateness of allowing manufacturers to certify vehicles using CARB's evaporative emission test. EPA and CARB specify standards of 4 and 2 grams per test, respectively, for vehicles between 14,000 and 26,000 pounds GVWR. EPA proposes to retain the 2 g/test standard for California vehicles. The numerical emission standards proposed for heavy-duty vehicles apply equally to certification and recall testing. Other California standards and procedures would be unaffected by the FIP, as described above for light-duty vehicles. Applicable Federal or California regulations would continue to apply in all aspects of control programs for these emission sources, including certification, assembly line testing, and recall. 4. Heavy-Duty Engine Rebuild Program a. Introduction. Heavy-duty engines are generally operated over mileages far exceeding the useful life specified when the engines are certified. This is due to their high mileage accumulation rates, high replacement costs, and overall durable designs. Additionally, the engine life is often extended by one or more engine rebuilds. Larger diesel engines, for example those used in line-haul trucks and transit bus applications, are manufactured with replaceable cylinder liners to facilitate engine rebuilding. Engines with replaceable cylinder liners can be readily rebuilt numerous times. It is not uncommon for such engines used in line-haul applications to continue operating for many times longer than their statutory useful life. Rebuilds are typically performed by a variety of parties including fleet operators, small independent garages, the original engine manufacturer, and large independent assembly line operations. Additionally, there are many independent rebuilders of engine components. 113 113 ``Heavy-duty Engine Rebuild Practices'', EPA Draft Report. Testing conducted on rebuilt engines by EPA has indicated that engine rebuilding is generally well done and emissions control does not usually suffer. However, EPA is concerned about whether this will continue to be the case in the future. Given the very stringent enhanced in-use compliance program emissions standards for HDEs being proposed and the new control technology which will be applied, the in-use emissions performance of rebuilt HDEs is unclear. There may be cost incentives to rebuild these engines to a non-OEM configuration which could substantially increase emissions. Given that most of the actual life of some larger engines is beyond the traditional statutory useful life, it is important to ensure that engines continue to meet standards even after rebuilds. Therefore, EPA is proposing to require rebuilt engines to be subject to the standards proposed today for new engines. These requirements will apply to any 1999 and later model year heavy-duty vehicle subject to the enhanced standards that is registered in California and is equipped with an engine that has been certified to engine-based standards as opposed to chassis-based standards. Vehicles certified to chassis-based standards in these classes would be subject to full life I/M, similar to light-duty enhanced vehicles. Both requirements ensure that enhanced vehicles continue to meet applicable standards. b. Program description . EPA's primary concern is that HDEs meet applicable standards in use throughout their life cycle, including after engine rebuilding. To do this requires ensuring that, if vehicles are found not to comply at any time, someone is responsible for remedying the nonconformity. EPA proposes to require vehicle owners to be able to demonstrate at all times that their engine is certified to meet the emissions standards it originally met. If the engine is within its original useful life, nothing more would be required. After the end of the engine's original useful life, the owner would be required to obtain a useful life renewal certificate showing that the engine still met its original standards. Such a certificate must be issued by a party that has brought the owner's engine to a configuration that has been previously certified by EPA (certification requirements are discussed below). The certifier would specify a useful life renewal period on the certificate over which the certifier is responsible for emissions performance of the engine. Once the specified period expires, the vehicle owner would be required to acquire another useful life renewal certificate before reregistering their vehicle in California.
