FR940921-2-00078 FR940921-2-00066 Processing Considerations EWCP loan applications are processed on a three track system. Track one is regular processing and all participating lenders in EWCP have the authority to submit EWCP loan applications on this track. Track two is the Certified Lenders Program (CLP) where greater reliance is placed on the lender's analysis and three day turnaround is the standard. Track three is the Preferred Lenders Program (PLP) where lenders are given delegated authority to make loans. In addition to regular processing, EWCP participating lenders that meet the eligibility criteria for CLP and/or PLP will have the authority to submit loans for processing on track two and/or three as the case may be. It should be noted that all EWCP participating lenders must have successful experience in providing trade finance to exporters and an acceptable collateral management system. Also, it is noted that all applications for Preliminary Commitments will be processed on track one, regular processing. SBA District Offices that have affiliated U.S. Export Assistance Centers will be processing centers for EWCP loan and Preliminary Commitment applications. Other District Offices may be designated as EWCP processing centers based on activity and capability. District Offices that are not so designated will forward loan applications for processing to the designated EWCP processing center. All SBA district offices, whether or not designated as processing centers, will promote the pilot program and will continue to offer business development assistance to exporters. During the term of the pilot, the SBA Office of International Trade will work closely with the SBA processing offices to provide technical support on loan structuring and foreign risk assessment. Because EWCP loans are short-term and often require swift action by staff familiar with the loan, the SBA recommending loan officer will retain the responsibility for loan servicing. If the lender does not handle the loan liquidation, the SBA district office which approved the loan will liquidate it. During the pilot, EWCP loans will not be eligible for sale in the secondary market that exists for 7(a) loans. In summary, SBA's Export Working Capital Program is a loan guarantee program for exporters to provide transaction financing. There are three important considerations in this program: (1) The existence of a transaction(s), (2) the capability of the exporter to perform and satisfy the requirements of the transaction(s), and (3) loan repayment (adequacy of documents, security interest in the collateral and assignment of proceeds). Dated: September 15, 1994. Erskine B. Bowles, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23339 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8025&hyph;01&hyph;M
