FR941110-0-00262 FR941110-0-00016 §488.432 Civil money penalties: When penalty is collected. (a) When facility requests a hearing. (1) A facility must request a hearing on the determination of the noncompliance that is the basis for imposition of the civil money penalty within the time specified in_ (i) Section 498.40 of this chapter for a (A) SNF; (B) Dually participating facility; or (C) State-operated NF. (ii) Section 431.153 of this chapter for a non-State operated NF. (2) If a facility requests a hearing within the time specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, HCFA or the State initiates collection of the penalty when there is a final administrative decision that upholds HCFA's or the State's determination of noncompliance after the facility achieves substantial compliance or is terminated. (b) When facility does not request a hearing. If a facility does not request a hearing, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, HCFA or the State initiates collection of the penalty when the facility_ (1) Achieves substantial compliance; or (2) Is terminated. (c) When facility waives a hearing. If a facility waives its right to a hearing in writing, as specified in §488.436, HCFA or the State initiates collection of the penalty when the facility_ (1) Achieves substantial compliance; or (2) Is terminated. (d) Accrual and computation of penalties for a facility that_ (1) Requests a hearing or does not request a hearing are specified in §488.440; (2) Waives its right to a hearing in writing, are specified in §§488.436(b) and 488.440. (e) The collection of civil money penalties is made as provided in §488.442. §488.434 Civil money penalties: Notice of penalty. (a) HCFA notice of penalty. (1) HCFA sends a written notice of intent to impose the penalty to the facility for all facilities except non-State operated NFs when the State is imposing the penalty. (2) Content of notice. The notice that HCFA sends includes_ (i) The nature of the noncompliance; (ii) The statutory basis for the penalty; (iii) The amount of penalty per day of noncompliance; (iv) Any factors specified in §488.438(f) that were considered when determining the amount of the penalty; (v) The date on which the penalty begins to accrue; (vi) When the penalty stops accruing; (vii) When the penalty is collected; and (viii) Instructions for responding to the notice, including a statement of the facility's right to a hearing, and the implication of waiving a hearing, as provided in §488.436. (b) State notice of penalty. (1) The State must notify the facility in accordance with State procedures for all non-State operated NFs when the State takes the action. (2) The State's notice must_ (i) Be in writing; and (ii) Include, at a minimum, the information specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. §488.436 Civil money penalties: Waiver of hearing, reduction of penalty amount. (a) Waiver of a hearing. The facility may waive the right to a hearing, in writing, within 60 days from the date of the notice of intent to impose the civil money penalty. (b) Reduction of penalty amount. (1) If the facility waives its right to a hearing in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section, HCFA or the State reduces the civil money penalty amount by 35 percent. (2) If the facility does not waive its right to a hearing in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (a) of this section, the civil money penalty is not reduced by 35 percent. §488.438 Civil money penalties: Amount of penalty. (a) Amount of penalty. The penalties are within the following ranges, set at $50 increments: (1) Upper range_$3,050&hyph;$10,000. Penalties in the range of $3,050&hyph;$10,000 per day are imposed for deficiencies constituting immediate jeopardy, and as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (2) Lower range_$50&hyph;$3,000. Penalties in the range of $50&hyph;$3,000 per day are imposed for deficiencies that do not constitute immediate jeopardy, but either caused actual harm, or caused no actual harm, but have the potential for more than minimal harm. (b) Basis for penalty amount. The amount of penalty is based on HCFA's or the State's assessment of factors listed in paragraph (f) of this section. (c) Decreased penalty amounts. Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, if immediate jeopardy is removed, but the noncompliance continues, HCFA or the State will shift the penalty amount to the lower range. (d) Increased penalty amounts. (1) Before the hearing, HCFA or the State may propose to increase the penalty amount for facility noncompliance which, after imposition of a lower level penalty amount, becomes sufficiently serious to pose immediate jeopardy. (2) HCFA does and the State must increase the penalty amount for any repeated deficiencies for which a lower level penalty amount was previously imposed, regardless of whether the increased penalty amount would exceed the range otherwise reserved for nonimmediate jeopardy deficiencies. (3) Repeated deficiencies are deficiencies in the same regulatory grouping of requirements found at the last survey, subsequently corrected, and found again at the next survey. (e) Review of the penalty. When an administrative law judge or State hearing officer (or higher administrative review authority) finds that the basis for imposing a civil money penalty exists, as specified in §488.430, the administrative law judge or State hearing officer (or higher administrative review authority) may not_ (1) Set a penalty of zero or reduce a penalty to zero;
