FR941020-2-00047 FR941020-2-00032 Subpart P_Quality Assurance for Moderate or High Complexity Testing, or Both We have determined that ASHI's requirements are equal to the CLIA requirements of this subpart. ASHI has edited, rewritten, and amplified its checklist requirements on quality assurance to equate to the CLIA regulation requirements. Subpart Q_Inspections ASHI has made revisions to the frequency of its onsite inspection process to a biennial basis, to equate to the applicable CLIA requirements at §493.1777. Therefore, we have determined that ASHI's requirements are at least equal to the requirements of this subpart. The specific areas of the inspection process that are more stringent are: •ASHI inspectors provide onsite proficiency testing samples to be processed during the inspection; and •ASHI requires submission of a self-evaluation inspection for the intervening year, with an onsite inspection, if indicated. Subpart R_Enforcement Procedures for Laboratories ASHI meets the requirements of subpart R to the extent it applies to accreditation organizations. ASHI policy stipulates the action taken when ASHI accredited laboratories do not comply with its mandatory standards. When appropriate, ASHI will deny accreditation to a laboratory and report the denial to us within 30 days. ASHI also offers an appeals process for laboratories that have had a notification of denial of ASHI accreditation. Some specific actions ASHI takes in response to non-compliance or violation of mandatory standards include: •When an ASHI laboratory fails to maintain satisfactory performance in a cell exchange or PT program, the laboratory must either (a) successfully participate in two consecutive PT events (enhanced PT), submit to a reinspection and provide documentation of corrective actions; or (b) cease testing. This action is more stringent than the actions that we may take under subpart R. CLIA requires only the evaluation of a cell exchange program at the time of inspection. CLIA does not require PT for the specialty of histocompatibility. Therefore, no enhanced PT, nor cessation of testing due to unsatisfactory performance is required; and •When ASHI determines that a serious risk of harm (immediate jeopardy) situation exists in a ASHI-accredited laboratory, the laboratory must cease testing and immediately correct the problem that poses the risk. Failure to do so will result in a revocation of accreditation. This action is similar to our action for immediate jeopardy.
