FR940811-2-00037 FR940811-2-00030 [FRL&hyph;5029&hyph;7] CWA 303(d): Proposed Establishment of Phased Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) for Copper, Mercury, Nickel and Lead in New York-New Jersey Harbor AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency, Region II. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region II is hereby providing public notice on its intent to establish Phased Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) for copper, mercury, lead and nickel in New York-New Jersey Harbor. The proposed TMDLs are being established in cooperation with the States of New York and New Jersey. DATES: Comments on the proposed TMDLs must be submitted to EPA on or before October 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the proposed TMDLs can be obtained by writing to Ms. Rosella T. O'Connor, Technical Evaluation Section, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Region II, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, New York 10278 or calling (212) 264&hyph;5692. The administrative record containing background technical information on the proposed TMDLs developed by EPA, in conjunction with the States of NY and NJ, is on file and may be inspected at the USEPA, Region II office between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Arrangements to examine the administrative record may be made by contacting Ms. Rosella O'Connor. Public information meetings to discuss the proposed TMDLs will be held on September 14, 1994 from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the EPA Region II office (Room 305C), 26 Federal Plaza, New York City and on September 21, 1994 from 1 p.m. to 4 p.m. at the EPA Edison Field Office (Building 205 Conference Room) located at 2890 Woodbridge Avenue, Edison, NJ. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Rosella O'Connor, telephone (212) 264&hyph;5692. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background II. Tentative Determination A. Description of TMDLs B. Water Quality Standards C. List of Proposed TMDLs I. Background The New York-New Jersey Harbor (geographically defined as the Hudson River from the Tappan Zee Bridge extending out to the Outer Harbor and including the Harlem River, East River to the Throgs Neck Bridge, Jamaica Bay, Newark Bay, Hackensack River below the Oradell Dam, Passaic River below the Dundee Dam, Kill Van Kull, Arthur Kill, and the Raritan River/Bay below the Fieldville Dam) was listed by the States of New York and New Jersey under section 304(l)(1)(B) (``the short list'') of the Clean Water Act. Section 304(l)(1)(B) of the Clean Water Act (CWA) requires States to develop lists of waters entirely or substantially impacted by point source discharges of pollutants. Section 304(l) also requires States to develop individual control strategies for each point source. In order to establish individual control strategies for point sources in the Harbor, the States of New York and New Jersey and EPA joined in a cooperative effort to collect ambient and source data, develop a water quality model to assess relative loadings from all sources (municipal and industrial discharges, storm water, combined sewer overflows, sediment flux, atmospheric deposition and tributaries), and develop Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs). This effort was conducted through work groups under the auspices of the New York-New Jersey Harbor Estuary Program.
