FR940825-2-00147 FR940825-2-00095 In summary, the Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with the Act because (1) there is nothing in the trading history of ELDS which raises any regulatory concerns with respect to expanding the ELDS listing standards to include ELDS linked to securities (including sponsored ADRs) that are traded in the U.S. either on an exchange or though the facilities of a national securities exchange and are issued by non-U.S. companies subject to U.S. reporting requirements; (2) the proposed rule change adequately safeguards the pricing integrity of both the ELDS and the underlying security and ensures that there is sufficient surveillance to detect as well as deter manipulation; and (3) the existing regulatory structure and issuer requirements for ELDS, as enhanced herein, will be applied and will ensure that ELDS will continue to be linked to highly capitalized companies. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register in order to allow the Exchange to list without delay ELDS linked to securities (including sponsored ADRs) that are traded in the U.S. securities markets and are issued by non-U.S. companies subject to reporting requirements under the Act and that satisfy the proposed listing guidelines. Specifically, Amendment No. 1 significantly enhances the existing listing criteria contained in Paragraph 703.21 of the Manual for the listing of ELDS overlying securities issued by U.S. companies. The Commission believes that the enhanced listing criteria proposed in Amendment No. 1 which will apply to ELDS linked to any security (including sponsored ADRs) issued by a non-U.S. company, combined with the numerical listing standards currently contained in Paragraph 703.21 of the Manual, ensure that the NYSE has the ability to detect and deter manipulation with respect to both the ELDS and the underlying security. Furthermore, the Commission believes that Amendment No. 1 conforms the proposed rule change to the procedures approved by the Commission for the listing of options on ADRs. 32 As stated in the ADR Approval Order, the Commission continues to believe that these standards will ensure that the U.S. market is the relevant pricing market for the ELDS and the underlying security where no comprehensive market information sharing agreement exists with the primary market for such underlying security (for ADRs, the primary exchange in the country where the security underlying the ADR is primarily traded). 33 Finally, allowing the Commission to approve, on a case-by-case basis, an issue of ELDS related to more than the specified percentages of the outstanding shares of the underlying security merely expands the flexibility currently provided in the rules with respect to ELDS linked to securities issued by U.S. companies. 34 Because the Exchange must obtain Commission approval prior listing an ELDS linked to a security (including a sponsored ADR) issued by a non-U.S. company which exceeds those percentages, the Commission believes that this amendment does not raise any new regulatory concerns. Accordingly, the Commission believes that good cause exists for approving Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis. 32 Id. 33 Id. 34 See supra note 10. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning Amendment No. 1 to the Exchange's proposal. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;04 and should be submitted by September 15, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 35 that the portion of the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;04), as amended, relating to the listing and trading of ELDS linked to either sponsored ADRs or securities issued by non-U.S. companies is approved. 35 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 36 36 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3 (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20897 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
