FR941019-0-00027 FR941019-0-00004 (ll) Qualifying single family purchaser means: (1) A qualifying household (including qualifying households with members who are veterans); or (2) A public agency or nonprofit organization that agrees to either: (i) Make an eligible single family property available for occupancy as affordable housing for lower-income families (including lower-income families with members who are veterans) during the remaining useful life of such property; or (ii) Make the property available for purchase by any such family that agrees to occupy the property as a principal residence for at least 12 months and that certifies in writing that the family intends to occupy the property for at least 12 months. (mm) Recapture means the process by which the RTC receives a percentage of the proceeds from the sale of properties which are subject to recapture, as set forth in ยง1609.8 of this part. (nn) RTC means the Resolution Trust Corporation. (oo) Secretary means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. (pp) Single Transaction means the purchase of more than one eligible multifamily property by the same qualifying multifamily purchaser where such purchaser is the winning bidder on each such property and the properties were listed with one or more clearinghouses such that bids could be and were submitted contemporaneously by the purchaser therefore, offered for sale by the RTC as part of a designated bulk sale transaction or identified by the purchaser and accepted by RTC as part of a bulk sale bid by the purchaser and accepted by RTC as part of a bulk sale bid by the purchaser; provided, however, that in any such event the RTC and the purchaser may elect to treat such purchases as being made pursuant to separate and distinct transactions, rather than a single transaction. (qq) Subsidiary means an entity which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a depository institution under conservatorship or receivership, as applicable, which has as its principal business the ownership of real property, including wholly-owned subsidiaries of subsidiaries. (rr) Technical assistance advisor (TAA) means a public agency or nonprofit organization that is designated by the RTC to provide assistance to potential purchasers of eligible multifamily properties, eligible condominium properties and eligible single family properties. (ss) Useful life means the later of forty (40) years from the date of the LURA or fifty (50) years from the date the property was initially occupied as housing; provided, however, that in the event of an involuntary loss of use of the property caused by seizure, condemnation, foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure, fire or other casualty, the useful life of the property shall terminate on the date of such loss. (tt) Very low-income families means families and individuals whose incomes do not exceed 50 percent of area median income, as defined under 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(2) and as determined by the Secretary of HUD, with adjustment for family size. (uu) Veteran means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or release therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable. (vv) Women-owned business means a business_ (1) More than 50 percent of the ownership or control of which is held by one or more women; (2) More than 50 percent of the net profit or loss of which accrues to one or more women; and (3) A significant percentage of senior management positions are held by women. ยง1609.3 Clearinghouses. (a) Eligibility. Clearinghouses shall include: (1) The State housing finance agency for the State in which an eligible multifamily property, eligible condominium property or eligible single family property is located; (2) The Office of Community Investment (or other comparable division) within the Federal Housing Finance Board in the jurisdiction where the eligible multifamily property, eligible condominium property or eligible single family property is located; and (3) Any national nonprofit organization that the RTC determines has the capacity to act as a clearinghouse for information. (b) Designation. The RTC shall designate one or more eligible clearinghouses to act in that capacity in each State.
