FR941006-2-00170 FR941006-2-00113 15. Development of training materials to assist battered women, operators of domestic violence shelters, battered women's advocates, and attorneys to use expert testimony on the experiences of battered women in appropriate cases, and individuals with expertise in the experiences of battered women to develop skills appropriate to providing such testimony; 16. Research regarding State judicial decisions relating to child custody litigation involving domestic violence; 17. Development of training curricula to assist State courts to develop an understanding of, and appropriate responses to child custody litigation involving domestic violence; 18. Dissemination of information and training materials and provision of technical assistance regarding the issues listed in paragraphs 14&hyph;17 above; 19. Development of national, regional, and in-State training and educational programs dealing with criminal and civil aspects of interstate and international parental child abduction; 20. Other programs, consistent with the purposes of the State Justice Institute Act, as may be deemed appropriate by the Institute, including projects dealing with the relationship between Federal and State court systems in areas where there is concurrent State-Federal jurisdiction and where Federal courts, directly or indirectly, review State court proceedings. Funds wil l not be made available for the ordinary, routine operation of court systems or programs in any of these areas. B. Special Interest Program Categories 1. General Description The Institute is interested in funding both innovative programs and programs of proven merit that can be replicated in other jurisdictions. Although applications in any of the statutory program areas are eligible for funding in FY 1995, the Institute is especially interested in funding those projects that: a. Formulate new procedures and techniques, or creatively enhance existing arrangements to improve the courts; b. Address aspects of the State judicial systems that are in special need of serious attention; c. Have national significance in terms of their impact or replicability in that they develop products, services and techniques that may be used in other States; and d. Create and disseminate products that effectively transfer the information and ideas developed to relevant audiences in State and local judicial systems or provide technical assistance to facilitate the adaptation of effective programs and procedures in other State and local jurisdictions. A project will be identified as a ``Special Interest'' project if it meets the four criteria set forth above and (1) it falls within the scope of the ``special interest'' program areas designated below, or (2) information coming to the attention of the Institute from the State courts, their affiliated organizations, the research literature, or other sources demonstrates that the project responds to another special need or interest of the State courts. Concept papers and applications which address a ``Special Interest'' category will be accorded a preference in the rating process. (See the selection criteria listed in sections VI.B., ``Concept Paper Submission Requirements for New Projects,'' and VIII.B., ``Application Review Procedures.'') 2. Specific Categories The Board has designated the areas set forth below as ``Special Interest'' program categories. The order of listing does not imply any ordering of priorities among the categories. a. Improving Public Confidence in the Courts. This category includes research, demonstration, evaluation and education projects designed to improve the public's confidence in the State courts' ability to administer justice fairly, and to test innovative methods for eliminating economic, racial, ethnic, cultural or gender-based barriers to justice. i. The Institute is particularly interested in supporting innovative projects that examine, develop, and test methods that trial or appellate courts may use to:
