FR940816-1-00091 FR940816-1-00012 The Secretary recognizes that students from many States may apply to attend a single school within one State, and that standards (hence, selection of tests and determination of passing scores) in the States in which the students live may be different from standards in the State in which the school is located. However, the State in which the school is located is responsible for licensing that school, and thus should be able to determine under what educational standards an individual without a high school diploma or GED should be permitted to use Federal funds at that school. The following discussion reflects proposed significant changes to the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations. Proposed changes are discussed in the order in which they appear in the proposed regulations text. If a provision applies to more than one section or is included in more than one section, it is discussed the first time it appears with an appropriate reference to its other appearances. This NPRM proposes to make changes in the following areas: Student Assistance General Provisions Subpart A_General Section 668.7␣ Eligible student. The Secretary has revised §668.7(a)(3) to implement amended section 484(d) of the HEA. Under current regulations, a student does not have to document that he or she has a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent. It is currently sufficient for a student to certify that he or she has such a credential. The Secretary proposes in §668.7(a)(3)(i) to require a student to document that he or she has such a credential. The Secretary has proposed special provisions for a student who_ (1) Attended high school in the United States and is unable to obtain a copy of his or her high school diploma or transcript because the high school from which the student graduated closed and the records are not available through any state or local education agency; or (2) Attended high school or its equivalent in a foreign country and is unable to obtain a copy of his or her high school diploma or transcript. The special procedures for students in the latter category were suggested by one of the negotiators and are an adaptation of procedures that are currently being used in New York State. The Secretary is requesting public comment on the procedures for students in the latter category. The Secretary has also proposed that, if a student transfers from one institution to another, a statement from the first institution on an academic or financial aid transcript that it has a copy of the transfer student's diploma or equivalent certificate would satisfy the documentation requirement for the second institution. It is the Secretary's view that the thrust of the amended section 484(d) of the HEA would be thwarted by continuing the current practice of allowing institutions to accept a student's word that he or she has a high school diploma. Moreover, the Secretary believes that this basic element of student eligibility should be documented. During the regulation negotiation sessions, the majority of the negotiators agreed to this proposed requirement. The Secretary is requesting public comment on the burden associated with obtaining a copy of a student's high school diploma for all students receiving Title IV aid. The Secretary also requests comment on the burden of the proposed requirement that foreign students who cannot obtain a copy of their diploma submit a written statement, indicating why their diploma cannot be provided, in both English and their native language. Subpart J_Approval of Independently Administered Tests; Specification of Passing Score; Approval of State Process In this subpart, the Secretary is proposing procedures and standards that govern the Secretary's approval of tests, the passing score of each test, the independent administration of those tests, and the approval of State ``processes.'' These proposed procedures differ significantly from current procedures governing test approval, passing scores, and test administration because the Secretary believes that the current procedures do not adequately evaluate whether students without a high school diploma or its equivalent should be eligible to receive Title IV, HEA program funds. The Secretary intends that these new procedures will significantly strengthen that evaluation.
