FR940314-1-00018 FR940314-1-00006 II. Proposed Amendment By letter dated February 17, 1994, (Administrative Record No. ND&hyph;U&hyph;01) North Dakota submitted a proposed amendment to its permanent program pursuant to SMCRA. The North Dakota proposed amendment XX consists of changes to the State revegetation success document ``Standards for Evaluation of Revegetation Success and Recommended Procedures for Pre- and Postmining Vegetation Assessments'' including changes to address required program amendments at 30 CFR 934.16 (b through i, w and x). The following areas are proposed for change: (1) Section I&hyph;A regarding concurrence of other Federal and State agencies and additional reference cites. (2) Section II&hyph;B regarding various modifications to the Subsections on County Soil Survey Estimates, Cropland Productivity Indexes, Average County Spring Wheat Yields, SCS Yield Estimates, and Updating SCS Data. (3) Section II&hyph;C, Subsection on Requirements for Successful Revegetation regarding statistical confidence and management practices; Subsection on Revegetation Success Standards for Third Stage Bond Release regarding prime farmland standards; Subsection on Revegetation Success Standards for Fourth-Stage Release regarding changes for the crops most commonly grown and methods of calculating success standards. (4) Section II&hyph;D, Subsection on Premining Assessment regarding inventory requirements and range site descriptions; Subsection on Postmining Assessment regarding cover data requirements and mapping; Subsection on Fourth Stage Bond Release regarding the use of aerial photography, cover data requirements, and mapping. (5) Section II&hyph;E, Subsection on Requirements for Successful Revegetation regarding changes to species composition, diversity, seasonality and permanence; Subsection on Premining Assessment regarding inventory requirements; Subsection on Postmining Assessment regarding data requirements, mapping, species composition, and production standards. (6) Section II&hyph;F, Subsection on Requirements for Successful Revegetation regarding consultation with State agencies, erosion control, stocking rates, and survival measurements. (7) Section II&hyph;G, Subsection on Definition of shelterbelt; Subsection on Requirements for Successful Revegetation regarding ground cover requirements, species composition data, replacement requirements, and time in place requirements. (8) Section II&hyph;H, Changes to the Introduction and Definitions for fish and wildlife habitat; Subsection on Grasslands regarding statistical requirements for ground cover measurements, composition requirements, and data requirements; Subsection on Wetlands regarding requirements for successful vegetation. (9) Section III&hyph;B, changes to the use of soil mapping units in calculating standards. (10) Section III&hyph;C, changes to sampling designs. (11) Section III&hyph;D, changes to the methods for measuring productivity, cover, and diversity. (12) Section III&hyph;E, changes to the methods of statistical analysis. (13) Appendix A, changes to management practices. III. Public Comment Procedures
