FR941219-1-00024 FR941219-1-00014 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 538 [Docket No. 94&hyph;96; Notice 1] RIN 2127&hyph;AF18, 2127&hyph;AF38 Manufacturing Incentives for Alternative Fuel Vehicles AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, DOT (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: Under the corporate average fuel economy program, certain incentives are provided for the manufacture of alternative fuel vehicles, including dual fuel vehicles. Among other things, dual fuel passenger automobiles which meet a minimum driving range qualify for special treatment in the calculation of fuel economy. In order to implement a new statutory requirement, NHTSA is proposing to amend its existing regulation concerning minimum driving range. The minimum driving range for all dual fuel passenger automobiles other than electric vehicles would be set at 200 miles. The agency is also proposing to establish gallons equivalent measurements for certain gaseous fuels. These measurements are needed to calculate the fuel economy of alternative fueled vehicles. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 17, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments must refer to the docket and notice numbers set forth above and be submitted (preferably in 10 copies) to Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Room 5109, 400 Seventh Street SW, Washington, DC 20590. The Docket is open 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Henrietta L. Spinner, Motor Vehicle Requirements Division, Office of Market Incentives, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366&hyph;4802. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background A. Alternative Motor Fuels Act of 1988 Section 6 of the Alternative Motor Fuels Act of 1988 amended the fuel economy provisions of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (Cost Savings Act) by adding a new section 513, ``Manufacturing Incentives for Automobiles.'' Section 513 contained incentives for the manufacture of vehicles designed to operate on alcohol or natural gas, including dual fuel vehicles, i.e., vehicles capable of operating on one of those alternative fuels and either gasoline or diesel fuel. Section 513 provided that dual fuel vehicles meeting specified criteria qualify for special treatment in the calculation of their fuel economy for purposes of the corporate average fuel economy (CAFE) standards. The fuel economy of a qualifying vehicle is calculated in a manner that results in a relatively high fuel economy value, thus encouraging its production as a way of facilitating a manufacturer's compliance with the CAFE standards. One of the qualifying criteria for passenger automobiles was to meet a minimum driving range, which was to be established by NHTSA. NHTSA was required to establish two minimum driving ranges, one for ``dual energy'' (alcohol/gasoline or diesel fuel) passenger automobiles when operating on alcohol, and the other for ``natural gas dual energy'' (natural gas/gasoline or diesel fuel) passenger automobiles when operating on natural gas. In establishing the driving ranges, NHTSA was required to consider the purposes of the Alternative Motor Fuels Act, consumer acceptability, economic practicability, technology, environmental impact, safety, driveability, performance, and any other factors deemed relevant. The Alternative Motor Fuels Act and its legislative history made it clear that the driving ranges were to be low enough to encourage the production of dual fuel passenger automobiles, yet not so low that motorists would be discouraged by a low driving range from actually fueling their vehicles with the alternative fuels. Section 513(h)(2)(C) provided that the minimum driving range for ``dual energy'' passenger automobiles may not be less than 200 miles. Section 513(h)(2)(B) allowed passenger automobile manufacturers to petition the agency to set a lower range for a particular model or models than the range established by the agency for all models. However, the minimum driving range could not be reduced to less than 200 miles for any model of ``dual energy'' passenger automobile. B. Establishment of Part 538 On April 26, 1990, NHTSA published in the Federal Register (55 FR 17611) a final rule establishing 49 CFR part 538, Driving Ranges for Dual Energy and Natural Gas Dual Energy Passenger Automobiles. The agency established a minimum driving range of 200 miles for ``dual energy'' passenger automobiles, and a minimum driving range of 100 miles for ``natural gas dual energy'' passenger automobiles. NHTSA did not specify higher ranges because it was concerned that such ranges could discourage manufacturers from producing dual fueled vehicles, since the manufacturers would need to redesign their vehicles to accommodate additional or larger fuel tanks in order to meet the higher ranges. In part 538, NHTSA also established procedures by which manufacturers may petition the agency to establish a lower driving range for a specific model or models of ``natural gas dual energy'' passenger automobiles and by which the agency may grant or deny such petitions. C. Energy Policy Act of 1992
