FR941227-0-00105 FR941227-0-00020 (3) HUD will not make a Small Cities grant when it is determined that the grant will only have a minimal or insignificant impact on the grantee. (4) Individual grant amounts. In determining appropriate grant amounts to be awarded, HUD may take into account the size of the applicant, the level of demand, the scale of the activity proposed relative to need and operational capacity, the number of persons to be served, the amount of funds required to achieve project objectives and the administrative capacity of the applicant to complete the activities in a timely manner. (c) Streamlined application requirement for previous applicants. HUD may provide pursuant to a NOFA that if an applicant notifies HUD in writing within the application period specified in a NOFA that it wishes to be so considered, HUD will consider unfunded applications from the prior round or competition that meet the threshold requirements of the NOFA. For FY 1995 only, unfunded applications from the FY 1994 competition will be automatically reactivated for consideration unless the applicant notifies the Department in writing by the date specified in the FY 1995 NOFA that it does not wish to have the FY 1994 application considered in the FY 1995 competition. The applicant will have the option of withdrawing its application, or amending or supplementing the application for succeeding rounds of competition. If there is no significant change in the application involving new activities or alteration of proposed activities that will significantly change the scope, location or objectives of the proposed activities or beneficiaries, there will be no further citizen participation requirement to keep the application active for succeeding rounds of competition. §570.426 Program income. (a) The provisions of §570.504(b) apply to all program income generated by a specific grant and received prior to grant closeout. (b) If the unit of general local government has another ongoing CDBG grant at the time of closeout, the program income will be considered to be program income of the ongoing grant. The grantee can choose which grant to credit the program income to if it has multiple open CDBG grants. (c) If the unit of general local government has no open ongoing CDBG grant at the time of closeout, program income of the unit of general local government or its subrecipients which amounts to less than $25,000 per year will not be considered to be program income. When more than $25,000 of program income is generated from one or more closed out grants in a year after closeout, the entire amount of the program income is subject to the requirements of this part. This will be a subject of the closeout agreement described in §570.509(c). §570.427 Program amendments. (a) HUD approval of certain program amendments. Grantees shall request prior HUD approval for all program amendments involving new activities or alteration of existing activities that will significantly change the scope, location, or objectives of the approved activities or beneficiaries. Approval is subject to the following: (1) Programs or projects that include new or significantly altered activities are rated in accordance with the criteria for selection applicable at the time the original preapplication or application (whichever is applicable) was rated. The rating of the program or projects proposed which include the new or altered activities proposed by the amendment must be equal to or greater than the lowest rating received by a funded project or program during that cycle of ratings. (2) Consideration shall be given to whether any new activity proposed can be completed promptly. (3) If the grant was received on a non-competitive basis, the proposed amended project must be able to be completed promptly, and must meet all of the threshold requirements that were required for the original project. If the proposal is to amend the project to a type of project that was rated competitively in the Fiscal Year that the non-competitive project was funded, the new or altered activities proposed by the amendment must receive a rating equal to or greater than the lowest rating received by a funded project or program during that cycle of ratings. (b) Documentation of program amendments. Any program amendments that do not require HUD approval must be fully documented in the grantee's records. (c) Citizen participation requirements. Whenever an amendment requires HUD approval, the requirements for citizen participation in §570.431 must be met. §570.428 Reallocated funds. (a) General. This section governs reallocated funds originally allocated for use under 24 CFR part 570, subpart F (Small Cities Program). (b) Assignment of funds to be reallocated. Reallocated funds may be: (1) Used at any time necessary for a section 108 repayment grant under §570.432; (2) Added to the next Small Cities Program competition; (3) Used to fund any application not selected for funding in the most recent Small Cities competition, because of a procedural error made by HUD; or (4) Used to fund the most highly ranked unfunded application or applications from the most recent Small Cities Program competition. (c) Timing. Funds which become available shall be used as soon as practicable. §570.429 Hawaii general and grant requirements. (a) General. This section shall apply to the HUD-administered Small Cities Program in the State of Hawaii. (b) Scope and applicability. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the policies and procedures outlined in subparts A, C, J, K, O of this part, and in §§570.420 and 570.430 through 570.432, shall apply to the HUD-administered Small Cities Program in the State of Hawaii. (c) Grant amounts. (1) For each eligible unit of general local government, a formula grant amount will be determined which bears the same ratio to the total amount available for the nonentitlement area of the State as the weighted average of the ratios between:
