FR940304-1-00186 FR940304-1-00015 Periodic chemical testing for dangerous drugs is currently part of the physical examinations required for some merchant mariners. Entry-level ratings (46 CFR subpart 12.25), lifeboatmen (46 CFR subpart 12.10), and staff officers (46 CFR 10.801) do not require physical examinations. Existing ยง16.220(a) states that, if a physical examination is required, the examination must include a chemical test for dangerous drugs. The applicant must provide the results of the chemical test for dangerous drugs to a Coast Guard Regional Examination Center (REC) where licensing and documentation transactions take place. The proposed rules would revise ยง16.220(a) to base testing requirements on issuance or renewal transactions. Additionally, requirements for pilots who must undergo an annual physical examination would be moved to a new ยง16.220(b) and a new reporting requirement is proposed for that section. Pilots who are not excepted from taking a chemical drug test as part of their annual physical would be required to provide drug test results to the REC where their license was last renewed. The Coast Guard is soliciting comments specifically on two issues raised by this expansion of chemical testing requirements. The first issue relates to an unemployed, nonunion applicant who is required to have a chemical test for dangerous drugs. Under 46 CFR 16.370, which would not be amended by the proposed rules, individuals must have test results reviewed by a Medical Review Officer (MRO) selected by the employer or sponsoring organization. However, if an applicant does not hold a maritime-related job or belong to a union, there may be no MRO immediately available to the applicant for reviewing test results and providing appropriate certification. The Coast Guard is interested in receiving comments on whether this situation would pose a significant problem and requests suggestions on alternatives. The second issue relates to inactive license renewals under 46 CFR 10.209(g). Under the proposed rules, applicants for inactive license renewals would not be required to undergo a chemical test for dangerous drugs. The Coast Guard seeks comments on the desirability of requiring applicants for inactive license renewals to meet the chemical testing requirements. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not major under Executive Order 12866, but is considered significant under the ``Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures'' (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979) because of controversy surrounding chemical drug testing, substantial public interest, and the potential for litigation. A Regulatory Evaluation has been prepared for this rulemaking and is available in the docket for inspection or copying where indicated under ADDRESSES . Costs to Government Federal Government costs attributable to implementation of these proposed regulations would be incurred by the 17 Coast Guard RECs. Each applicant is responsible for submitting chemical test results verified by a MRO during the ``evaluation'' phase of the merchant mariner credential transaction. The additional costs, for the ``evaluation'' phase, associated with receiving and handling test results on applicants for merchant mariner credentials will be minimal. The costs incurred as a result of this rulemaking are a relatively small percentage of the total costs of the ``evaluation'' phase, and do not warrant revision of the current fees for evaluation related to MMD, COR or licensing transactions. Costs to Public and Respondents Firms in the maritime industry and some individual respondents (applicants) would bear the prospective incremental costs of this rulemaking. These costs are addressed in the Regulatory Evaluation. The cost projections assume that holders of MMDs will not apply for renewals and endorsements at the same time, and that holders of licenses will not apply for renewals and raises in grade at the same time. This approach guards against underestimating costs. However, the projections further assume that holders of licenses who also hold MMDs will renew licenses and MMDs together, and that the few holders of CORs and MMDs will apply for and renew CORs and MMDs together. The cost projections were adjusted to reflect the percentage of merchant mariners that will not have to take a drug test for the documentation transaction because they already participate in a random chemical testing program for dangerous drugs or they have passed a drug test within the previous 185 days. Computations show that the NPRM would subject an estimated additional 7,258 applicants for credentials each year to chemical testing for dangerous drugs. The annual cost to the public would total $439,000.
