FR940203-1-00029 FR940203-1-00005 Alternative B PART 11_ANNUAL CHARGES UNDER PART I OF THE FEDERAL POWER ACT 1. The authority citation for part 11 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 791a&hyph;825r; 42 U.S.C. 7101&hyph;7352. 2. Section 11.1 is revised to read as follows: ยง11.1 Costs of administration. (a) Authority. Pursuant to section 10(e) of the Federal Power Act and section 3401 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986, the Commission will assess reasonable annual charges against licensees and exemptees to reimburse the United States for the costs of administration of the Commission's hydropower regulatory program. (b) Scope. The annual charges under this section will be charged to and allocated among: (1) All licensees; (2) All holders of exemptions under section 30 of the Federal Power Act; and (3) All holders of exemptions under sections 405 and 408 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978, as amended by section 408 of the Energy Security Act of 1980. The assessments will include all such licensed and exempted projects that have been constructed, and all such licensed and exempted projects whose construction has been commenced. In the event that construction commences during a fiscal year, the charges will be prorated based on the day on which construction commenced. (c) Licenses and exemptions other than State or municipal. For licensees and exemptees, other than State or municipal: (1) A determination shall be made for each fiscal year of the costs of administration of Part I of the Federal Power Act chargeable to such licensees or exemptees, from which shall be deducted any administrative costs that are stated in the license or exemption or fixed by the Commission in determining headwater benefit payments. (2) For each fiscal year the costs of administration determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be assessed against such licensee or exemptee in the proportion that the annual charge factor for each such project bears to the total of the annual charge factors under all such outstanding licenses and exemptions. (3) The annual charge factor for each such project shall be found as follows: (i) For a conventional project the factor is its authorized installed capacity plus 150 times its annual energy output in millions of kilowatt-hours. (ii) For a pure pumped storage project the factor is its authorized installed capacity. (iii) For a mixed conventional-pumped storage project the factor is its authorized installed capacity plus 150 times its gross annual energy output in millions of kilowatt-hours less 100 times the annual energy used for pumped storage pumping in millions of kilowatt-hours. (iv) For purposes of determining their annual charges factor, projects that are operated pursuant to an exemption or whose authorized installed capacity does not exceed 1.5 megawatts will be deemed to have an annual energy output of zero. (4) To enable the Commission to determine such charges annually, each licensee whose authorized installed capacity exceeds 1.5 megawatts must file with the Commission, on or before November 1 of each year, a statement under oath showing the gross amount of power generated (or produced by nonelectrical equipment) and the amount of power used for pumped storage pumping by the project during the preceding fiscal year, expressed in kilowatt hours. If any licensee does not report the gross energy output of its project within the time specified above, the Commission's staff will estimate the energy output and this estimate may be used in lieu of the filings required by this section made by such licensee after November 1. (d) State and municipal licensees and exemptees. For State or municipal licensees and exemptees: (1) A determination shall be made for each fiscal year of the cost of administration under Part I of the Federal Power Act chargeable to such licensees and exemptees, from which shall be deducted any administrative costs that are stated in the license or exemption or that are fixed by the Commission in determining headwater benefit payments. (2) An exemption will be granted to a licensee or exemptee to the extent, if any, to which it may be entitled under section 10(e) of the Act provided the data is submitted as requested in paragraphs (d) (4) and (5) of this section. (3) For each fiscal year the total actual cost of administration as determined under paragraph (d)(1) of this section will be assessed against each such licensee or exemptee (except to the extent of the exemptions granted pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section) in the proportion that the authorized installed capacity of each such project bears to the total such capacity under all such outstanding licenses or exemptions. (4) To enable the Commission to compute on the bill for annual charges the exemption to which State and municipal licensees and exemptees are entitled because of the use of power by the licensee or exemptees for State or municipal purposes, each such licensee or exemptee must file with the Commission, on or before November 1 of each year, a statement under oath showing the following information with respect to the power generated by the project and the disposition thereof during the preceding fiscal year, expressed in kilowatt-hours: (i) Gross amount of power generated by the project. (ii) Amount of power used for station purposes and lost in transmission, etc. (iii) Net amount of power available for sale or use by licensee or exemptee, classified as follows: (A) Used by licensee or exemptee.
