FR940928-2-00140 FR940928-2-00074 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20568; File No. 812&hyph;8170] The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States September 22, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``Commission'' or the ``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANT: The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States (``Equitable''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 6(c) for exemptions from Section 9(a). SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicant seeks an order exempting itself and its affiliates, in their respective capacities as investment advisers, principal underwriters and depositors, from the disqualification provisions of Section 9(a) with respect to Equitable's separate accounts organized as unit investment trusts (``UITs'') that derive assets from the sale of variable annuity contracts. The exemptions, subject to certain conditions, would apply to Equitable's (and its affiliates') officers, directors and employees who do not participate directly in the management or administration of the separate accounts or their underlying management investment companies, or in the sale of their variable annuity contracts. FILING DATE: The application was filed on December 18, 1992, and amended on November 5, 1993 and August 30, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing the Secretary of the SEC and serving Applicant with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests may be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on October 17, 1994 and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicant in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request and issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW. Washington, DC 20549. Applicant: The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10019, Attn: Naomi Friedland-Wechsler, Vice President and Senior Counsel. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wendy Finck Friedlander, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. Equitable is a New York Stock life insurance company that is authorized to sell life insurance and annuities in all fifty states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. Equitable is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Equitable Companies Incorporated, (``Holding Company''), a publicly-traded holding company. AXA, a French insurance holding company, is the largest stockholder of the Holding Company. Equitable is registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ``1934 Act'') as a broker-dealer and under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 as an investment adviser. Equitable is the depositor of two separate accounts that fund variable annuity contracts (the ``Separate Accounts''). 2. The Separate Accounts are organized as UITs and are registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and the 1940 Act. The Separate Accounts fund benefits under certain group and individual variable annuity contracts. The assets of the Separate Accounts are invested exclusively in shares of the Hudson River Trust, a registered open-end investment company. 3. Equico Securities, Inc. (``Equico''), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Equitable, is the principal underwriter of the Separate Accounts. Equico is also registered as a broker-dealer and as an investment adviser.
