FR941202-2-00205 FR941202-2-00098 Organizations shall maintain standard operating procedures (SOPs) that accurately reflect all phases of current laboratory activities including assessing data integrity. (a) These documents may be specific sample preparation or analytical references, (e.g., analytical method numbers), equipment manuals (provided by the manufacturer), or internally written documents. (b) The SOPs shall also include a list of analytical methods that are used by the laboratory. This list shall be indexed according to NELAC accreditation categories (e.g., drinking water, solid waste, etc.). (c) In cases where minor modifications to accepted methods have been made (e.g., change in type of column, change in operating conditions, etc.), or where the referenced method is ambiguous or provides insufficient detail (e.g., reagent purity, reagent concentration, etc.), these changes or clarifications shall be documented as an appendix to the referenced method. Copies of the above-mentioned SOPs shall be accessible to the workplace. The record keeping system shall facilitate the retrieval of all working files and archived records for inspection and verification purposes. All documentation entries shall be signed or initialed by responsible staff. The reason for the signature or initials shall be clearly indicated in the records (e.g., sampled by, prepared by, reviewed by, etc.). Entries into all records shall be legibly written in indelible ink. Entries in records shall not be obliterated by erasures or markings. All corrections to record-keeping errors shall be made by one line marked through the error. The individual making the correction shall sign (or initial) and date the correction. These criteria also shall apply to electronically maintained records. 5.11.1.3␣Laboratory Report Format and Contents The laboratory shall report results, accurately, clearly, unambiguously and objectively and in a manner that is understandable to the recipient. The basic information to be included in the report includes the following: (a) Report title (e.g., ``Certificate of Results'', ``Laboratory Results'', etc.) with the name, address and phone number of the laboratory (or laboratories, see subcontracted laboratories below); (b) Name and address of client and/or project; (c) Description and identification of sample (including client ID number); (d) Date of sample receipt, sample collection and sample analysis; (e) Time of sample preparation and/or analysis if the required holding time for either activity is less than or equal to 48 hours; (f) Test method or unambiguous description of any non-standard method; (g) Test results with any failures or deviations from methods or quality control criteria identified (i.e., data qualifiers);
