FR941220-1-00037 FR941220-1-00009 Monitoring requirements to ensure that the bottled water meets the sulfate MCL and other MCLs are explained in the section below on Compliance Monitoring Requirements. PWSs would need to maintain a record of public requests for bottled water, either by a telephone log or other means, by which the date of the request and the date of delivery are recorded and maintained for State verification. If the public notification is done effectively, it is not anticipated that emergency delivery of bottled water will be necessary. Customers should have the time to notify the PWS well in advance of the desired delivery date. In the event that a customer has not had access to the public notification and is unable to procure bottled water prior to the normal delivery by the PWS, the PWS should have the ability to provide an emergency delivery within 24 hours of receiving the request. (ii) Public Education/Notification. Public education and public notification are important in making people aware of the potential adverse health effects of high levels of sulfate and educating them about how to protect themselves if they are within the targeted population. For CWSs, there are four components to the proposed public education and public notification requirement: Notices in bills, pamphlets, signs and notices to the media. In communities where a significant portion of the population speaks a language other than English, the text would need to be in the appropriate language(s), in addition to English. Notices in Bills. PWSs would be required to use their bill notices to inform residents of the sulfate content in their water and its potential impact on non-acclimated persons. The compliance requirements for mail delivery would be the same as those for the general public notification mail delivery requirements in ยง141.32(a) (2) and (3), except that the interval for sulfate notification is proposed to be every six months rather than three months. EPA is proposing to specify a six-month interval to assure that a pregnant woman would receive at least one notice during the term of her pregnancy. The notice would have to be typed in bold lettering on the bill itself. There would also need to be an additional page with more information on the potential health effect from ingesting high levels of sulfate in drinking water. That page would include information about how expectant mothers and residents can request and receive bottled water for infants and guests, how to mix tap water with bottled water over time to gradually acclimate the person to sulfate, as well as a section reassuring the consumer that there are no ill effects from high sulfate-containing water for residents. The PWS would also need to provide the same notice to new customers or billing units prior to or at the time service begins. Pamphlets. PWSs would be required to provide pamphlets to all medical facilities, which includes, but is not limited to city, county and State health departments, pharmacies, public and private hospitals and clinics, family planning clinics and local welfare agencies. The PWS would need to request that the operators of those facilities make the pamphlets available to pregnant women. The pamphlets would contain the information listed above for notices in bills. Signs. PWSs would be required to post permanent, prominent and visible signs in all public areas where not all taps will have treated water. Notices to the Media. PWSs would be required to submit copies of the notice described above to radio and television stations that broadcast to the community served by the water system when sulfate in excess of the MCL has been detected in the water, and once every six months while the water delivered into the distribution system exceeds the sulfate MCL. The geographical service area in question would have to be indicated and clearly defined in the notice. (2) Transient Systems and Non-Transient, Non-Community Systems (i) Bottled Water and POU/POE Devices Transient systems, which comprise most of the affected systems (1,200 of 1,950), and non-transient, non-community systems would be required to make either bottled water which complies with EPA MCLs or water treated with a POU/POE device available for travelers at establishments in the service area. Where the target population is affected on a relatively continual basis, PWSs may find it more cost-effective to provide POU or POE devices. Where the system rarely serves members of the target population, it might choose to have a supply of bottled water on hand. Non-transient, non-community water systems, such as schools, factories and hospitals, might choose to install POEs in their cafeterias. PWSs would be responsible for maintaining POU/POE devices to ensure their continuing effectiveness. (ii) Public Education/Notification Public notification for transient systems and non-transient, non- community systems would be posting of signs. Such systems have no customers to ``bill'', and notices to the media and pamphlets would not be effective or necessary. PWSs would be required to post permanent, prominent and visible signs, made of durable material such as plastic, in places such as rest areas, campgrounds, gas stations and public areas. The signs would target travelers and newcomers, and would alert the public to the health effects of sulfate and the nearest location of drinking water for individuals not acclimated to high sulfate levels. The signs would have to be placed in any location where all taps (i.e., faucets, fountains, or other source of water that could be used for drinking) are not providing water in compliance with the sulfate MCL. If the location has a POE device, posting would not be necessary, since all taps would provide water that complies with the MCL. In the case of campgrounds, sources such as hand pumps or trailer hook-ups would be posted with signs, and bottled water could be available at the entrance gate or registration area. The Agency recognizes that there are unmanned, remote campgrounds in the national parks system, and requests comment on the means of compliance for those systems. (3) Rationale The sanctioning of Alternative Water as a means of compliance is an innovative approach that EPA has developed in recognition of the special circumstances and concerns surrounding the sulfate regulation. The proposed option would provide Alternative Water to sensitive populations only for the period of time needed for acclimation. The Alternative Water approach is appropriate in this case because the target populations are readily identifiable and because their need is short-term. Option 1 provides PWSs flexibility and seeks to alleviate the financial burden that central treatment might entail for small PWSs, and as such is in accordance with the objectives of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. EPA believes that the requirements of Option 1 for PWSs to provide bottled water which complies with EPA MCLs or POU/POE devices and to provide public notice and education, taken together, will assure a supply of drinking water to the Target Population which dependably complies with the MCL for sulfate (see SDWA Section 1401(1)(D).
