FR941021-0-00134 FR941021-0-00020 (1) Is accountable for program income earned or received after the end of the project period or after the termination of an award or subaward, or (2) If program income earned during the project period is required to be applied to costs incurred after the end of the project period or after termination of an award or subaward, the record retention period shall start on the last day of the recipient's or subrecipient's fiscal year in which such income was earned or received or such costs were incurred. All other program income records shall be retained in accordance with §600.153(b). Termination and Enforcement §600.160 Purpose of termination and enforcement. Sections 600.161 and 600.162 set forth uniform suspension, termination and enforcement procedures. §600.161 Termination. (a) Awards may be terminated in whole or in part only if paragraph (a) (1), (2) or (3) of this section apply. (1) By DOE, if a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award. (2) By DOE with the consent of the recipient, in which case the two parties shall agree upon the termination conditions, including the effective date and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. (3) By the recipient upon sending to DOE written notification setting forth the reasons for such termination, the effective date, and, in the case of partial termination, the portion to be terminated. However, if DOE determines in the case of partial termination that the reduced or modified portion of the award will not accomplish the purposes for which the award was made, it may terminate the award in its entirety under either paragraph (a) (1) or (2) of this section. (b) If costs are allowed under an award, the responsibilities of the recipient referred to in Section 600.171(a), including those for property management as applicable, shall be considered in the termination of the award, and provision shall be made for continuing responsibilities of the recipient after termination, as appropriate. §600.162 Enforcement. (a) Remedies for noncompliance. If a recipient materially fails to comply with the terms and conditions of an award, whether stated in a Federal statute, regulation, assurance, application, or notice of award, DOE may, in addition to imposing any of the special conditions outlined in §600.114, take one or more of the following actions, as appropriate in the circumstances. (1) Temporarily withhold cash payments pending correction of the deficiency by the recipient or more severe enforcement action by DOE. (2) Disallow (that is, deny both use of funds and any applicable matching credit for) all or part of the cost of the activity or action not in compliance. (3) Wholly or partly suspend or terminate the current award. (4) Withhold further awards for the project or program. (5) Take other remedies that may be legally available. (b) Hearings and appeals. In taking an enforcement action, DOE shall provide the recipient an opportunity for hearing, appeal, or other administrative proceeding to which the recipient is entitled under any statute or regulation applicable to the action involved. (c) Effects of suspension and termination. Costs of a recipient resulting from obligations incurred by the recipient during a suspension or after termination of an award are not allowable unless the awarding agency expressly authorizes them in the notice of suspension or termination or subsequently. Other recipient costs during suspension or after termination which are necessary and not reasonably avoidable are allowable if paragraph (c) (1) and (2) of this section apply. (1) The costs result from obligations which were properly incurred by the recipient before the effective date of suspension or termination, are not in anticipation of it, and in the case of a termination, are noncancellable. (2) The costs would be allowable if the award were not suspended or expired normally at the end of the funding period in which the termination takes effect. (d) Relationship to debarment and suspension. The enforcement remedies identified in this section, including suspension and termination, do not preclude a recipient from being subject to debarment and suspension under 10 CFR part 1036.
