FR940304-1-00034 FR940304-1-00008 Proposed Amendment For the reasons set forth in the preamble, it is proposed that part 146, Customs Regulations (19 CFR part 146) be amended as follows: PART 146_FOREIGN TRADE ZONES 1. The general authority citation for part 146 is revised to read as follows: Authority : 19 U.S.C. 66, 81a&hyph;u, 1202 (General Note 17, Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States), 1623, 1624. * * * * * 2. It is proposed to amend part 146 by adding a new subpart H thereto to read as follows: Subpart H_Petroleum Refineries in Foreign Trade Subzones Sec. 146.91␣Applicability. 146.92␣Definitions. 146.93␣Inventory control and recordkeeping system. 146.94␣Records concerning establishment of manufacturing period. 146.95␣Producibility. 146.96␣Methods of attribution. 146.97␣Approval of other recordkeeping systems. Appendix to Subpart H_Examples of Attribution and Relative Value Subpart H_Petroleum Refineries in Foreign Trade Subzones §146.91 Applicability. This subpart applies only to a petroleum refinery (as defined herein) engaged in refining petroleum in a foreign trade zone or subzone. This subpart also applies only to feedstocks (crude petroleum and derivatives thereof) which are introduced into production in a refinery subzone. Further, the provisions relating to zones generally, which are set forth elsewhere in this part, including documentation and document retention requirements, and entry procedures, such as weekly entry, shall apply as well to a refinery subzone, insofar as applicable to and not inconsistent with the specific provisions of this subpart. §146.92 Definitions. The following definitions are applicable to this subpart H: (a) Attribution . ``Attribution'' means the association of a final product with its source material by application of: (1) Actual operating records; (2) Producibility under T.D. 66&hyph;16; or (3) Other Customs approved method. (b) Feedstocks . ``Feedstocks'' means crude petroleum or intermediate product that is used in a petroleum refinery to make a final product. (c) Feedstock factor . ``Feedstock factor'' means the relative value of final products utilizing T.D. 66&hyph;16 (see §146.92(h)), and which takes into account any loss or gain. (d) Final product . ``Final product'' means any petroleum product that is produced in a refinery subzone and thereafter removed therefrom or consumed within the zone. (e) Manufacturing period . ``Manufacturing period'' means a period selected by the refiner which shall not exceed a calendar month, for which attribution to a source feedstock must be made and, if required, a relative value assigned for every final product made, consumed in or removed from the refinery subzone. (f) Petroleum refinery . ``Petroleum refinery'' means a facility that refines a feedstock listed on the top line of the tables set forth in T.D. 66&hyph;16 into a product listed in the left column of the tables set forth in T.D. 66&hyph;16. (g) Price of product . ``Price of product'' means the average per unit market value of each final product for a given manufacturing period or the published standard product value if updated each month. (h) Producibility . ``Producibility'' is a method of attributing products to feedstocks for petroleum manufacturing in accordance with the Industry Standards of Potential Production set forth in T.D. 66&hyph;16. (i) Relative value . ``Relative value'' means a value assigned to each final product attributed to the separation from a privileged foreign feedstock based on the ratio of the final product's value compared to the privileged foreign feedstock's duty. (j) Refinery operating unit . ``Refinery operating unit'' means a unit in a refinery in which feedstock is processed such as a distillation tower, cracking tower or reformer. (k) Time of separation . ``Time of separation'' means the manufacturing period in which a privileged foreign status feedstock is deemed to have been separated into two or more final products. §146.93 Inventory control and recordkeeping system. (a) Attribution . (1) Producibility . The producibility method of attribution requires that records be kept to attribute final products to feedstocks which have been introduced into a refinery operating unit during the current or prior manufacturing period. (2) Actual production records . An operator may use its actual production records as provided for under §146.96(b) of this subpart. (3) Other inventory method . An operator may use the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method of accounting (see §191.22(c) of this chapter). The use of this method is illustrated in the Appendix to this subpart. (4) Feedstock not eligible for attribution . Feedstock admitted into the refinery subzone, until it is introduced into a refinery operating unit in the subzone, is not eligible for attribution to any final product. (b) Consumption or removal of final product . Each final product that is consumed in or removed from a refinery subzone must be attributed to a feedstock introduced into a refinery operating unit during the current or a prior manufacturing period. Each final product attributed as being produced from the separation of a privileged foreign status feedstock must be assigned the proper relative value as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. (c) Relative value . A relative value calculation is required when two or more final products are produced as the result of the separation of privileged foreign status feedstock. Ad valorem and compound rates of duty must be converted to specific rates of duty in order to make a relative value calculation.
