FR940805-1-00146 FR940805-1-00014 §91.320 Action plan. (a) General. The action plan must describe the state's method for distributing funds to local governments to carry out activities, or the activities to be undertaken by the state, using funds that are expected to be received under formula allocations (and related program income) and other HUD assistance during the program year. These funds are expected to be made available to address housing and related needs and non-housing community development needs described in the consolidated plan, in accordance with §91.315. With respect to the District of Columbia, the action plan must be in accordance with the provisions of §91.220. (b) Specific information. The action plan must include the following: (1) For HOME funds, the state will describe the general priorities for allocating investments geographically within the state and among different activities and housing needs. (2) For CDBG funds, a statement of the criteria used to select applications for funding, including the relative importance of the criteria. The action plan must include a description of how all CDBG resources will be allocated among all funding categories and the threshold factors and grant size limits that are to be applied. If the State intends to aid nonentitlement units of general local government in applying for guaranteed loan funds under part 570, Subpart M of this title, it must describe available guarantee amounts and how applications will be selected for assistance. (The statement of the method of distribution must provide sufficient information so that units of general local government will be able to understand and comment on it, and be able to prepare responsive applications.) (3) For ESG funds, a statement of the process for awarding grants to State recipients and a description of how it intends to make its allocation available to units of local government and nonprofit organizations. §91.325 Certifications. (a) General._ (1) Citizen participation. A certification that the State and each unit of general local government that is receiving assistance from the State, is following a detailed citizen participation plan that satisfies the requirements of §91.105. (2) Affirmatively furthering fair housing. Each State is required to submit a certification that it will affirmatively further fair housing. This certification includes conducting an analysis of impediments to fair housing choice and preparing a description of any steps taken to carry out the certification, and maintaining evidence to support the certification. (See §570.487(b)(2)(ii) of this title for a description of the responsibilities that a State must undertake to fulfill this certification.) (3) Anti-displacement and relocation plan. The State is required to submit a certification that it has in effect and is following a residential antidisplacement and relocation assistance plan in connection with any activity assisted with funding under the CDBG or HOME programs. (4) Drug-free workplace. The State must submit a certification with regard to drug-free workplace required by 24 CFR part 24, subpart F. (5) Anti-lobbying. The State must submit a certification with regard to compliance with restrictions on lobbying required by 24 CFR part 87, together with disclosure forms, if required by that part. (6) Authority of State. The State must submit a certification that the consolidated plan is authorized under State law and that the State possesses the legal authority to carry out the programs for which it is seeking funding, in accordance with applicable HUD regulations. (7) Consistency with plan. The housing activities to be undertaken with CDBG, HOME, ESG, and HOPWA funds are consistent with the plan. (8) Acquisition and relocation. It will comply with the acquisition and relocation requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended, and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. (9) Section 3. It will comply with section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968. (b) Community Development Block Grant program. For States that seek funding under CDBG, the following certifications are required:
