FR940418-2-00038 FR940418-2-00016 Alternatives a. The Corps of Engineers has three alternative courses of action available: (1) The section 404 permit could be issued with standard conditions for the proposed action as described above. (2) The section 404 permit could be issued with standard and special conditions that would mitigate impacts resulting from the proposed action. (3) The section 404 permit could be denied. This option would prohibit all proposed work impacting the wetlands and the stream on the project site as well as prevent environmental impacts associated with the proposed action in these areas. The economic and social benefits of the project to Pierce County residents would also be foregone. b. Alternatives to be examined in the EIS include: (1) No action. (2) Off-site alternatives. (3) On-site alternatives. Scoping and Public Involvement An EIS was prepared under the Washington State Environmental Policy Act (SEPA) regarding this proposal. A public scoping meeting and public hearings were held by Pierce County during development of the Draft SEPA EIS. After receiving extensive comments on the Draft, Pierce County issued a Final SEPA EIS in November 1990. In addition, over 200 comments have been submitted to the Corps of Engineers in response to the Corps' public notice for the permit application. Public involvement will be sought during scoping and conduct of the EIS in accordance with National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) procedures. This Notice of Intent formally commences the scoping process under NEPA. As part of the scoping process, all affected Federal, State and local agencies, Indian Tribes, and other interested private organizations and citizens, including environmental groups, are invited to comment on issues of major concern and to identify any additional studies that might be needed in order to analyze and evaluate impacts. Comments are requested concerning project alternatives, probable significant environmental impacts, mitigation measures, and permits or other approvals that may be required. The following key areas have been identified to be analyzed in depth in the draft EIS: ␣1. Alternative Sites ␣2. Project Design ␣3. Potential for Surface and Groundwater Contamination ␣4. Wetlands ␣5. Water Quality ␣6. Amphibians and Reptiles ␣7. Waterfowl and Fisheries ␣8. Cultural Resources ␣9. Aesthetics 10. Transportation/Traffic 11. Social and Economic Characteristics 12. Cumulative Impacts 13. Endangered Species 14. Air Quality 15. Noise 16. Land Use/Zoning 17. Human Health and Safety 18. Earth/Geologic Resources 19. Wildlife and Plants Scoping Meeting Because over 200 comments have been submitted in response to a Corps of Engineer's public notice for the permit application covering a wide variety of issues, a formal scoping meeting pursuant to NEPA is not planned at this time. To assist the Corps in developing the scope of the EIS and in identifying important issues, comments are invited to be submitted in writing and should be forwarded to Seattle District, Corps of Engineers, before 15 May 1994. Previous comments provided to the Corps of Engineers on this project are on file and will be addressed in the NEPA EIS. Other Environmental Review, Coordination, and Permit Requirements Other environmental review, coordination, and permit requirements include preparation of a section 404(b)(1) evaluation by the Corps of Engineers; consultation among the Corps, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the State of Washington per section 7 of the Endangered Species Act; acquisition by the applicant of a Conditional Use Permit and a Solid Waste Handling Permit from Pierce County, a Water Quality Certification and Hydraulics Project Approval from Washington State, and State concurrence with consistency pursuant to the Washington State Coastal Zone Management Program. Availability of Draft EIS The draft EIS is scheduled for release in December 1994. Dated: March 30, 1994. Rex N. Osborne, Lt. Colonel, Corps of Engineers, District Engineer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9058 Filed 4&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;ER&hyph;M
