FR940630-2-00176 FR940630-2-00128 Appendix C HOME Program Regulations Relating to the Provision of Techncial Assistance to Participating Jurisdictions and Other Eligible Organizations [The text of §92.400 is republished for informational purposes.] §92.400␣Coordinated federal support for housing strategies. (a) General. HUD will provide assistance under this subpart I to: (1) Facilitate the exchange of information that would help participating jurisdictions carry out the purposes of this part, including information on program design, housing finance, land use controls, and building construction techniques; (2) Improve the ability of states and units of general local government to design and implement housing strategies, particularly those states and units of general local government that are relatively inexperienced in the development of affordable housing; (3) Encourage private lenders and for-profit developers of low-income housing to participate in public-private partnerships to achieve the purposes of this part; (4) Improve the ability of states and units of general local government, community housing development organizations, private lenders, and for-profit developers of low-income housing to incorporate energy efficiency into the planning, design, financing, construction, and operation of affordable housing; (5) Facilitate the establishment and efficient operation of employer-assisted housing programs through research, technical assistance, and demonstration projects; and (6) Facilitate the establishment and efficient operation of land bank programs, under which title to vacant and abandoned parcels of real estate located in or causing blighted neighborhoods is cleared for use consistent with the purposes of the HOME program. (b) Conditions of contracts_ (1) Eligible organizations. HUD will carry out subpart I of this part insofar as is practicable through contract with_ (i) A participating jurisdiction or agency thereof; (ii) A public purpose organization established pursuant to state or local legislation and responsible to the chief elected official of a participating jurisdiction; (iii) An agency or authority established by two or more participating jurisdictions to carry out activities consistent with the purposes of this part; (iv) A national or regional nonprofit organization that has a membership comprised predominantly of entities or officials of entities that qualify under paragraph (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), or (b)(1)(iii) of this section; or (v) A professional and technical services company or firm that has demonstrated capacity to provide services under subpart I of this part. (2) Contract terms. Contracts under subpart I of this part must be for not more than 3 years and must not provide more than 20 percent of the operating budget of the contracting organization in any one year. Within any fiscal year, contracts with any one organization may not be entered into for a total of more than 20 percent of the funds available under subpart I of this part in that fiscal year. (c) Notice of funding. HUD will publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing the availability of funding under this section as appropriate.
