FR940525-0-00069 FR940525-0-00026 §685.5 Prohibitions. * * * * * (e) Use a longline vessel without a valid longline general permit or a Hawaii longline limited entry permit registered for use with that vessel, to fish for Pacific pelagic management unit species in the EEZ around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or U.S. possessions in the Pacific Ocean area. (f) Use a longline fishing vessel without a valid Hawaii longline limited entry permit registered for use with that vessel to fish for Pacific pelagic management unit species in the EEZ around Hawaii. (g) Use a receiving vessel without a valid receiving vessel permit registered for use with that vessel to land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the Fishery Management Area Pacific pelagic management unit species harvested with longline gear. (h) Transfer a permit in violation of §685.9(j). * * * * * (u) Refuse to make available to an authorized agent for inspection or copying any records that must be made available under §685.17. (v) Use a U.S. vessel that has longline gear on board and that does not have a valid Hawaii longline limited entry permit registered for use with that vessel or a valid longline general permit registered for use with that vessel to land or transship Pacific pelagic management unit species shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or U.S. possessions in the Pacific Ocean area. (w) Use a U.S. vessel that has longline gear on board and that does not have a valid Hawaii longline limited entry permit registered for use with that vessel to land or transship Pacific pelagic management unit species shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around Hawaii. (x) Enter the EEZ around Hawaii with longline gear that is not stowed or secured in accordance with §685.25, if operating a U.S. vessel without a valid Hawaii longline limited entry permit registered for use with that vessel. (y) Enter the EEZ around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or U.S. possessions in the Pacific Ocean area with longline gear that is not stowed or secured in accordance with §685.25, if operating a U.S. vessel without a valid Hawaii longline limited entry permit registered for use with that vessel or a longline general permit registered for use with that vessel. (z) Fail to have on board the vessel and available for inspection by an authorized agent any permit required under §685.9 unless the vessel was at sea when the permit was issued, in which case the permit must be on board the vessel before its next trip. 5. Section 685.9 is revised to read as follows: §685.9 Permits. (a) Permit requirements. (1) A fishing vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited entry permit or a longline general permit if that vessel: (i) Is used to fish for Pacific pelagic management unit species using longline gear in the EEZ around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or other U.S. island possessions in the Pacific Ocean; or (ii) Is used to land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, or other U.S. island possessions in the Pacific Ocean, Pacific pelagic management unit species that were harvested with longline gear. (2) A fishing vessel of the United States must be registered for use under a Hawaii longline limited entry permit if that vessel: (i) Is used to fish for Pacific pelagic management unit species using longline gear in the EEZ around Hawaii; or (ii) Is used to land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the EEZ around Hawaii, Pacific pelagic management unit species that were harvested with longline gear. (3) A receiving vessel must be registered for use with a receiving vessel permit if that vessel is used to land or transship, shoreward of the outer boundary of the Fishery Management Area, Pacific pelagic management unit species that were harvested with longline gear. (4) Any required permit must be on board the vessel and available for inspection by an authorized agent, except that if the permit was issued while the vessel was at sea, this requirement applies only to any subsequent trip. (5) A permit is valid only for the vessel for which it is registered. A permit not registered for use with a particular vessel may not be used. (b) Eligibility for initial permits. (1) Only a person eligible to own a documented vessel under the terms of 46 U.S.C. 12102(a) may be issued a longline general permit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or a receiving vessel permit under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. (2) Any person eligible to own a documented vessel under the terms of 46 U.S.C. 12102(a) is eligible for initial issuance of a Hawaii limited entry permit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, provided that person: (i) Was the last holder of record of a limited entry permit issued under this part during the moratorium, and owns or owned a vessel that landed longline-caught management unit species in Hawaii at least once during the moratorium; or (ii) Was the last holder of record of a limited entry permit issued under this part during the moratorium for a vessel that is less than 40 ft (12 m) in length; or
