FR940526-2-00181 FR940526-2-00064 Applicable Regulations: (a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows: (1) 34 CFR Part 74 (Administration of Grants to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Nonprofit Organizations). (2) 34 CFR Part 75 (Direct Grant Programs). (3) 34 CFR Part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations). (4) 34 CFR Part 80 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments). (5) 34 CFR Part 81 (General Education Provisions Act_Enforcement). (6) 34 CFR Part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying). (7) 34 CFR Part 85 (Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)). (8) 34 CFR Part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses). (b) The regulations for this program in 34 CFR Parts 400 and 401. Definitions Applicants are encouraged to take particular note of the following definitions that are contained in 34 CFR 401.5: ``Act of April 16, 1934'' means the Federal law commonly known as the ``Johnson-O'Malley Act,'' that authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to make contracts for the education of Indians and other purposes. ``Bureau'' means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior. ``Bureau-Funded School'' means_ (1) A Bureau-operated elementary or secondary day or boarding school or a Bureau-operated dormitory for students attending a school other than a Bureau school; (2) An elementary or secondary school or a dormitory that receives financial assistance for its operation under a contract or agreement with the Bureau under sections 102, 104(1), or 208 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450f, 450h(1), and 458d; or (3) A school for which assistance is provided under the Tribally Controlled Schools Act of 1988. ``Indian Tribe'' means any Indian tribe, band, Nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688) that is federally recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. ``Tribal organization'' means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe or any legally established organization of Indians that is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by that governing body or that is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian community to be served by the organization and that includes the maximum participation of Indians in all phases of its activities. However, in any case where a contract is let or grant made to an organization to perform services benefiting more than one Indian tribe, the approval of each of those Indian tribes must be a prerequisite to the letting or making of that contract or grant. Invitational Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(1) the Secretary is authorized to invite applications that meet certain priorities. In this competition, the Secretary seeks to encourage Indian program applicants to initiate and establish tech-prep projects that are similar to those operated by States under the Perkins Act. Therefore, the Secretary is particularly interested in applications that meet the following invitational priority, although an application that meets this invitational priority will not receive competitive or absolute preference over applications that do not meet this priority. Projects that propose a tech-prep education program that combines a secondary and postsecondary program and that_ (a) Leads to an associate degree or two-year certificate; (b) Provides technical preparation in at least one field of engineering technology, applied science, mechanical, industrial, or practical art or trade, or agriculture, health, or business; (c) Builds student competence in mathematics, science, and communications (including through applied academics) through a sequential course of study; and (d) Leads to placement in employment. Furthermore, the Secretary encourages applicants addressing this invitational priority to propose projects that provide for the following: (a) An articulation agreement to be carried out between instructional and service providers at the secondary or adult and postsecondary levels. (``Articulation agreement'' means a commitment to a program designed to provide students with a non-duplicative sequence of progressive achievement leading to competencies in a tech-prep education program.) (b) The implementation of an educational program that will be carried out under an articulation agreement between the members of a consortium that includes the two years of secondary schooling preceding graduation (including programs for adult learners) and either two years of higher education, or two years of apprenticeship training that follows secondary level instruction. The program should also provide a common core of required proficiency in applied mathematics, science, communications, and technologies designed to lead to an associate degree or a two-year certificate of proficiency in a specific career field. (c) The development of tech-prep education curricula appropriate to the needs of the participants. (d) Inservice training for teachers that_ (1) Is designed to train teachers to implement curricula for a tech-prep education program effectively;
