FR941121-2-00128 FR941121-2-00094 Personnel Records: Director, Division of Personnel Management, 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26106&hyph;1328. Equal Employment Opportunity Records: Equal Employment Opportunity Manager, 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26106&hyph;1328. Administrative Services Records: Director, Administrative Services Division, 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26106&hyph;1328. Procurement Records: Director, Division of Procurement, 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26106&hyph;1328. Financial Management, 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26106&hyph;1328. Retiree Mailing Records: Director, Division of Data Services, 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26106&hyph;1328 Notification Procedure: Individuals may submit their requests for determination of whether the system contains records about them or for access to records as provided under ``Records Access Procedures.'' Requests must be made in compliance with the applicable regulations (31 CFR part 1, subpart C). Requests which do not comply fully with these procedures may result in noncompliance with the request, but will be answered to the extent possible. Record Access Procedures: (1) A request for access to records must be in writing, signed by the individual concerned, identify the system of records, and clearly indicate that the request is made pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974. If the individual is seeking access in person, identity may be established by the presentation of a single official document bearing the individual's photograph or by the presentation of two items of identification without the photograph but showing a name and signature. If the individual is seeking access by mail, identity may be established by presenting a signature, address, and one other identifier such as a photocopy of an official document bearing the individual's signature. The Bureau of the Public Debt reserves the right to require additional verification of an individual's identity. (2) The request should be submitted to the appropriate office as shown under ``System Managers and Addresses'' above. The request must state whether the requester wishes to be notified that the record exists or desires to inspect or obtain a copy of the record. If a copy of the record is desired, the requester must agree to pay the fees for copying the documents in accordance with 31 CFR 1.26(d)(2)(ii). Contesting record procedures: (1) A request by an individual contesting the content of records or for correction of records must be in writing, signed by the individual involved, identify the system of records, and clearly state that the request is made pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974. If the request is made in person, identity may be established by the presentation of a single official document bearing the individual's photograph or by the presentation of two items of identification without the photograph but instead showing a name and signature. If the request is made by mail, identity may be established by the presentation of a signature, address, and one other identifier such as a photocopy of an official document bearing the individual's signature. The Bureau of the Public Debt reserves the right to require additional verification of an individual's identity. (2) The initial request should be submitted to the appropriate office as shown under ``System Managers and Addresses'' above. (3) The request should specify: (a) The dates of records in question, (b) the specific records alleged to be incorrect, (c) the correction requested, and (d) the reasons. (4) The request must include available evidence in support of the request.
