FR940930-1-00010 FR940930-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms 27 CFR Part 24 [Notice No. 800] RIN: 1512&hyph;AA89 Materials and Processes Authorized for the Production of Wine and for the Treatment of Juice, Wine and Distilling Material (93F&hyph;059P) AGENCY: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF), Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice solicits comment from winemakers, consumers and other interested parties as to whether, pursuant to the provisions of Section 5382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the use of certain materials and processes is acceptable in ``good commercial practice'' in the production, cellar treatment, and finishing of wine. If these new materials and processes are found to be acceptable, then a final rule will be published adding these new materials/processes to the wine regulations. DATES: Written comments to this document must be received by November 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to: Chief, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, P.O. Box 50221, Washington, DC 20091&hyph;0221 (Attn: Notice No. 800). Copies of the proposed regulation and any written comments received will be available for public inspection during normal business hours at: ATF Reading Room, Office of Public Affairs and Disclosure, Room 6480, 650 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert White, Coordinator, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, 650 Massachusetts Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20226 (202&hyph;927&hyph;8230). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Several members of the wine industry have recently petitioned ATF for approval of the use of 3 wine treating processes and 1 wine treating material in the production, cellar treatment, and/or finishing of wine. Only one of the processes, the spinning cone column, is new and would be used to reduce the ethyl alcohol content of wine or to remove off flavors in wine. The other two processes are not new but either would be used in combination or would be used for a different purpose or at a different limitation than previously authorized. The processes to be used in combination are reverse osmosis and ion exchange and would be used to remove excess volatile acidity from wine. The process which would be used at a different limitation is ultrafiltration. And finally, the new wine treating material, urease enzyme, would be used to reduce urea in wine, thereby reducing the possibility of ethyl carbamate formation during wine storage. Wine Treating Processes Spinning Cone Column The spinning cone column (SCC) is a gas-liquid contacting device which can process a wide range of products including slurries with very high solids contents. It is a multi-stage mass transfer device consisting of a series of alternating stationary and rotary truncated cones. During its operation the product is fed at the top of the column and then flows down the upper surface of the stationary cones under the influence of gravity and moves across the upper surface of the rotating cones in a thin film due to the applied centrifugal force. The stripping gas enters the bottom of the column and flows counter current to the liquid phase in the spaces between the fixed and rotating cones. The petitioners who have requested ATF to approve the use of the SCC wish to use it in the production of low alcohol wine, as well as to remove off flavors in wine (e.g. volatile acidity, ethyl acetate, hydrogen sulfide, etc.). In the production of low alcohol wine, the feed wine is initially run through the SCC to recover the volatile wine flavor essence. In the second stage of processing, the flavor essence reduced wine is run through the SCC to reduce the alcohol in the wine to the desired level. The essence, which has previously been removed, is then added back to the alcohol reduced wine to make a low alcohol wine which, according to the petitioners, retains much of its original flavor. The alcohol which has been removed from the wine can then either be used in accordance with law and regulations or be destroyed. Treatment of wine utilizing the SCC to remove off flavors, or to reduce the alcohol content of the wine, may not alter the vinous character of the wine. Otherwise, the wine would no longer be considered standard wine. Since the separation of alcohol from a fermented substance is considered to be a distilling process, SCC operations cannot be conducted at winery premises but must instead take place at distilled spirits plant premises.
