FR941121-0-00118 FR941121-0-00011 (b) Filing groups. Pending mutually exclusive applications are processed in filing groups. Mutually exclusive applications in a filing group are given concurrent consideration. The Commission may dismiss as defective (pursuant to ยง90.162) any mutually exclusive applications(s) whose filing date is outside of the date range for inclusion in the filing group. The types of filing groups used in day-to-day application processing are specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. A filing group is one of the following types: (1) Renewal filing group. A renewal filing group comprises a timely-filed application for renewal of an authorization and all timely-filed mutually exclusive competing applications. (2) Same-day filing group. A same-day filing group comprises all mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is the same day, which is normally the filing date of the first-filed applications(s). (3) Thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group. A 30-day notice and cut-off filing group comprises mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the Public Notice listing the first-filed application(s) (according to the filing dates) as acceptable for filing. (4) Window filing group. A window filing group comprises mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is within an announced filing window. An announced filing window is a period of time between and including two specific dates, which are the first and last dates on which applications (or amendments) for a particular purpose may be accepted for filing. In the case of a one-day filing window, the two dates are the same. The dates are made known to the public in advance. (c) Procedures. Generally, the Commission may grant one application in a filing group of mutually exclusive applications and dismiss the other application(s) in the filing group that are excluded by the grant, pursuant to ยง90.162. (1) Selection methods. In selecting the application to grant, the Commission may use competitive bidding, random selection, or comparative hearings, depending on the type of applications involved. (2) Dismissal of applications. The Commission may dismiss any application in a filing group that is defective or otherwise subject to dismissal under ยง90.162, either before or after employing selection procedures. (3) Type of filing group used. Except as otherwise provided in this part, the type of filing group used in processing of two or more mutually exclusive applications depends on the purpose(s) of the applications. (i) If one of the mutually exclusive applications is a timely-filed application for renewal of an authorization, a renewal filing group is used. (ii) If any mutually exclusive application filed on the earliest filing date is an application for modification and none of the mutually exclusive applications is a timely-filed application for renewal, a same-day filing group is used. (iii) If all of the mutually exclusive applications filed on the earliest filing date are applications for initial authorization, a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group is used. (4) Disposition. If there is only one application in any type of filing group, the Commission may grant that application and dismiss without prejudice any mutually exclusive applications not in the filing group. If there is more than one mutually exclusive application in a filing group, the Commission disposes of these applications as follows: (i) Applications in a renewal filing group. All mutually exclusive applications in a renewal filing group are designated for comparative consideration in a hearing. (ii) Applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group. (A) If all of the mutually exclusive applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group are applications for initial authorization, the Commission administers competitive bidding procedures in accordance with subpart Q of part 1 of this chapter. After such procedures, the application of the successful bidder may be granted and the other applications may be dismissed without prejudice. (B) If any of the mutually exclusive applications in a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group is an application for modification or an application for facilities, the Commission may attempt to resolve the mutual exclusivity by facilitating a settlement between the applicants. If a settlement is not reached within a reasonable time, the Commission may designate all applications in the filing group for comparative consideration in a hearing. In this event, the result of the hearing disposes all of the applications in the filing group. (iii) Applications in a same-day filing group. If there are two or more mutually exclusive applications in a same-day filing group, the Commission may attempt to resolve the mutual exclusivity by facilitating a settlement between the applicants. If a settlement is not reached within a reasonable time, the Commission may designate all applications in the filing group for comparative consideration in a hearing. In this event, the result of the hearing disposes all of the applications in the filing group. (iv) Applications in a window filing group. Applications in a window filing group are processed in accordance with the procedures for a 30-day notice and cut-off filing group in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section. (d) Terminology. For the purposes of this section, terms have the following meanings:
