FR940223-2-00167 FR940223-2-00097 (i) with respect to a panel review of a final determination made in Canada, shall be labelled ``Non-Privileged'' or ``Non protégé'', (ii) with respect to a panel review of a final determination made in Mexico, shall be labelled ``No-privilegiada'', and (iii) with respect to a panel review of a final determination made in the United States, shall be labelled ``Non-Privileged'', with each page from which privileged information has been deleted marked to indicate the location from which the privileged information was deleted. Filing of Briefs 57. (1) Subject to subrule 38(1), every participant who has filed a Complaint under rule 39 or a Notice of Appearance with a statement under subrule 40(1)(d) (i) or (iii) shall file a brief, setting forth grounds and arguments supporting allegations of the Complaint no later than 60 days after the expiration of the time period fixed, under subrule 41(1), for filing the administrative record. (2) Every participant who has filed a Notice of Appearance with a statement under subrule 40(1)(d) (ii) or (iii) shall file a brief setting forth grounds and arguments opposing allegations of a Complaint no later than 60 days after the expiration of the time period for filing of briefs referred to in subrule (1). (3) Every participant who has filed a brief pursuant to subrule (1) may file a brief replying to the grounds and arguments set forth in the briefs filed pursuant to subrule (2) no later than 15 days after the expiration of the time period for filing of briefs referred to in subrule (2). Reply briefs shall be limited to rebuttal of matters raised in the briefs filed pursuant to subrule (2). (4) An appendix containing authorities cited in all briefs filed under any of subrules (1) to (3) shall be filed with the responsible Secretariat within 10 days after the last day on which a brief under subrule (3) may be filed. (5) Any number of participants may join in a single brief and any participant may adopt by reference any part of the brief of another participant. (6) A participant may file a brief without appearing to present oral argument. (7) Where a panel review of a final determination made by an investigating authority of the United States with respect to certain goods involves issues that may relate to the final determination of the other investigating authority with respect to those goods, the latter investigating authority may file an amicus curiae brief in the panel review in accordance with subrule (2). Failure to File Briefs 58. (1) In respect of a panel review of a final determination made in the United States or Canada, where a participant fails to file a brief within the time period fixed and no motion pursuant to rule 20 is pending, on a motion of another participant, the panel may order that the participant who fails to file a brief is not entitled (a) to present oral argument; (b) to service of any further pleadings, orders or decisions in the panel review; or (c) to further notice of the proceedings in the panel review. (2) Where (a) no brief is filed by any complainant or by any participant in support of any of the complainants within the time periods established pursuant to these rules, and (b) no motion pursuant to rule 20 is pending, the panel may, on its own motion or pursuant to the motion of a participant, issue an order to show cause why the panel review should not be dismissed. (3) If, pursuant to an order under subrule (2), good cause is not shown, the panel shall issue an order dismissing the panel review. (4) Where no brief is filed by an investigating authority, or by an interested person in support of the investigating authority, within the time period fixed in subrule 57(2), a panel may issue a decision referred to in rule 72.
