FR940706-2-00103 FR940706-2-00058 Fish and Wildlife Service Notice of Record of Decision for Walnut Creek National Wildlife Refuge Master Plan, Jasper County, IA AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Services, U.S. Department of the Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice makes available to the public a summary of the Record of Decision (ROD) for the proposed Master Plan for the Walnut Creek National Wildlife Refuge, located in Jasper County, Iowa. Establishment of the 8,654-acre Refuge was approved on September 5, 1990. Federal funding for design, construction, and operation of the Refuge is provided through appropriations by the U.S. Congress. Pursuant to Council on Environmental Quality regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) (40 CFR 1505.2), the Service issues this ROD upon consideration of the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) prepared for the Proposed Action. The U.S. Department of Army, Corps of Engineers (USCOE), acting as a cooperating agency in the preparation of the FEIS also adopts the FEIS and ROD as its NEPA documentation. A Notice of Availability of the FEIS was published by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency in the Federal Register on July 23, 1993. The FEIS evaluated alternatives for four elements of the Master Plan: habitat/wildlife emphasis, management, programs, and facilities siting. Based upon an evaluation of the impacts of the various alternatives on the physical, biological, social, and economic environments, the Preferred Alternative was identified. The Preferred Alternative is a balance of several options and is comprised of the following elements: Alternative I.D: Restoration and reconstruction of over 7000 acres of tallgrass prairie/savanna habitat with reintroduction of bison and elk. Alternative II.E: Active habitat reconstruction and management to maximize environmental education. Alternative III.C: Intermediate refuge program including indoor and outdoor environmental education programs and facilities, a visitor center with a tour route and trail system, small laboratory facilities and overnight accommodations for researchers; and other opportunities for interpretation and recreational public use. Alternative IV.B: Consolidated facilities siting the visitor center, research facilities and maintenance facility in a central campus. Other alternatives considered included: the no build alternative, creation of extensive wetland habitat for waterfowl and fisheries, limited public use programs and facilities and active prairie reconstruction to maximize research. Comments Received Prior to preparation of the FEIS, the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) on the Proposed Master Plan for the Walnut Creek National Wildlife Refuge was circulated for public review and comment. Comments were received from agencies and individuals expressing concerns about the findings of the DEIS. Issues raised in these comments included but were not limited to the habitat reconstruction process including seed sources, the potential for habitat fragmentation, and the reintroduction of bison and elk; the potential environmental effects of recreational facilities; the siting of Refuge facilities to minimize environmental impacts; Section 404 permit requirements; Refuge access; and historic resource issues. All substantive issues raised in the comments have been addressed to the satisfaction of the Service and the USCOE either through revisions incorporated into the FEIS text or responses contained in Section 6.5 of the FEIS. These responses are incorporated by reference into the ROD. No comments were received on the FEIS. Findings and Decision Based upon a careful review and consideration of the impacts identified in the FEIS, results of the various studies and surveys conducted in conjunction with the DEIS and FEIS, public comments received on the DEIS, and other relevant factors, including the purposes for which the Refuge was established by Congress and statutory and regulatory guidance for funding such projects, the Service, with concurrence by the USCOE, finds as follows: (1) The Preferred Alternative consists of the programs and facilities mentioned above. (2) The Preferred Alternative represents the best balance between provision of environmental education, interpretive, recreational, and research facilities and programs, minimization of environmental impacts, and public and agency concerns identified during the public participation process.
