FR940719-0-00026 FR940719-0-00007 Climate An article in the Pioneer Press of September 16, 1992, titled ``Rock-pile grapevines surprising all experts,'' contrasted Siskiyou County growing conditions with those in Seiad Valley vineyard: ``What's stopped the area from becoming a wine-producing area are the erratic late spring freezes in the zone where elevations are low enough to even make it possible. And in some of the county's lowest elevation areas, the precipitation levels are too high.'' The article stated the rock tailings in the vineyard ``may give Helsaple just the edge he needs to be the county's first successful longterm wine grape grower.'' Boundary The boundary of the Seiad Valley viticultural area may be found on one United States Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.) map with a scale of 1:24000. The boundary is described in ยง9.148. Miscellaneous ATF does not wish to give the impression by approving the Seiad Valley viticultural area that it is approving or endorsing the quality of wine from this area. ATF is approving this area as being distinct from surrounding areas, not better than other areas. By approving this area, ATF will allow wine producers to claim a distinction on labels and advertisements as to origin of the grapes. Any commercial advantage gained can only come from consumer acceptance of wines from Seiad Valley. Executive Order 12866 It has been determined that this rule is not a significant regulatory action because: (1) It will not have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act It is hereby certified that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Any benefit derived from the use of a viticultural area name is the result of the proprietor's own efforts and consumer acceptance of wines from a particular area. No new requirements are imposed. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. Paperwork Reduction Act The provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, and its implementing regulations, 5 CFR part 1320, do not apply to this final rule because no requirement to collect information is imposed. Drafting Information The principal author of this document is Marjorie D. Ruhf, Wine and Beer Branch, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. List of Subjects in 27 CFR Part 9 Administrative practices and procedures, Consumer protection, Viticultural areas, Wine. Authority and Issuance Title 27, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 9, American Viticultural Areas, is amended as follows: PART 9_AMERICAN VITICULTURAL AREAS Paragraph 1. The authority citation for Part 9 continues to read as follows: Authority: 27 U.S.C. 205.
