FR941006-0-00076 FR941006-0-00020 C. Disease or predation. Herbivory by white-tailed deer and invertebrates, including slugs and camel crickets is a known threat of currently unknown extent. Increasing development pressure near Isotria medeoloides populations results in the concentration of deer onto smaller parcels of woodland and may decrease local hunting pressure on suburban deer populations. As the local deer herd increases and is forced onto less land, there is a greater likelihood of herbivory on Isotria medeoloides. In Virginia, the magnitude of threat from deer browse of I. medeoloides populations may be second only to development of its habitat (D. Ware, College of William and Mary, pers. comm. 1994). The precipitous decline of a large Virginia I. medeoloides population located near a housing development, appears to be primarily due to grazing (Ware 1991). However, symbolic fencing placed around four subpopulations appears to have prevented deer from grazing on the orchids. In 1993, no plants were observed to have been browsed, prior to the fencing a majority of the plants were impacted by deer browse (D. Ware, pers. comm. 1994). Additional threats include wild pigs trampling or uprooting I. medeoloides plants and herbivory by rabbits in the southern portion of the small whorled pogonia's range (B. Sanders, pers. comm. 1993) and occasionally trampling or herbivory by moose in the northern portion of its range. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. Isotria medeoloides is afforded protection by the Endangered Species Act. The Act prohibits the take of endangered and threatened plants from lands under Federal jurisdiction or in knowing violation of any State law or regulation, and prohibits the violation of any regulation pertaining to any endangered or threatened species of plant. Under the Act, Federal agencies are required to ensure that their actions do not jeopardize the continued existence of listed species and must consult (under section 7) when an activity may affect a listed species or critical habitat. Section 7(a)(1) requires Federal agencies to carry out programs for the conservation of threatened and endangered species. In this respect, several Federal agencies have intensified their search and protection efforts on behalf of Isotria medeoloides. In Virginia, the National Park Service provided funding for research and monitoring, and is seeking ways to prevent disturbance to sites under its jurisdiction. The Department of Defense has also facilitated searches and monitoring of populations at two bases in Virginia. In Georgia, the U.S. Forest Service has been particularly successful in finding new sites. The Forest Service in this State conducts plant surveys in areas potentially impacted by management activities and regularly monitors known sites (B. Sanders, in litt. 1993). In 1993, two sites were located on the White Mountain National Forest in New Hampshire. Base maps for potential I. medeoloides habitat were developed for the White Mountain National Forest; the Forest Service now consults the Service on all activities proposed for those areas. Consultations under section 7 of the Act can provide protection for this species; a road and sewer main near an Isotria medeoloides population in Virginia were re-routed to avoid direct destruction of the plants and their habitat. Coordination with State and local agencies, as well as private developers, has resulted in the avoidance of adverse impacts to Isotria medeoloides and its habitat. In Connecticut, a trail was re-routed to avoid a population in a State forest. Additional protection through Federal and State legislation has been provided since Isotria medeoloides was listed. All States with current and historical populations have cooperative plant agreements with the Fish and Wildlife Service as specified under section 6(c)(2) of the Act. The 1988 amendments to the Act increased protection for plant species not on Federal lands, where State endangered species laws provide specific protection to endangered plant species. Twenty-seven sites have been discovered on lands under State and Federal jurisdiction and are afforded some level of protection. For those populations on private lands, conservation easements or agreements with the landowners have been actively pursued. Eight sites are on lands owned by private conservation organizations, while two other sites have deeded conservation easements ensuring the protection of the plants and their habitat. Some State agencies pursue voluntary registration of I. medeoloides sites. While such registration does not guarantee habitat protection, it does seek to recognize the importance of the site in the hopes of voluntary protection on the part of the landowners. The number of States protecting I. medeoloides has increased from 6 in 1985 to include all States in its present range. With the exceptions of New Jersey, Rhode Island and South Carolina, all States have enacted laws that prohibit the take of State listed plants, including I. medeoloides , without the landowner's permission. However, plants growing on privately owned lands are subject to take by the landowner. Massachusetts, Michigan and Vermont provide additional protection to listed plants in that permits are required for take on both private and public lands. In Georgia, Isotria medeoloides is protected under a regional Forest Service Manual regulation, 2670.44 R&hyph;8 supp 37. Since this species is federally listed, it qualifies as a Forest Service Potential Endangered, Threatened or Sensitive (PET) species, and as such should receive a level of protection that will lead to identification of possible recovery opportunities and ensure that no adverse effects occur to plants on lands under the Forest Service's jurisdiction. The Service does not believe that reclassification to threatened status will result in substantive changes in the protection afforded this species under these regulatory mechanisms.
