FR940114-1-00043 FR940114-1-00008 Develop performance measures for PTS that are both qualitative and quantitative. II. Resource Management States should encourage law enforcement agencies to develop and maintain a comprehensive resource management plan to identify and deploy resources needed to effectively support enforcement programs. The resource management plan should include a specific component on traffic enforcement and safety, integrating traffic enforcement and safety initiatives into a total agency enforcement program. Law enforcement agencies should: Conduct periodic assessments of service demands and resources to meet identified needs; Develop a comprehensive resource management plan, including a specific traffic enforcement and safety component; Define the plan in terms of budget requirements and services to be provided; and Develop and implement operational policies for the deployment of resources to address program demands and to meet agency goals. III. Traffic Law Enforcement The enforcement of traffic laws and ordinances is a basic responsibility shared by all police agencies. The primary objective of this function is to encourage motorists and pedestrians to comply voluntarily with the laws. Administrators should apply their enforcement resources in ways that ensure the greatest safety impact. Traffic law enforcement programs should be based on: Accurate problem identification; Countermeasures designed to address specific problems; Enforcement actions applied at appropriate times and places, coupled with a public information effort designed to make the motoring public aware of the problem and the planned enforcement action; and A system to document and publicize results. IV. Public Information and Education A. Necessity of Public Information and Education Public awareness and knowledge about traffic enforcement are essential for sustaining increased compliance with all traffic laws. This requires a well-organized, effectively-managed public information and education program. The SHSA, in cooperation with law enforcement agencies, should develop a statewide public information and education campaign that: Identifies and targets specific audiences; Addresses enforcement of safety belt use and child passenger safety, drunk and drugged driving, speed, and other serious traffic laws; Capitalizes on special events, such as Operation C.A.R.E., Child Passenger Safety Awareness, Buckle Up, America! and Drunk and Drugged Driving Awareness weeks; Identifies and supports the efforts of traffic safety activist groups to gain increased support of and attention to traffic safety and enforcement; Uses national themes, events, and materials; and Motivates the public to support increased enforcement of traffic laws. The task of public information can be divided into two interconnected areas: external and internal information. Both areas, properly administered, will benefit the agency and work in concert to accomplish the goal of establishing and maintaining a positive police-public relationship. B. Development of Public Information and Education Functions by Law Enforcement Agencies External Educate and remind the public about traffic laws and safe driving behavior; Disseminate information to the public about agency activities and accomplishments; Enhance relationships with news media; Provide safety education and community services; Provide legislative and judicial information and support; and Increase the public's understanding of the enforcement agency's role in traffic safety: Internal Disseminate information about internal activities to sworn and civilian members of the agency; Enhance the agency's safety enforcement role and increase employee understanding and support; and Recognize employee achievements. V. Data Collection and Analysis The availability of valid data is critical to any approach intended to increase the level of highway safety. An effective records program provides fast and accurate information to field personnel who are performing primary traffic functions and to management for decision-making. Data are usually collected from crash reports, daily officer activity reports that contain workload and citation information, highway department records ( e.g., traffic volume), citizen complaints, and officer observations. An effective records program should:
