FR940413-2-00038 FR940413-2-00023 A commenter asked what constitutes a random inspection by MDNR. EPA response: EPA deferred this response to MDNR staff. According to MDNR waste received at a landfill should be inspected by an individual who has been trained to recognize hazardous and polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) wastes. The loads can be spot-checked, e.g., every third truck. This inspection is a supplement to an inspection of waste by equipment operators at the working face to ensure that hazardous and other prohibited wastes are not deposited at any sanitary landfills. A commenter asked what are the time frames in which the public should be notified of an application or public hearing. EPA response: EPA deferred this response to MDNR staff at the hearing, who stated that the public is required to be informed by a governmental body at least 24 hours in advance of a public meeting (section 610.020, RSMo.). The MDNR Solid Waste Management Program (SWMP) attempts to inform the public of impending hearings at least 30 days in advance of any public hearing. A commenter stated that she would like to know prior to the public hearing what is acceptable in a public hearing on a permit or application. She wanted to be informed prior to the hearing whether there are certain issues which will not be addressed in the public hearing and if there is a certain format in which issues are to be addressed. EPA response: EPA deferred this response to MDNR staff at the public hearing. They stated that at a public hearing on a permit MDNR is only allowed to consider comments that relate to the technical suitability of a site. The department cannot legally consider adjacent property values, traffic impacts, land use compatibility, or other non-technical considerations. Missouri law is designed to consider these concerns at the local level before receipt of an application by the department. The department allows citizens to comment on any issue related to a landfill permit application. However, because of time constraints of a public hearing, the department tries to focus on comments that the department has the statutory authority to address. A commenter asked how long the public comment period is on a permit application. EPA response: EPA deferred this response to MDNR staff present at the public hearing, who stated that there is not a statutory time frame for public comment on a proposed sanitary landfill. The SWMP allows a period of at least 30 days and extending the public comment period through two weeks from the date of the public hearing. However, comments received by the program that have a direct impact on the technical review of a project are accepted and considered up to the date of a permit decision. One commenter recommends that there should be some kind of requirement on the distance a landfill may be located from a residence. EPA response: EPA deferred this response to MDNR staff present at the public hearing, who stated that the department does not have the statutory ability to regulate the distance from a landfill to an adjacent property owner's building. However, there is a requirement that the disposal area of a sanitary landfill cannot be any closer than fifty feet (50 ’) from the boundary of the landfill property. Additionally, the federal regulations do not contain a buffer zone between a disposal area and adjacent residences. One commenter asked what citizens who are dissatisfied with the operation of a landfill should do. EPA response: If there are concerns having to do with the operation of the landfill itself, it is appropriate to contact MDNR. EPA added, if the issues involve problems off the site, they are generally outside the jurisdiction of the department. These are issues which fall under the jurisdiction of the local government. Two commenters at the public hearing, when asked by MDNR staff at the public hearing whether or not they supported approval of Missouri's landfill permit program, stated that because the state is better equipped than EPA to run a well regulated program, they supported approval of MDNR's program. However, the commenters were concerned that MDNR be made aware of problems they saw in its enforcement program, and improving its program. EPA response: EPA believes that the responses of the MDNR staff at the public hearing, and the fact that MDNR held a public availability session immediately following the hearing, demonstrates MDNR's willingness to improve its enforcement and public involvement obligations under an approved program. Whatever deficiencies may be alleged in enforcement at a particular site, EPA concludes that overall MDNR is committed to enforcement at each permitted facility and to undertake meaningful public involvement in its permitting. C. Decision After reviewing the public comments, I conclude that Missouri's application for adequacy determination meets all of the statutory and regulatory requirements established by RCRA. Accordingly, Missouri is granted a determination of adequacy for all portions of its municipal solid waste permit program.
