FR940419-0-00110 FR940419-0-00020 (a) *␣*␣* (1) HOME funds may be used by a participating jurisdiction to provide incentives to develop and support affordable rental housing and homeownership affordability through the acquisition (including assistance to first-time homebuyers), new construction, reconstruction, or moderate or substantial rehabilitation of non-luxury housing with suitable amenities, including real property acquisition, site improvement, conversion, demolition, and other expenses, including financing costs, relocation expenses of any displaced persons, families, businesses, or organizations, to provide tenant-based rental assistance, including security deposits; to provide payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs; and to provide for the payment of operating expenses of community housing development organizations. The housing must be permanent or transitional housing, and includes permanent housing for disabled homeless persons, and single-room occupancy housing. The specific eligible costs for these activities are set forth in §§92.206 through 92.209. * * * * * 10. In §92.206, the section heading, paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), paragraph (b), the introductory text of paragraph (c), and paragraphs (c)(5), (d) and (e) are revised; paragraphs (c)(6) and (c)(7) are added; and paragraphs (f) and (g) are removed, to read as follows: §92.206 Eligible project costs. (a) *␣*␣* (2) For rehabilitation, costs: (i) To meet the applicable rehabilitation standards of the participating jurisdiction or correct substandard conditions to, minimally, the housing quality standards at §882.109 of this title; (ii) To make essential improvements, including energy-related repairs or improvements, improvements necessary to permit use by handicapped persons, and the abatement of lead-based paint hazards, as required by §92.355, and to repair or replace major housing systems in danger of failure; and (iii) To refinance existing debt secured by a single-family owner-occupied unit when loaning HOME funds to rehabilitate the unit, if the overall housing costs of the borrower will be reduced and made more affordable. (3) For both new construction and rehabilitation, costs: (i) To demolish existing structures; (ii) To make utility connections including off-site connections from the property line to the adjacent street; and (iii) To make improvements to the project site that are in keeping with improvements of surrounding, standard projects. Site improvements may include on-site roads and sewer and water lines necessary to the development of the project. The project site is the property, owned by the project owner, upon which the project is located. (b) Acquisition costs. Costs of acquiring improved or unimproved real property, including acquisition by first-time homebuyers. (c) Related soft costs. Other reasonable and necessary costs incurred by the owner or participating jurisdiction and associated with the financing, or development (or both) of new construction, rehabilitation or acquisition of housing assisted with HOME funds. These costs include, but are not limited to: * * * * * (5) For new construction or substantial rehabilitation, the cost of funding an initial operating deficit reserve, which is a reserve to meet any shortfall in project income during the period of project rent-up (not to exceed 18 months) and which may only be used to pay project operating expenses, reserve for replacement payments, and debt service. Any HOME funds placed in an operating deficit reserve that remain unexpended when the reserve terminates must be returned to the participating jurisdiction's local HOME Investment Trust Fund account. (6) Staff and overhead costs directly related to carrying out the project, such as work specifications preparation, loan processing inspections, and other services related to assisting potential owners, tenants, and homebuyers, e.g., housing counseling, may be charged to project costs only if the project is funded and the individual becomes the owner or tenant of the HOME-assisted project. For multi-unit projects, such costs must be allocated among HOME-assisted units in a reasonable manner and documented. (7) For both new construction and rehabilitation, costs for the payment of impact fees that are charged for all projects within a jurisdiction. (d) Community housing development organization (CHDO) project specific assistance under §92.301. (e) Relocation costs. The cost of relocation payments and other relocation assistance to persons displaced by the project are eligible costs. (1) Relocation payments include replacement housing payments, payments for moving expenses, and payments for reasonable out-of-pocket costs incurred in the temporary relocation of persons. (2) Other relocation assistance means staff and overhead costs directly related to providing advisory and other relocation services to persons displaced by the project, including timely written notices to occupants, referrals to comparable and suitable replacement property, property inspections, counseling, and other assistance necessary to minimize hardship. 11. Section 92.207 is added to read as follows: §92.207 Eligible administrative and planning costs. A participating jurisdiction may expend, for payment of reasonable administrative and planning costs of the HOME program, an amount of HOME funds that is not more than ten percent of the fiscal year HOME basic formula allocation plus any funds received in accordance with §92.102(b) to meet or exceed participation threshold requirements that fiscal year. A State that transfers any HOME funds in accordance with §92.102(b) must exclude these funds in calculating the amount it may expend for administrative and planning costs. A participating jurisdiction may also use up to ten percent of any return of the HOME investment, as defined in §92.503, calculated at the time of deposit in its local HOME account, for administrative and planning costs. Reasonable administrative and planning costs includes: (a) General management, oversight and coordination. Reasonable costs of overall program management, coordination, monitoring, and evaluation. Such costs include, but are not limited to, necessary expenditures for the following: (1) Salaries, wages, and related costs of the participating jurisdiction's staff. In charging costs to this category the participating jurisdiction may either include the entire salary, wages, and related costs allocable to the program of each person whose primary responsibilities with regard to the program involves program administration assignments, or the prorated share of the salary, wages, and related costs of each person whose job includes any program administration assignments. The participating jurisdiction may use only one of these methods. Program administration includes the following types of assignments: (i) Developing systems and schedules for ensuring compliance with program requirements;
