FR940620-2-00048 FR940620-2-00027 The Applicant proposes to mitigate for the incidental take by: (1) Dedicating 58 acres of on-site coastal sage scrub (CSS) habitat to Chino Hills State Park; (2) placing a conservation easement on 20 acres of Walnut woodland on-site; (3) preservation/restoration of an additional 64 acres of habitat within the golf course which has been designed to provide a buffer between wildlands and development; (4) operation of 12&hyph;15 cowbird traps in perpetuity; (5) a discounted sale, to the State of California, of 979 acres of multispecies habitat to be managed to promote conservation of the gnatcatcher and cactus wren, including 572 acres of CSS, 48 acres of oak woodland, and 237 acres of chaparral; (6) providing for the restoration of approximately 27 acres of CSS and cactus in the purchase area and in adjacent Chino Hills State Park; (7) funding a State Park ecologist for 15 years (10 years full time), who will oversee offsite restoration, conduct the cowbird trapping program, conduct sensitive species surveys, patrol the area for vagrants, conduct a community education and involvement program, and prepare a long-term fire management program; (8) creating a fire suppression compartment in cooperation with State Parks and the Orange County Fire Department. The EA considers the environmental consequences of several alternatives, including the proposed action, no-take, and no-action alternatives. The proposed action is (1) the issuance of a permit under section 10(a) of the Act that, in conjunction with oil field remediation, residential and golf course development, and maintenance and improvement activities at the Diemer Water Filtration Plant, would authorize the incidental take of gnatcatchers associated with the removal of 27 acres of occupied California gnatcatcher habitat, and (2) the execution of the IA by the Service that, barring unforeseen circumstances, would provide for the amendment of the permit to authorize the incidental take of cactus wrens associated with the removal of up to 83 acres of occupied cactus wren habitat should the cactus wren be listed in the future as a threatened or endangered species under the Act. The proposed action would result in minimizing incidental take by placing limitations on and monitoring proposed construction and remediation activities. Mitigation under the proposed action would enhance California gnatcatcher and cactus wren conservation through the acquisition, restoration, and management of 1126 acres of habitat important for the conservation of the California gnatcatcher, cactus wren, and other sensitive and declining species. Under the no-take alternative, the permit would not be issued, Shell oil field remediation and project potentially would not occur, and MWD potentially would not be allowed to maintain the structural integrity of its facility. In addition to presenting public health and safety problems, no restoration or management would occur, and the existing habitat will remain vulnerable to fire and unregulated use. Under the no-project alternative, oil field remediation would occur without subsequent development. Additionally, an alternative including both residential and commercial development, but without the golf course was considered. Analysis of other alternatives included oil field remediation, but with the residential, commercial, and golf course developments being located elsewhere. Dated: June 14, 1994. Thomas Dwyer, Acting Regional Director, Region 1, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14907 Filed 6&hyph;17&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
