FR940613-0-00051 FR940613-0-00015 The State also expressed concern over the fact that the vehicles listed for Florida are not considered LCV's as provided in the ISTEA definition, because the route on which they operate, Florida's Turnpike, is not part of the Interstate System. The State made the point that the twin-trailer combinations which operate on the Florida Turnpike match the configuration and weight criteria for LCV's, and only an administrative action, whether or not the Turnpike is part of the Interstate System, keeps them from being designated as such. Until the ISTEA was enacted, the meaning of the term LCV differed from one region to another, and sometimes depended on the commodity being transported. By providing a definition of LCV, Congress has provided a basis for describing these combinations on a national basis. Any combination which does not meet all of the criteria, including operation on the Interstate System, is not to be considered an LCV. IDAHO OTHER COMMENTS: The CRASH stated that the SNPRM omitted the provisions for time-of-travel restrictions for overlegal loads published in Idaho Transportation Department Rule 39.C.11.5, and the requirement that an applicant for a permit certify that the load is indivisible. These restrictions apply only to nondivisible loads as indicated in Rule 39.C.11.4.c. There are no time-of-day restrictions for Extra-Length Vehicle Combinations operating under permits issued pursuant to Rule 39.C.22. The CRASH also indicated that time-of-travel restrictions applied to overweight loads under Rule 39.C.11.5. Although the rule is entitled ``Time of Travel Restrictions for Overlegal Loads,'' the text deals only with ``oversize'' loads. The CRASH said that the SNPRM omitted seasonal weight limits in Rule 39.C.14. The Rule simply provides that such limits will be posted. Therefore, they are in the same category as speed limits or other general restrictions that all vehicles must observe. The ``Dromedary tractor semitrailer'' combination listed in the SNPRM has been removed from appendix C due to the exclusion of such combinations from the list as discussed earlier. The ``Dromedary tractor semitrailer trailer'' combination has also been removed from appendix C due to the dromedary equipment exclusion. This vehicle is covered by the listing for the truck tractor and two trailing unit LCV's. INDIANA OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: VEHICLE: The CRASH commented that the SNPRM omitted several equipment requirements for all LCV combinations including those for emergency equipment, safety chains, lights, reflectors, and for three trailing unit combinations, spray-suppressant mud flaps. All of these items have been added to appendix C. PERMIT: The CRASH indicated that maximum speed and the State wind operational restrictions were omitted from the permit discussion. These have been added. OTHER COMMENTS: The CRASH also commented that the State 3-inch sway limitation was not included in the SNPRM. The requirement was, in fact, included in the SNPRM and has been retained in this final rule. KANSAS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: The State commented that the maximum allowable gross weight listed for ``Triples'' in the SNPRM was incorrectly listed as 110,000 pounds and that the value should instead be 120,000 pounds. The 110,000-pound limit applies only to three trailing unit operations on I&hyph;70 between the Colorado State Line and Goodland. The Kansas Turnpike allows these combinations to operate at 120,000 pounds. This change has been made in appendix C. OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: Under the Operational Conditions described for ``Triple_LCV'' in the SNPRM, the phrase at the beginning of the section ``called special vehicle combinations (SVC's) in Kansas,'' has been deleted in appendix C at the request of the State. The term ``SVC'' applies only to operations on I&hyph;70 between the Colorado State Line and Goodland. It does not apply on the Turnpike. DRIVER: At the request of the State, the wording has been corrected to accurately differentiate between SVC operations and operations on the Turnpike. VEHICLE: The CRASH commented that vehicle equipment requirements concerning lateral movement in the travel lane and anti-spray devices were not included in the SNPRM for SVC operations. Both items are now included in appendix C. PERMIT: The CRASH commented that the permit discussion for SVC operations did not include the requirement to have insurance coverage of certain amounts. Appendix C has been changed to reflect the requirement to have insurance coverage, however, the amounts are not included in appendix C. The amount of insurance coverage is not an item that is directly related to the size and weight of LCV's. ACCESS: SVC access was not included in the SNPRM because SVC operations were not included. Appendix C now includes SVC access provisions according to comments provided by the State. ROUTES: I&hyph;70 in Western Kansas: Kansas allows SVC's on the short segment of I&hyph;70 from Goodland to the Colorado State line. Kansas submitted this information and it was published in the NPRM. The FHWA subsequently learned that SVC operations began on that route only on May 31, 1991, the day before the June 1 freeze date.
