FR941121-0-00063 FR941121-0-00008 (3) A statement of the proposed alternative emission limitation for hazardous air pollutants from the early reductions source on an annual basis, reflecting the emission reductions required to qualify the early reductions source for a compliance extension under subpart D of part 63 of this chapter; (4) Additional emission limiting requirements, such as work practice standards or limitations on operation, which are necessary to assure proper operation of installed control equipment and compliance with the annual alternative emission limitation for the early reductions source; (5) Information necessary to define alternative operating scenarios for the early reductions source or permit terms and conditions for trading hazardous air pollutant increases and decreases under ยง71.25(a)(10), including any associated permit terms and conditions needed to assure compliance with the alternative emission limitation under the alternative operating scenarios or pollutant trading; and (6) Statements related to compliance meeting the following criteria: (i) A statement of methods proposed to determine compliance by the early reductions source with the proposed alternative emission limitation, including a description of monitoring devices and activities, emission calculation procedures, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements and test methods; and (ii) A schedule for submission of compliance certifications during the permit term, to be submitted no less frequently than annually. (f) Any application form, report, or compliance certification submitted pursuant to these regulations shall contain certification by a responsible official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification and any other certification required under this part shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete. ยง71.25 Permit content. (a) Standard permit requirements. Each permit issued under this subpart shall include the following elements: (1) Alternative emission limitation. An annual alternative emission limitation for hazardous air pollutants from the early reductions source reflecting the 90 percent reduction (95 percent for hazardous air pollutants which are particulate matter) which qualified the early reductions source for a compliance extension under subpart D of part 63 of this chapter. (2) Additional limitations. Additional emission limiting requirements, such as limitations on operation, work practice standards, and any other emission limiting requirements for the early reductions source necessary to assure compliance with the alternative emission limitation. (3) Monitoring requirements. Each permit shall contain the following monitoring requirements: (i) All emissions monitoring and analysis procedures or test methods necessary to assure compliance with the emission limitations established under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. Such monitoring or testing shall be consistent with the demonstration made pursuant to ยง63.74 of this chapter and any procedures and methods promulgated pursuant to sections 114(a)(3) or 504(b) of the Act; (ii) Periodic monitoring or testing sufficient to yield reliable data from the relevant time period that are representative of the early reductions source's compliance with the permit. Such monitoring requirements shall assure use of terms, test methods, units, averaging periods, and other statistical conventions consistent with the demonstration made pursuant to ยง63.74 of this chapter. Recordkeeping provisions may be sufficient to meet the requirements of this paragraph (a)(3)(ii); and (iii) As necessary, requirements concerning the use, maintenance, and, where appropriate, installation of monitoring equipment or methods. (4) Recordkeeping requirements. The permit shall contain recordkeeping requirements including the following, as applicable: (i) Records of required monitoring information that include the following:
