FR940912-0-00020 FR940912-0-00005 (u) Transaction value means: (1) For loans or other extensions of credit, the amount of the loan, loan commitment, or other extensions of credit; (2) For sales, leases, purchases, investments in, or exchanges of real property, the market value of the property interest involved; and (3) For the pools of loans or interests in real property, the transaction value of the individual loans or the market value of the real property interests comprising the pool. (v) USPAP means the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice adopted by the Appraisal Foundation. (w) Valuation means the process of estimating a defined value of an identified interest or interests in a specific asset or assets as of a given date. A valuation results from the completion of a collateral evaluation that does not require an appraisal. §614.4245 Collateral evaluation policies. (a) The board of directors of each Farm Credit System institution that engages in lending or leasing secured by collateral shall adopt well-defined and effective collateral evaluation policies and standards, that comply with the regulations in this subpart, to ensure that collateral evaluations are: (1) Sufficiently descriptive and detailed to provide ample support to the institution's related credit decisions; (2) Performed based on criteria established for the purpose of determining the circumstances under which collateral evaluations will be required and when they will be required. Such criteria must, at a minimum: (i) Establish when an institution will require a collateral appraisal completed under the USPAP rather than a collateral valuation; and (ii) Take into account such factors as market trends, market volatility, and various types of credit, loan servicing, collection, and liquidation actions; and (3) Completed by a qualified evaluator in an unbiased manner. (b) The policies and standards required by this section shall, at a minimum, address the criteria outlined in §§614.4250 through 614.4267 of this subpart. (c) A Federal land bank association shall, with the approval of its respective Farm Credit bank, adopt collateral evaluation policies that are consistent with the bank's policies and standards. §614.4250 Collateral evaluation standards. (a) When real, personal, or intangible property is taken as security for a loan or is the subject of a lease, an evaluation of such property shall be performed in accordance with §614.4260 and the institutions' policies and procedures. Such a collateral evaluation shall be identified as either a collateral valuation or a collateral appraisal. Specifically, all collateral evaluations must: (1) Value the subject property based upon market value as defined in §614.4240(l); (2) Be presented in a written format; (3) Consider the purpose for which the property will be used and the property's highest and best use, if different from the intended use; (4) Be sufficiently descriptive to enable the reader to ascertain the reasonableness of the estimated market value and the rationale for the estimate; (5) Provide sufficient detail (including an identification and description of the property) and depth of analysis to reflect the relevant characteristics and complexity of the subject property; (6) Analyze and report, as appropriate, for real, intangible, and/or personal property, on: (i) The current income producing capacity of the property; (ii) A reasonable marketing period for the property; (iii) The current market conditions and trends that will affect projected income, to the extent such conditions will affect the value of the property; (iv) The appropriate deductions and discounts as they would apply to the property, including but not limited to, those based on the condition of the property, as well as the specialization of the operation and property; and (v) Potential liabilities, including those associated with any hazardous waste or other environmental concerns; and (7) Include in the evaluation report a certification that the evaluation was not based on a requested minimum valuation or specific valuation or approval of a loan. (b) For purposes of determining appraisal value as required in section 1.10(a) of the Act, the definition of market value and the requirements of this subpart shall apply. §614.4255 Independence requirements. (a) Prohibitions . For all personal and intangible property, and for all real property exempted under §614.4260(c) of this subpart, no person may: (1) Perform evaluations in connection with transactions in which such person has a direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the loan or subject property; (2) As a director, vote on or approve a loan decision on which such person performed a collateral evaluation; or (3) As a director, perform a collateral evaluation in connection with any transaction on which such person made or will be required to make a credit decision. (b) Officers and employees. If the institution's internal control procedures required by §618.8430 of this chapter include requirements for either a prior approval or post-review of credit decisions, officers and employees may: (1) Participate in a vote or approval involving assets on which they performed a collateral evaluation; or (2) Perform a collateral evaluation in connection with a transaction on which they have made or will be required to make a credit decision. (c) Real estate appraiser. Except as provided in §614.4260(c) of this subpart, all evaluations of real property that serve as the primary security for a loan shall be performed by a qualified real estate appraiser who has no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the loan or subject property and is not engaged in the marketing, lending, collection, or credit decision processes of any of the following: (1) A Farm Credit System institution making or originating the loan; (2) A Farm Credit System institution operating under common management with the institution making or originating the loan; or (3) A Farm Credit System institution purchasing an interest in the loan.
