FR941012-1-00027 FR941012-1-00004 The Agency believes that the information it had when it performed its analysis was the most current and the most complete at the time. While the Agency recognizes that changes have occurred in the subtitle D universe since 1991, it does not have information to quantify these changes. As a result, the Agency solicits the public for more current information that can be used to update its analysis. Further, the Agency solicits comment on the assumptions made in order to perform the analysis and solicits the public for information that supports or refutes these assumptions. A detailed analysis of the cost savings associated with this rule is available in the docket. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. at the time an Agency publishes a proposed or final rule, it generally must prepare a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis that describes the impact of the rule on small entities, unless the Administrator certifies that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Agency is aware of three companies that would be excluded from using this proposed financial test because their net worth is less than $10 million. Therefore, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605b, we believe that this regulation will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. C. Paperwork Reduction Act OMB approved the information collection requirements of the MSWLF criteria, including financial assurance criteria, under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq., and assigned OMB control number 2050&hyph;0122. The burden estimate for the MSWLF financial assurance provisions included the burden associated with a landfill obtaining and maintaining any one of the allowable financial assurance instruments, including a financial test. The proposed revision to part 264 does not change the recordkeeping or reporting requirements for subtitle C facilities. The information collection requirements for financial assurance of subtitle C facilities are discussed and approved under OMB control number 2050&hyph;0120. The public may send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to Chief, Information Policy Branch, 2136, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, 728 Jackson Place NW., Washington, DC 20503 (marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA''). List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 258 Environmental protection, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Waste treatment and disposal. 40 CFR Part 264 Hazardous waste, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 40 CFR Part 265 Hazardous waste, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 30, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. For the reasons set out in the preamble, chapter I, title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 258_CRITERIA FOR MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE LANDFILLS 1. The authority citation for part 258 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 6907(a)(3), 6912(a), 6944(a), and 6949(c); 33 U.S.C. 1345 (d) and (e). 2. Section 258.74 is amended by adding paragraphs (e) and (g) to read as follows: ยง258.74 Allowable mechanisms. * * * * * (e) Corporate financial test. An owner or operator that satisfies the requirements of this paragraph may demonstrate financial assurance up to the amount specified herein: (1) Financial Component. (i) The owner or operator must satisfy one of the following three conditions: (A) A current rating for its most recent bond issuance of AAA, AA, A, or BBB as issued by Standard and Poor's or Aaa, Aa, A or Baa as issued by Moody's; or (B) A ratio of less than 1.5 comparing total liabilities to net worth; or (C) A ratio of greater than 0.10 comparing the sum of net income plus depreciation, depletion and amortization, minus $10 million, to total liabilities. (ii) The tangible net worth of the owner or operator must be greater than the sum of the current closure, post-closure care, corrective action cost estimates and any other environmental obligations covered by a financial test plus $10 million. (iii) The owner or operator must have assets located in the United States amounting to at least the sum of current closure, post-closure care, corrective action cost estimates and any other environmental obligations covered by a financial test as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. (2) Recordkeeping and reporting requirements. (i) The owner or operator must place the following items into the facility's operating record: (A) A letter signed by the owner's or operator's chief financial officer that: ( 1 ) Lists all the current cost estimates covered by a financial test, including, but not limited to, cost estimates required for municipal solid waste management facilities under 40 CFR part 258, cost estimates required for UIC facilities under 40 CFR part 144, if applicable, cost estimates required for petroleum underground storage tank facilities under 40 CFR part 280, if applicable, cost estimates required for PCB storage facilities under 40 CFR part 761, if applicable, and cost estimates required for hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities under 40 CFR parts 264 and 265, if applicable; ( 2 ) Provides evidence that the firm meets the conditions of either paragraph (e)(1)(i) or paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section. (B) A copy of the independent certified public accountant's unqualified opinion of the owner's or operator's financial statements for the latest completed fiscal year except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B)( 1 ) of this section: ( 1 ) To be eligible to use the financial test, the owner's or operator's financial statements referenced in paragraph (e)(2) of this section must receive an unqualified opinion from the independent certified public accountant. An adverse opinion, disclaimer of opinion, or other qualified opinion will be cause for disallowance. The Director of an approved State may evaluate qualified opinions on a case by case basis and allow use of the financial test in cases where the Director deems that the matters which form the basis for the qualification are insufficient to warrant disallowance of the test. If the Director of an approved State does not allow use of the test, the owner or operator must provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section. ( 2 ) [Reserved] (C) If the Chief Financial Officer's letter providing evidence of financial assurance includes financial data that are different from data in the audited financial statements referred to in paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section or any other audited financial statement or data filed with the SEC, a special report from the owner's or operator's independent certified public accountant to the owner or operator is required stating that: ( 1 ) He has compared the data in the chief financial officer's letter derived from the independently audited, year-end financial statements for the latest fiscal year with the amounts in such financial statements; and ( 2 ) In connection with that examination, no matters came to his attention which caused him to believe that the data in the chief financial officer's letter should be adjusted.
