FR941207-0-00076 FR941207-0-00013 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Baltimore 94&hyph;031] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone Regulation; Inner Harbor Fireworks Display, Patapsco River, Inner Harbor, Baltimore, MD AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary rule. SUMMARY: With this regulation, the Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore is establishing two temporary safety zones for the New Years Eve Inner Harbor fireworks display. These safety zones are necessary to control spectator craft and to provide for the safety of life and property on U.S. navigable waters during this event. Entry into these zones is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port. EFFECTIVE DATES: This regulation will be effective from 11 p.m. December 31, 1994 until 1 a.m. January 1, 1995 with an alternate date of January 1, 1995 from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Chief Warrant Officer Eugene Zimbalkin, U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Office, Baltimore Custom House, 40 South Gay Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202&hyph;4022, (410) 962&hyph;5118. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a Notice of Proposed Rule Making has not been published for this regulation and good cause exists for making it effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. The original application to hold this event was not submitted until October 25, 1994 to Coast Guard Group Baltimore. Because of the late original submission date and the additional changes there was not sufficient time remaining to publish proposed rules in advance of the event or to provide for a delayed effective date. Publishing an NPRM and delaying its effective date would be contrary to the public interest since immediate action is needed to prevent hazards to the boating community. Background and Purpose The Baltimore Office of Promotion requested a safety zone for the Baltimore Inner Harbor fireworks display to take place December 31, 1994/January 1, 1995 with an alternate date of January 1, 1995. Because of the way the fireworks display will be set up, the Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore has determined that two separate safety zones will be necessary to protect the public and control spectator craft during this event. Discussion of Regulations The Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore is establishing safety zones around two fireworks barges that will be anchored in the Inner Harbor, Baltimore, Maryland. One barge (Barge A) will be anchored in the middle of the Inner Harbor Basin, 250 yards off of the west sea wall and the second barge (Barge B) will be anchored approximately 400 yards west of the West Channel Turning Basin. Safety Zone (A) will be around barge A and will encompass all waters of the Inner Harbor that lie within a circle with a radius of 200 feet, with the center of the circle being the fireworks barge A. Safety Zone (B) will be around barge B, and will encompass all waters of the Inner Harbor that lie within a circle with a radius of 840 feet, with the center of the circle being fireworks barge B. Spectators that wish to watch the fireworks display aboard their vessels may anchor outside of the safety zones, but they may not anchor in or block a navigable channel. Patrol craft will be on hand to assist the boating public and ensure safety of life and property during the event. Since the Inner Harbor will not be closed for an extended period during these safety zones, vessel traffic should not be severely disrupted. Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are Chief Warrant Officer Eugene Zimbalkin, project officer for the Captain of the Port, Baltimore, Maryland and Lt. Kathleen A. Duignan, project attorney Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Staff. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Small Entities This regulation will only be in effect for two hours, therefore, the Coast Guard expects the impact of this rule to be minimal. The Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Environmental Assessment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this proposal consistent with Section 2.B.2.C. of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, and actions to protect public safety have been determined to be categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rule will not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Waterways. Regulation In consideration of the foregoing, Subpart F of 165 of Title 33, Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 165_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for Part 165 continues to read as follows:
