FR940727-1-00052 FR940727-1-00014 (i) Placing the lamps in a container and marking or labeling the container with the earliest date that any lamp in the container was received; (ii) Marking or labeling an individual lamp with the date that it was received; (iii) Maintaining an inventory system that identifies the date each lamp in storage was received; (iv) Maintaining an inventory system that identifies the earliest date that any lamp in a group of lamps was received; or (v) Placing the lamps in a specific storage area and identifying the earliest date that any lamp in the storage area was received. (c) Prohibitions . The owner or operator of a consolidation point managing hazardous waste lamps is: (1) Prohibited from diluting or disposing of them; (2) Prohibited from treating them, except by responding to releases as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section; and (3) Prohibited from sending or taking them any place other than a consolidation point, destination facility, or foreign destination. (d) Lamp Management . (1) The owner or operator of a consolidation point must at all times manage hazardous waste lamps in a way that minimizes lamp breakage. (2)(i) The owner or operator of the consolidation point must immediately contain all releases of residues from hazardous waste lamps. (ii) The consolidation point owner/operator must determine whether any materials resulting from the release are hazardous wastes, and if so, the owner/operator must manage them in accordance with all applicable requirements of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272. (3) The consolidation point owner or operator must ensure that all employees are thoroughly familiar with proper waste handling and emergency procedures, relative to their responsibilities during normal facility operations and emergencies. (e) Notification . (1)(i) A consolidation point owner or operator who stores more than 35,000 hazardous waste lamps at any time must have, before exceeding the 35,000 lamp quantity limit, sent written notification of hazardous waste lamp storage to the Regional Administrator and received an EPA Identification Number. (ii) This notification must include: (A) The owner's or operator's name and mailing address; (B) The name and business telephone number of the person who should be contacted regarding the lamp storage activity; (C) The address or physical location of the lamp storage activity; (D) A statement indicating that the owner or operator stores more than 35,000 hazardous waste lamps. (2)(i) A consolidation point owner or operator who sends a shipment of hazardous waste lamps directly from the consolidation point to a destination facility, who is not required to notify under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, must have, before initiating the shipment, sent written notification of hazardous waste lamp shipments to a destination facility to the Regional Administrator and received an EPA Identification Number. (ii) This notification must include: (A) The owner's or operator's name and mailing address; (B) A statement that the owner or operator intends to ship hazardous waste lamps to a destination facility; (C) The name and business telephone number of the person who should be contacted regarding the lamp storage activity; and (D) The address or physical location of the lamp storage activity. (f) Uniform Hazardous Waste Manifests . The owner or operator of a consolidation point who sends a shipment of hazardous waste lamps directly to a destination facility must comply with subpart B of part 262 and §§262.30 through 262.33, 262.40(a), 262.40(d), and 262.42 of this chapter when initiating a shipment. §273.34 Destination facility requirements. (a) Owners or operators of destination facilities that recycle, treat, store, or dispose of hazardous waste lamps must comply with all applicable requirements of parts 264, 265, 266, 268, 270, and 124 of this chapter, and the notification requirement under section 3010 of RCRA. (b) Owners and operators of destination facilities that recycle hazardous waste lamps without storing them before they are recycled must comply with 40 CFR 261.6(c)(2). §273.35 Export requirements. (a) A generator who sends hazardous waste lamps to a foreign destination, without first sending them to a consolidation point or destination facility, must: (1) Comply with the requirements applicable to a primary exporter in 40 CFR 262.53, 262.56(a)(1) through (4), (6), and (b) and 262.57; (2) Export such materials only upon consent of the receiving country and in conformance with the EPA Acknowledgement of Consent as defined in subpart E of part 262 of this chapter; and
