FR940826-2-00081 FR940826-2-00055 III Explanation of the Proposed Final Judgment The proposed Final Judgment addresses the competitive concerns raised by the proposed merger and AT&T and McCaw in two principal ways. First, to guard against harm to competition in interexchange telecommunications, it requires AT&T to provide all interexchange carriers with equal access to McCaw cellular systems. Second, the proposed Final Judgment contains a group of provisions intended to ameliorate the lock-in faced by AT&T cellular infrastructure equipment customers, which should make it substantially less likely that AT&T can raise the costs of its rivals in wireless service (or threaten to do so), and therefore guard against anticompetitive effects in wireless service markets. Finally, the proposed Final Judgment contains restrictions intended to protect against anticompetitive effects in the cellular infrastructure equipment market. A. Equal Access As described above, McCaw currently does not provide equal access to interexchange carriers from its cellular systems. Section IV of the proposed Final Judgment will change these arrangements by requiring McCaw to offer all interexchange carriers equal access to all of its cellular systems, permitting its customers to choose among interexchange carriers. The need for these provisions is predicated on the noncompetitive structure of current cellular service markets and the market power currently possessed by McCaw and other providers of cellular exchange service. The equal access arrangements prescribed by Section IV are modeled on the analogous provisions of the Modification of Final Judgment in United States v. American Telephone & Tel. Co. , 552 F. Supp. 131 (D.D.C. 1982), aff'd sub nom. Maryland v. United States , 460 U.S. 1001 (1983) (``MFJ''). They are largely identical to the conditions recommended by the United States for provision of interexchange cellular service by the Bell Companies. 5 5 See Memorandum of the United States in Response to the Bell Companies' Motions for Generic Wireless Waivers and Proposed Order, filed July 25, 1994, attached as Exhibit A. Section IV.B provides for the phased-in conversion of McCaw Cellular Systems to equal access over a 21-month period after the commencement of this action, pursuant to a plan to be approved by the United States according to Section VII.A of the judgment. ``McCaw Cellular Systems'' are defined in Section II.T to include systems in which McCaw holds voting interests greater than 50 percent or in which it has the right, power or ability to control. ``Control'' is defined in Section II.K as the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a corporation or partnership, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. McCaw would not, under this definition, be considered to control a corporation or partnership in which another entity held a significantly larger ownership interest unless McCaw had expressly been given the right to control, such as through voting rights or by contract.
