FR940429-2-00128 FR940429-2-00089 D. Selection Criteria/Ranking Factors 1. General To provide each applicant a fair and equitable opportunity to receive FY 1994 funds under the CHSP, HUD and FmHA will use the selection criteria stated below to rate all eligible applications which have passed eligibility, threshold and technical review. 2. Selection Criteria The selection criteria, with a maximum total rating value of 75 points, are as follows: Selection Criteria a. Experience or capability of the applicant: The applicant currently administers an effective, successful service program for the frail elderly or for persons with disabilities, or evidences relevant experience or capability to develop and implement such service programs. The applicant is: Experienced XXXX (10) Has capability only XXXX (5) Unqualified XXXX (0) b. The degree of adequacy of local service providers, appropriateness of the targeting of the services and the relationship of the proposal to the needs and characteristics of the eligible residents of the projects where the services are to be provided: Proposed services to be provided by both the applicant and local social service agencies: (1) Appropriately address the daily living needs of the residents presented in the application; (2) Adequately appear to both provide a core of necessary services and fill the gap between the existing services and those that are not available/affordable; and, (3) Will serve all residents identified as either disabled or frail (deficient in at least 3 activities of daily living). Meets all three XXXX (15) Meets 2 of 3 XXXX (10) Meets one XXXX (5) Meets none XXXX (0) c. The schedule for establishment of services following approval of the application: The applicant's timetable for implementation of services is reasonable and credible based upon HUD/FmHA's experience with the applicant. Implementation in 6 months or less XXXX (5) From 7 to 12 months XXXX (3) Over 12 months XXXX (0) Plan is not credible as presented XXXX (0) d. The professional qualification of the members of the PAC: The proposed PAC consists of no less than three individuals, and includes both social service professionals and at least one qualified medical or other health professional. PAC members are competent to appraise the functional abilities of frail elderly individuals and persons with disabilities in regard to performing activities of daily living. Acceptable XXXX (5) Not acceptable XXXX (0) e. The reasonableness and application of fee schedules established for congregate services: The applicant proposes reasonable fees which meet prescribed requirements. The applicant has: (1) Accurately calculated meal fees according to Exhibit 20, or did not utilize meal fees as the meals are funded totally from the Older Americans Act; (2) Presented flat fees for services other than meals that do not exceed the cost of each service, or had no other service fee(s); and, (3) Proposed total fees that do not exceed 20% of a participant's adjusted income. Yes, meets all three XXXX (10) Yes, meets one or two XXXX (5) No, fee schedule meets none XXX (0) f. The adequacy and accuracy of proposed budgets: The budget conforms to the following conditions: (1) Service costs are consistent with local market conditions; (2) Costs of all services correspond directly to the proposed number of participants; (3) All costs proposed are eligible; (4) The limits on administrative costs (10% of program), in-kind contributions (10% of match), local government proportion of match when a State is the applicant (10%) and the $1,200 per/person/year limit are not exceeded; and, (5) Total participant fees as shown in the first year budget are equal to or greater than 10% of total program cost. Conforms to all five XXXX (15) Conforms to at least two XXXX (5) Conforms to one or none XXXX (0) g. The extent to which the applicant proposes funds from other services in excess of that required: The applicant proposes matching funds for the first year and for the next four years in an amount that exceeds the minimum required. The applicant's match is: (1) 55% or more of total program cost for the first year and/or one or more of the next four years XXXX (3) (2) Under 55% of total program cost for the first and other years. XXXX (0) h. The methods of providing for deinstitutionalized older individuals and persons with disabilities: The application has a proposed plan to identify and transfer potential participants from institutions to the project and into the CHSP. There is a plan and it is acceptable. Yes XXXX (2); No XXXX (0) i. Existing/new services; The applicant or other third parties currently do not provide supportive services to frail or disabled residents and the proposed CHSP services will constitute an entirely new program. XXXX (5) The applicant or other third party provides some supportive services to eligible residents; the proposed CHSP services will expand or add to existing services. XXXX (0)
