FR940119-1-00017 FR940119-1-00007 Section 10 of the Act authorizes the Secretary to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to accomplish the purposes of the Act. Section 10 expressly lists several subjects as possible topics for rulemaking, including the following: (1) Standards and guidelines to insure the full protection and preservation of the historic, archeological, and paleontological resources in the recreation area; (2) Provision for the control of the use of the use of motorized and mechanical equipment for transportation over, or alteration of, the surface of any Federal land within the recreation area; (3) Provision for the control of the use and number of motorized and nonmotorized rivercraft: Provided, that the use of such craft is hereby recognized as a valid use of the Snake River within the recreation area; and (4) Standards for such management, utilization, and disposal of natural resources on federally owned lands, including, but not limited to, timber harvesting by selective cutting, mining and grazing and the continuation of such existing uses and developments as are compatible with the provisions of this Act. Section 10 also authorized rulemaking to establish standards for the use and development of privately owned property in the HCNRA. This is the subject of a separate rulemaking and, thus, is not included in this proposed rule. Following enactment of the Act in 1975, the Forest Service construed Section 10's authority to promulgate regulations as discretionary and that the issues identified therein could be adequately addressed under existing statutory and regulatory authority. This interpretation was challenged in a 1988 lawsuit which contended that the regulatory authority in Section 10 was mandatory, not discretionary. Oregon Natural Resources Council (ONRC) v. Lyng, slip op. No. 88&hyph;680PA (D. Or. 1989). The district court in Oregon rejected ONRC's argument that the Secretary had a non-discretionary duty to issue regulations under Section 10 and dismissed the case. On appeal, however, the Ninth Circuit, reversed the district court and concluded that the regulations were, in fact, required by Section 10. According to the Ninth Circuit, Section 10 ``compels the Secretary to promulgate nonduplicative regulations of the sort described by subsections 10(a) through 10(e).'' ONRC v. Lyng, 882 F.2d 1417, 1421 (9th Cir. 1989). Within three months of the 9th Circuit's decision in ONRC v. Lyng, an interim rule establishing standards and guidelines for federal lands in the HCNRA had been adopted and public comment solicited (54 FR 41089; Oct. 5, 1989). Only two comments were received on the interim rule. The interim rule has never been published as a final rule. Due to the length of time that has passed since the issuance of the interim rule, and the recognition that substantial modifications to the interim rule would be required, the agency has decided to issue a new proposed rule for public comment. Accordingly, an agency response to the comments submitted on the 1989 interim rule is not needed. For ease of reference, the proposed rule divides the HCNRA into two categories_Wilderness Lands and Other Lands. Consistent with Congress' recognition that the wilderness portions of the HCNRA should receive substantially more protection than the rest of the HCNRA, some standards and guidelines are more protective in the Wilderness Lands category than in the Other Lands category. In other instances, however, the standards and guidelines are the same. Section-By-Section Explanation of the Proposed Rule This proposed rule would established a new Subpart F of Part 292, Hells Canyon National Recreation Area_Public Lands, in Title 36 of the Code of Federal Regulations. A section-by-section explanation of the proposed rule follows: Section 292.40␣Purpose and Scope. Paragraph (a) of proposed §292.40 explains that the purpose of this rule is to establish specific standards and guidelines for the use of the National Forest System lands that comprise the Hells Canyon National Recreation Area (HCNRA). The topics that are the subject of these standards and guidelines correspond with the topics in Section 10 of the Act, except for the use and development of privately owned property which, as previously noted, is the subject of a separate rulemaking and not addressed herein. Paragraph (b) explains that, unless directly in conflict with the standards and guidelines set forth in the rule, all of the existing authorities generally applicable to National Forest System lands are specifically applicable to the National Forest System lands in the HCNRA. It also states that the specific regulatory authority for the HCNRA embodied in the rule's standards and guidelines would prevail over the Forest Service's general regulatory authority for National Forest System lands, if a conflict between the two should arise. Section 292.41␣Definitions Proposed §292.41 defines terms used in the proposed rule. Section 292.42␣Management Standards and Guidelines Proposed §292.42 would establish several guiding principles that apply to the standards and guidelines called for in Section 10 of the Act and set out in §§292.43 through 292.48. These principles include the recognition that the rule is a supplement to, not a substitute for, existing regulatory authority; that uses or activities authorized under the rule's standards and guidelines might require additional site-specific environmental analysis; that programmatic direction in the Comprehensive Management Plan must conform to the standards and guidelines of the rule; and, that the standards and guidelines for a given use or activity may vary depending on whether that use or activity is located inside or outside the designated wilderness in the HCNRA. Section 292.43␣Protection and Preservation of Cultural and Paleontological Resources Proposed §292.43 would create seven standards to guide Forest Service administration of cultural and paleontological resources in the HCNRA. Proposed paragraphs (a) (1)&hyph;(4) set forth the standards and guidelines for cultural and paleontological resources on the Other Lands in the HCNRA; proposed paragraphs (b) (1)&hyph;(3) set forth the standards and guidelines for cultural and paleontological resources located on the Wilderness Lands in the HCNRA. For ease of reference, ``cultural resources'' includes historic and archeological resources in the HCNRA. Though not explicitly referenced, the relevant provisions of the National Historic Preservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 470 et seq., the Archeological Resources Protection Act, 16 U.S.C. 470AA et seq., and the Antiquities Act, 16 U.S.C. 431 et seq. and the accompanying regulations at 36 CFR parts 296 and 800 would also apply.
