FR940920-1-00089 FR940920-1-00008 In the proposed regulations, subcategorization of existing MWC units was limited only to size (units at large and small MWC plants). Since the MACT floors may be sensitive to subcategorization, it is possible that further or alternative means of subcategorization may affect the determination of the MACT floor (i.e., the minimum level of control requirements under section 129). The Act provides that ``the Administrator may distinguish among classes, types (including mass-burn, refuse-derived fuel, modular, and other types of units), and sizes of units within a category'' in establishing MACT standards. In examining various ways of subcategorization, the EPA found that subcategorization uniformly across all emission standards could result in more stringent standards for one pollutant and somewhat less stringent standards for other pollutants. For example, subcategorization by MWC technology generally results in a less stringent MACT floor for NO X and a more stringent floor for PM. Depending upon the approach used for subcategorization, the NO X MACT floor for some units could be considerably higher than the 215 ppmv floor in the proposed rule. For example, the NO X MACT floor for mass burn/waterwall units could be 230 ppmv, and the NO X MACT floor for refuse-derived fuel units could be 275 ppmv. The EPA is soliciting comments on whether subcategorization (beyond size) should be used in the final rule and on the basis that one would support for such further subcategorization (e.g., the inapplicability of SNCR for mass burn/refractory combustors, and the inherently ``low-NO X '' emission characteristics of mass burn/rotary combustors, fluidized bed combustors, and modular/excess-air combustors.) In addition, the EPA is seeking comment on the appropriateness of using different subcategorization approaches for different pollutants. For example, in setting standards under section 111 of the Act for industrial boilers, the EPA established different emission standards based on different fuel type inputs. The following section presents the EPA's rationale for establishing the MACT floor and MACT for MWC's. 3. MACT Floor and MACT for Large MWC Plants This section summarizes the MACT floor and presents the EPA's rationale for establishing MACT for each pollutant for MWC's at large MWC facilities. a. Summary of MACT Floor for Large MWC Plants . This proposal determines the MACT floor for existing MWC's based on permit limits. The population of MWC's at large plants consists of about 235 combustor units. Therefore, the top 29 combustor units with the most stringent permit limitations would represent the top 12 percent of emission limitations for determining the MACT floor. An average of the top 29 permit limits was calculated to determine the floor for each pollutant. The MACT floor emission levels for each pollutant for large MWC plants is shown in table 4. Table 4. _ Mact Floor Emission Levels for Existing MWC's at Large MWC Plants 1Pollutant 1MACT floor emission level a,b SO 2 35 ppmv. HCl 35 ppmv. PM 27 mg/dscm. Cd 0.25 mg/dscm. Pb 0.53 mg/dscm. Hg 0.36 mg/dscm. Dioxins/furans 100 ng/dscm total mass or about 1.7 ng/dscm TEQ. NO X 215 ppmv. a All emission levels are corrected to 7 percent O 2 , dry basis. b Most of the MACT floor requirements for large MWC plants are more stringent than the 1991 subpart Ca guidelines. See table 2.
