FR940802-2-00016 FR940802-2-00014 Department of the Army Finding of No Significant Impact (FNSI) and Environmental Assessment for Realignment of Fort Jackson, SC AGENCY: Department of the Army, DoD. ACTION: Finding of no significant impact. SUMMARY: In accordance with procedures established by the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (BRAC), the 1993 Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission recommended that the Chaplain Center and School (CHCS) be relocated from Fort Monmouth, New Jersey, to Fort Jackson, South Carolina. The proposed action is necessary to implement this recommendation. Facility requirements of the CHCS include general and applied instructional facilities, administrative and operations area, historical property storage, and a library, as well as Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, and Moslem chapels. Realigning the CHCS and associated activities will involve approximately 100 permanent party soldiers, 50 civilian employees, and an average daily student load of 165. To accomplish the increased mission at Fort Jackson, construction of a new CHCS administrative and instructional facility will be required. The construction of a 136-unit Unaccompanied Officers Quarters (UOQ) is also included as part of this environmental assessment. However, the UOQ is not a BRAC 93 project, neither is it a result of the BRAC 93 realignment. The increase in unaccompanied officers due to the BRAC 91 realignment of the Soldier Support Institute (SSI) to Fort Jackson from Fort Benjamin Harrison has created a shortage of UOQ spaces. The construction of a new UOQ facility at Fort Jackson would reduce this deficit, requiring fewer unaccompanied officers to be housed off base. The UOQ was added to the BRAC 91 construction program after the Environmental Assessment prepared for the SSI was completed. Alternatives Considered: Alternatives considered in the Environmental Assessment (EA) include the following: the preferred alternative, which is to construct a CHCS facility near the Soldier Support Institute building currently under construction, and to construct a 136-unit Unaccompanied Officers Personnel Housing facility, which would provide housing for officer basic course student on temporary duty attending the Adjutant General, Finance, and Recruiting and Retention schools at the SSI; the No-Action Alternative; and various siting alternatives at the installation for both the CHCS and UOQ. Feasibility criteria were based on such factors as operational impacts, environmental constraints, future expansion capability, base vehicular traffic flow, ease of accessibility from on and off post, heating and air conditioning requirements, proximity to dining facilities and billets, demolition requirements, and conduciveness to a campus atmosphere. This latter criteria responds to a desire to have academic training areas set apart from other military training activities. Factors Considered in Determining that No Environmental Impact Statement is Required: Implementation of the proposed action would not significantly alter baseline environmental conditions at Fort Jackson. During construction there would be short-term increases in dust and particulate levels associated with construction activities. Mitigation measures are in place to minimize temporary impacts related to construction. Construction will have no significant impact on ground water or on any wild and scenic rivers in South Carolina; however, it may have short-term impacts on some surface waters. These impacts will be negligible, since proper erosion and siltation control measures, as well as building designs that minimize erosion and flooding potential, will be utilized. Combustion by-product emissions from construction equipment will be a short-term impact. Long-term increases in non-commercial vehicular emissions can be expected because of the additional personnel at Fort Jackson. Projected traffic increases are minor relative to the number of vehicles already on-post, and will not affect regional air quality attainment status; therefore, this impact is not considered significant. The City of Columbia's water supply system and water treatment system is easily capable of absorbing the very minor increase in water usage and wastewater generation that will accompany the proposed realignment. Therefore, this expected increase in water usage and sewer discharge is not considered significant. Increased demand for electricity and heating fuels is considered to be negligible. After coordinating with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the South Carolina Wildlife and Marine Resources Department, it was determined that BRAC 93 activities have no negative impacts on federally listed or proposed threatened and endangered species, including the red-cockaded woodpecker population at Fort Jackson. Coordination with the Charleston District U.S. Army Corps of Engineers revealed that there are no jurisdictional wetlands that will be impacted by construction of BRAC 93 CHCS facilities and the UOQ at Fort Jackson. The proposed construction will not have any adverse affect on any historic or cultural resources eligible for inclusion on the National Register of Historic Places. The realignment action will have a positive impact on Richland and Lexington counties with respect to employment, population, business volume, and personal income. However, these increases will not significantly alter the socioeconomic characteristics of the Fort Jackson region. Conclusion: It has been determined that implementation of the proposed action would not have significant individual or cumulative impacts on the quality of the natural or human environment. Because there would be no significant environmental impacts resulting from the implementation of the proposed action, an Environmental Impact Statement is not required and will not be prepared. DATES: Comments must be received September 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to comment may obtain a copy of the EA or inquire regarding this FNSI by writing to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: Mr. Richard Muller, Planning Division, 803 Front Street, Norfolk, VA 23510&hyph;1096. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions regarding this FNSI may be directed to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: Mr. Richard Miller, at (804) 441&hyph;7767. Dated: July 27, 1994. Raymond J. Fatz, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Environment, Safety and Occupation Health) OASA (IL&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18775 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
