FR940810-2-00041 FR940810-2-00024 Preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement for the Nevada Test Site and Other Off-Site Test Locations Within the State of Nevada AGENCY: U.S. Department of Energy (DOE). ACTION: Notice of Intent. SUMMARY: In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ), the Council on Environmental Quality regulations for Implementing the Procedural Provisions of NEPA (40 CFR Parts 1500&hyph;1508), and the Department's Implementing Procedures (10 CFR Part 1021), the DOE announces its intent to prepare a Site-wide Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Nevada Test Site and other off-site test locations within the State of Nevada. The purpose of this Notice is to invite the participation of Federal, state, and local agencies, affected Indian tribes, and other interested persons in the process that DOE will follow to comply with NEPA, and to solicit public comments on the proposed scope and content of the Nevada Test Site EIS. In order to meet present and potential future mission responsibilities at the Nevada Test Site, the Department proposes to evaluate resource management alternatives for the Nevada Test Site which would support current and future defense related missions, research and development, waste management, environmental restoration, infrastructure maintenance, and facility upgrades and alternative uses over the next 5&hyph;10 years. This Site-wide EIS will address numerous issues, including, without limitation: (1) environmental restoration and other Departmental activities at the Nevada Test Site and at off-site locations in the State of Nevada where DOE conducted nuclear experiments, which include the Project Shoal Area, Central Nevada Test Area, Tonopah Test Range, and portions of the Nellis Air Force Range; and (2) transportation and disposal of wastes, which are generated on and off-site of the Nevada Test Site. DATES: DOE invites and encourages the general public, other government agencies, and all other interested parties to comment on the appropriate scope and content of the EIS for the Nevada Test Site and off-site locations within the State of Nevada to ensure that all relevant environmental issues and alternatives are addressed. Public scoping meetings are discussed below in the Supplementary Information section. The public scoping period will continue until September 30, 1994. All comments and suggestions received or postmarked by that date, whether written, oral, submitted directly to the Department, or presented during a scoping meeting, will be given equal consideration in defining the scope of this Site-wide EIS and the issues to be discussed. Comments received or postmarked after September 30, 1994, will be considered to the extent practicable. In addition, the Department is committed to providing opportunities for the involvement of interested individuals and groups in this and other Department planning activities outside of the formal scoping process on this EIS. ADDRESSES: Written comments on the scope of the Site-wide EIS should be directed to: Donald R. Elle, Director, Environmental Protection Division, U.S. Department of Energy, Nevada Operations Office, P.O. Box 14459, Las Vegas, NV 89114. Copies of written comments, transcripts of oral comments, and copies of the EIS Implementation Plan will be prepared and retained by the Department for inspection by the public at the following locations: 1. DOE Public Reading Room, 2753 S. Highland Ave., Las Vegas, NV 89109 2. Las Vegas Public Library, 833 N. Las Vegas Blvd., Las Vegas, NV 89101 3. Carson City Public Library, 900 N. Roop St., Carson City, NV 89701 4. Tonopah Public Library, 171 Central Street, Tonopah, NV 89049
