FR940216-0-00054 FR940216-0-00010 Until January 1, 1998, refiners who produce reformulated gasoline will have a choice of certifying their gasoline by using either the Simple Model or the Complex Model. EPA proposed three options for establishing the performance standards under early, optional use of the Complex Model. Under one option, if a refiner opts to utilize the Complex Model before January 1, 1998 the reformulated gasoline can have no worse VOC, NO X , or toxic emissions performance than would be predicted by the Complex Model for a Simple-Model fuel (minimum 2.0 percent oxygen, maximum 1.0 percent benzene, and maximum RVP of 8.1 psi in Class C areas and 7.2 psi in Class B areas) having that refiner's average 1990 levels of sulfur, olefins, and T90 (E300). The second option was a variation of the first, in that refiners producing gasoline for use in only the southern reformulated gasoline areas (VOC control region 1) could measure their fuel performance against the CAA baseline gasoline as an alternative to their own 1990 refinery baseline. The third option, proposed by EPA in February 1993, would extend the second option to all reformulated gasoline areas. The rationales for these options are discussed in detail in EPA's proposals. Many of the comments were also received prior to the proposals, and as such were addressed there. As a result, the reader is referred back to the proposals for additional discussion. After considering the comments, EPA has decided to promulgate the first option. First, under this option each refiner will have to achieve the same reductions, whether they use the simple model or the complex model. The option to use either model increases refiner flexibility, but will not change the emissions reductions required for a refiner prior to mandatory use of the complex model in 1998. EPA believes that the reductions required under the simple model are achievable considering all relevant factors and will continue to be so under the optional use of the complex model. In fact, the additional flexibility of using the complex model would in some cases make them even more reasonable. Second, the other two options create an incentive for early use of the complex model by those refiners who would then have a less stringent performance standard than under the simple model. This would produce on average an increase in overall emissions for reformulated gasoline compared to average emissions if only the simple model was allowed. Refiners with individual baselines for sulfur, T90 and olefins that are lower than the CAA baseline would, under the second and third options, get credit for emission benefits for these parameters, and could use this to justify a less stringent RVP control than required under the simple model. There would be no parallel disincentive to early use of the complex model for refiners with higher baselines which would result in an increase in their required reductions. This imbalance in the expected early use of the complex model could easily lead to an average 1&hyph;2 percentage point reduction in the average emission performance of reformulated gasoline from 1995&hyph;7 as discussed in section I of the RIA. Based on this negative environmental impact, and the reasonableness of the complex model performance standard under the first option, EPA has decided to promulgate the first option described above for early use of the complex model. G. Enforcement of the Early Use Option Additional controls over reformulated gasoline certified using the ``early-use'' complex model are necessary for the operation of the downstream enforcement mechanisms of VOC and NO X emissions performance minimums, and covered area gasoline quality surveys. These restrictions are necessary because under the restricted early-use approach being promulgated, VOC, toxics, and NO X percentage reductions are calculated from a baseline fuel using the refiner's 1990 baseline levels of sulfur, T&hyph;90, and olefins. As a result, the reformulated gasolines produced by different refiners (or in some cases, at different refineries) under this option will likely each meet different percentage reduction standards for VOC, toxics, and NO X . Therefore, the performance of a fungible mixture of complex model gasolines produced by different refiners at different refineries could not be predicted, nor could be evaluated. 2 2 Beginning in 1998, certification of reformulated gasoline using the simple model will no longer be an option, and all reformulated gasoline will be certified using the complex model. Also beginning in 1998, all refiners and importers will calculate emissions performance reductions from Clean Air Act average gasoline; individual refiner baselines will not be relevant to reformulated gasoline. As a result, the difficulties with downstream enforcement and surveys will be resolved. In order for the per-gallon minimums for VOC and NO X emissions performance to be monitored by downstream regulated parties and enforced by EPA, the baseline for a given gasoline sample must be known. Without knowledge of the baseline, it is not possible to determine whether the fuel complies with the per-gallon minimums, since it will be different for each refinery. Similarly, in order for the gasoline quality surveys to function under early use of the complex model, the baseline from which to determine the emission performance for VOC, toxics, and NO X must be known. Without knowledge of the baseline, it is not possible to determine whether the complex model fuels in an area on average meet the per-gallon standards.
