FR941028-0-00043 FR941028-0-00009 OSM strongly supports citizen participation and agrees that opportunities for citizen participation need to be addressed in the rules governing ownership and control. OSM further agrees that the proposed rules did not sufficiently address these issues in the September, 1991, proposal. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, however, the agency has a responsibility to propose regulations for public comment, prior to finalizing such regulations. The changes proposed by commenters would represent significant modifications of the September, 1991, proposals. Thus, OSM does not consider it appropriate to incorporate commenters' proposals into today's final rules without first providing opportunity for comment to the regulated community, the States, and the public generally. While OSM could delay finalization of today's rules to allow for such proposal and for opportunity for comment, OSM does not believe that the public interest would be served by such delay. Nevertheless, suggestions made by the commenters are worthy of further consideration. Accordingly, at some future date, OSM may present proposals to respond to the concerns expressed by the commenters. Until such proposals are made, however, the interests of concerned citizens should be asserted pursuant to the provisions of 30 CFR 773.13, 842.11, 842.12, 843.21 and other regulations providing for citizen participation, as appropriate. In this respect, if citizens disagree with a decision of OSM finding that an ownership or control link does not exist, citizens can challenge such decision by demanding a Federal inspection of relevant permits affected by such decision in accordance with the current provisions of 30 CFR 842.12. If OSM rejects their demand to conduct an inspection, citizens can seek review of such rejection and the issues related thereto pursuant to 30 CFR 842.15 to the Director or his designee and, if necessary, to OHA in accordance with 43 CFR part 4. Further, OSM's AVS Office will receive and consider ownership or control information from concerned citizens as part of OSM's ongoing research activities to incorporate ownership or control and violation information into the AVS database. Such information is relevant and will be used by the agency in the making of ownership or control determinations and for inclusion, upon verification by the agency, into AVS. OSM strongly encourages concerned citizens, environmental advocates, and members of the industry to come forward with information relevant to ownership or control matters. It is in everyone's interest for the AVS to contain the most complete, comprehensive, and accurate information possible. C. Discussion of Final Rules The following text, which describes the final rules and responds to the specific public comments that OSM received on the proposed rules, is organized by the part and section number of the affected provisions. Grammatical or stylistic changes that do not affect the substance of the final rules are generally not discussed. 1. Part 701_Permanent Regulatory Program Section 701.5_Definitions. In the proposed rule, OSM deleted the definition of ``violation notice'' previously contained in the regulations and transferred such definition in expanded form to ยง773.5. The final rule is identical to the proposed rule. As described below, the definition of ``violation notice'' refers to the types of violations of the Act or other laws which will form the basis for a regulatory authority to deny a permit application under the provisions of ยง773.15(b). 2. Part 773_Requirements for Permits and Permit Processing Part 773_The Table of Contents. In the proposed rule, OSM had included an amendment to the Table of Contents to provide for a proposed rule governing procedures for the challenge of ownership or control links prior to entry in AVS. Since OSM has determined not to go forward with that portion of the proposal, that reference is not included in the final Table of Contents adopted today. Also, since OSM has deferred action with respect to the adoption of proposed ยง773.27 to a subsequent rulemaking, that reference has also been deleted. The final Table of Contents is adopted as described in Summary of Rules Adopted. Section 773.5_Definitions. The proposed rule added certain definitions to ยง773.5. Such definitions included the terms ``Applicant/Violator System or AVS,'' ``Federal violation notice,'' ``Ownership or control link,'' ``State violation notice,'' and ``Violation notice.'' Such definitions were necessary to an understanding of the proposed comprehensive regulations relating to the implementation of AVS.
