FR940922-2-00016 FR940922-2-00006 Grower 2 Comment 23 Respondent argues that the Department has no justification for relying on BIA for the COP expenses of Grower 2. Respondent claims that the Department should use the grower's submitted costs. Respondent alleges that, contrary to the Department's preliminary analysis, the grower did not own an additional orchard during the POR. Respondent further argues that Grower 2 reported all interest and management expenses in its questionnaire response to the Department. Petitioners argue that since respondent provided incomplete and inconsistent information for this grower, it is not possible to determine whether all expenses were reported. DOC Position We disagree with respondent. In the Department's letter of December 13, 1993, the Department clearly instructed the respondent to review the list of sampled growers and ``determine (1) whether any of these growers is related to another grower. *␣*␣*'' These instructions in no way restricted the reporting of related growers to those included in the sample and any related grower should have been reported. In addition, previously the Department, in its October 14, 1993, letter, stated that ``*␣*␣* it is important that you supply us with the information on growers which are related and, as such, should be treated as single entities.'' Moreover, the letter states that ``If you do not provide this information, we will assume that the growers identified in your October 6, 1993, submission are not related and treat them as separate entities when drawing our sample. However, if we treat these growers as separate entities and subsequently discover that our sample includes a farm that should have been consolidated, we may have to resort to the best information available as required by section 776(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, in determining the cost for that particular farm for the purpose of establishing the costs of the grower.'' At verification, the Department, in a random review of invoices for this grower, noted an invoice which was made out in the name of an orchard that had not been reported to the Department. The grower claimed at that time that the orchard listed on the invoice was the orchard that had been reported as sold. The Grower's records did not support this claim. The name of the sold orchard was not identified in the grower's response; only the MAF number was listed. Grower 2's records reviewed at verification showed the name of the orchard with the MAF number reported as sold; that name was different than the name listed on the invoice. By way of explanation, the grower claimed that the orchard operated under two different names, but offered no evidence to support that claim. Furthermore, our review of NZKMB records did not support the grower's claim. The NZKMB records for the orchard listed on the invoice showed Grower 2 as the owner and listed a different MAF number than the one reported by Grower 2 for the sold orchard. Thus, neither the grower's records nor the NZKMB records supported Grower 2's claim that the orchard listed on the invoice and the orchard sold are one and the same. Because the Department could not verify the Grower's claim, we concluded that the related orchard on the invoice was not reported to the Department. By failing to report all related orchards, the grower failed to report all relevant costs. Thus, we have maintained our application of BIA for Grower 2. In light of the Department's determination to use BIA regarding this grower, we need not address respondent's allegation regarding management and interest expenses. Grower 3 Comment 24 Petitioners assert that respondent reported an imputed labor cost for this grower rather than an actual labor cost. Petitioners argue that this imputed labor value is understated and should be recalculated based on the methodology they described in reference to comments on COP (Comment 14). DOC Position We disagree. According to this grower's response, summer and winter pruning was performed by the owner who worked part-time on the orchard. Respondent computed the cost of pruning for the two sampled growers in the Bay of Plenty region who had contracted out for pruning and based on their cost imputed the cost of pruning for this grower. Without a more accurate alternative, we accepted respondent's methodology. Therefore, we have used respondent's figure for the final results. Comment 25 Petitioners note that the respondent reported an incorrect value for interest expense. Petitioners urge the Department to scrutinize respondent's figures and adjust the interest claim.
