FR941125-1-00029 FR941125-1-00008 3. The AOV and AOP tests have been clarified and reaffirmed in the specification. Note that no alternative procedures have been approved for the AOV and AOP, even though manufacturers may be using alternatives. The specification clearly states that alternative procedures require approval by the Administrator. Therefore, source owners and operators must obtain approvals of an alternative procedure prior to seeking a site-specific COMS approval. C. Performance Specifications The major change to the PS&hyph;1 demonstrations from the 1983 specification occurs in section 7, Performance Specification Verification Procedures. The proposal requires that testing be conducted at the affected facility. Current practices have allowed verification tests to be conducted at the COMS manufacturers' facility. However, the 1983 specifications intended verification testing to be performed at the affected facility to ensure that the entire COMS system was evaluated for the specific installation. The current practices have resulted in excluding the data recording portion of the system used at the installation under normal measurement conditions and, thereby, limiting assessment of the COMS for the specific installation. For this reason, the proposed specification clarifies where the required PS&hyph;1 testing of section 7 is to be conducted. The proposal also simplifies procedures for calibration attenuator selection. The COMS's have been typically required to demonstrate a certain degree of calibration error over a range of emissions specified as the span value. This span value may or may not correspond to the actual instrument range (0 to 100 percent opacity). The primary concern of COMS data users is the capability of the instrument to measure accurately opacities at, or near the applicable standard. Once the opacity level exceeds the standard, the magnitude of the emissions tends to be of lesser concern than the duration of the operation. Therefore, the proposal includes selection of appropriate attenuators and calibration error test for the applicable opacity emission standard. The specifications recognize the need to set a surrogate emission limit for purposes of conducting the calibration error test. This is due to the fact that some authorities set opacity limitations of zero percent, and the specification must assess calibration accuracy and linearity around the standard. Attenuator opacity values are specified in terms of optical density (or transmittance) which exhibits a logarithmic relationship to opacity. Because of the nonlinear nature of this relationship, COMS calibration at high opacity values becomes more difficult. At the low opacity emission limitations of current regulations, e.g., 20 percent, the nonlinear relationship of opacity and optical density is not severe and is within the error specification in this proposal. Therefore, a surrogate limit for purposes of the calibration error test would continue to assure acceptable COMS accuracy, even though the actual emission limitation was below the surrogate value. Consequently, where emission standards have been set at 10 percent opacity or less, the proposal specifies a surrogate 10 percent opacity limit for purposes of conducting the calibration error test. The EPA contacted attenuator manufacturers who indicated that certifiable low opacity, i.e., 2 percent opacity (98 percent transmittance) attenuators, necessary to comply with the required testing, are available. Where dual standards are specified, e.g., a 10-percent opacity limitation with an allowance for one 6-minute period in an hour not to exceed 40 percent opacity, the calibration error test must be conducted over the full range of standards. The test may be conducted as a three-point calibration error test over the range, i.e., 10 to 40 percent opacity, or separate three-point calibration error tests around each requirement. The proposal describes procedures for setting the instrument zero and upscale calibration values and zero alignment. The proposal specifies that a check of the adequacy of the zero setting with the alignment must be made. If discrepancies between measured values exist, they should be resolved prior to stack installation. At this time (if part of the system), the zero-jig zero setting also should be adjusted to coincide with the instrument zero for the monitor pathlength, recorded and permanently set. The 1983 specifications did not specify the use of secondary instruments to establish secondary attenuators for calibration error tests. Today's specification provides a procedure for qualifying a secondary instrument. The conditioning period has been incorporated into the operational test period. The operational test period is now a 336-hour test period during which the maintenance and operational restrictions, that were required of both conditioning and operational periods in the 1983 specifications, still apply. An additional test has been included to address short-term diurnal fluctuations in COMS's opacity output readings. This 1-hour drift test and specification are designed to assess and limit the amount of zero and upscale calibration value drifts due to operational conditions occurring during a 24-hour period. III. Administrative Requirements
