FR941130-0-00072 FR941130-0-00012 GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION 41 CFR Parts 201&hyph;3, 201&hyph;4, 201&hyph;9, 201&hyph;18, 201&hyph;20, 201&hyph;21, 201&hyph;23, 201&hyph;24, and 201&hyph;39 [FIRMR Amdt. 2] RIN 3090&hyph;AE75 Amendment of Miscellaneous FIRMR Provisions AGENCY: Information Resources Management Service, GSA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This document amends Federal Information Resources Management Regulation (FIRMR) provisions with regard to: updating General Services Administration (GSA) offices and symbols; changing the definition of ``performance validation''; providing GSA advance notice of agency offices authorized to submit agency procurement requests; clarifying delegation of procurement authority (DPA) requirements for using GSA's Information Resources Management Service (IRMS) contracts programs and services; clarifying provisions regarding DPAs, including acquisitions when an agency uses the Small Business Administration's (SBA's) 8(a) Program for Federal information processing (FIP) resources; changing procedures for obtaining exceptions to the use of FTS2000 and clarifying that determinations regarding whether the FTS2000 network will be used in an acquisition is subject to GSA approval; and changing the Purchase of Telecommunications Services (POTS) Program from a mandatory-for-use program to a nonmandatory program. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule is effective December 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Anne Horth, GSA/KMR at (202) 501&hyph;0960 (v) or (202) 501&hyph;0657 (tdd). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: (1) Notices of proposed rulemaking (NPRs) were published in the Federal Register (FR) on September 21 and December 7, 1993 proposing various amendments to several sections of the FIRMR. The September 21 FR notice contained proposed amendments regarding acquisitions to be issued through SBA's 8(a) Program and regarding procedures when using GSA's nonmandatory schedule contracts. The December 7 FR notice contained other miscellaneous changes as noted in the Summary above, including provisions regarding the use by one agency of another agency's contracts for FIP resources. Changes in the December 7 FR notice regarding nonmandatory schedules, the Federal IRM Review Program, and the use of other agency contracts (except for contracts and services provided by GSA/IRMS) will be covered in a separate amendment. To expedite issuance, all other amendments are combined in this final rule (2) All comments were considered and, where possible, incorporated into the final rule. While most of the comments were resolved in the final amendment, a few comments could not be fully accommodated. Also, in an effort to keep regulations to a minimum, where a subject is already covered, additional provisions will not be included. Major comments that will not be reflected in the amendment are addressed below. (a) Requests were made for explanations as to when justifications for specific make and model and for other than full and open competition are required for 8(a) contracts. FIRMR ยง201&hyph;39.601 already requires a justification for specific make and model that applies to all acquisitions, including 8(a) acquisitions. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) contains rules governing documentation for SBA's 8(a) Program contracts. Additional FIRMR provisions are not required, but this does not preclude GSA from asking for supporting documentation in specific cases when SBA's 8(a) Program is used. (b) There were requests to include provisions requiring that agencies be informed of the scope and manner of GSA reviews and that would have the effect of regulating the timing of reviews. These changes are not desirable in view of the changing nature of the reviews program and since agencies are now notified of pending reviews. (c) Suggestions that agencies, not GSA, make determinations regarding FTS2000 exceptions were not accepted because of GSA's statutory responsibilities. (d) Suggestions that were not particularly relevant to the published notices were not addressed in this amendment, but will be reviewed for future bulletins or FIRMR changes. (3) Explanations of the changes made by this amendment are shown below: (a) Various sections of the FIRMR are amended to update GSA offices and symbols. (b) FIRMR part 201&hyph;4 is amended to change the definition of ``performance validation'' to reflect that benchmarking is not the only method of validation. FIRMR Bulletin C&hyph;4 is also being revised to reflect this change.
