FR941116-0-00091 FR941116-0-00019 Fourteen entities filed comments in response to the NPR regarding user fees: C V International, Inc.; Tampa Port Authority; Seariders International, Inc.; the Inter-American Discussion Agreement; 2 Puerto Rico Maritime Shipping Authority; Matson Navigation Company, Inc.; The Joint Carrier Group; 3 Hanjin Shipping Co., Ltd.; Cari-Freight Shipping Co. Ltd.; Caribbean Shipowners Association; Lykes Bros. Steamship Co., Inc. (``Lykes''); Transportation Services Incorporated; and the Japan Conferences. 4 The National Industrial Transportation League (``NIT League'') 5 filed late comments, which are also being considered. 2 Conferences represented by the Inter-American Discussion Agreement are: the Inter-American Freight Conference; Brazil/Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands Conference; River Plate/Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands Conference; and the Inter-American Freight Conference-Pacific Coast Area. 3 See Appendix A to this document. 4 The Conferences are: the Trans-Pacific Freight Conference of Japan, the Japan-Atlantic and Gulf Freight Conference, the Japan-Puerto Rico & Virgin Islands Freight Conference, and their member lines. 5 The NIT League is a voluntary organization said to represent some 1,400 shippers and groups/associations of shippers conducting industrial and/or commercial enterprises, large, medium, and small, throughout the United States and internationally. The commenters represent a variety of industry interests: individual ocean common carriers, ocean freight conferences and other aligned agreement parties, ocean freight forwarders, NVOCCs, a tariff publisher, a shipper's group, and a port authority. Generally, the commenters oppose the Commission's proposed fee increases as being unfair and burdensome on the industry. On specific fee increases, Lykes and the NIT League object to the proposed fee for special docket applications. They argue that the increase from $25 to $86 is out of proportion and unfair. Both urge that the Commission consider a more modest increase to avoid a chilling effect on potential applicants. Lykes suggests a fee of $50 or $60. The NIT League opposes proposed fee increases for filing petitions, formal and informal complaints, and for providing information to the public. The League argues that the proposed fees do not represent a reasonable value for the service provided and that no public policy is served by such fees. The ultimate effect, it claims, could be to discourage petitioners or complainants from raising valid claims or causes with the Commission. The Japan Conferences oppose the proposed fee increase for special permission applications. They submit that the fee for special permission applications was recently increased to $100 from $90, and that they are experiencing an increasing need to seek special permission authority to deviate from the Commission's tariff filing regulations. Further, they argue that these requests benefit shippers and consignees, not carriers. The only other specific fee increase to elicit a comment is the proposed registration fees for the Commission's Automated Tariff Filing and Information System (``ATFI''). Lykes believes the proposed fees are disproportionately high because it discerned no appreciable increase in the procedures for requesting additional logons for ATFI. The general statements opposing the proposed increased fees are unpersuasive. As pointed out in the NPR, it has been over eleven years since the Commission last reviewed its costs in providing these services. The proposed fee increases only reflect the increased costs to the Commission in providing these services. The Commission also does not agree with those comments suggesting that the proposed increase for special docket applications is too high and unfair, and would have a chilling effect on potential applicants. The proposed increase is justified on a cost basis. In cases where the amount to be refunded or waived is less than the filing fee, an applicant can request a waiver of the fee under FMC rules, as revised herein. Therefore, we do not see the revised fee having a chilling effect on potential applicants. NIT League's comments opposing the increases for filing petitions, formal and informal complaints, and for providing information to the public also are unpersuasive. As with every proposed increase, the proposed increases for these services reflect only the increased cost to the Commission in providing the services. These fees should not create an undue burden nor cause a chilling effect on potential complainants. As noted above, prospective complainants may request a waiver of the specific fees under the Commission's rules, if they believe an applicable fee causes an undue hardship.
