FR940616-2-00123 FR940616-2-00090 Common Provisions Projects supported by these awards share some or all of the following features: 1. An international exchange of professionals in the fields listed above. 2. The development of institutional linkages between American organizations and their counterparts in other countries. 3. Travel to or from the United States, preferably in both directions. 4. Competition in which USIS posts nominate foreign candidates for awards, while the American arts organizations select the award-winners. 5. Assurances of quality, fairness, balance and openness in the selection of American project participants. 6. A non-political character reflective of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. Special Conditions 1. Proposals should involve more than one country. However, single-country projects that have strong USIS-post support and clearly demonstrate the potential for creating and strengthening linkages between foreign and U.S. institutions are also welcome. 2. Proposals are subject to review and comment by the USIS posts in the relevant countries. 3. Proposals involving foreign organizations should identify them and clearly define their role in the project. Prospective applicants would do well to consult with USIS posts regarding such organizations prior to submitting their proposals. 4. Proposals centering on films or videos must deal with the creative aspects of film or video making. Projects should be written for professional partners, not for amateur or student groups. Projects may include story development, other aspects of the creative processes, or management issues like funding and distribution. They should not include film or video festivals, installations, seminars, competitions, full scale film production or distribution, or any other type of project prohibited in this announcement. 5. Proposals centering on arts presenters, administrators, and managers should feature exchanges involving these professionals exclusively. 6. Arts America is the major supporter of the American Association of Museums [AAM] International Partnerships Among Museums [IPAM] program. Museums interested in international projects should address queries to the Office of International Programs, American Association of Museums, 1225 Eye Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005; telephone: [202] 289&hyph;1818; FAX: [202] 289&hyph;6578. We will not accept direct applications from museums for international projects [see Program Exclusions, below]. 7. Proposals for projects in Eastern Europe and/or the Newly Independent States of the ex-Soviet Union should focus on the exchange of arts administrators or professionals dealing in theatrical arts. Proposals should clearly demonstrate knowledge of host country environment and its institutional partner in that country and provide evidence of long-term commitment to project goals.
