FR940223-2-00222 FR940223-2-00102 3. Applicants that apply for the production of instructional programming should be specific in the scope and sequence of the content and the tasks required to produce the proposed courses of instruction. 4. The application should enable reviewers to make clear linkages between the proposed budget and the specific tasks, operations, and service delivery. 5. The applicant should detail the sources of matching funds and how they will be applied to the project. Other Federal funds may not be used as matching funds. The Secretary strongly requests the applicant to limit the Application Narrative to no more than 45 double-spaced, typed pages (on one side only), although the Secretary will consider applications of greater length. The applicant may include an appendix, or any other pertinent information (e.g., letters of support, footnotes, resumes, etc.) that might assist the Secretary in reviewing the application. The applicant may provide a VHS 1/2 inch videotape, however such a tape should be limited to no more than 12 minutes. CFDA NO: 84.203C␣Star Schools_Dissemination Grants The narrative should encompass each function or activity for which funds are being requested and should_ 1. Begin with an Abstract that is a summary of the proposed project. 2. Describe how the proposed project will conduct the required activities described in Part III 84.203C of this notice in light of each of the selection criteria, in the order in which the criteria are listed in this notice. 3. Demonstrate that the applicant has engaged in sufficient survey and analysis to ensure that the services offered by the proposed project will increase the information about and access to distance learning technologies and resources for State and local educational agencies. 4. Enable reviewers to make clear linkages between the proposed budget and the specific tasks, operations, and service delivery. 5. Include other pertinent information that may assist the Secretary in reviewing the application, including the scope and degree of services to be provided. The Secretary strongly requests the applicant to limit the Application Narrative to no more than 45 double-spaced, typed 81/2 ’ ’ × 11 ’ ’ pages (on one side only), although the Secretary will consider applications of greater length. The applicant may include an appendix, also on 81/2 ’ ’ x 11 ’ ’ paper or any other pertinent information (e.g., letters of support, footnotes, resumes, etc.) that might assist the Secretary in reviewing the application. Instructions for Estimated Public Reporting Burden Under terms of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, as amended, and the regulations implementing that Act, the Department of Education invites comment on the public reporting burden in this collection of information. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 100 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. You may send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to the U.S. Department of Education, Information Management and Compliance Division, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4651; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project 1850&hyph;0623, Washington, DC 20503. (Information collection approved under OMB control number 1850&hyph;0623. Expiration date: June 30, 1994) Applicants for grants under 84.203A and 84.203B must submit the following Star Schools Program Assurances with an application: The eligible telecommunications partnership hereby assures and certifies as follows: 1. The eligible telecommunications partnership will protect the financial interest of the United States in the telecommunications facilities and equipment for the useful life of such facilities and equipment. (Estimated at ten years) 2. The eligible telecommunications partnership will make available a significant portion of any facilities and equipment, technical assistance, and programming for which assistance is sought to public elementary or secondary schools eligible for assistance under Chapter 1 of Title 1 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. 3. The eligible telecommunications partnership will use the funds to supplement and not supplant funds otherwise available for the purposes of this title. 4. The eligible telecommunications partnership will design any programming that may be developed to enhance instruction and training in consultation with professionals who are experts in the applicable subject matter and grade level. Name and Title of Authorized Representative Signature of Authorized Representative Agency or Organization Date Applicants for grants under 84.203C must submit the following Star Schools Program Assurances with an application: 1. The eligible telecommunications partnership or other eligible entity hereby assures and certifies that the partnership or other eligible entity will provide technical assistance to State and local educational agencies to plan and implement technology-based systems, including_ (A) information regarding successful distance learning resources for States, local educational agencies, and schools; (B) assistance in connecting users of distance learning, regional educational service centers, colleges and universities, the private sector, and other relevant entities; (C) assistance and advice in the design and implementation of systems to include needs assessments and technology design; and (D) support for the identification of possible connections, and cost-sharing arrangements for users of such systems. 2. Grant funds shall be used to supplement and not supplant services provided by the partnership under this program in previous years. Name and Title of Authorized Representative Signature of Authorized Representative Agency or Organization Date BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN23FE94.006 E:GRAPHICSEN23FE94.007 E:GRAPHICSEN23FE94.008 E:GRAPHICSEN23FE94.009 E:GRAPHICSEN23FE94.010 E:GRAPHICSEN23FE94.011 E:GRAPHICSEN23FE94.012 [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4057 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;C
