FR940826-2-00078 FR940826-2-00055 United States of America, Plaintiff, v. AT&T Corp. and McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc. Defendants. Civil Action No. 94&hyph;01555 (HHG) Filed: August 5, 1994. Competitive Impact Statement Pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act (``APPA'' or ``Tunney Act''), 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), plaintiff, the United States, submits this Competitive Impact Statement relating to the proposed Final Judgment for entry with the consent of defendants, AT&T Corp. (``AT&T'') and McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc. (``McCaw'') in this civil antitrust proceeding. I. Nature and Purpose of the Proceeding On July 15, 1994, the United States filed a civil antitrust complaint, under Section 15 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 25, against AT&T and McCaw, alleging that the proposed merger of defendants violates Section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 18, by: 1. Decreasing actual and potential competition in the market for cellular services because the merger would combine McCaw, a cellular service provider with AT&T, the leading supplier of cellular infrastructure equipment. That vertical integration may substantially increase the merged firm's ability and incentive to raise the costs, limit the capacity, or constrain the quality of service of McCaw's cellular service competitors that are dependent upon AT&T for cellular infrastructure equipment. 2. Decreasing competition in the market for cellular infrastructure equipment by providing AT&T with access to competitively sensitive and proprietary information of McCaw's principal equipment supplier, L.M. Ericsson (``Ericsson''). 3. Decreasing actual and potential competition in the market for interexchange services to cellular subscribers, because the merger of AT&T and McCaw would combine AT&T, the largest interexchange carrier in the United States with McCaw, one of only two cellular service providers in many markets; and would combine the two largest providers of interexchange service to cellular service customers in many areas served by McCaw. AT&T is the dominant supplier of interexchange telecommunications service in the United States, providing interexchange service to wireline and cellular telephone customers. AT&T is also the largest supplier of the cellular infrastructure equipment (switches, cell site radios and related equipment) used by cellular carriers to provide that service in the United States and North America. AT&T, along with the next two largest suppliers_Motorola and Ericsson_account for the vast majority of the installed base of cellular infrastructure equipment in the United States. McCaw is the largest provider of cellular service in the United States, with ownership interests in cellular systems serving approximately 22 percent of all of the cellular subscribers in the United States. These systems include the following cities: New York, Los Angeles, Miami, Dallas, Houston, San Francisco, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Seattle, Portland, St. Louis and Kansas City. McCaw owns and operates a number of these systems in partnership with companies with whom it competes in other service areas. These companies include AirTouch Communications, Inc. (previously PacTel Mobile Services) and BellSouth Corporation. McCaw operates many of its cellular systems under the name ``Cellular One,'' a tradename owned by a joint venture among a number of cellular licensees including McCaw and Southwestern Bell Corp. McCaw also provides interexchange services to customers of its cellular services, primarily over AT&T facilities. Pursuant to an agreement dated August 16, 1993, AT&T agreed to purchase McCaw. On July 15, 1994, the United States and defendants filed a stipulation by which they consented to entry of a proposed Final Judgment, after compliance with the APPA, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), designed to eliminate the anticompetitive effects of the proposed merger in each of the affected markets. Entry of the proposed Final Judgment will terminate this action, except that the Court will retain jurisdiction to construe, modify and enforce the Final Judgment, and to punish violations of the Final Judgment. As explained more fully below, the proposed Final Judgment would substantially mitigate the incentive and ability of the merged AT&T-McCaw to constrain the actions of McCaw's cellular service competitors, by providing mechanisms to insure that AT&T could not use its position as the incumbent supplier to those McCaw competitors that are locked in to AT&T's equipment to disadvantage or discriminate against them in favor of McCaw. These mechanisms include: separate subsidiary requirements and restrictions on the flow of certain confidential information within the combined AT&T/McCaw entity; obligations on AT&T to continue to deal with its customers on terms in place prior to the merger, and on terms not less favorable than those offered to McCaw; obligations to assist and not interfere with an incumbent customer's changing infrastructure suppliers; and a buy-back obligation that would reduce the lock-in effect by lowering the cost for a competitor/customer to switch suppliers in the event that AT&T fails to comply with its obligations to its customers under the judgment. To address concerns in the interexchange markets, the proposed Final Judgment would require McCaw cellular systems to provide equal access to interexchange competitors of AT&T, which is not now provided in most McCaw systems, thereby increasing competition in the provision of interexchange services to cellular customers.
