FR940916-1-00143 FR940916-1-00016 (c) The rear unit, on receipt of a properly coded command, shall open a valve in the brake line and hold it open for a minimum of 15 seconds. This opening of the valve shall cause the brake line to vent to the exterior. (d) The valve opening and hose diameter shall have a minimum diameter of 3/4 inch to effect an emergency brake application. (e) Restoring of the braking function (recharging the air brake system) shall be enabled automatically by the rear equipment, no more than 60 seconds after it has initiated an emergency. (f) The front unit shall have a manually operated switch which, when activated, shall initiate an emergency brake transmission command to the rear unit. The switch shall be labelled ``Emergency'' and shall be protected so that there will exist no possibility of accidental activation. (g) The availability of the front-to-rear communications link shall be checked automatically at least every 10 minutes. (h) Means shall be provided to confirm availability and proper functioning of the emergency valve. (i) Means shall be provided to arm the front and rear units to ensure the rear unit responds only to an emergency command from its associated front unit. Subpart C_Qualifications for Personnel Who Inspect, Maintain, and Test Train Brake Systems §232.201 Train brake system training program requirements. (a) Except as provided by paragraph (c) of this section, each railroad shall develop, implement, and make available to FRA upon request a written program to train and qualify all personnel, including contract personnel, responsible for the inspection, testing, and maintenance of train brake systems. This program shall: (1) Incorporate the minimum training and experience guidelines issued by FRA for employees and contract personnel who inspect, test, and maintain train brake systems. (2) Be tailored to the specific operating conditions of each railroad; (3) Be tailored to the specific equipment operated by each railroad; (4) Specify the railroad's refresher training requirements for employees to remain qualified; (5) Keep accurate records on the current qualification status of employees and contract personnel that inspect, test, or maintain train brake systems; (6) Notify employees and contract personnel of their current qualification status; (7) Be made available for review by FRA upon request; and (8) Be updated to include new train brake system technology as it is introduced by the railroad. (b) Before implementing a training program under paragraph (a) of this section, a railroad shall certify to FRA in writing that its training program complies with paragraph (a). (c) Railroads developing train brake system training programs which are inconsistent with the minimum training and experience guidelines issued by FRA shall submit those programs to FRA's Office of Safety and receive FRA's written approval prior to implementing the programs. §232.202 General qualifications for train brake system maintenance personnel. (a) All personnel, including contractor personnel, responsible for the repair or preventive maintenance of a specific train brake system shall have the following technical knowledge: (1) A comprehensive technical knowledge of how the specific train brake system functions; (2) An in-depth, comprehensive knowledge of how to troubleshoot, test, and repair the specific train brake system; and (3) An understanding of the manufacturer's technical literature that applies to the specific train brake system. (b) All personnel, including contractor personnel, responsible for the repair or preventive maintenance of a specific train brake system shall know how the Train Brake System Safety Standards contained in this part apply to the specific train brake systems that they maintain. §232.203 General qualifications for train brake system inspection and test personnel. (a) The general qualifications for all personnel, including contractor personnel, responsible for train brake system inspections and tests on trains permitted to travel farther than 500 miles between train brake system tests are identical to those contained in §232.202. (b) All personnel performing Class 1 and Class 2 tests on conventional freight trains restricted to 500 miles between required train brake system tests shall, at a minimum: (1) Have a broad, general understanding of how the specific train brake system being inspected and tested functions; (2) Know how the Train Brake System Safety Standards contained in this part apply to the specific train brake system; and (3) Know how to properly perform Class 1 and Class 2 tests of the equipment to which they are assigned; and (4) At a minimum possess the qualifications set forth in §232.211.
