FR940114-1-00098 FR940114-1-00018 (v) If the borrower fails to submit the written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section within 60 days of being notified of that option, the guaranty agency shall resume collection and shall be deemed to have exercised forbearance of payment of principal and interest from the date it suspended collection activity. The agency may capitalize, in accordance with §682.202(b), any interest accrued and not paid during that period. (vi) A borrower's request for discharge and sworn statement may not be denied solely on the basis of failing to meet any time limits set by the lender or the guaranty agency. (7) Lender Responsibilities. (i) If the lender receives information it believes to be reliable indicating that the borrower may be eligible for a loan cancellation under paragraph (e) of this section, the lender shall immediately suspend any efforts to collect from the borrower on any loan received for the program of study for which the loan was made (but may continue to receive borrower payments), and inform the borrower of the procedures for requesting a discharge. (ii) If the borrower fails to submit the written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section within 60 days of being notified of that option, the lender shall resume collection and shall be deemed to have exercised forbearance of payment of principal and interest from the date the lender suspended collection activity. The lender may capitalize, in accordance with §682.202(b), any interest accrued and not paid during that period. (iii) The lender shall file a false certification claim with the guaranty agency in accordance with §682.402(g) no later than 60 days after the lender receives the borrower's written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. If a lender receives a payment made by or on behalf of the borrower on the loan after the lender files a claim on the loan with the guaranty agency, the lender shall forward the payment to the guaranty agency within 30 days of its receipt. The lender shall assist the guaranty agency and the borrower in determining whether the borrower is eligible for discharge of the loan. (iv) Within 30 days after receiving reimbursement from the guaranty agency for a false certification claim, the lender shall notify the borrower that the loan obligation has been discharged, and request that all credit bureaus to which it previously reported the status of the loan delete all adverse credit history assigned to the loan. (v) Within 30 days after being notified by the guaranty agency that the borrower's request for a false certification discharge has been denied, the lender shall resume collection and notify the borrower of the reasons for the denial. The lender shall be deemed to have exercised forbearance of payment of principal and interest from the date the lender suspended collection activity, and may capitalize, in accordance with §682.202(b), any interest accrued and not paid during that period. (8) Requirements for admission on the basis of ability to benefit. (i) For periods of enrollment beginning between July 1, 1987 and June 30, 1991, a student who had a general education diploma or received one before the scheduled completion of the program of instruction is deemed to have the ability to benefit from the training offered by the school. (ii) A student not described in paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section is considered to have the ability to benefit from training offered by the school if the student_ (A) Achieved a passing grade on a test_ ( 1 ) Approved by the Secretary, for periods of enrollment beginning after July 1, 1991, or by the accrediting agency, for other periods; and ( 2 ) Administered in accordance with the requirements for use of the test; or (B) Successfully completed a program of developmental or remedial education provided by the school. (iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (e)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section, a student did not have the ability to benefit from training offered by the school if the student had, at the time of enrollment, a condition or status, including one based on a physical or mental condition, age, or criminal record, that would have prevented the student from satisfying the physical requirements or the legal requirements of the State in which the student resided when the loan was made for either acceptance into the educational program offered by the school or performance of the occupation for which the program of instruction was designed to prepare the student. (f) *␣*␣*
