FR940207-2-00063 FR940207-2-00028 Comment: The use of historical costs are not relevant to the Apportionment of Cost Study because the historical costs do not affect the proposed rates. Response: Western has revised the Apportionment of Cost Study to reflect customer comments. The revised study does not include historical Western O&M expenses because the historical costs do not affect the provisional P&hyph;DP rates. Comment: Western should adopt a reasonable or fair allocation by splitting the difference between the historic 45/55-percent split and the proposed 77/23-percent split or retain its historic allocation until a detailed study can be conducted regarding what amount of actual Western O&M should be assigned to power. Response: Western believes the revised Apportionment of Cost Study is an equitable and detailed study that apportions the costs between power production and transmission service. The 45/55-percent split was based on a study presented in the June 1979 rate adjustment brochure for P&hyph;DP. Since that time, there has been a shift from power costs to transmission costs, which is due to the initial investment and irrigation investment being repaid in 1986. Thus, the majority of the investment to be repaid is related to the refurbishment of the transmission system. Western's future intent is to evaluate the apportionment between power and transmission costs annually and to make revisions to the rate design when rate adjustments occur. Comment: Western's allocation methodology between generation and transmission does not follow the accepted practice in expensing capital costs and allocating other income. Western should propose a change by allocating annual principal and interest based on generation and transmission plant original cost depreciated. Response: The Apportionment of Cost Study has been revised to expense capital costs and allocate other income based on total generation and transmission investment. However, Western also considered the unpaid Federal investment with regard to annual principal and interest costs. Western has determined that the unpaid Federal investment is a transmission related cost. Therefore, annual principal payments and interest costs for the unpaid investment will be allocated to transmission. Comment: The functions of power scheduling and power marketing are power related. Furthermore, some percentage of FTEs should have been charged against the power function. Response: Western has revised the Apportionment of Cost Study that is incorporated into the PRS to allocate a percentage of power scheduling, FTEs, and power marketing to power related costs. The percentage used for allocating these costs is based on the percentage of total power investment to the total investment. Comment: Western did not allocate the power and transmission related costs to customer classes.
