FR940516-1-00047 FR940516-1-00003 Question_ What specific limitations would be encountered with regard to placing the SDV at the seafloor location with respect to the following variables? (a) Size of valve. Response_ For the most part, the size of the valve is not a major factor. However, valves over 12 inches in diameter are cumbersome, heavy and difficult to maneuver, and maintain. Valves greater than 36 inches in diameter are difficult to obtain. The valve and actuator may be quite large and may require mechanical protection. (b) Pressure. Response_ For the most part, pressure is not a major consideration except in deep water. Very large actuators may be needed to overcome extreme differential pressures in deep water. (c) Flow rate. Response_ For low flow rates, the reduced flow may not justify the placement of a seafloor SDV. (d) Water depth. Response_ Water depth has a large effect on diver costs for installation, maintenance, repairs, testing, etc. Deep-water locations also require novel installation methods, additional complexity, and further development of components and testing methods to achieve valve reliability. Some SDV's may be designed for installation and maintenance using a drilling rig. Beyond, 1,000 feet, diverless maintenance and retrieval become major considerations. Common valve operators are limited to water depths of less than 3,000 feet. In shallow water, subsea valves would be subjected to potential damage from shipping vessels. (e) Types of fluids transported. Response_ Gas lines that are pressurized contribute a higher risk to platform safety than nonpressurized oil lines. (f) Other variables identified by commenters. Response_ Repairing and replacing subsea SDV's would increase pollution potential. Reliable valve operation is the biggest concern. Factors affecting operation include water pressure and severe water forces on the valve and operating lines, hydrate formation, wax build up, etc. Chemical injection may be necessary to prevent hydrate or wax build up.
