FR941007-1-00131 FR941007-1-00009 (o) MSA means metropolitan statistical area or primary metropolitan statistical area, as defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. (p) Minority means an individual who is an American Indian or Alaskan Native, an Asian or Pacific Islander, a Black, or of Hispanic origin as provided in the Office of Management and Budget's Statistical Policy Directive No. 15, Race and Ethnic Standards for Federal Statistics and Administrative Reporting. (q) Minority-owned business means a business, including a farm, that is more than 50 percent owned by one or more minority individuals, and that has not issued any securities registered under section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. ) and has 100 or fewer shareholders. (r) Service area means a geographical area delineated in accordance with §345.41 of this part. (s) Small bank means a bank with total assets of less than $250 million that is: (1) Independent; or (2) An affiliate of a holding company with total banking and thrift assets of less than $250 million. (t) Small business loan means a loan with an original amount of $1 million or less that is either a commercial or industrial loan or a loan secured by nonfarm, nonresidential property. (u) Small farm loan means a loan with an original amount of $500,000 or less that is a loan secured by farmland (including a loan to finance a farm residence or other improvements), a loan to finance agricultural production, or any other loan to a farmer. (v) Women-owned business means a business, including a farm, that is more than 50 percent owned by one or more women, and that has not issued any securities registered under section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. ) and has 100 or fewer shareholders. (w) Wholesale bank means a bank that is not in the business of extending home mortgage, small business, small farm, or consumer loans to retail customers, and has, pursuant to a written request, been designated by the FDIC as a wholesale bank, as provided in §345.25 of this part. Subpart B_Standards for Assessing Performance §345.21 Assessment tests and ratings, in general. (a) Assessment tests and standards. In connection with an examination of a bank, the FDIC shall assess the CRA performance of the bank as follows: (1) Lending, investment, and service tests. The FDIC shall apply these three tests, as described in §§345.22 through 345.24 of this part, in evaluating the performance of banks, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2), (3) and (4) of this section. (2) Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose banks. In evaluating the performance of wholesale or limited purpose banks (as defined in §345.12 of this part), the FDIC shall apply the community development test, as provided in §345.25 of this part, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. (3) Assessment standards for small banks. In evaluating the performance of small banks (as defined in §345.12 of this part), the FDIC shall apply the assessment standards for small banks as provided in §345.26 of this part. However, a small bank may elect instead to be assessed as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) and (4) of this section, or it may elect to be evaluated under paragraph (a)(1) of this section if it has collected and reported the data required for other banks under §345.42(a)(1) of this part. (4) Strategic plan. Any bank may elect not to be assessed by any tests described in paragraphs (a)(1), (2) and (3) of this section by submitting to the FDIC and receiving approval of a strategic plan as described in §345.27 of this part. (b) Assessment context. The FDIC shall apply the tests and standards in paragraph (a) of this section in the context of the following information: (1) Demographic data on median income levels, distribution of household income, nature of housing stock, housing costs, and other relevant data pertaining to a bank's service area(s); (2) Examiner-developed information regarding the credit needs of the bank's service area(s) obtained from community-based organizations, state and local governments, economic development agencies, and from any information the bank may choose to provide; (3) The bank's product offerings and business strategy as determined from data provided by the bank; (4) Institutional capacity and constraints, including the size and financial condition of the institution, the economic climate (national, regional and local), safety and soundness limitations, and any other factors that significantly affect the bank's ability to lend to the different parts of its service area(s); (5) The bank's past performance and the performance of similarly-situated lenders;
