FR940516-1-00077 FR940516-1-00005 1. Testing and Monitoring Compliance is comprised of initial performance testing and continuous compliance verification, or monitoring. The proposed requirements for initial compliance testing and any periodic or continuous measurement to verify ongoing compliance are based on the emission stream characteristics that would be encountered either at the outlet of the control device or at the point of release to the atmosphere for uncontrolled emission streams. Often, an important factor to consider in evaluating emission stream characteristics is the type of control device that is preceding the emission stream. Also, the operating parameters of the device can be used as an indicator of the level of control of the device and therefore, the outlet emissions. The selection of appropriate test methods for initial and ongoing compliance, therefore, is related to both the characteristics of the stream and to the type of device used to control it. The discussion of both factors is presented below. 2. Emission Stream Characteristics An important characteristic to consider when evaluating measurement methods are whether the streams are from continuous sources or whether they are from batch sources. Streams that are from continuous sources would have minimal variation in characteristics; the test measurement method therefore can be intermittent in nature. For example, flowrate and concentration can be sampled on an intermittent basis to obtain an average emission value that presumably will not vary significantly. Batch emission streams, however, are expected to have wide variation in flowrate, composition, and conditions throughout the course of a batch (i.e., with time). Often, proportional sampling of flowrate and composition over the course of a batch to arrive at a total emission number over the entire batch is necessary. Alternatively, simultaneous measurement of flowrate and composition must be made to arrive at an instantaneous emission rate. Because these methods are difficult, an initial compliance test requiring concentration measurement is not recommended for most batch operations. Specifically for these NESHAP, equations are provided in the regulation to determine HAP emissions from the batch reactor used in WSR production. A second important characteristic of the emission stream to consider during selection of a test method is the composition. If organic material other than HAP are contained in the stream, it may be necessary to speciate the stream or at least identify the HAP constituents in the stream. This identification limits how continuously the stream can be sampled. The most common technology that will be used in identification is gas chromatography, specified in EPA Reference Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Gas chromatography, coupled with the quantification of material typically done with a flame-ionization device (FID), EPA Reference Method 25A, can be done at sub-minute intervals, but not continuously. However, if identification of organic species is not necessary, an FID alone can be used. This technology will provide a continuous reading of concentration. 3. Control Devices The devices used to abate HAP emissions will affect the outlet stream composition and conditions and therefore affect the degree of confidence of the initial and continuous compliance methods. Devices that are commonly used in the basic liquid resins and WSR industry to control process vents and storage tank emissions are condensers, gas absorbers (water scrubbers), carbon adsorbers, and flares. These devices differ from one another in the type of streams that they control and the outlet conditions of the streams. i. Condensers. In the case of condensers, which are usually applied to saturated emission streams and by design yield saturated streams, it can be assumed that the components will be present at levels corresponding to their saturated values (equilibrium) at the outlet conditions. This measure provides a worst-case estimate of emissions. Therefore, the direct measurement of concentration often may be foregone in lieu of the measurement of stream temperature and flow rate and subsequent calculation to yield mass emissions. For wet strength resin batch reactors, this is the required measurement to determine HAP concentration in both initial and continuous performance tests. Because the emission streams controlled by condensers in basic liquid resin manufacturing will be more likely to have multiple sources with numerous components that will affect the ability to predict HAP concentrations by measurement of secondary parameters, the direct measurement of concentration is required at least in the initial performance test. Thereafter, concentration measurements to establish continuous compliance may be reasonably approximated with a measurement of outlet gas temperature.
